Here's where we're at. Um again chapter ten, we're right on our timeline. We're gonna be ending this this chunk, and again I started with You know, a lot of issues related around food, and it's true. We see food throughout, but we know now that's not really the crux of the issue. Right? Food was just the application, if you will of getting across his point of what they're doing, their heart attitude of the liberty that they have and the um events that they're still engaging in Alright, and he's going to kind of wrap up that section today, and then we'll see, we'll move to a different section 11 through 14 next week. Okay? Before we jump into our lesson today, I have to cover a correction from last week. Um and you guys always need to call me out on this. Nobody did. I I just when I gave the answer I was like, boy, I'm not sure I'm solid in that I need to go back and check and I did. So the question was asked, when did Paul we were talking about the criteria for an apostle? And one of those is you have to have seen the risen Christ Alright, and and the question was, when did Paul see the risen Christ? Was it during his ascension or I mean during uh between his resurrection and ascension, or was it after his resurrection And I got that a bit confused with the Road to Amay. So let me explain the chart. Here, Jesus is in the grave, and then uh the term he was resurrected, right? He was brought back up to the earth, if you will And we know from scripture he was there approximately forty days and he revealed himself to many people. We're gonna see when we get to First Corinthians fifteen that Paul gives a reference of five hundred plus people, right? So there were quite a few people that he saw. Um but this is, you know, like the day after you remember the road to Emmaus, you had um two disciples walking to Emmaus. And Jesus joins them, they didn't know who it was, but he basically starts laying out the whole plan of redemption from starting from the Old Testament all the way up to today. And finally their eyes were opened, right? And and didn't they say, Didn't our hearts quicken when we were listening to him? But then their eyes were opened The idea or the event of the Damascus experience where Paul actually had that experience and saw the risen Christ wasn't actually until several years after the crucifixion Okay? Um commentator is different on the timeline a little bit. I've seen three years, I've seen four or seven. The idea though is he saw him So the other term we often use is ascension. That's what that means. After that 40-day period, he actually ascended up to heaven and sat at the right hand of God. So that's how those two terms are different, and that's what that means. Okay, does that make sense? Alright, so I want to make sure I corrected myself and and you got that clearly um what happened there now Why this is important is because someone else brought up the point, well wait a minute, I thought I thought we don't have those revelations anymore. I thought people don't see God anymore, or do they Right? And so here's clearly evidence of someone seeing Jesus Christ after his ascension. The other particular instance where that might have happened is Stephen. So these two are connected, right? When Stephen was being stoned, um I think it says that the heavens were open and he actually saw Jesus Christ, right? So we might have two instances where somebody saw Jesus Christ after his ascension. I want you to hold that thought until we get to the chapter that is on you know prophecy and uh miraculous gifts and all of that. Because we have to we have to ask ourselves, is that still valid today? So I want you to hold that thought until we get there. But does this make sense? Is this clear now? Alright So I apologize for the misdirection there, but I wanted to make make sure we were clear on that. Alright. So with that we are going to turn to uh chapter ten. If you haven't done so already, let's go to your Bible. Open to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. All right, as I mentioned, Paul's going to continue to kind of pull this thread. So eight through ten are are are all connected, and I think we're starting to see that that thread being pulled. He's really going to reinforce his admonishment of the Corinthians and what I would call their sinful use of their liberty to engage in idolatrous activities. And there's basically three sections here. I'm going to give you the three C's. He's going to do this by connecting them to the past. by giving them a contrast with the present and a future context of hope. So a connection to the past. will be the first section. Then he's going to talk about is going to use that to then contrast with something that happens, something they do in the present But he doesn't leave them there. He's going to give them a future context of hope. Alright? So that's how we're going to cover the three sections that we have here. The first section, verses one through thirteen, Paul is going to reinforce this concept of disqualification. By connecting back to the example of Israel in the wilderness. So let me read verses 1 through 13. Just follow along, and then we'll come back and dissect a little bit. For I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock which followed them, and the rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were laid low in the wilderness. Now these things happen as examples for us. That we should not crave evil things as they also crave, and do not be idolaters as some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and stood up to play. Nor let us act immorally, as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day. Nor let us try the Lord as some of them did, and were destroyed by the serpents. Nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction. upon whom the ends of the ages have come. Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you but such as common to man And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, that you may be able to endure it. Alright, so let's go back to actually the end of chapter nine. What does Paul do? Do you remember at the very end of chapter nine? What's some of the analogies he's using? Yeah, sports sports analogies, right? I I run the race to do what? To win the prize. I I box not just in the air, but I box to to hit the target. Right, I buffet my body. Remember that word meant to bruise your body, to bring it under self-control. Why? What's the very last part of verse 27 say? Not be disqualified. Alright, that was his fear is that he he would drift away and somehow be disqualified. Now We didn't spend a lot of time talking about this term disqualified last week, and we need to do that. What does that mean? Is Paul saying he's fearful I can lose my salvation? How do we know that? I'm seeing Heads say no. That's the right answer. How do we know that? Other scripture, right? We know of his. I mean that. Yeah, of Paul's. So we know once saved, always saved. If you are truly saved. Right? You cannot lose your salvation. We have that assurance if you are truly saved. So this idea of disqualification does not mean to lose your salvation, but rather to be reproved. proven false, to be shown as a counterfeit, worthless. Here's the con and he may have been speaking specifically of his call as an apostle. So think of this context. When we think about um potentially bringing on a new elder, what what are some of the guidelines we're going to use? Right. We are talking about the qualifications of an elder or a deacon, and we find that clearly in Scripture, right? 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1 There are clear distinctions of this is the the character quality they should have. If they don't have those qualities, they are what? They are disqualified. What if someone is an elder and um you know we hear of this in in the news and we see it, you know, there is there is gross immorality, sexual immorality is the one we often hear of. What happens to that pastor They become disqualified. That's I think the intent of what Paul is talking about here when he talks about being disqualified. Now This doesn't just apply to, you know, leaders, right? We are all now held to a standard as children of God. Right? And you do not want your witness, think of it this way, you do not want your witness to become disqualified. Worthless. Right? What does Jesus say? We are the salt of the earth. If you lose that saltiness, you become disqualified. So if you go, alright, verse 10, 4. You know, I love those conjunctions, right? Though though those words should always cause you to pause as you think about how to study your Bible Whenever you see an introduction to a new section or a new chapter, you know, make sure you're understanding the linkage that's happening. So four is kind of driving us back to what we just talked about Right? We have to run our race to win the prize so we do not dis get disqualified. Four, I do not want you to be unaware. So that's a very Strong statement. I do not want you to be unaware. It's going to be a point of emphasis. I just gave you this warning and now I'm going to show you It is possible to be disqualified. I'm going to show you what that looks like. That's what this first section is about. And I do not want you to be unaware. This is a point of emphasis. So let me read run through four again. For I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock which allowed them, which followed them and the rock was Christ. I'll be honest with you guys. There there's a lot to unpack here. There's a lot that can be um debated by commentaries here. I I don't we don't have time to exposite every verse. I want you to get the general gist of of what Paul is describing here. He's basically saying the Israelites were in the protection and the presence of God. Right? That's what he's really trying to say here. Is they were they were a called people specifically chosen by God and brought out of Egypt? In in what? Did he did he call them out and then leave them? No. Right? He was constantly there as their protector, their provider. And you really get a glimpse of the Trinity here, don't you? Now it doesn't say Holy Spirit But when you see obviously reference to Jesus Christ, that really brings in the Trinity. They were covered, if you will. So this baptism, it talks about a baptism into Moses Really just think of that as a a covenantal separation to God and for God. Don't think of it as um believers' baptism. That's not what's being said here. It's just a a covenant relationship, a chosen relationship Basically, Paul again is just saying these people were protected. They were God's chosen people, just like you are today, speaking to the Corinthians, right? So that's what he's getting at in verses 1 through 4 Paul's primary concern in this section is to turn the Corinthians away from their reckless association with idolatry, and he wants to show how closely what they are doing parallels Israel's spurning their rock of salvation. by mixing idolat idolatrous practices with their worship of God. I got that from the commentary that I used. And just so you guys know, when I see nice summary statements in the commentary, I'm going to grab those because I think it really helps bring the point across. Uh I have no pride in ownership and in stealing from other people. So um it's a really good summary. And again, that's kind of the theme that he wants to get at here So in verse 5, regardless of this covering, this protection, this continuous spiritual blessing, with most, God was not pleased. And they were laid low, or your translation might say overthrown, they were deemed disqualified. That's what Paul is going to uh explain here now. Your forefathers, right? God's chosen people were brought out specifically and specifically protected. And that was visible, wasn't it? The cloud was there, the the pillar of fire, the manna, the drink that was provided continuously throughout their journey. Right? And yet And yet they still displease God. So what did they do to displease God? I'll give you the summary statement up here on the slide, but we'll go through these in a bit more detail. So verse 7 What does it say? And do not be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drank and drink and stood up to play. So we covered this briefly a couple weeks ago. What what event is happening here? And you can s well, I gave it to you. I gave you the answer. So what what does that mean, the golden cap? What was happening? Do you remember? Yeah, they were having a good old time. So again, Moses was up on the mountain, he was up there a little bit too long, they started to get itchy, right? And they're like, Aaron, we need a God. Right? So quickly they turned. Kirk, did you have a comment? Oh oh just the idea of needing someone. Something immediately in front of them. Yeah. As the Egyptians probably had in their cultures. Yeah, great point. Yeah. You know, we we often joke or reference about our immediate culture. Well you see it even back then, right? In a very short amount of time. What do they do? They're seeking something else to worship. They're grumbling quickly, right? How quickly they have diverted their attention from worshiping the one true God, who is right there visibly with them visibly manifesting um himself in many different forms in his provision. Alright, so so first he talks about idolatry. And And Paul's been pretty clear about, you know, the the dangers of idolatry, right? We talk about God being what? In Exodus twenty? A jealous God. And it's a righteous jealousy. He doesn't want any part of our our worship, our affection to be diverted to anything other than Christ Alright, verse 8. So we talked about idolatry. Nor let us act immorally, as some of them did, and 23,000 fell in one day. So this reference is in Numbers 25. Um you remember what God said. He he separated this nation and and what did he say about their interaction with the surrounding nations? Marry him daughters in the Yeah. Why? Why, Hong? Why was that so important? Absolutely. He knew their hearts. He knew they were human beings and the shortfalls of that and they remember we talked about a little bit of leaven lumps, the the whole um lump of dough, if you will Right? Um and and those influences and we see time and time and time again how those influences ended up you know, um distorting or or making them disqualified, if you will, the sexual immorality, uh, worshiping their gods, the complacency that they now had. That's exactly what happened. And there was a plague that was going through the land because of that. That was the consequence of that. And that's where you see uh Yeah, 23,000 fell in one day. Right, idolatry, sexual immorality, those are themes that Paul has continually been talking about, hasn't he? Right, as we've gone through the scriptures in both the uh first and second Thessalonians and and even here in Corinthians. Right, verse nine. Nor let us try the Lord as some of them did, and were destroyed by the serpents. So this was um they were basically testing God regarding the the type of food and drink that they had and God responded with what, the fiery serpents. So they he had a bunch of serpents come on line or come on the scene and and bit them and again um thousands would die because of that, putting them to the test. And then verse ten, the last example he's going to give, nor grumble as some of them did and were destroyed by the destroyer. The destroyer there is an angel that came down. But what was happening here was um Korah's rebellion. So one of the leaders wa, you know, got his gang of uh folks together and rebelled against Moses and Aaron's leadership. That's exactly what was happening here. And again, many thousands died in that event. So again, you see all of these examples of idolatry, sexual normality, putting the Lord to the test We are not to put the Lord to the test. I think there is one area in the Bible where we can test the Lord. You remember what that is? Giving. Giving. I and I forget the reference, but I think that's the one instance where it says prove me on this. Test me on this. Right? Give and and see that your bats don't overflow. And he's not necessarily talking about material um material gains there, although it could take that form. We are not to test the Lord. And then grumbling, right? We see that often of the Israelites um in the wilderness, but here you know, grumbling against the leadership that the Lord has provided. Right? So all of those he gives as examples of People that were chosen by God, protected by God, receiving spiritual blessings just as the Corinthians were, and yet they became disqualified in their their witness. So the warning he gives in verse 12, therefore, based on everything I just told you, let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. We've talked about this before. How did he characterize these Corinthians? You have knowledge, but it has made you arrogant. It just puffs you up. Right? You haven't taken that knowledge and applied it with the right heart attitude. So the warning is you might think you're standing strong. But you need to examine yourselves. Can you guys think of of any scripture that that calls us to examine ourselves in a biblical way as children of God? I've given it a couple times. It's one of my faves. I thought you were gonna that was just a love. Psalm 139. Bingo. Right. So if you read I love Psalm 139. If you read it, um part of that psalm talks about um y you know, you knew me before I was formed. Um you knew my innermost parts. I am protected before and after. It really gives a sense of being protected, of being that child of God. And then the very end of it says, Search me, O God. Know my heart and show me any grievous way. Right? So we as as God's children need to constantly be examining ourselves in light of being a child of God, not in the context of condemnation, but examining ourselves. Are we are we fulfilling the fruit of the Spirit? Are we are we growing in that characterization There's lots of other verses. Are we thinking the way we should be thinking? Our sights on God. Are we worshiping the Lord? Do we have idols in our heart? Right? We want to be examining ourselves. Glenn That's the gospel, Glenn. That's it. When I talk that chart I often show it, it might show up today. Is always about going back to that attitude. Yes, when you sin there might be a a a level of guilt and and heaviness But the fear is is you don't cross that line into now condemning yourself as one who is judged to eternal death. It you go immediately back to the realization, but Christ saved me from that. Right, and now you can start working on it. That's exactly what I'm talking about. You get an A plus. Alright, so let's take that and go to verse 13. Verse 13 I think is a very familiar passage to a lot of people And let's make sure we understand the context of it. No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted. Beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, that you may be able to endure it. So let's talk about this verse a little bit. So it's important to understand this word temptation actually means trial in the Greek. Very similar to what you see in James 1. Right? What does it talk about? Rejoice when you undergo various trials So let's talk about this distinction between temptation that that Satan might bring versus trials that God is going to allow for your sanctification. Right? What what is the purpose of Satan trying to tempt somebody? Destroy. Destroy, to trip you up, right? To to make you uh believe lies, to condemn yourself He's trying to trip you up. He does not have his best your best interest in mind. That's what a temptation is doing. Kirk. Probably to disqualify. To disqualify, right? Absolutely I I love the way you frame it. That's exactly what's happening. Versus a trial is to do what? What's the purpose of a trial? To sanctify, right? To demonstrate your faith, to prove out your faith, right? That's why God allows various trials Right, they're from the Lord so that we can be sanctified. We can grow in Christ's likeness. And so Um let me read again. This is a commentary from John MacArthur. God purposes trials to occur and in them he allows temptations to happen. So those those can be intertwined, right? We can be going through a trial. And guess what? We might be tempted to respond unbiblically. We may be tempted to, you know, lash out in anger. We may be tempted to give in to um maybe a sinful behavior. So those can be intertwined. God purposes trials to occur and in them he allows temptation to happen But he has promised not to allow more than believers can endure, and never without a way of escape We need to choose whether to take the escape God provides or to give in. That's the choice that always happens during a a trial, a temptation, you name it. Does that make sense All right, so that's kind of the the underlying um uh context of what's happening here. Now this certainly has broad application. Um You know, think about any trial temptation that you have. This verse would apply. And we know from other scriptures, you know, Jesus, our high priest, our intercessor, understands all of that, doesn't he? and went through a lot of that. And we often talk about, you know, for us when we're we're tempted or going through a trial or specifically a temptation, what usually happens Right? We usually give in versus Jesus who who never gave in. He never sinned. So he always went through the full experience of a temptational trial. Okay? So it certainly has broad application, but I think specifically if we look at the context of of what we're looking at in these passages and what Paul has been talking about for three chapters now The temptation Paul refers to here in this context is most likely from external pressure that the Corinthians were feeling from their culture. Let me explain. Again, this is uh from the commentary. Avoiding all overt associations with idolatry would antagonize friends and patrons, especially when one was a guest at the home. of a religiously minded host who offered food that had been sanctified by an idol. Refusal could be taken as a grave insult and have financial implications, sh social abandonment, and etc God's power can help them endear any resulting suffering. So that's what he was I I think saying to the Corinthians. You remember how integrated they were in their culture, and many of them were Gentiles. They came from that culture. A lot of pagan worship. They had uh they had a ton of gods. They had a God for everything. And now they're being asked to to serve the one true God. All right. Mo much of their um interaction, their financial dealings, social gatherings were were so intertwined in this culture of pagan worship Right to go to somebody's house just for a social that could include food that was clearly sacrificed to to pagans, to false gods. Right? That's the the danger that was happening here And I think for them to say, no, no, no, no, I can't do that would have been extremely offensive. And it could damage um financial relationships or societal relationships. That's the struggle that was happening here. Does that make sense? Right? So that's the context in Paul saying, you can endure. Right? There there's no pressure, no persecution that we haven't seen before, right? But you have been called as a separate body. You have been called as a separate people. You can endure with God's power So I wanna ask you guys, I often hear of testimony of those who come to faith and the implications that has on families, um, and your relationship with your families. Does anyone have a an experience or story they want to share about Maybe how you felt ostracized or um you know lost relationships because of your your newfound faith. I hear this often from you know I grew up Catholic. You know, those who come out of the the Catholic Church sometimes um you know those families can be very legalistic and and you know, very driven by their traditions, if you will, and to to come out of that you would be heavily ostracized, right? Even just denounced if you will. Um yes, hong, please. When I um first became a Christian the family my family is uh ancestor worship. So they have ancestor worship meaning they have Memorial Day for every ancestor And so all the children even or you're out of the home, you're required to come home to celebrate that that um Memorial Day. And they have all the picture on the table. Wow. And for three days you will have food and and you know, food on the altars and You have to come in, you bring food in and so all this celebration. So when I became a Christian, I don't know what I'm like, do I go? Or do I not go? If I don't go, I disown my family. If I go, I mean I I I disobey God. So I went all over the place searching for the answer. Should I go, should I not go at the time here? And there's a verse in the Bible that really have death of life in in for me is like, you know, what defile you is not where you eat. what they buy you within your heart. So, um, I say if I don't go to this ceremony, um I would never be able to share gospel with my family. Our relationship was shattered. But if I go and I don't do what they do, I would stand before Christ. So I came into the house and uh everyone greeted me and my dad said, you know, go work an incense for your incense And that's where I stand. I say that I come here to honor you and honor um our family. and be with you guys. But I no longer worship um incense. I worship the true God of heaven. So that means from now on I do not burn incense without incense So that was draw the line. And and my dad, um, by God grade is on his own reef Um he um he accepted it. And uh and so so I think that was that was Yeah, so Hong, let me let's pause real there. I know you have a comment, Kurt. That is a perfect parallel to what we have been talking about. Perfect. where you became a new believer and now you're stuck with this tension. What do I do? And you searp search the scriptures and and let me say this, you know, uh Hong brought it up. Every context is different Right? You have to evaluate every context. In this case you could have easily said, I'm not going and would have been correct biblically. But instead you chose to go yet not participate. Think of that witness, right? To stand firm, even though you ran the risk of potentially being ostracized by your family Right? You were able to now witness your standfast devotion to the Lord. So that's a a perfect example of applying what we're talking about in scripture to a today scenario. Do you guys see that? Perfect. Kirk Yeah, this is not a a personal testimony, but I I did speak with our daughter Teresa on some of these things that we were just that we've been discussing in class. And maybe she put this This went under the category of become all things to all people to to win some. But there's a a Muslim holiday in her country of Togo. uh s French speaking Islamic state of Togo. And it's Tabaski. I'm not sure what time of Europe that is. someone knows here. And basically it's a just like any other holiday in any other country, there is meat that is eaten that is used I guess as part of worship, worship to Allah. Yeah. And so the missionaries there, they know that this is a big deal in their country. And you have a choice of uh similar to what August said, how much engagement and how much association you want to have with that particular holiday. So it there's some of the m missionaries, their conscience says, no I I cannot go near that celebration. Yeah. And then there's others that say, well this is uh I love these people. and I have a strong relationship with them. So I'm not going to um allow this uh meat that was sacrificed, whatever. To to be a barrier and a hindrance and a stumbling block. So it I don't know the the details, the spiritual details of whether to engage or not, but But I I think Teresa's stance is this is a an opportunity to really uh show that I love these people And yeah. I'm just a part of their cultural community. Yeah. So you bring up another great example, Kirk, so I appreciate you sharing that. You know, again, context is important and in that instance Right. There's no clear cut answer per se. You gotta use some of this as as guidelines from what you described, and and I think both both instances or stances could be correct, I go back to the heart attitude. You remember what Paul's addressing here is is these individuals were engaging in this in these activities most likely for selfish reasons. They wanted to continue those relationships for selfish gain financial, societal standing versus maybe a heart attitude that says, I want to do this because I want to win people to Christ. Right. So the difference I would argue is in the heart attitude. That's what you have to look at. So two really good examples. It's hard, isn't it? I mean that tension is real and it's really hard You gotta go to scripture, you've got to go to discernment. You use passages like we just read as a framework to help, you know, guide your thoughts, but it really does come down to that heart attitude. So good. Good examples. All right, let's move on. Yeah. Hans example also shows how God made a way out of it. Yeah. So isn't that what we just read God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able and will and with the temptation will provide the way of escape also. That's a great point. That's exactly what the Lord in both cases did Right? By seeking the Lord in his wisdom. Love it. Good. Alright, so we're gonna we're gonna make this transition. Now he he basically first section talked about you know, an example from the past of of how you know those uh original believers or the original selected people were disqualified. So it is possible He's going to transition now to a a modern day a contrast between idol worship and I'll call it Christian worship, primarily focused around the Lord's Supper. Now, you'll hear more about the Lord's Supper um next week. He's simply trying to make a point here by bringing it up to contrast um two different concepts, if you will, here. So let's let me read 14 through 22. Therefore, again you you gotta love those words, right? Therefore, everything I just told you, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men, you judge what I say. Is not the cup of blessing which we blessed? A sharing in the blood of Christ is not the bread which we break, a sharing in the body of Christ. Since there is one bread, we who are many, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread Look at the nation Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifice shares in the altar? What do I mean then? That a thing sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God. And I do not want you to become sharers in demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Or do or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? We are not stronger than He, are we? Alright, so he's gonna now bring this contrast, so we're just gonna hit it at at a high level between what they are doing as Christians as a a spiritual body and what this pagan worship is doing, which in reality really has some satanic element to it, a demonic element to it, right? And and he's saying you can't bring both of those together. You can't have a foot in both camps. Right, so Paul starts his section with an imperative. On your worksheet, you know, we have this section for, hey, do you see any imperatives? This is one you can write down. based on the conclusion of the previous previous section. Flee from idolatry. Right? That's a command. We see that a very similar element. We've talked about it before in 2 Timothy 2, 22. All 2, so you can remember that one easy. It says, flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace. So we've talked about this. We are to what? Resist Satan, but flee immorality, flee our youthful lusts, run from it. In this passage in Timothy, I love, because then what do we do? We replace it with something else. We replace it with righteousness, with faith. This concept of put off, put on, we see in Ephesians 4. We're not to stand firm against those temptations. We're not to stand firm against youthful lust. We're to flee from them. That's the verb that we have here. So Paul commands them to flee idolatry. And again, we understand the seriousness of idolatry, how it diverts our worship away from the one true God, a holy God, a righteously jealous God. Remember, these Corinthians came from a culture of worshiping a plethora of gods and are now being instructed to serve the one and only God. That's what Paul is emphasizing here. The singular worship is emphasized when we participate in the Lord's Supper. So that's what he's bringing up, these elements, the bread and the wine, if you will. um of the Lord's Supper. When they are getting together, it is their body in dedicated worship as one body to Christ. That's what's happening when we do the Lord's Supper on a Sunday morning. I want you to think about that the next time we have Lord's Supper, right? It really is this this very extreme dedicated ceremony, if you will, remembering uh the life of Christ, the death, the burial, the resurrection All for our salvation. Right back to the gospel message. Remembering what Christ did for us. That's what the Lord's Supper is supposed to remind us of. That's the importance of it. That we are one body in Christ. In contrast, what he's saying is when one participated in pagan sacrifices, they are sharers in demons assessed. Now That's probably a whole nother study to say what's going on there, but Paul gives the implication that there is demonic happenings in this idol worship. Right, this is providing an avenue for um demonic activity. That's the danger that's happening with um these ceremonies. And again, you know, back to the two examples we heard. That's the the severity that we need to think through um when we see some of these ceremonies that continue to happen. Um I'm not saying we go in and there's you know a bunch of demons running around but Paul clearly gives the indication or implication that there it's not a um oh what's the word I'm looking for innocent ceremony. Right? It goes deeper than that. And that's the danger There is fellowship with the body either way, one with Christ and one with demons. Again, a commentary summary. The supper of the one Lord, which unites participants to him, excludes eating idol offerings, which unites participants to idols and their demons. Okay? That's the contrast that that Paul is pointing out here. And really the conclusion is what we see in verse 21. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. That's the warning, that's the crux of this issue. You cannot serve two masters. Or what? You provoke the Lord to jealousy. And the resulting consequences, he gave an example of that, right? The Israelites in the wilderness. That's how he's tying this all together. That's how you can be disqualified. All right, we're gonna finish with the last section here. If he left if he left the letter there, how would you feel? Maybe a bit discouraged, maybe a bit hopeless. You remember Paul Paul encourages them in a previous chapter we talked about this. He says, I want to make it clear I'm not saying you can't deal with immoral people, or the world, if you will. Right? Yes, we are of the world, but not in the world, or however that saying goes Right? He says you still have to interact with the world. So he doesn't leave them hanging. He's going to give them some hope of encouragement. I'll call it context of hope because I needed another C Um in this last section, 23, and verse 23, and it actually goes to chapter eleven, verse one. So let me read that real quick. All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable. Hopefully in the ESV um this is quoted. So again, we've covered these this uh statements before, these are statements that they probably said trying to defend their activity. So Paul says, yeah, you state all things are lawful but not all things but and this is him talking, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful, but not all things edify. I'll go back to um this chart that you guys have seen, right? This idea of what is true freedom at the bottom of this. We'll cover this in a second Let no one seek his own good but that of his neighbor. It really gets back down to that heart attitude. Eat anything that is sold in the meat market without asking questions for conscience sake. For the earth is the Lord's and all it contains. If one of the unbelievers invites you and you wish to go, eat anything that is set before you without asking questions for conscience sake But if anyone should say to you, this is meat sacrificed to idols, do not eat it for the sake of the one who informs you and for conscience' sake. I mean not your own conscience, but the other man's, for why in my freedom judged by why is my freedom judged by another's conscience? If I partake with thankfulness, why am I slandered? Concerning that for which I give thanks. Whether then you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give no offense either to Jews or to Greeks or to The Church of God. Just as I also please all men and all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of the many, that they may be saved. And then uh eleven one, be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. Real quick note on that, you know when when Paul wrote the letter, he didn't write it in chapters, it was just one big letter when it was transferred into um chapter sometimes you see this this bit of a disconnect. Um haven't studied that in great detail, but I I know that's some of the history of why that happens. And that's okay. That's why we have to to study um the Bible wisely. Good hermeneutic. Alright, so he he's giving them instructions on, hey, let me give you some hope and encouragement. I want you to interact with society, right? But here's some guidelines, here's a framework on how you can do that. So in 23 and 24 he emphasizes the principle of true freedom, the the gray part of this chart on the screen right here. Remember we talked about true freedom is not freedom from something or to do something, but for something, and in this case for God. That's the heart attitude that he talks about. Right? I become all things for all men for the glory of God. And remember, he's not teaching a doctrine of tolerance here Right? He he becomes all things to all men so that the the witness becomes true. Right? He's always his mindset is always on the gospel. How can he save? How can his witness save these people. We've talked about some of those examples. You might um if you're a missionary in a Muslim comp country, you might follow certain traditions wearing the headgear or what have you Right? Because you don't want to offend. That does nothing against uh the salvation message of Christ. It allows you now to interact with this community. Right Paul concludes with practical advice on how to be in the world but not of the world. How can they interact and continue to be a Christ-like influence on their pagan friends? So he talked about two basic um um context here. First, you have freedom to eat meat sold in the market. So what typically could happen is meat that was brought into the temple for idol worship, if they had leftover, it would go to the market. Alright, so he's saying don't you don't have to be so legalistic and go up to the meat market guy and say, hey, was that did that come from Temple XYZ? He's saying you don't have to do that Alright? Um there's there's a bit of grace here that says, okay, it's in the temple now. And and the focus is once you know something has been specifically uh uh worshipped an idol, if you will, meat was specifically dedicated to an idol. That's the turning point. Right? So meat that's just hanging in the market with the rest of the meat, you don't have to ask questions. Go buy the meat. You're free to do that. That's what he's saying here The other instance now, you are invited to dine with an unbeliever. You have freedom to do that. There is an exception, though. Alright, so food is food, and it is permissible to eat unless it is specifically identified as idle food That's what he's saying here. If you go and um you're invited to someone's um you know table, if you will, to eat and dine, yeah, go. We saw Jesus do that, right? That's the example he gave us But if they bring out, you know, the pot roast and they said, Yes, this was sacrificed to the goddess Aphrodite, right, that's the turning point. That's when you you have to say, I'm here, I'm going to be with you, but I cannot partake in that food. Right, that's the line that has to be drawn. Why? Not for your conscience sake, but for the other persons. Remember we talked about the the weaker brother. Weaker meaning um their conscience may not have been trained mature yet. And so for you to eat that food, once you know it has been sacrificed to an idol, you are basically given the perception that it's I'm okay with that idol worship That's what you're saying. That's the perception that's giving. That's the danger that Paul is warning against again and again. You see that thread? Does that make sense? Okay. Um conclusion, again, do all for the glory of God. And uh again I told you you would see the the great chart. It really does go back to the simplicity of the gospel Every time if you're if you're in a quandary, go back to the gospel. Remembering who you were and fallen man, but then what Christ did for you. That's the witness that you want to maintain. That's the the race that you are running. To remain qualified. That's why you buffet the body. Right? You bruise the body, Paul says, to bring it into submission so that you will be qualified. Your witness will be qualified. Alright, so for homework for next week, again, read 1 Corinthians 11. Reminder, Randall is going to be teaching the class while I teach the new members class. And continue to work on Philippians 2. 3. Philippians 2. 3 really is the heart attitude that underpins everything that Paul's talking about right now. Okay? So it's really, really important to memorize that, meditate on that. So we have a couple minutes. Any questions about what we covered today or any other scenarios that would be helpful for the class? Kirk Yeah, I I was trying to envision when when Paul uses the word just qualified, when you think of a elder in a church if they're holding an office, or maybe that person is a teacher or ministry thinker and you can kind of get a picture of what disqualification would look like in that for that person. And for most of us when Paul just said disqualified, okay, what what might the consequences B for Israel they didn't inherit the land. Right. And even Moses disqualified. Yep. And then So it's it's not that if we're a believer we're not going to miss out on heaven, but I guess there's a certain um disqualification that's just take place. I'm just trying to fix it with that. No, Kirk, it's a great, great question. You know, how does that that's a that's what we want to pull every time, every Sunday we meet. What's the application to today? And we talked about a couple of those examples. um regarding, you know, when when you are with this conflict of involving yourself in different ceremonies or what have you, but what you're talking about specifically, I love this You know, how do we um as just the church body how might might we be disqualified and what are the consequences of that? So we talk about let's say you're not in a leadership position, you are just part of the church body Um remember that term meaning worthless. So how can our our testimony become worthless in today's world? What might that look like? Can't tell the difference. Can't tell the difference. Right? The world should see a difference in our lives. They should see a difference in the church body. How we relate to others, how we uh parent our kids, how we treat our wives, our spouses, they should see a distinct difference. If we become so muddled in our culture that there is no difference, I would argue we become disqualified. Our testimony has become worthless. Now, what are the consequences of that? We we are not a witness now to the lost. We are not accumulating, not that this should be our heart attitude, but we are not accumulating rewards for eternity. Right? Those are all consequences that will happen Does that make sense? I think that it comes to a point where if that's a pattern and it's that's your life characteristic if reasoned it So Kirk, you bring up another great point. And we we see this throughout scripture, right? If if and I go back to examining ourselves and examining those within the church, we are supposed to do that. Examine against what? Against scripture in an easy one we talk about. Galatians 5. 22. The fruit of the Spirit. If you see people that are actually quite opposite from the fruit of the Spirit Um there's there's question marks there. That's why you have church discipline. And think about it, what are you doing? You are confronting that person with um the sufficiency and and authority of scripture, but you get to a point where you don't see repentance, and how are you to treat them as an unbeliever? Because you're just not sure anymore. And the idea is to put so much contrast on them and so much tension on them that they're gonna go one way or the other. You're either not going to repent and then you may know at that point For they truly do, and you can bring them back into the fold and start to train them. So, you know, ultimately Kirk, to your point, we don't know, right? But we can look at the fruit. We're not to judge the world, but we are to examine those within the church. And hold each other accountable. But there are processes in place to deal with that if that's what we're seeing. Does that make sense? Okay. What else Anything? Alright, so we are going to transition to a a new section next week. Um but again what we're seeing in Paul, he doesn't just randomly throw things around, right? There's there's constantly this thread that's being pulled and it's exciting to see how that's coming out uh to fruition. So let me pray and I'll let you go