The first weekend I was gone was actually for a wedding. But if you remember, it wasn't just from Timothy and Silas. And then the tribulation, right? Um and that's not saying that everyone just falsely is is marching forward, right? Maybe it starts to cause confusion or strife. So you're not a burden to somebody else. And the Holy Spirit encourages us. But again, you're you're you're trying not to escalate all the way to to you know pulpit announcement. Why? And that's why he sent Timothy back to to help continue that, but also to get that report. Remember to be thankful, to cultivate this spirit of thanksgiving. It should be telling us so much about who God is. So what we'll do next week is uh homework. I'll let Joe, you got it? Yeah, I'm going to instruct you again on what that's supposed to look like, but what does he quickly turn to? And to be a part of their their pre marriage counseling and then actually marry them, they had a really nice venue down in North Carolina, so it was a lot of fun And then the second week, um, as you know, we rotate the pastors through the new members class. So that's where we get a lot of history of his journeys. because I think it adds context to what was happening with Paul during his missionary journeys. It's not based on chapters because if you go through that you see towards the end it doesn't make sense, but I think just the length of the letter, that's the order. Even when I teach the New Testament survey class, I try to do it chronologically by time. So that's my intent. from place to place, right? You know, remember it was a very encouraging letter, both of them. And yet what is our call? um is to look at how can we be excelling more and and we often see those examples and I'll highlight a couple more during announcements this morning. And this is what the day of the Lord is. who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes a seat in the temple of God, displaying himself as being God So there may have been the misunderstanding that that maybe we missed it. Right, and he talks about the the law the man of lawlessness setting up in the temple. Idol. um undisciplined, unruly. Right? Well, split up because of this community. But they're getting food from others. they're abstaining from productive work absolutely counterproductive in whatever they do. uh arms issues and some of that so he wants to work. Right. So just what what Raymond was saying is exactly what I was thinking is when this is saying if anyone's not willing to work, it that doesn't mean that They're not able to work with able but not well. what is their heart attitude. amongst the the believers. having to be a burden to to somebody else because of your idleness, because you are being a busybody. It's natural. and helping them to think through this biblically. What does he tell them to do in this particular case of idleness and being a busybody? Right to exhort somebody is to come alongside and and to strongly implore or instruct, but to do it in a sense of love and encouragement. Because here's the implications of you not doing that. Right, but to come alongside, to exhort. What what comes to mind is not just telling someone, hey, do it right, but also say I'll help you. If anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, take special note of that man and do not associate with him, so that he may be put to shame. But if he does not listen to you, take one or two more with you, so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every fact may be confirmed. All right, so this is something we obviously talk about in the new members class, and I know for some of you that was maybe years ago, and even in the new member interview We we talk about it. Right, so another opportunity along the way to to get this person to repent. There's a lot of behind the scenes. And you know Gabe, he's always so gracious. How is the church body r supposed to respond to someone who has been disciplined from the pulpit, I'll call it? And yet love on them. Are you also giving a poor example of truly being a loop? It would have been very distinguishable when they're reading the letter or or looking at the letter to know, no kidding, this was from the Apostle Paul. Alright, I think that's the significance of that. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. And he might have even used these particular words. Couple trivia questions. And that's why he sent Timothy to go back. What we know is he would preach in the synagogue. The Corinthians, and we'll talk about context of where he's at, but he's spending a lot more time with these folks, so he probably knows them a lot more intimately. And the and you you gotta remember there's two distinct ways to um phrase that term the will or meanings. And it wasn't good counsel. When the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. He was never given instruction as to why all this was happening to him. Yeah, dress for action like a man, I will question you and you make it known to me. God's like, all right, Job, listen up. and his character. Um I know it's kind of hard to read with the handout we gave you, but this is a really good depiction of of many of his attributes with a brief description. Uh mankind and those things that are incommunicable and these are debated. our fellow believers. We're not to come alongside and party with them and go to the ballgame, even though Glenn wants to go to the ballgame. What's the instruction to us and then what's the personal application? You remember the will of God is what? But then there's a request. Right, here is the life of Jesus Christ. So we know 2 Thessalonians only has three chapters, and I'm I'm really grateful to Kerry filling in. And Mike, you can, Pastor Mike, you can tell me if I'm wrong here. And again I did a preliminary. What what I was what I saw in my search was it it's uh driven by how large the text is. Right? Their labor of love and their steadfastness of hope. Um the the marks in the churches in Revelation, where we look at the the marks that Paul had for a solid church. Right, to to make sure that that's clear. Now she might have taken some liberties to make up some words that aren't real words, like zestlessness, but you get the point. Okay, but this was the issue that was happening here in in Thessalonica was their understanding of um end times or last times and and what was happening to them But understanding what that timing looks like as we look at the writings of Paul, you know, that's the big thing that we have to struggle through. What's going to happen to them? Or be disturbed either by a spirit or a message or a letter as if from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come Right, so Paul had to re instruct them on the anthropology of man and what's what's gonna happen there. Going through the tribulation, there are absolutely signs that they could determine. Right? Is that how many value in the teaching's business? Right? Because I I I don't put I don't make that connection. All right, so so I don't know if you heard Diane. Alright, that was the caution. about whatever the situation is, what are the motives behind it and you know that as equity um will between people like you But that's exactly what he's trying to do. Um all kinds of of problems. But when you see busybodies and and others causing strife and that division could be so harmful to a church. this in this chapter, busy bodies are kind of pushing their own motive or agenda and from a selfish perspective I think a lot of times, rather than using their skills and their technology Right, internal. And we'll see how he is asking the church on how to respond to that. from every brother who leads an unruly life and not according to the tradition which you received from us. Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with labor and hardship we kept working night and day so that we might not be a burden to any of you. Right? For even when we were with you, we used to give you this order. Yeah. He made us to be, Jason, like you said, productive. because of someone's health, they're not able to do the normal profession that we would think of. uh means within our country to help support people like that. being able to provide for yourself. Does somebody have a different translation? Right? Right? in the Lord Jesus Christ to work in quiet fashion and eat their own bread. What is it? And yet he says, don't worry, don't don't stop doing good. uh having a blind eye. But Paul's appeal back to the brethren, but as for you, brethren, do not grow weary of doing good. Try to distinguish between the person who's taking advantage of you and the one who is really in need. need to confront. And I think that's what Paul's saying here. Do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. of hey this is what we're seeing, this is what God's word says and and you're leading a disorderly life. It's extremely difficult. And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. Probably a function that we'll be careful about. with mercy, you prayed before you've gone. that agree with the facts of the story. Right? um before you see the final step which would be you know Pastor Gabe now getting up there making an announcement. Don't treat him like an unbeliever. Okay? Can we pray for them? is my going to this social event with them and we're just chumming it up talking about, you know, based on balls, that's different. Right. That's the hardest though, isn't it? um one of his ska scribes actually mentioned. And um the only times we see this this particular verbiage is in Thessalonians, and then you can see First Corinthians And Colossians, uh the end of Colossians. Um Lothema, I think was the Greek term, the will or desire or purpose of God did we study in chapters four and five of First Thessalonians. The will of God is our salvation, is our sanctification. His history, his plan of redemption, what happens in our life. Carolyn, help me out here. You see the Lord now respond in in uh chapter 38. Tell me if you have understanding. Right, just elevates in Job's mind who God is. Um and that's the gospel. in a holistic nature. you know, paradoxical type of way, and yet that's God. Any questions on that? Right? Right, God gives us instructions on how to come to him. Right? And I gave you guys a pass this week, but next week back to Psalm 19. um spend a lot of time on that. You you gotta take it all, man. to interact with his people, to carry out his redemptive plan. And you know they're not chronologically by time, right? Corinthians as he starts his his third missionary journey. The churches. As far as I know. Alright, so I thought that was neat trivia. Uh Thessalonians. And Silas, right? Right? to to summarize in her mind, you know, what the day of the Lord is going to look like. Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction What's going to happen though at glorification is their bodies are reunited, right? Right, so now they're they're churning their hands again. Alright, so now in chapter three, as we finish up, he's going to cover one more issue related to this idea of the last times and how folks were behaving. In this particular case, the danger of idleness. You you look just like the world. where they were hearing reports and potentially thought they were hearing things from Paul that they missed. of when the day of the Lord is going to happen. Right? For you yourselves know how you ought to follow our example, because we did not act in an undisciplined manner among you. When he talks about we have the right to this, what right did he have? of the church are um expected not to do other work, but they were they were given their substance substance from their exactly. Okay? There are some that are exempt meaning they are working, but guess what? productive work and being a corruption within the uh the buying tables. And we'll get to the chart I showed up front. You can't mix it up in the same way that you did. doing no work at all, but acting like busybodies. Towards good works? One quick second. So absolutely, that's a great, great uh point and example. Drunco Reary, excel still more, keep doing good. And however, if anyone does not obey our instruction, so again, it is it is our obligation to to exhort, to to admonish, to give this instruction. And it's it's up, you know, you have to figure out um your hard attitude to say, you know what, sometimes I might get it wrong. Alright, let's keep going. That's really hard. And I will tell you, um, and hopefully this is encouragement to you, is once we get it, we may spend a lot of time on this issue to understand the seriousness of it. Because that is the motivation. In the four-step process or three-step process that I just talked about in Matthew eighteen, what's the most important step? Alright, so we're at the very end of 2 Thessalonians, and I just wanted to highlight, because I think it's interesting. Part of the issue was was they were getting confused by hearing different things from different people. Right? You get uh leftover Halloween candy. And some of it's just trivia. Submission. to grow more into the image of Christ. Remember my motivation for how I've set up this class and why you have the worksheets that you do. Okay. um give this this exposition I'll call it on Job thirty-eight. We want to build a really high view of God so that when we are going through times of suffering and difficult, we go back to his character, just like we should see in Job here. Right? Alright, so we talked about a couple things. based on uh the truth, the indicatives that we we saw Paul talk about. Yeah. Right? the peace of God that surpasses all understanding. Right, Paul clearly identifies that there is spiritual warfare going on, but you do not see him um Right? He remembers what the Lord has done for him. Right? Right? And we have to ask ourselves, why is that so important? And then if that's the case, what was Paul's instruction? Does that redefine what we think Busybody is or or does that uh elevate the impact? I'm your apostle. Right? time for the church body to come alongside. Somebody left put out some money so some military wouldn't pay or something. a traditional job versus some other form of work is basically saying I moved from But it covers all aspects. to work in a quiet fashion and eat their own bread. To to change their thinking, to change their behavior. uh more you know having more eyes on it. Okay, that's the outcome of it. You know, when they first come in you're trying to give them hope, you're trying to encourage them. Practical living. government shuts down and we go through furlough and and I can't pay my bill. our second book of Thessalonians here, and we'll do a bit of a wrap-up today and then next week we're jumping into 1 Corinthians. Nope. Okay, you're like, whatever, Christopher. And so uh a little bit of a summary we see around this idea of eschatology what was what was the issue that we saw in 1 Thessalonians, right, 4 through 5. So there's a lot there that we need to unpack to make sure we understand it. Alright, so undisciplined, you see that in verse 11. Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep aloof from every brother who leads an unruly life. Alright, so so we see that this undisciplined, unorderly, they're idle is what's happening here. Right, in the in the damage that that can cause. But really, really important principle, and that's what was happening here. Now in the green household we may have employed that from time to time. is on doing work that is productive in some way versus being a cropping input of the church and therefore like causing disorder and being a busybody If I'm getting a zero paycheck and the bills are coming due, what is it easy to focus on? Alright, let's keep going. An unbeliever, right? But you kind of see this escalation of steps. Step one. to uh be a part of church discipline, that's what that's saying, is you're gonna do your part in step one. Go to Job 38 and we heard um it was from an old comp ACBC conference, Dan Naw. You might have to have the colonel come out and, you know, lay it down. It's related to this class. It's so easy to just dive into a book and start reading it, but if you have that broader context, it I think it's just so much more fruitful to the application, the understanding, and what have you. The danger of idleness. It's important because it sets the model for us today. And let's go to 1 Peter 4. That's how they attack. So by splitting off the weaker then it's easier to instill false teaching. Any other thoughts? Paul is not saying don't continue to collect gifts. So keep aloof, stay away from, don't mix it up in the way you you typically do in a in a social setting. Privately. to moderate that situation, they might say, well this isn't really a problem, and it's really your problem and the person bringing it to it. To create that unity, that testimony that the church is supposed to be. Was it Satan? Such a critical aspect of our sanctification. Yeah, so so I did make this comment. Those who are faint-hearted, we've all been there. What was the primary issue? Let's go to uh 2 Thessalonians 2, and I'm gonna read again 1 through 5. But the the end times have not come yet. And the caution was some of the y young widows, you know, were learning to be idle. You guys we all missed it. In and not in a negative way, but to bring them to repentance because you love them. Are you in the right place? What we see here in what Paul is doing in in Second Thessalonians here is is really how do we bring this person back? He says in verse 17, I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand, and this is a distinguishing mark in every letter. Sanctification, excellent. So we cut we talked about a couple practical ideas. He sent someone along for encouragement. We are very blessed in the church. Now we request you, brethren, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering together to Him, that you may not be quickly shaken from your composure. Idol, okay. You guys have all known 'em. Yeah, and we're gonna we're gonna get to that Morgan on how Paul is asking the church to now respond to what's happening here. Specifically, can can you parse that out of what we're talking about here? And let me read, I'll read 6 through 10. I don't I I know where modern era is different from interest I don't think it's necessary talking specifically about like having an actual job job. So to to keep aloof means all right from a church perspective we're gonna kinda push you out but hey there's a ball game tomorrow. And if your brother sins, go and reprove him in private. That's my advisement to you. It's time, it's an investment. We are responsible for putting off the lusts of the flesh. Alright. Isn't that beautiful that he gives us this instruction on it's okay to come before me? the information that's in the letters and and the the epistles and so forth as sort of chunks or little snippets and stuff. Those who died. So um just a reminder, who was the man of lawlessness? Is they were being persecuted. Suffer as a murderer or thief or evildoer or a troublesome meddler. Hey brother, I I need to talk to you. Take it to the church. Now again, back to church discipline. That's not the intent there. He probably has rationale for do we have some level right, do we have some level of God's holiness? And then at the end of Ephesians, right, we have this idea, this visual of um putting on the full armor of God We renew our mind and we put on, because we're new creatures, all those imperatives, all those instructions that Paul talked about. Alright, so I I have to tell you guys I'm a little bit disappointed. Two people. And this is the ABC, so you'll see the ABCD. Why? So so one aspect of this is he's a visitor, right? Um there are people who are furloughed not working and not getting paid. Yeah. These epistles is application, instruction for us in our sanctification. We talked about Ephesians and this idea, this is where you often get to put off, right? Yeah. Don't muzzle the ox, right? For sure. Just read it. Warned. But I think that's really key. And then obviously knowing uh just as important, understanding ourselves. Those are very logical, good uh good ideas. Murderer. Give me a give me the meaning of or description of exhort. Paul says you're doing great. And yet, is this an opportunity to serve the body in in ways you never thought of before? Right, go down to um let me start reading in 11. Yeah, that's a great, great point, Land. Boom. Yeah. That's what I want you to, you know, how does God speak to you in a new way? And so if you guys recall, this was a couple weeks ago, I asked you to do some homework, do some research on the day of the Lord. Work is good. Satan, right? Does that make sense? No the the context changes though you might go after the ballgame but you're there to witness to the You're just trying to get to the ballgame, Glenn. Three weeks. Um yeah, let's do this. And we've seen some of this this language today. We'll see if we can keep doing that. He would be met with persecution and that would drive him to the next place. The Antichrist. Yeah. That's really, really important, the example that he's setting here. You need to exort. So what are the steps that I just read of church discipline? Go to the person one-on-one. Alright, so let's let's pause here and spend a little time talking about w what is the impact, what is the danger of a busybody. It's all about them. Say it again? Paul was an apostle, right? So Raymond, you bring up a good point. I I w Okay I'll I'll point out what you're doing it wrong and thing if you will let me. You can't go back to your notes and sheet. Alright. So I didn't know that. Great point. And that's why it's so dangerous, right? How? Take one or more witnesses with you. And in even when he makes that announcement it can look a little bit different. Timothy and Silas were traveling with him. So therefore, like um if you're not able to work but you're still keeping your time and your your skills to God and serving God, like you may not be being paid Can we still reach out? Maybe a call of encouragement, right? Right? To excel still more. Exactly right. So so at this point you're not trying to embarrass, you're not necessarily trying to shame the person, right? How do we protect, how do we love the church by protecting it, but how do we bring this person back? So the instruction is keep aloof but also exhort. Right, right. No, God. It's not critically important, but just fun. The first couple chapters was kind of what was happening to Job, but then the next like 35 chapters is the counsel he's getting from his three Bubas. And then lastly, life is hard, guys. So you know Paul's second missionary journey, you see the dates um up there. That's how what they do. Carolyn, what were you gonna say? I'm your father in the Lord. And I and I go back to the example of you know what's happening with our government shutdown today. That's why I say this is all built on the gospel. Alright, this was from chapter five, and it was this list of imperatives. So again, your worksheet, God's attributes, what truths are you seeing in the passage, but then the imperatives Woo. This chunk is to people, right? Yes, Joni. The heart, fruit, discernment. So very, very severe. Two of those are in Thessalonians. Lord, I need to be encouraged. This kind of came up in some other search that I did and and Pastor Mike you hold me accountable if I have this wrong, but The second coming of Jesus Christ is that foundation. And it was important to have that distinction as you talk about eschatology um again from a And we talked about anthropology. We see also in 1 Peter 4. Um but spreading false books about people and maybe destroying reputations. But that's how a busybody could be so destructive is start to um push hearsay or cause confusion and that can cause strife And he's saying that in order not to be hurt, we decided to s to hold ourselves apart and keep working and provide for ourselves so we can provide Good discussion. In the Lord Jesus, it says. Warned. Right, we talked about step one, step two, you take a couple witnesses with you. There might be counseling going on. Step one, that personal confrontation. So so much can can happen and that's why us training ourselves, being sanctified ourselves, learning to think biblically, um, even being equipped in in counseling uh principles and techniques can be extremely helpful. So if that was tending your garden out back or you know, it's a mixture of I'll call it the profession. Yes. And that's whenever I do a member interview, anyone who has done an interview with me, I really highlight that point, right? In light of all this, this is how you're supposed to live. He recognizes it, but then gives instructions on how we are to act. You gotta take it all. You know from this is obviously I'll call it a dispensational view, a a pre trib, pre mill. That's what that's in reference to. I'm not saying we're perfect, but when you look at all the ministries and and what is happening here, the exposition of God's Word. Right? Thief. Maybe it's lamenting with them, right? Why? And at that point, what how are we to treat them? Who thwarted Paul at Troaz? We read that that Satan thwarted, because remember, Paul wanted to go back and visit the church. Right? Again, the attributes of God. Right? From others. Verse 15. Right, it goes back to those passages. So it's it's not just you who's confronting me, it's others that are that are um solidifying what you're telling me. Most important step. And that's the instruction that Paul gives. For we hear that some among you are leading an undisciplined life, doing no work at all, but acting like busybodies. In people's business. Hopefully you have not been one. Focusing on themselves and whatever image they can push forward. Because they're able to. Let's go over to Matthew eighteen. Who determines its measurements? Alright, so a little bit of of just kind of overview of where we've been with What's what I hear over here? For sure. Extra burden. So the instruction, the plea to this individual is, hey man, you need to lead a quiet life. Matthew eighteen, starting in verse fifteen, this is very familiar to you all. It's really hard. Now, every church does this a little bit differently. And and Dan's point was God Job never knew what happened in the heavens between Satan and God. Right? 15, because this is interesting. Don't grow weary of doing good. It talked about it mentions three weeks. You can't parse these out. I thought that was kind of neat trivia to understand why do we have the order that we do. Did we miss it? Reminder that the problem is the currency all the field. Now an added element that we get and and maybe it's implied, but what are they doing? Verse 9, not because we do not have the right to this, but in order to offer ourselves as a model for you that you might follow our example. It's part of our sanctification. What might happen. This is your brother. Say it. But again the big debate was always around these big terms, the millennium. Right. So you don't need to worry, you don't need to be anxious that your relatives, your friends, your family that have already died are going to miss out. Really, really critical. Keep pulling that thread. Right? You know, Paul said, and no no no no and that's what Paul's trying to say here is I never said that. Right, there's all kinds of implications. And think of our example, the Holy Spirit. Just one comment. He's not your enemy. So he didn't do that all the time, uh, but this particular verbiage, and again, you remember What else? We should just fall in love with understanding God's and growing in God's attributes and his character. Um and and lastly, be patient with all. Um obviously as you know as we get into Corinthians, man, a lot of practical application. Right? They're they're getting food they're going to others and say I need help. Right? He intercedes for us. Now remember, well, it's probably my next trivia question. He you know fill in the blank. We're starting a new uh new book, 1 Corinthians. You're following my instruct uh my instructions. We shouldn't be working either in a profession or for the Lord. It's a bit more stern, right? The the balance he has to do is make sure you guys are aware enough of the issues without giving you all the details. When you see the sheet, I think this is from Grutum, and we talk about this idea of of communicable, those things that are shared with um I mean Paul was hearing this from the surrounding churches as well. Now we talked a lot about eschatology. They will they will attack a flock and they and they will try to split some off or they make it smaller and smaller until they So we see the example set by Paul. Right? Those who truly have a need, don't don't exactly right. But it needs to be in the context, you know, basically the same thing here. So I have some notes here on the bottom. Study the attributes. Just come alongside and encourage. Right? But now that they're being counterproductive, you know, Paul treats that very seriously. I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. They were not doing what they were supposed to be doing. So he's reaffirming and we'll see at the very end he's going to sign with his signature. Okay. Now what's the purpose of that? Okay, Diane, great. That's his declared will. It wasn't good counsel at all. And then we wanted to deep dive into the books that he wrote during those indivil individual journeys, which is why we have, you know, we're going through Thessalonians and then starting next week we'll go through um Okay, and that's been kind of a theme from from the elders, from the leadership the this year Right? I don't think any of us would normally do that, but I wanted to point out that he puts it in this list of very serious sins. Sorry. Um I I think usually there's uh like a false witness involved where you know there's speculation And they're preventing others from using their skills and talents and resources to potentially help those truly in need. Um and let's be careful here. We need to be there. Come alongside. Yeah. Um maintains their dignity too. Why? I thought it was neat. It's very, very serious. Extra burden. That's part of our DNA. To be a thankful people. That's where you need to keep that either mental or journaled catalog of here's all the things that our holy God has done. And then we go into Acts, which starts um this this beautiful book of the history of the church. But it is a confrontation, if you want to call it that. Alright, I I want at this point, um, does this sound familiar to anything? Now what we see in Thessalonians, we don't see that kind of language. There are are i i implications though that Paul would actually sign the letter It's the Holy Spirit, remember? So Braden and Tirza got married. Right? We know that throughout Thessalonians, we read that, right? So that that's not what Paul is saying. Keep away. It shows Yep, sorry. The intent though is not to try and find ways to kick people out of the church. It specifically says the will of God is. So again, right praying leads to right thinking, leads to right practice. Right? That's a great way to frame it. Let the pay the worker their wages. It is always a motivation of love. Yeah, so so bringing someone on else in that can help you think about it biblically might might um show you some things happening in your own heart. We see this in Job, how to biblically lament before a holy God. This is serious stuff. That's a blessing to be able to do that, right? To shame him. We want to protect the church. You have that worksheet sheet. We talked about admonishing what? We know that. So what was possibly happening here, um And he's going to talk about why in a second, but this is this is pretty serious So it's a little bit nuanced. Okay, so that was trivia. And that's why I say we could spend a lifetime studying his attributes. That whole format is meant to help encourage you in your sanctification, in your walk We can be open, we can be transparent with our Lord, but there's that but or yet. But that was my first opportunity as a pastor to actually officiate a wedding. And you know we studied Acts in the sense of of understanding the context of Paul's missionary journeys These actions, if you will, associated with faith, love, and hope. Right? Uh pretty much what they were saying that by splitting off because the it's a wolf who tries to split off the week of Back to why is this so serious? If anyone will not work, neither let him eat. Um as you were talking, helped me to get this from a perspective of also So the idea here is to not asso to keep aloof, do not associate. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax gatherer. It changes the summary personal uh might you don't like me to do that too well this Helping them to think biblically. That's what you have to discern. End times. And so they brought back just a very, very encouraging report So trying to reassure them and we do get indication that he's given this um their instruction before. How was the church to respond in this particular case? Does anyone have a different translation and have a different word for that? Yeah to put that away from Because if their heart attitude, Jan, like you said, is very self focused, that's going to be damaging to the church. Did I get that right? So, all right, really good discussion. Show hospitality to your like-minded brother. I have a right for you to provide for my needs. They're not getting paid. Right? There might be letters that are written. Chapter five. Here's this idea of how are we to pray with thanksgiving. What is the impact to the church? Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep aloof He he was a leader in the early church. Here we go, verse 12. Right? And then what? Idle. 15. They were not working and they were being counterproductive. That's what the body is for. So Jason, this is what I was talking to, right? I I think um that aspect of coming alongside and exhorting um in that way is sort of like Right, right. You need to be praying for him. And how, Michael? Confrontation is hard. Alright, four and five, First Thessalonians. Well over here God is just and over here he is loving and over here. Well you guys are gonna make me look bad in front of Pastor Mike. How how is man made up? And Paul had to tell them, he'd say, no, no, no, no, no, no. How should we respond if we have a similar situation with similar principles? Don't stop doing what is right. Step one, two, three, A, B. Surely you know. But early, I think it was the intro class, we talked a little bit about, you know, why are the books ordered the way that they are in the New Testament So that those are the two major chunks. Yeah, Glenn and I I think that was my motivation. What did Paul mean by an undisciplined life? You're doing it in grace. If you have only one person or if you're doing it in front of others, they feel And it was uh kind of the theme there, um, the encouragement, the testimony of their work of faith. Um but but what are some of the impacts to individuals and churches? Alright, let's keep going. What does it say in Matthew 18? Okay? But why why are Paul's epistles ordered that the way they are? We're in the midst of it right now. What is a busy body doing? When Jesus says, I'm going to send you a helper, parakletos, that's what that means. Eighteen months, year and a half. It's all part of it. And he still doesn't get it. That's chatology. Idle. Where truly somebody might have been in need. When he talks about this will, it means his desire or purpose. But but we're clearly instructed here in what we're supposed to do. I leave for two weeks and you almost get through an entire book without me. But but why are they the order that they're they are? New bodies. We see that in prophecy. It's taking the focus off of us and putting it towards God And that's always the motivation, isn't it? He didn't get to that fourth week, so we'll call it less than a month. But if you establish them as believers and you're giving them homework to be, I need you in the word, and they're not in the word, it might require some admonishment. Um but he's having trolls with that so you know um mil you may imagine that anything like a medical problem they want to work with a can't because they That's the season that life God has them, right? Yep. Right. He gives us that power. You might get it wrong sometimes. Okay? God. All right, what will and you remember this term um that we studied, desire Saying thanks. So this is God now speaking to Job. He is sovereign, he is holy. So the key here is it's not just idleness. That's part of being made in the image of God. So really good um I I think contrast to point that how do we know the difference? We need discernment, right? But but what what are the implications if this person didn't listen to you individually? We we know that Paul often uses a scribe to write his letters, and you can see in Romans sixteen Help the weak. Yeah. And he ends with that instruction or command, if anyone will not work, neither let him eat. This idea of exhort, right? What what is the ultimate goal here though? He's good friends. Not new revelation, but maybe something you didn't um see before in his character. Meditate on his attributes. And and I've just listed a few of these. What do we fill it with? Okay, good. Perikletis was the Greek term. Alright. Yeah. And we see for those who are believers now, what we're trying to go through is we go through Right? But I just thought some neat trivia. And so he wasn't in Thessalonica very long. So let's go to verse 11 in 2 Thessalonians 3. Alright, let me read that. Yep. Um this was from one of the commentaries. So the anthropology, who we are in our sinful nature, but who we are as children of God. We see that here, the instructions in Philippians, pray with thanksgiving. I want to hear some new new reciting of Psalm 19. Does he dwell on the issue? I showed you guys that chart up front because it adds that context The word there is a troublesome meddler, one who meddles in things alien to his calling. We have venues to appeal, to question, we are to be like the Bereans I'm just saying. It really is a hard attitude, isn't it? Right. If he listens to you, you have won your brother. Raymond. Okay? God works. And it really is this wonderful contrast between what is going to happen at the day of the Lord to the unbeliever and the believer. Their paycheck has a zero on it. Now we need to understand what's the instruction Paul gives. It's a little bit different in this case, but it's still absolutely serious. Alright, so he's only there a month, right? Chris. What what did Kerry share with you last week? His point was you didn't miss anything. So it's not just this person kind of floating around, gossipy, right? In them. Yep, yeah. We want to bring this person back under the fold. Let's go to Job. And I think I um also loaded this up on Hope Book, so you have it. That's where he spends the majority of his time. This is turning back to what? But look at the chunks that they have here. Right. You want them to feel the weight of being put aside, if you will. Right? Does that make sense? Those are great books, aren't they? I've we've gone through this chart. I'll give you a hint. That was something that's lots of lots of opportunities to tell. Now such persons are for such persons we command and exhort What is that term admonish? But let's say it gets to that point where, hey, um there have been some efforts, um this is what's happening Shout it up. Chapter 38. And I think this is really neat. Right? We all believe that. Right? Protecting the flock when it's divided, what can happen, right? Um it's instruction, but it is a a strong appeal. You need to be loving for him or her. But one of the things he got to at the very end, and in if you're in Job thirty-eight, let me just start to read some of this. Or who stretched the line upon it? And remember, help meant a commitment. But we see the pattern there, right? So I grabbed some of our slides and we had a really good discussion. So that's that term dizzy bite. You're doing it in love. Uh verse 13 Hey, I'm just praying for you, brother. Salvation. The unruly. And so he says when the Lord returns, or if you believe in the rapture, when we are caught up, right, who's going to go first? Alright, let's go back to verse 6. It could be frustrating, couldn't it, to see your brother or sister kinda uh mooching off of you. And I you know I might rephrase we call it church discipline. How about um in Corinth, where he's at right now writing these letters, how long was he in Corinth? And then the other one is cultivating this this uh spirit of thankfulness. So there are cases, but in this particular case they were clearly able to work and they were not and they were being counterproductive. Yeah. That's the contrast here. Romans 8. They want to do good. There's a lot of effort to see if we can't get reconciliation, repentance In Paul's time to set the record straight, I I gave you this instruction, but here it is again and I'm gonna sign it with my own hand. Yes, I'll buy that. Right, we get that from scripture. And I would say this, right, what did we hear even in the end times, the eschatology discussion And that's something Paul was trying to communicate to them and and certainly instructed them And we talked about the dichotomy, right? We saw that back in Daniel when we went there, right? Um look at verse six. Don't stop exhorting. What we do typically here at Hope Bible Church is someone will then bring it to the elders. If we if we can address issues at step one, it never gets to step three or four. And you remember the last one? Yeah. So, what's important here is what is the example that Paul sets. I need a handout. For we hear, we read this earlier, this is the issue, for we hear that some among you are leading an undisciplined life But it's serious. I I just got notified of a chronic disease and and I don't know if I'm ready for this battle So Thessalonica, the church there just had a great, great testimony of their faith Yeah. So he's not saying that. Oh. All right, how long was Paul at Thessalonica? Saying thanks So of the four wills, so what was it? Number one is as we read God's Word Yeah. That they are going through persecution. It would be one thing if they were just being not productive. Uh establishes a relationship of uh Yeah. Shows love. You're you're you're taking that step to confront that person. Um I want to cover now just kind of some summary things that we talked about and and really We renew our mind with what? Right? We're in the midst of that tribulation. Why is that so severe that Paul needs to address this issue? Yeah. Joni? Paul is not saying don't be hospitable. Now let's let's talk about um what's happening in reality today. Alright, verse 14 So it'd be in a in a different cursive or handwriting And I love that. Put off that old lifestyle. Now, why is Romans ahead of Second Thessalonians 1 Peter 4. That's a great way to frame it, Jason. And they as a hospitality should have showed him welcomed to the man and fed him and given up Right? God works. Wilgenberg is her new last name Um I'm sure he did a great job. Um I would encourage you, if you have a study Bible, look at the first part that kind of describes some of the context and read chapter one. Yeah. Good, what else? And let's come back to that in a second. Right? He the command, the instruction, the exhortation is lead a quiet life. It is you are addressing the situation. Step two. They still don't repent. God says, I'm God. Absolutely. And so that's what I was doing, and guess what the topic was on? Right? Don't guys don't ever underestimate the the power of disunity, right, in the church. Uh what's what's the phrase, the ox um Right? 28, right? There has to be a contrast in the way you are treating this person from normal And how? He admonishes us, right? It's not sin, I'm gonna go tell the elders. And then you see Job kind of reprimand them, but then you get I think that's a valid point in that I I usually take Uh the brothers I can do to watch after those of the visibility If anyone will not work, neither let him eat. And when you see the person who's taking advantage of you, that's the person that you When he gets to that point, I I want you to be rest assured there has been so much effort that has happened before we get to that point. We are to be aloof Salvation, good guess. We had a counseling round table. How do we excel still more? This sanctification. Cool? And not merely idle, but also busybodies. We see it again and again and again. Right, a lot of hands. No, that that's a really good point. We've talked about that many times. That's not on you. You just said it. Alright, step three. What is the most important step? With a couple minutes left, let's um let's do a couple things here. One is um it comes to pass, God's will, his declared will we often call it, right? What does he do? So Paul could have said, Hey guys You're doing it with the instruction of the word. Yes. Who thwarted Paul at Troaz? Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? I love to study the books in chronological order So that word tradition is really Paul's instructions and also Paul's example. Um some of our civilians have received a paycheck with a zero sum in it. Oh, to build up. So that establishes that once that happens now Yeah, absolutely. We talked about it in the round table yesterday. Period dot. Another term he uses though is what? Potentially is causing strife, confusion, disunity. Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? We talked about the unruly, the idle, the undisciplined. Yeah. So what does that do to someone who now has to give them help? At the end of the day, that's what he's getting at. Maybe it's praying, maybe it's coming alongside someone who's going through the same thing You know, we talked about this, the idea of what is the will of God? Yeah. That's going to help us to think big biblically, respond biblically, and truly be sanctified. Be holy for I am holy. But what is it listed with? Don't stop helping and doing everything you can to So a little bit tricky, right? And so when I talk about you know learning and understanding and cultivating this idea of understanding God's attributes Remember, imperatives are commands for us or instructions for us. Right? First of all, we're addressing God. Any questions? And as he he worked his way, what would happen We're doing a lot of those things by by God's grace. What did he mean by a busybody? So we see this actually in 1 Timothy 5. They they missed the return of the Lord. They're not able to now give. Right? There are cases where So what did that look like back in the time of Paul? You are confronting sinful behavior, doing it with grace What does he say? Alright. He was so eager to go back and visit his children. What I would say is less than a month. You guys might remember Dan Naw who was here for a short time And then we talked about this idea of the day of the Lord. 15. Well, um back even when they're when they have a priest in the temple support though. What would be easy to happen? Don't stop being an encouragement. But good job, Carolyn. Trust and praise in a holy God. Here's what really has to happen at the very end. So let's unpack this a little bit. God worked, right? He's going to work all things for our good. Bring him back. Sarah said church discipline. First and second Thessalonia. I've been honest about whose view it's from. So Romans being the largest down to three chapters in Thessalonians. We're going to talk about a lot of issues and I'm excited to those are hard books. Is that literal or is that um symbolic? So go back to um the issue in chapter two You know, back to what Jan was saying, I think the important point, where does their folk focus turn to We need to treat it very seriously. Me. Do not mix it up in the sense of a social setting. Alright It doesn't mean you go to the ballgame, the barbecue, the you know what I mean? Now, this will become important as he is writing back to um We are too admonished. That's the practical application to us. Um You guys heard from Carrie Kane hopefully last week in Second uh Thessalonians two. Um at the end of the day it's it's working in a way that is allowing yourself to provide for you and your family versus That's okay. So I I think that's very encouraging. So you know when you get to the end of the the Old Testament, right, the prophecy of Jesus Christ it only makes sense that you start with the gospels. So this chunk is to who? So all right Yes, you're going to be persecuted. By no means let any of you suffer um yeah. Raymond, let me go with you first. It it's a great motivator. This is getting real. But what are you not doing? They don't listen. It could resolve the issue Do we love on 'em? On what were its bases sunk? And I love this one specifically, right? What time is he actually talking about here? Well an interesting side there with the walls is Here's what really is going to happen. I don't think that this is saying anything necessarily about like We've read it already. Again, don't mix it up in a in a social sense. What's step one? Privately. You're trying to protect their dignity. They still don't listen. But until that happens, we need to protect the church. A very short time to set up um this church We know what we're supposed to do. I thought that was a really creative way I it should elevate the impact. Yep. Right? And we should do our profession as if we're working for the Lord. Perikletos is the helper, the Holy Spirit, to come alongside. Oh sorry, what's the one that's one of the forums that you have also people that might be able to And it's the same with church discipline. That that when you agree And Paul instructed them that during the last times you are going to go through persecution. You want to go to the ballgame and hang out? Paul uses that term often. God's word. And there are different Um and yet we're to treat them, you know, uh to be aloof, if you will. He says That's not the goal. No, he's all those things all the time. That's a command. And that was based on the tradition that Paul talks about. It's not them just being idle over here in the corner. Restoration. I did listen to his uh his first lesson, so just grateful for Kerry filling in Morgan. It's not only that they're not being productive, but over here they're being counterproductive. For sure. That's on the other person. That is one of the four that we talked about, Catherine, um, overall, right from Scripture. So it all gets connected together. That's important. He loves us. Yes. It was a lot of fun. And and I think we'll see later, you know, the admonishment is to to lead a quiet life. Privately. Okay, so that will become important. Alright, you get the point here What's up with that? You remember that he pushed on and then who met him afterwards Where our spirit when we die goes to be with the Lord. The differentiation that it seems to make with the description Carolyn, you were with me. So that's another word for it. I'm confused that um like when you put busybody with murderer What are their actions? He could have done that, but that's not the example that he set. They don't repent. What's step three? That's the motivation. That's what we are to put on. You remember we looked at the nine marks. Right, Dan? Right? Our desire, God's desire for us is to be sanctified. Don't get caught up in in the terms there, guys. Anyone know? With the exhortation to do what, though? In creation, he worked and then rested. That's hard to do, but that's what we're instructed. And Elizabeth actually submitted what she did in her study was create a poem. Don't stop helping others. You need to be productive. We see Job go through this. So it was it was pretty exciting for me to be a part of that Timothy? Excel still more. Um they have to give time to this person now. It's not Gentile tax collector, implying what? When you are counseling somebody, you might go through all phases of this Did he cover that this last week? Right? It's Yes you might be able to encourage them but Hopefully you were very, very encouraged by that. Busybody. The the wolves can come in, right? The hope is that they would see it, they would repent We know what God's desire, His will for us is our sanctification. So I wanted to show you this slide And then and then uh I think the same is with the individual people. Yeah. So obviously they're being idle, but what are they doing? Right? Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep aloof. Oh sorry, go on, Diane. Captain, you had one salvation We really want a lofty, lofty view of who God is But I really enjoy that. So that's what we want to unpack for today. That's where a busybody could come into play to stir up confusion Hunger is a great motivator. Absolutely, Joni, right? It is a warning. Why is privately so important? And I would say this, we've talked about it before, you have to treat these in Yes, you're going to suffer. Absolutely. So he's giving them the counter of of what a disciplined manner looks like. So let's any other comments? Nope. What's step two? What might happen if there's there's others that corroborate your story It's the same, it's repentance You know, that's what you want to watch for. Back to Romans 8. I've given you clear signs And in that case, maybe it's admonishment And that's what we have to watch for. He never quits on us. What's the first step? Or who laid its cornerstone? What what example did Paul set? So what is the motivation for being aloof to this brother? And again, that's why I say you've got to start with prayer. Who thwarted Paul in Corinth wanting to go to Thessalonica? This is the new administration that that God has put in order Of course they want to work. Very different than than today, I'm sure This this is very damaging. Rather than looking at sort of a historical photo what's happening in the church today kind of So idol What was Paul's um profession? You know what I mean? Um but but so that's step one. We had a counseling round table yesterday. Does that make sense? What's a busybody? So hold on one second, Diane. Alright? Maybe a a better headline is church love What's the result? Same in Revelation, same with prophecy. This is the way I write. Alright? And that's a lifelong journey, isn't it? You you again you have to use discernment We need to understand that to make sure we have application to today. Because the goal is not to disgrace this person, but The will of God is Because it talks about how we are to treat Guess, come on. So he needs to reassert, you know, give that instruction once again. You need to care for yourself and your family Right? Right? We looked at So in this case Because Because there are some that need your help. So good distinction, good point. Let's go back to verse 6 We are to admonish them Government shutdown And then there's the complaint to the groan So we are at the end of They were worried about those who had already died Be orderly. We're gonna do uh a little trivia He provided again and again and again. 28. That's part of being a Christian Did I miss a hand? Life can't be normal anymore That's that is a byproduct of it. That's how you're trying to exhort and encourage them That whole discussion, Job never knew that Right? Where is that happening in heaven here on earth? Of course they want to be productive Working together in this very complex Alright, let me close in prayer Yeah, keep doing what you're doing. Sure. You want to see that person repent 13 where he's talking about how to care for the widows. Verse 15. Um You're losing your protection. The goal is to put them to shame. This is very serious to be a busybody. So great point But you you you know God made us to work, didn't he? Critically, critically important There has to be a change in behavior That's serious for the church W being a busybody, causing strife. Take the color off this chart Right? Okay? Um, but we should definitely not be abstaining from Do what you're supposed to do to be productive. Sometimes we're we're meant to disencourage. What does the psalmist do here? They're also being busybodies Well let me ask it this way. So that that's a great point, right? Those are hard books and so we'll go through that together. It's getting real And we'll get to that in a second So he talks about um It's trusting that verse. Yes, Jason. That is sanctification Okay So they didn't miss out And we're going to see that. There are some other hands up. And yet Go to Job Now I didn't verify that Is that easy? You gotta connect all that together. What kind of testimony is that to those around us? It does have a strong meaning to it. You've got to search your own heart first Tent maker. And let's go to your Bibles there. Think of his Raymond? Uh that's that's difficult. What right did he have? That truly need your help. We have a God of order. So we talked through all that. Um, but it's hard. But that's what that term means. Is that And that's applicable to us today. Glenn? Well I also heard something Tent maker, correct. To care for yourselves. This is from me. Let's open Thessalonians. I I just wanted to Basically