And again, most commentaries, it's not um for sure for sure, but but probably somewhere in in Macedonia, many commentaries uh believe it was Philippi where he wrote that letter. Right, people knew about it and they were allowing it to happen. And we're going to see it today, this tension of of how much do I interact, how much do I confront, how much do I step back, Paul's going to go through that same tension. 2 Corinthians is really a great study on how do we handle conflict, specifically in the church. It's creation and the conscience that we're all given, being made in the image of God. And he has great confidence in that. And it was real. He still is patient. But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow not to me, but in some degree in order to say not in order not to say too much to all of you. You're not trying to disgrace. He's not trying to shame this person. Um this is not meant to be a criticism, but when we lived out in Utah, we saw something very similar with the Mormon religion. And what we're going to see actually starting in in 2 chapter 2. So he's going to spend a lot of time talking about his adequacy. Well, no, that was perfect. They were trying to discredit him. He was poor. Ephesians. And uh Romans twelve talks about if you uh you know as much as depends on you, um be at peace with all men. All right. And reaffirm their love for this individual lest they become overwhelmed with excessive sorrow Accountability. I mean the church at Corinth would be a really young church. That's what you have to choose. So I had a question, you know, has anyone ever experienced that kind of angst? You know, a door was opened to preach the gospel. We're teaching, um, you are personally in the Word. Um so I want Kirk if you could give a if you were asked to give a a 30-second elevator speech on what you wanted to impress people on the immutability of God, what would you say? You know, notice those attributes of God and meditate on those. Alright, so that's where we're at. Okay, that's the location. Paul went through Corinth, that region of Achaea down here, and established the church at Corinth, and he was there roughly 18 months from what we can tell. and then return back to um Jerusalem. You wrote a very severe letter and now you're waiting for the feedback. of whatever happened. um whose conscience wasn't yet trained or fully trained to stumble. um the Lord's Supper and headdressing. And again, the appeal was probably, these were probably very charismatic, uh good looking, well spoken. Right? of Paul starting to defend his ministry. You have to see the risen Jesus Christ. We have conducted ourselves in the world and especially toward you. You're training them to deal with, you know, um what the Lord has put on their heart. It was in this confidence, verse 15, that Paul intended to come to them twice. Remember he laid out his plans. That what? I'm going to suffer because I'm safe, but I'm not gonna give up and I'm gonna continue loving and be patient that this process isn't going to happen On what to do. And this is the very thing I wrote you, lest when I came I should have sorrow from those who ought to make me rejoice, having confidence in you all, that my joy would be the joy of you all For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears, not that you should be made sorrowful, but that you might know the love which I have especially for you. And doesn't confrontation usually do that? Um, him continually to seek after. And so by sending this letter ahead of time, he's able to test, are they going to follow through with what I asked them to do? It's always a lot of fun to discipline your children, right? And it changes over the seasons of life, doesn't it? It's a lot of encouraging, it's a lot of counseling, it's a lot of prayer, it's a lot of just being there. Let me read 5 through 11. So we do get some insight, although it's not exhaustive. So there is an element of protection as well. Um and I think we get evidence of that. Now let's talk about this idea real quick about sorrow. We'll hide it, we'll um we'll minimize it, we'll have excuses for it, right? having sexual relations most likely with his stepmom, his stepmother, and it was open, it was public. And again, this person most likely was of high standing, so so some of the church were probably reluctant to do anything about it. Which it appears they did. Right? Making a public confession. Yeah. are never useful for the kingdom too. But if we but God can still make them very useful in his church, even if they can never have a certain position. So like we we can very much discourage people if when they're sure then it's we mark that like that shame. his mother in law. Remember there's a there's this little bit of tension that says you are you are pushing someone out of the church. You are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Right. However, like to Stephen's point, if this person stays over here, or we shun them, now they have the the scarlet letter on them Right? Turn our hearts into judgment and not taking that thing on me and the and not blurry how the you know. Now when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ, and when the door was opened for me in the Lord, I had no rest for my spirit, not finding Titus my brother, but taking my leave So that's what led him into Macedonia to get the final um see if he could hook up and see how they responded. when they felt that they could not minister to others or that they only went through the motions because they were consumed by anxiety caused by a church conflict And so the men's and women's group are going through the attributes of God. All right, it's not exhaustive, but it's complete. chapter one and and go into a portion of chapter two simply because there is kind of a natural break that will will lead us into a pretty big section uh for Paul in 2 Corinthians. um and the churches that he has established. what happened, right? to preach the gospel, you know, he is still very heavy waiting for feedback from Titus. And then I'm going to leave it here for a bit um again reminding us of the map, um his third missionary journey in a little bit of context, right? um to reinforce, to encourage, sometimes to admonish, just to reinforce and make sure there's there's good leadership and the churches are are acting the way they should, if you will. Alright, so that's what we saw a lot of in 1 Corinthians. this Greek culture, very pagan secular culture, and that's causing all kinds of problems. were actually misusing their freedom to continue in temple worship, really, right? Right. um in the church. And they were causing um disorder in the church. And so that's how we get to chapter one. He's defending the ministry and his authority being called by God. Uh and and it gets confused on both sides. in tribulation. who was preached among you by us, by me and Sylvanus and Timothy, was not yes and no, but is yes in him. You are standing firm. But I call God as witness to my soul that to spare you I came no more to Corinth. Alright, so we're going to pick back up now in chapter two. to their calling and actually diverting from the true gospel of Jesus Christ. That can happen, right? believers, his children. Remember, we talked about four letters of Paul. that can be applied. the steps of church discipline. You see from what I've been learning before you see a Paul is just this ability because of love to patiently endure in the midst of the conflict. And that sometimes can be the worst thing we can do. And you know, as much as we're able to try to be a PC call man, so you know it's not always possible, but a lot of the times we're Right, if you read Psalm 139, which is so precious, it really talks about being hemmed in by the Lord. And and that's the dilemma that Paul is going through. should force you and hopefully your brother sister to Christ. You know, I I have all these abilities. Um, you know, he rebukes them, he admonishes them for what happened um in this incident while he was there, and yet that brings them much pain. instead of coming to them again in person. he would not experience pain from those who bring him such joy. of how do we go about handling the situation. before he gets there so that when he does come, it doesn't have to be this confrontation, but it can be joyful. Boy, Paul, if anyone um is someone who has a characteristic of perseverance, it's Paul, isn't it? And it's this chastisement that is sometimes the clearest proof of love. Paul is very explicit about the anguish this conflict is causing. He chastises those that he loves. Or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves, as the Father of the Son, in whom he delights. He's their father and and this is these are my children and as any parent would we want to train them up and see them walk in the ways of the Lord Right? Alright, so now Paul is going to turn to the specific incident that caused his sorrow and sudden departure without rehashing the event or giving us all the details, but we do have some clues. but in some degree, in order not to say too much to all of you. in the presence of Christ, in order that no advantage be taken of us by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes. a one is this punishment which was inflicted by the majority, so that, on the contrary, you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest somehow such a one be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow Whether you are obedient in all things. Alright, some of it we see right here in verses 5 through 11. So hey, please pray for so and so because they you know it's kind of gossipy is what it turns into. what is happening. When you see Gabe stand up, by the time that happens, you have to have confidence. we talked through a lot of that, but Gabe ultimately is the one who who typically communicates that and you guys know Gabe. Right? businesses, everything was influenced by um the Mormon culture, I'll call it. Where was everyone else to rally behind Paul to say, no, no, no, no, this is not the way we do this? and reconciliation. Right? Again, that were were maybe um being idolized by some of those in the church and simply trying to discredit Paul because he suffered so much. Right, they dealt with this person. Right, there's kind of this radical amputation that needs to happen. Right? distinction between the things that we did for our professional price and as we're growing everything like if we're in if we're growing and we have a So discourage him and keep him for really flourishing in the Lord now that he has. Right? you need to forgive them and bring them back in. It may not be a leadership role, and that's okay. of them I went into Macedonia. The threat of dismissal, backbiting, slanderous rumors. Um, I want you to be thinking about again as we go through 2 Corinthians, Paul working through this tension of of how do I defend the ministry As well as many of you are going to continue to work on our memory loss. Three five, right? And this is where he meets up with Titus and he gets the feedback from Titus. But there's been a lot of issues in Corinth because they they still are struggling with this culture that most of them came from. We are training our conscience. Can our conscience be seared? Um he talks about I want to see what verse it is. if you will, his um determination or his yes is yes and his no is no Jesus Christ established us. Now, this is what I want to highlight, uh 21 through 24. So Paul, as we talk about this tension, he's going to start by explaining a very painful dilemma and ultimately make the decision not to return to them, at least not in the near future. Verse 1. To return, right, he could turn real quick to address the issue might intensify the problem. To stay away, what could happen? So Paul is he returns from uh this quick trip and he's very sorrowful. Alright? Because they're want to avoid it or deal with it or just like separate and s like stay in and still love them. This is someone who is in the security of God and yet search me, O Lord, show me any grievous way. Is my heart right? Now you guys know discipline is never without pain for the one who has to deliver it. Different tactics, and we saw that with Paul, and we see it here too. Wherefore I urge you to reaffirm your love for him. Alright? Right? No, we're hoping it leads to repentance and reconciliation. Because there's stuff happening behind the scenes that we don't want to shame. Now, whoever it was challenged Paul's authority. The sufficiency of Paul's calling as an apostle. Alright, the offense affected the entire community. Because a little bit of yeast infects the whole whole loaf of bread, right? To truly see repentance, forgiveness, and reconciliation. What are your thoughts? Man out of a Muslim culture, it's quite possible that he will have that in his history. I still think there's a level of accountability, but typically with something as severe as that, um and if this person was in a leadership position and committed those times of crimes You would you would have to see a long time, you know, duration to reinforce has this person truly repented and been sanctified. They were probably they probably all had fairly recent sexual immorality. Right. This this is good clarity though. those all questions would take of the ever be a leader in the future. Right? From those whom we have personally served and loved, preoccupation with such things and the depression and worry they create hen hinders evangelism. Church strife never spreads the gospel's, never speeds the gospel's advance. Yeah, almost all of you are raising your hand. And gals. And and what were some of the reasons? Alright, he he really wasn't, you know, that good in speech. He thought this was it. So sorrow, what we know of Paul, his greatest pain and sorrow was not from their mistreatment of him, right? So the way he's now going to communicate is not in person but with a letter versus confronting them again face to face Right? So let me ask you, how might this principle apply when administering church discipline or other difficult communications in the church? Right? That there is indication that whatever happened, they dealt with this person. I just told you he didn't name who it was. implied in in what was said was if you don't have a lot of up other leaders, well you gotta go back to this guy. that you might not do in other circumstances because there is a aspect of trust that maybe has maybe and it's tough because it's a case by case Um I think that like well it's interesting because knowing kind of what this kind of position was and had you just become a believer versus living in Blake and then versus having been a leader had shown some maturity and then fallen in order that no advantage be taken of us by Satan, for we are not ignorant of uh his schemes. And that didn't go well. Okay, does that make sense? What was the big issue that he addressed in chapter five? It must be your sin. And again, you're going to start to see Paul start to address this issue of his adequacy at the end of the day. So that's what Apol addresses here. Alright, so why did Paul not go to Corinth as he talked about? God's working, the Holy Spirit. You don't give up because they are your brothers and sisters in Christ. They were so ingrained in the society. Church discipline was administered and it was sufficient to assumably lead to repentance. They've repented and it's time to forgive them now. So there are some commentators, there's there's really two camps, believe that this might have been the person, and when Paul visited, um he confronted that person and this person confronted Paul, right, pushed back on his authority. perspective profession and then we suddenly go against that, that's that's a big problem. And and I guess my mind when I heard, well, if there's nobody else we would put this guy back in leadership and maybe that's not a fair way to express that. So think about when we when we go through church discipline and you get to that final step of basically um excommunicating someone from the church. All right, so how how many have gone through that type of conflict in a in a church or in other relationships? 2 Corinthians chapter 3, people please read it. All right, who wants to give uh our memory verse a shot? But our adequacy is from God. Alright, so let's pick up, so Paul talks about suffering, but let's pick up the end of chapter one. Um let me see here, sorry. And then I love the assurance that we see, right, of being um in dwelt with the Holy Spirit. So let me ask you what principles can we apply um if put in a similar situation? Get the log out of your own eye. Right? Right? That's our life journey uh as parents to see our kids walk faithfully um in the Lord. Now remember, we talked about this. Go back to First Corinthians chapter five. It is time to bring this person back in the fold. Satan can get a foothold, and that's the danger. So let me close with this just a quick paragraph from the commentary that I have here that I thought was very applicable. What is the immutability of God? Sufficiency and adequacy. What was a big deal back then? In the midst of this painful dilemma, like we just talked about, Paul wants to reaffirm his love for the church. His conscience, you've heard this, my conscience is clear. And then up in um so Paul is going to reinforce God's indicatives. They have chosen rather a false or more glamorous looking gospel, right? He's not afraid of confrontation, but out of deep, deep love, he's still seeking discernment on how best to handle it. So it's okay to hey, I need to have a a small discussion with you behind the scenes. The status of this person in the church had precedence over godly principles. The other prominent is uh idea or or thought or view here is it was just an unknown person, right, who led a revolt against Paul, maybe one of the superapostles. Because you don't want them to fall back into temptation. The principle would be like, okay, regardless of what's going on, what's expedient, we we would set a kind of a standard that we want to achieve And and for clarity, Lisa was not suggesting right you put in but but think about the early church. You are taking them out of the protection of the church, if you will, and the fellowship of believers, and you are putting them in the world. Okay, so we're going to stop there because as we start to get into actually, well let me cover the last part. between defending your ministry and because like you said you read this over and it feels like Paul's defending itself but what you're bringing up is a really For your proud confidence is this the testimony of our conscience that in holiness and godly sincerity, not in fleshly wisdom, but in the grace of God Ephesians one. So he's reinforcing these truths. Yeah, yeah. We have clear instructions on the quality characteristics we're looking for in a elder, pastor, deacon. And the intent is that the severity of that would crush them in a way. Give you that foundation because God is unchanging. Okay. Would you put this person if they've sh if they've shown this repentance, would you put this person in a leadership position? And after that he ends up writing um a what is called a very severe letter. He was poor? I can see times in the past when folks I know of had to defend their ministry and it gets muddled and confused as And then he follows up with 2 Corinthians that we know about that he writes in Macedonia. Yeah boy that's a really really important point. This is Paul being real. On purpose. Accountability, right? Um I wanna do this real quick. Can we have confidence in our conscience? But we're going to see it affected the whole church. We are getting to the point where we are turning this person over. Even maybe working through relations with regional pastors, right? Sorry you got caught. By the word of God. Do I go in person or do I write a letter? Right, uh let's go to verses three and four. It's an opportunity, it's a trial, it's a tribulation to be to be uh forced to um work through some of these issues, to be sanctified, really. I'll put the the bullet points up on the the slide here, but we do have some clues as to what happened. Absolutely. Now he sends that letter and we'll talk about it today. And we'll again talk a little bit more about that today. Yeah. Misuse of freedom in Christ. It was anguish for him because he loved his children. We talk about this tension, you know, that Doug brought. Um the other thing we teach in in the biblical reconciliation class, and it's always like a what? He's confronting the situation. Now remember again Corinth as opposed to the the church in Thessalonica, Thessalonica was like the model church, right? We'll talk a little bit more about sorrow, this idea of godly sorrow versus um uh worldly sorrow and the distinction of those He's still still before the Lord. But it's painful. Don't say our needs. Um we've talked about this before. That's a tough one because Paul we presented about Paul, the the murderer of Christians. I think as a leader you should fall in such a way that you are never qualified for spiritual leadership again. For sure. Daniel Nancy, not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves. And then we know from our intro what has happened. But Paul saying here with with absolute confidence, my conscience is clear. But I determine this for my own sake that I would not come to you in sorrow again. So Steve you bring up another great point. Yep. Paul suffered from the same kinds of problems that many of us do. Some some people are very sensitive to conflict. What would have to be evidence to show that this person had repented? Oh nice. It's one of my faves, that's why I bring it up. And that's what we're seeing here. Yeah. And so I'm flaming a little this, but there was that uh David was says that made me go, Whoa, should we Is my motivation right? Yep. Again, we use the uh the cool chart here to kind of show where we're at as we go through time. Discredit his authority, his apostleship. Now, when we do church discipline, you guys know and and Gabe gets up there from the pulpit, um, a name has to be given. All right, Miss Elizabeth, go. We'd be Greek. We have really good indication that um he made I'll call it an emergency trip to Corinth to address an issue. That was perfect. Is that that's the context of of where we're at we're at, and I'll leave the uh the map up there for a little bit I'm coming to you. He's not rehashing what happened. Alright, so this was the feedback that Paul got from Titus in Macedonia. Or the the blind or the lame man that was healed. Because he loves them. They dealt with this issue. That's a really good perspective. So again, back up to 21. You sorry you got caught. And he's trying to say that's not what happened. Very good. No, he's pointing them back to Christ again and again and again. Um not that we're sufficient in ourselves to think any things, but our sufficiency is from God. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. Being in the Word constantly, constantly, constantly. Um so he writes the letter instead of coming to them in person. Whoever it was, the confrontation apparently happened during Paul's quick visit and Paul's subsequent severe letter was a test to see if they were going to discipline the offender. Yeah. Alright, so we're gonna finish up. How how uh charismatic you were, what kind of orator you were. We we we as people and maybe as Americans especially want to jump right in. A person's status in society had a huge influence to their status even within the church, especially in Corinth. So so being accountable to those in the church, uh maybe that means meeting with some of them periodically, uh to grow in the word, to be reinforced by the word. You can't look at your placemat either there. Right? So again, he's going to confront, he's bringing back up what happened in his emergency visit to Corinth. But um that's why we talk about uh Paul talked about in First Corinthians having to deal with this severely, the sexual immoral immorality we talked about had to be dealt with severely. Excellent. The problem might just fester. So we don't have the details of that letter. It's painful for the one that has to confront. And I think that's part of a call fame if you're actually I'd be interested to know if like the outwitted by Satan, is that the church or is that even an individual that if we keep shame on him forever, we could But learning, like Stephen said, to be patient takes time, it takes discernment, right? Right, and and even maybe in a more biblical uh let me say it this way, in the context of being a child of God, we are to examine ourselves. That's a really good point. And sometimes that can be a blowback to the elders because we're not sharing everything. They did business with those who, you know, were pagan temple worshippers. To Stephen's point, they can still be an extremely valuable participant in the church. Um writ large, they were just selfish, weren't they? And often you have the manifestations of miraculous gifts. Right. And we'll talk a little bit more about that when we get into chapter three next work or next week. So he's working his way through Galatia. Right? We we emphasize this a lot in the parenting class that we do, right? This is the plan. That's another good point of conflict, especially with brothers and sisters. There are two prominent views on who this could have been. So that's what I talked about earlier, that um Paul went up to Troaz, and even though he had opportunity, it says here, to Even here at Hope Bible Church, right? So there were things that were prohibiting him from coming, but he he's trying to show his his Yeah. So good, really good um input. But whom you forgive anything, I forgive also. Yeah, so Elizabeth brings up a good point. But Lisa, like you said, you might be in a context where the pool is is young, they're immature, and yet and they come from this very secular um society. Kirk, I'm gonna put you on the spot. And I think that goes back again to the importance of as you go through scripture to really All right. We talked a lot about that. Was Paul this mighty, charismatic, good-looking uh preacher? We are anointed by who? And I've talked about this before. Let me start in verse eighteen. We don't know exactly if it was persecution or an illness, but whatever he was dealing with, he was feeling suffering to the point of death. I won't spend a lot of time on it, but you guys know, as as Tara mentioned, you know, that process in in Matthew 18, it can be a very lengthy one when you go through all of those steps Mm-hmm. And he went through persecution. Ephesians one. And in this case he's trying to use the letter to set the conditions, right? Yes, absolutely. So again, starting to defend, if you will, the ministry of the proclamation of the gospel Um the the second letter was is First Corinthians, what we know is first Corinthians. Paul, yes, the great apostle Paul, yet he was a human being, and he had many of the emotions, feelings we would in in a great conflict like this. We just talked about it. Right? And what he's imploring them to do, bring this person back in. Uh one of the things we're trying to do is what? Yeah, it'd be hopeless. He leaves really quickly. But I want you to know that what gets said from the pulpit, you know, Gabe and the elders, um But they can certainly serve in many other ways and they need to be loved and protected. So what what key word there did you see that was different between the two? It brings us much pain. Right? So let's see what clues we have. Not himself. That's because I'm on the wrong sheet. Now he who establishes us with you in Christ and anointed us is God, who also sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts as a pledge. That's why he's so sorrowful. They're there God gives us clear instruction on how to handle um some of these conflicts in the church. I don't know if you all heard that really having the discernment to sometimes be still and to be patient because who's working Uh in what translation are you using? That was Paul's indignation with that particular issue. And you guys know, often in a conflict, uh a lot of times um you know what the other person does plays a role in how that's gonna play out. He writes a letter in this case. Sometimes he's encouraging, sometimes he's imploring, sometimes he's exhorting, sometimes he's admonishing. It's time to bring them back into the fold. You're sorry for the consequences that it produced. His his spirit was so heavy about the severe letter that he gave to uh the Corinthians, and he and he was waiting for that feedback from Titus There were divisions due to people um idol worshiping basically other ministers. And then it didn't happen. And isn't that what Paul continually is doing here? That's Proverbs three, eleven through twelve. I don't do a lot of admonishing to my children anymore. Paul draws attention to a specific individual. That's the the point of uh church discipline is to produce godly sorrow. And what Paul's saying now is it's time to forgive now. What did Jesus say? Being accountable to to the entire church with a public proclamation. You still need that repentance. Paul's never afraid to confront um the situation as it pertains to the gospel. Say it wait, Romans. And in doing so, what are you also doing? And even now with this confidence, my conscience is clear, um that his his thought might be all right, let's charge in. And very sexually immoral children. And so maybe yes, there's been a thin in some of life where okay they're never gonna step back up into Can you imagine if we had a God that was changing? Paul starts with this idea of suffering. So he's trying to set the conditions again, you know, back to Stephen's point, having discernment of He's immutable. So that was just kind of a quick summary. So in the midst of this painful uh dilemma, Paul wants to reaffirm his love for the church. It's not. They know what happened, but he's not rehashing that. So on his third missionary journey, we know what does he like to do? Um and we teach this in the the biblical reconciliation class. We don't want to discredit anybody. We talked about that earlier. We did a lot of intro last week and started uh chapter one. Um they felt like he was fickle, hey I'm gonna come to you, but then he doesn't come. He boldly expresses it. For to this end also I wrote that I might put you to the test Um and how did you handle it? They want to avoid conflict at all costs. And that's where you get 2 Corinthians, the the letter or the epistle we're in right now. Well, is is is there a principle, is there an expediency, is there a thing that you would do in some circumstances And you might ask complete for what? He reinforces some indicatives. What are some principles? When you challenge someone who has been called by God, who are you really challenging? Doug, did you have something you want to add? This is so important. In fact, he talked about one of the reasons they couldn't come was what? I love Ephesians one because you see the Trinity in action. Um, back to the the sexually immoral man, if that's truly the person, um, you know And and more importantly, what were they doing in regards to Paul? And they didn't necessarily rally around Paul but cowered in silence. Yeah. 14 all the way through chapter 7 is Paul's going to be using a lot of language in different scenarios, if you will, to do just that, to defend the ministry. It has to be trained though. If your eye caused you to sin, rip it out. Now he's waiting for feedback. To stumble in a very serious way. Um a lot of commentaries say they just th there's no evidence. It's painful and yet we do it because we have an example. Let's do that. Second Corinthians three, five. Absolutely. I hear no, I hear not always. Not coming should not be seen as vacillating. By God. Right? Sorrow has to do with our expression of feelings of guilt. It is even more devastating when disloyalty and backstabbing come from within our own congregation It would be a hopeless uh scenario. Here he is in Asia Minor and he's now at Ephesus. Um it was a painful visit. People who thought they were strong in in Christ. But as God is faithful, our word to you is not yes and no. But Paul explains why he wrote the letter. And yet, like Paul says, I do this with confidence. What what can happen sometimes in your small little prayer group? Um you know one of the things I try to emphasize anytime we're And what does he not do here? Yeah. We've been through it in the past and a bit more recently. Now, for homework next week is what? Who sinned first? Those are truths that that we need to hang on to, that we need to meditate on. We know that why? That's always the goal. We pause there for a second. And so some of these super apostles were what? I don't know if you heard Elizabeth, but um conflict forces you if you're if you're doing it correctly And I kinda think about like Togo, the classic, like, oh a lot of people have two lives. But I also like maybe this also gets on a little bit of the part of forgiveness is sometimes You're not communicating, you're not really addressing the issue. 2 Corinthians 3. Cultivate a really high view of God. Right? Those truths hold firm forever. That's what's happening here. Wife. How does he start in chapter one? But point is Paul is demonstrating the right way to do this. Right? Right? So he ends up working his way up to Troas, and even though there is opportunity, great opportunity, the door is open to Absolutely. Remember, conscious is part of uh general revelation We are sealed as a pledge, as an inheritance. You know, he talks about the anguish of the heart. And yesterday the men met and taught on the immutability Meet that was sacrificed to idol and it was causing others They were they were self-focused, they were arrogant and they were puffed up. The cartoon we watch talks about super apostles that have infiltrated uh the church at Corinth. Because he sees his children not walking in the truth that he has proclaimed to them. How many of you uh are parents Verse 5. We'll we'll maybe hold that for for next week, but ESV. Right? The solution that he came up with that we now know about is he writes a painful letter of rebuke Other cases he confronts them one-on-one. So this is the positive part of this letter in First Corinthians, is they apparently dealt with that person. And it's very favorable. I've read 2 Corinthians before and I walk away thinking, wow, Paul's really defending himself. We talk about the qualifications for an apostle, right? There's nothing convicting me or convincing me of sin. That's the confidence we have here in how Paul is approaching this. Praying. So whatever was happening was influencing the entire community. Every reader of this text can probably identify sometime in our Christian lives Titus sent the letter forward, and he can't wait any longer, so he goes into Macedonia His parents or him? Right? Right? Yeah. Would crush the the the fleshly desires that they have and you would actually see repentance. It is a good one. It's almost as they got one foot in the culture and one foot in in church. So Doug, you bring up a really good point about this tension. Right? Right? So so yes, I would say this writ large, we can't trust our conscience, but what are we doing with our conscience constantly Right? My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline. Right That guy's like, oh that guy. And when you don't have choice, then Right? They were undermining Paul's authority and his roles and responsibilities as an apostle. And lastly, we'll see later to test their obedience. Because God chastises us There has been an incredible amount of activity that has happened before that. It's all about us though. And so you have to think of like the selection of men to weave that church Yeah. We are established just like you are as Christians in Christ. After he gets feedback from Titus. For indeed what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, I did it for your sakes So really big, you know, uh influence on the status that somebody had. Why? How do we train our conscience? So I would just ask there's there's a level of confidence and yet there's also a level of accountability that you gotta hold your elders to ESV, okay. Right? Going through some of these uh conflicts, going through this tension, going through trials He he wasn't sorrowful because there was a conflict. He he feels much sorrow and it was a very painful visit. He wanted to reaffirm his love, as we just talked about, and encourage them that he was not giving up on them But the evidence has suggested that this person is not repenting, and you start to question, is this person really a believer? So who was the perpetrator that confronted Paul and caused him so much grief? That's a really good perspective. That was really, really important, your ability to debate. Right? The the principle is you're not trying to shame. That's the last point. Right? You know, that was the attraction. So Paul, what he's saying here is we we have confidence in our conscience. When your children are small as parents, what is one of your main jobs? That's not the issue here. Matthew eighteen. Um he wants to set the conditions such that when he does visit But we know it's regarding a specific individual Yeah, for sure. 5. Come back next week and you'll find out. And and you can imagine how one would feel uh if you have this type of love for the church Yeah, you can't be good if you're suffering, right? Right? Right? Go back to verse 5 Alright, stopping cutting it off. There was disorder obviously during worship services. So again, he takes his roles and responsibilities as charging orders from the true authority, Jesus Christ. Not that we lord it over your faith, but are workers with you for your joy, for in your faith Verse 23, but I call God his witness to my soul, that to spare you I came no more to Corinth. In these super apostles or still being drawn to the culture that they are a part of. Take time to pray. When he's confronting them, he's not trying to say, well look at me Sufficient for such So that um you know that characteristic, if you will, or attribute of immutability is so, so critical. And I'll just move the green dot as we go through the process. It brought him much sorrow. So whatever happened he now comes back and now he's writing a letter to address Alright, let's go to uh verse 12 in chapter one. And sometimes that requires um But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow not to me. We talked about that in verses 3 and 4. Why? Many of you have gone through conflict. We can gain much from Why? Right? He's obviously not telling you to rip out your eye, but the intent is just cut it off. And yet we will learn later in the letter that God's plan ultimately triumphs, and Paul's anxiety was transformed into joy. So we're going to talk about that in a bit more detail next week. He's he's behind you, he's in front of you, and his hand is on top of you So let's start with, and some of this comes from uh evidence that we'll see in later chapters First Corinthians 5. Maybe it depends on the conscience. For if I cause you sorrow, who then makes me glad but the one who I made sorrowful? Right It was just so integrated into what they did It wasn't just something they did on Sunday. Right? Remember? He starts to talk about the suffering. I got Romans, Philippians, first Peter. They're challenging the adequacy of Paul's calling. We see that um Um one of them I ru I've already mentioned. It is so, so good. Why are you not dealing with this and dealing with it severely? That's what this is all about. Remember, indicatives are truce, and those are things we want to capture and make sure we note To go back, it might just stir up more conflict. We're gonna fix it. There may be seasons of waiting, of being still, but you don't give up Terry's laughing in the back And Paul's like, you gotta deal with this. He was pretty bad dude. Yeah. So let me take that really good um perspective and and observation. And that means studying his attributes. So there was this thought that if you're going through great suffering, you can't possibly be adequate or qualified For as many as may be the promises of God, in him they are yes, wherefore also by him is our Amen to the glory of God through us. Extremely gracious. That's the protection piece of the church. They've demonstrated forgiv uh repentance Unchangeable, all right. Right? He goes back through those churches. And so we'll go through that. Accusing Paul of being fickle? That's what Paul was admonishing them about We have conducted ourselves with holiness and godly sincerity. Because we want to get rid of them? That's what worldly sorrow is. Karen. Well where do we start when there's conflict? My conscience is clear. Paul now encourages them to forgive. And and what do we want to do with that sorrow? Right? So he's he Paul's encouraging this forgiveness as Stephen is saying, so that what? You can imagine, right, if you give this severe letter, you're just waiting anxiously to hear how they respond. That was relative to the times Yeah, she always volunteers. We talked about this, but rather their failure to live according To to have them prepped and be thinking and meditating about something He was waiting for this feedback and he finally gets it, and it was, hey Paul, guess what happened? And you could have been very quick like it's just wrong, I'm in it. We'll talk more about that in chapter 7. Right. Like I define them by oh that so and so who did who select the Second Corinthians uh And those are important things to cling to. This is how Paul views the churches as his children. And it really goes back to it's the context of the situation, right? For sure. He gets indication that the the church writ large has repented Right, so uh verses fifteen, I think, through seventeen So to Stephen's point, to take time to be still allows you to do what? We know Paul's not afraid to to confront So this See conflict is an opportunity. We saw that in 1 Corinthians. We've seen the evidence of this person repenting, and I want to affirm with you, you know, if you're going to forgive them, I forgive them. But that's not that's not how we form principle We don't know what was in the letter. That's how God loves us. Listening. He wasn't Right? I mean that was probably the context throughout the entire region that we just talked about, right? Right? Because if they're a believer, they've been given certain gifts. We'll finish up. God calls, Jesus saves, and the Holy Spirit seals. Okay? Do you remember what suffering was happening? Yeah. 5. But but bottom line, that idea of sufficiency, just like the sufficiency of scripture, it's complete. Name the person? World So it's real, right? Good. For the Son of God, Christ Jesus Chapter 2, let me read 1 and 2. I'm an engineer. That's super clear. Do you remember where you see that uh terminology in another epistle? Good. And we'll talk about that today. That's the tension that he was feeling So whoever it was was confronting Paul, where was everybody else? Yeah. It talks about the new covenant. Ever? Yep. Remember, many of them were Gentiles that came from this So the idea is any conflict, there's our contribution He's constantly reaffirming his love for the church. There's evidence of it, but no one has any kind of historical manuscripts of of what was written in there. You all need to know Yeah. You are to deliver this man to Satan. Okay? We as a church have gone through division and conflict in various forms. We don't share everything His intent is never to shame. Good. Um You have to be called by God. Good. Then he wrote this severe letter after his emergency trip to Corinth. Paul is never afraid to confront confront the saints Godly sorrow, on the other hand, leads to repentance And part of that goes back to this idea of forgiveness I want to see if somebody else wants to plunge in Um remember we talked about uh the wisdom uh the that Job got from his counselors. That's not where I wanted to pick up. And it takes resting in God. Right, do not embarrass. He's very strategic in the places that he goes to And we went through that um fall quarter It was just integrated in their culture There were probably pockets Especially if you're a leader in I gotta go fix this thing But the maturity of some of those characteristics might be different. Say again, Doug? When you're going through trial and tribulation, these are the truths Right? Excellent. And this really is the beginning That tension is really, really critical. Of being uh, you know, your yes is really no and your no is really yes I find like I think um Paul demonstrates this when he claims that his conscience is clear. Uh Randall talked about So that's what he's dealing with And I'm going to suggest And yet, even the the great apostle Paul is still going through this this struggle. You're challenging God. He wasn't a good speaker, he was not impressive looking. What are the details of what happened? So here you have um someone who is probably very prominent in the church What's happening here is real You're training them to deal with this guilt that they have, the sin that they're dealing with. What do you think? Alright, good job, guys. Um we talked about sexual immorality. Can we trust our conscience? Any other thoughts I didn't really mean that. But that doesn't mean that you aren't But what is worldly sorrow? We want to get rid of it. You gotta kick this person out Anyone else want to give it a try? Okay? There was trouble in Corinth, if you remember during his second missionary journey. Stephen. He's talking about a specific individual We kind of talked about it, 12 and 13. He's going to ask them to do something And that's probably the crux of what was happening here He uses all those with these churches as we do as parents They're part of the body now. That's what these provide But then he works his way back to Ephesus I can see that being very challenging to run the line. However, Yeah. So the dilemma, here's here's the tension that Paul is feeling. That's the end of Psalm 139 So absolutely you would want to see that totally distinguished. Good stuff. See But he's like I'm gonna stay and I'm Um what that means though is you don't get all the details. And that was the danger here. So it is precious, precious, precious. And that's not how he responds. This is uh the the case of the sexual immoral man And what is Paul saying now So again he confronts We want to get rid of those feelings Let's take that and kind of finish up for today this whole idea of verse eleven. Alright, let me wrap it up and we'll get you going. Um if you're in a place where the pool is pretty small Yeah. We talked about that It just it requires an incredible amount of discernment, doesn't it? We don't know. I get that. Right? His motivations are pure Examine yourself Good. So that's a great perspective, Kirk. I just love that. New converts That's what Paul was addressing. What was the issue, you remember? Satan doesn't get a foothold. We don't know But that's not what he's doing. What else? Very passionate about the gospel. What what are some principles Why Steven Good. Maybe a a public Thank you, Kirk. Elizabeth.