Well, I want us to um begin by um just reading chapter one. Just so that we can get a full context of this chapter Paul and Timothy, bond servants of Jesus Christ to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Syllapi. including the overseers and the deacons. Grace to you and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always offering prayer with joy in my every prayer for you. In view of your participation in the gospel from the first day until now. Well, I am confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. For it is only right for me to think, feel this way about you. Because I have you in my heart. Since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of grace with me. For God is my witness. How alone for you with the affection of Christ Jesus. In this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in real knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve the things that are excellent, in order that to be sincere And blameless until the day of Christ, having been filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and the praise of God. Now, I want you to know, my brethren, that my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel. So that My imprisonment in the cause of Christ has become well known throughout the whole p p Victorian God and to everyone else. And that most of the brethren trusting in the Lord because of my imprisonment have far more courage to speak the word of God without fear. Some to be sure are preaching Christ even from envy and in strife, but some also some also from goodwill The latter do so out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel The former proclaimed Christ out of selfish ambition rather than from pure motives, thinking to cause me distress in my imprisonment. What then Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I will rejoice, yes, I will rejoice. For I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayers and the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I shall not be put to shame in anything, but that with all boldness Christ shall be even now as always be exalted in my body. whether by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ and it and to die is gain. But if I am to live on in this flesh This will mean fruitful service for me. Now I do not know which to choose, but I am hard pressed from my both directions. having the the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is very much better, yet to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake. Convinced of this I know that I shall remain and continue with you all in your progress and joy in the faith, so that your proud confidence in me may abound in Christ Jesus through my coming to see you again. only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit. Together for the faith of the gospel, and no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them But of salvation for you, and that too from God. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake. not only to believe in him, but to suffer for his sake. Experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me, and now you hear to be in me. Now I'm going to stop right there. But just remember that if we were living back in Philippi at the time this letter was written to this church. If we were in that church, the reader would read the whole thing to us. I mean this is a letter of friendship. And y and you you know, if you receive a letter from a friend, you just don't read one paragraph and say, Well, that's nice. I think I'll wait till tomorrow to read to read the next paragraph. But now due to to the fact that we need to consider this in detail, we're going to be taking this in pieces But just remember there's the overall context of this book. And there's themes that are going to run throughout this book So even though we we are specifically concentrating on one one passage, um that theme will appear again Now, let me just give you a brief introduction to this book. Um And if you have the notes by now, um you can read read along with me. So I have notes here. Yes. So on page one, now I'm not going to typically read every single item or or um every single item in great detail But um also if you have any questions just ask um and even though I'll be doing most of the talking um You know, you can talk too. Okay. So this is Paul's letter or epistle. To the Pohibians, the saints, and of the church at Philippi. Philippi is the city of Philippi. named after Philip II of Macedon, who happened to be the father of Alexander the Great. So this is a city that has a long history I mean it was near the city in the year 42 BC, in an ancient classic battle between the Roman forces of Antoni or Anno. Octavian. Octavian, of course, being the person we would know as Caesar Augustus. This coalition would defeat the Republican forces of Brutus and Cassius, who happened to be the assassins of Julius Seat. Caesar. This battle would mark would essentially mark the end of the old repo Republican government. Of Rome and and that would usher in the imperial Rome. And um now the Romans when they recruited legionnaires Um, they would rec recruit them in mass. Therefore when they retired, they retired in mass. Um after about I think about sixteen years. That's uh retirement age. Retirement time for the legionnaires. But um so these retired legioneers would would be granted land by Rome And many of them would settle in or near Philippi. So there was a lot of ex legionnaires around the city. And this city would soon be designated a Roman colony. I mean, if in Macedonia or Greece But it has but it was a Roman colony, which means that the citizens of Philippi had Roman citizenship. Now not everybody in Rome had Roman citizenship. Only the special few And this was something very highly priced. For one thing, Roman citizens were exempt from certain taxes. Well, I suppose that's a nice thing to have. Um also they were not subject to the regional Governors. I mean this city this colony was was essentially a city state. So that's one more reason why it's good to be born in Philip. Also, um Roman citizens were not subject to crucifixion. Now Roman citizens could still be executed but um but not by crucifixion. And also Roman citizens could appeal to Caesar. They could have the cases tried, heard before Caesar. And um now Paul was a Roman citizen by birth. He was from Tarsus, another Roman colony And we'll see as we go through this book that Paul alludes to Roman citizenship. as well as our own heavenly citizenship several times in this book. Now this book is essentially a thank you letter. Very extended thank you letter. Um and um um this church had sent Paul a gift Um and they'd also sent him sent a gift by way of a man named Epaphodias Epaphoditus was well respected by this church and by Paul himself, and the church intended Epapoditus to stay with Paul. And to minister to his needs for some period of time. Now, Paul at this time was in prison. Now I should point out this. When we talk about imprisonment, it's not necessarily that Paul was in a prison cell. In fact, he in fact in this he in this case Paul was chained to a Roman soldier. All the time, day and night. But he was still free to have visit visitors um to preach. Um but he was always chained to this Roman soldier. Um Now Paul of course did see the inside of a prison cell many, many times. But when he was writing this letter, he was in his own rented quarters. And we'll get to that soon. And so Paul is writing this letter to this church. When he was chained to a Roman guard, imprisoned. Um now the reason is that when a peptide is chained He fell sick, very, very sick, almost died. And so the church had heard about it and they were very concerned And so Paul decides decides to send Heppoditus back to Philippi. But he did not want Denton to think that Hepapoditus had somewhat failed his mission. So he would explain why he was sending epaphodonis back in this list. Now, if you go back to the book of Acts, Acts sixteen, and I'm right now I think on uh number five of page one Paul 16 records the first visit of Paul to Philippius. So this church was the first church founded in the West, which is Europe. Paul at this moment is at Troas in modern-day Turkey, Asia, and he's contemplating where do I go now? So he receives this vision, this dream. It's more than just a dream. It's I mean it's it's a it's called a vision here Um but while Paul is but Paul is still us um um sees this vision And um he um sees this man who who from Macedonia and appealing to him to come over to help them. So Paul interprets this vision as a sign that he is to go west to Europe. And so in Acts chapter 16, he ends up in Philippi. That's where he um he um And and ironically he he he ends up in p prison um there. And you know that's where he um he um heals the servant girl of of this this demonic s spirit Um the citizens rise up against him. He's impressed in into prison and that's and that leads to the the conversion of this Philippian and and the start of this church in Philippi. Okay, number six. Paul, of course, is imprisoned or chained in Rome. He's awaiting trial before the emperor, which at this time is Nero, who reigned from the year A. D. 54 to 68. Now, Paul says nothing about the charge that is brought against him in this letter. But we know it going back to Acts. For example, If you look at Acts chapter 21, verse 27, at this point, Paul is journeying to Jerusalem. And as he's going, he's um he's causing the Jews to to re to um riot against him. And there's several of these riots that occur. But um in Acts chapter 27 we s we read that some Jews from Asia cried out saying Men of Israel come to our aid. We read that this is a man, this is Paul, who preaches to all men everywhere against our people and against the law And against this place, the which is the temple. Um and besides this, he has even brought Greeks into the temple, pagans Um and he has defiled this holy place. For they had a previously seen Prophecius Propheus, the Ephesians in this city, with him, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple So those are that's a summary of the charges that the Jews had brought against Paul Now, on page two, I want to say talk talk a little bit about Roman justice. Romans did not have a police force. Um they were not interested in preventing crime, but what they did was they just punished crime afterwards Now, they did not have prisons prisons like we have today. And justice was not typically windowed as a prison sent sentence. A person convicted of a crime would typically not be sent to prison. Only in very rare cases would that occur. The most common punishments were these. The number one um punishment was to pay a fine. And of course if you could not pay that fine you would be sold into Slavery. The second um punishment was, of course, capital punishment And again, they were not averse to to making all kinds of crimes um subject to capital punishment. I mean crimes we would never think of using capital punishment punishment punishment for. So that was the second punishment. The third punishment was they they would force the convicted criminal to commit suicide. Now you might think well w well well that's kind of like capital pun punishment. Um but you know in their mind um committing suicide was n was could could actually be a noble sign for them. Uh and and so And and especially amo especially those among the military, um, they they would think that it was more noble to commit suicide than to be e executed. I mean in fact I mean just look at the the look look at the well this is having a scale He when he thought the prisoners had escaped, he was ready to c commit suicide. Because he did not want to be executed. Okay, so that's the third punishment. And the fourth punishment would be of exile. In fact, the Apostle John, he was exiled to the to the island island of Patmos. Now, prisons were in most cases reserved for those awaiting trial, but not yet. convicted. They were just held there. Um and also the Romans they did not feed it. prisoners, the prisoners would have to rely upon friends and and family to bring them food. So that's why This church sent this gift to Paul. And so so in the so in number eight I sa I s I said that that that this letter was probably sent by Paphoditus on his return trip. Okay. So that's a brief summary of this book. Um and also one thing I did not mention in the notes is um is that if If you look at at the particular theme of the book or the particular way the book is brought is um is writ written, Paul after the after an introduction Will talk about his affairs, namely his present imprisonment in Rome. And then he's going to talk about their affairs and So both of those take chapters one and chapter two. Then he's going to um talk about the final items. Mainly he's going going to take advantage of some really good um teaching opportunities. And then finally in chapter 4, he's going to thank them for the gift. And he's going to use that again to teach, to teach, to have a teaching moment. Um he's going to explain to them what this gift really was. Um so That in a brief nutshell is is this book. So let's go on to let's just go on to page two. Um the The M D M C C salutation. No, you sometimes you may think this that you know these view op opening verses are somewhat um devoid of any significance. Um but well Um but that's not true. Um so we'll g get into that right now. So chapter one, verses one and two. Paul and Timothy, bond servants of Christ Jesus to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, including the overseers, the deacons. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Okay, so let's look at these two names. Paul. Well a Hebrew name is Saul. And he frequently presents his present companions, in this case Timothy, in his solitations. Some claim by this that there is co-authorship. That is, both Timothy and Paul wrote this letter somehow to get Now, in some of Paul's epistles, you know, maybe first and second Corinthians maybe first and second Thessalonians, there does seem to be a genuine co-authorship involved since the writing is typically, although not always, in first person told. Yet even in these epistles, the subject matter makes it certain that Paul himself is a primary right writer. Yet more so in this book, the apparent claim of co-authorship gives way to the reality that Paul wrote it entirely hims um himself. Now some understand Timothy as being Paul's secretary. I mean there are some passages that apply that Paul dictated his let letters. Yes, there there is that. You know, some believe that Paul has d deteriorated d deteriorated in eyesight or that he had some other injury that prevented him from writing. Because I'm um I mean Paul suffered and he was beaten many, many times So that might be a reason, but number three, um nevertheless it's clear that Timothy was with Paul in Rome And ministered to him while he was in prison, awaiting trial Nero. I mean it was common for prisoners to receive help from family members and friends because again the Romans certainly did not feed them. And Timothy himself was well known to this church In fact, both him and Epapodis were well respected. Epapodotus could certainly be called a missionary from the Philippian church for the purpose of delivering a gift from the church. So at this time, both Paul, both Timothy and Epapodius were with Paul. Now Paul identifies himself and Timothy as bond servants, which is a nice way of saying Slave. Um the the Greek word is um see dulos. It's a typical word for slave, and so this meaning Has someone owned by and subservient to the master of the household would have been plurally understood And the concept of Dulos, slave, sometimes translated bondservant. is a is a common theme in both the Old Testament as well as the New Testament For example, Mary, the mother who would become the mother of Jesus. Mary said to the angel Gabriel, behold, the bond slave of the Lord Be it done to me according to your word. Acts chapter two Even upon my bond slaves, or bondservants, or slaves, both men and women, I will in those days pour out my spirit And they shall prophesy. Page 3. Acts chapter 4. And now, Lord, take note of their threats and grant That your bondservants may speak your word with all confidence. In the book of Revelation, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his bondservants The things which must shortly take place. He sent and communicated it by his angel to his bondservants, to his bondservant John. Okay. So note that the New Testament The Bible designates us as slaves of God, slaves of Christ. The Old Testament picture is that of Exodus chapter 21, verses 5 and 6. Right now I don't have that up with me, but I think that's the picture of this this ceremony. where a slave could be set free if he chose, but he decides to stay with his master because he loves his master master. So this so this so so this is not a slave that just doesn't want to be a slave This is a slave that has espoused love and loyalty to his master. And also notice that Jesus Christ himself took up the form of a slave, a bondservant. And we'll see that in chapter 2. And this basically is a recognition of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. By by by acknowledging that you recognize yourself as a slave. So Um and so n so in number seven, um after Paul introduces himself and Timothy, um he then specifies the um He specifies the recipients to all the saints in Christ Jesus. Saint, of course, is derived from the word holy. It designates this concept of being set apart. on behalf of Christ. It's one set apart, which is also both ethically set apart as well as God is truly holy. The theme has history in the Old Testament, such as when God speaks to the nation Israel, he says, In you shall be to me a kingdom and priests in a holy nation. And the the believers are a holy people concentrated and set apart to the Lord belonging to Him. Their lives are now forever identified with Christ, their location is in Christ, and through Him they have true cit citizenship in God's kingdom, though for the moment they are physically in Philippi, which is a Roman colony. And along with all of these saints, he just adds on The overseers, elders, um, those are those are the ones who lead shepherd um and also the deacons. um which is basically a term for term meaning to serve. They all the servants. Um um and And the language is that this is not just a separate group, this is the same group. Whatever the titles may be. Now, now come to verse 2. this this greeting. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus um Jesus Christ. Um this is a greeting. I mean it's it's a it's a standard greeting among Christians It's also a Christian greeting. You know, unbelievers could not have such a greeting. This is grace, uh that's God's unmerited favor. Um and peace, um that's um peace with God, um, and that's also a fruit of the spirit. Um The unbeliever does not have peace with God. He's at enmity against God. He's under judgment. But Paul can say To these believers, grace and peace, grace to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I might also add this Notice this this um notice the word and from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. Now I just want to point out point out to you that this is one example among numerous examples in the New Testament. That that will that will show the divinity of Christ. Because the biblical writers would never say something like God and me. I mean that that that is a You know that's a term that you may hear today from some people, but but um um but you don't associate yourself with God Now sometimes the the phrase may be God and many, many. Man being a more generic term Um but um um when when Paul places places God the Father and Jesus Christ in um in that um um phrase that um that is proof even if there was nothing else Th that that's proof positive that Jesus Christ is of the same essence as God God Okay, if if i if we go to page um four. Let's go to God to um um um to to the prayer of Paul. And we we can surely gain a lot about prayer. Um in this section. Paul says this, I thank my God in all my remembrance of you. Always offer a prayer with joy in my every prayer for you In view of your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. For I'm confident that he who began a good work in you will perfect it under the day of Christ Jesus. Okay. So no notice that Paul just thanks God for his friends. Um that's that. Um and not he's not merely wish wishing them prosperity Um, but this because this is a true bond of friendship between him and this church. He's going to pray for them. He's going to thank God for them And he uses uses this term my God in a very personal way. And he he's he does it regularly, always. Um he does it just time after time again. And he thinks God for all of them, even though, as we shall soon see, some of them are Aram Aram Um um um or causing him some discomfort. And um so his prayers are w are with joy. Um you know it's uh it just transcends all circumstances Um it's based altogether on the Spirit, God's way of being present with His people under the new covenant Hence the joy prevails for Paul even while he is in bonds. And he was he he's not he's not only going to express the joy himself, he's going to urge uh Philippians to express joy And so on number seven is here's a paradigm, thanksgiving and prayer, filled with joy on behalf of all of God's people. And um so that that that that's a very healthy um um recipe and um and also Paul mentions about their partnership you can also translate that fellowship Um you can uh it's the Greek word um you may have heard it's a koinia. It's true fellowship. Um It's it's it's a fellowship made possible by God Himself. Um and it's for the furtherance furtherance of the gospel in every possible way. Now when he talks about the gospel, um he's not Paul is not just missing some some some specified body of Um which which is something that that that has see that Um that is to be po I'm taught. Um say is the emphasis is not on the gospel as being some body of truth has sometimes to be proclaimed, but rather the gospel has to do with Christ both as person and his work. Living worthy of the gospel of Christ in verse 27 therefore means to live worthy of Christ as he has been as he has been made known and proclaimed in the gospel, which has him as the focus and the content. It includes them having participated in giving and receiving Verse chapter 4. But his greater concern is with the gospel in Philippi. He wants them to get and keep their acts together in Philippi Every word spoken, every deed done on behalf of the gospel from the moment of their conversions to the present, that is included. And Paul is confident that God is at work in them. So the lifeline participation will continue until the day of Christ, which has very little to do with them, but everything's to do with God, because this is God's work Who began this work and will see it to completion. So having reminded them of his own joy over their over their good past and present He turns now to to assure them of their own certain p p p future Now the day of Christ, or the day of Christ Jesus, that is that is the eschatological goal of present life in Christ. That is the not yet of salvation that Christ has already secured and the Spirit is now appropriating in the life of you and me This is to encourage the Philippians not to lose focus. Now, um we today We today look for a future hope. That hope is the coming of Christ. In our case, the rapture. Um and so this church um will continue to that point in time when God will send Christ to gather up his church. So that is the day of Christ. It's a day of rewards for us. So let's go on to verse 7 and 8 if I have if I have time. For it is only right for me to feel this way about you. of the notes. Because I have you in my heart. Since both in my imprisonment and in in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel You are partakers of grace with me. For God is my witness how I long for you with the affection of Jesus Christ. Now Um the verb to feel. Um it doesn't refer to thinking in gin general, nor to a specific thought Rather to having and developing a certain mindset, along with certain attitudes and dispositions Um this anticipates the kind of mind that he's going to compel them to have when when when we get to chapter two. And again he says all of them is he's not taking sides here. Even though some are taking sides. He's he he's not. And This grace refers to them being partakers together of the defense and the vindication of the gospel, as in verse 29. You have been granted on account of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. So Um now so when he talks talks about since both and my imprisonment. Let's talk about imprisonment for one for the moment. Imprisonment refers to Paul's present Imprisonment in Rome. Here is the first instance of the suffering motif m motif which rises repeatedly in this epistle. Now The word translated here imprisonment very often in Scripture refers to being chained, not necessarily to being confined to a prison cell. For example, in Acts chapter 28, verse 20. For this reason, therefore, I requested to see you and to speak with you. For I am wearing this chain for the sake of of the hope of Israel. Um and also um first and also Ephesians Ephesians chapter six For I am a bastard in chains, same word, I am a bastard in chains, that if proclaiming it I may boldly speak as I ought to speak Paul is saying he's bound to Christ. And so both the oath itself and it and its content reveal the depth of feeling out of which the letter is written. I mean Paul says Um for God is my witness how I long for you with the affection of Christ Jesus. That's an oath. Um and Paul knows the significance of that oath. So Paul can say that because he really, really means it. And then he has and then he expresses this longing. He longs for them. It's not specifically that he would see them again, true as that is, but rather that they remain true to the gospel. This is Paul not the academic, um, but a passionate lover of Christ, who wants all believers To live out a life that truly reflects the gospel. Thus Paul is praised as a shepherd, caring for his flock, even those whose antics so often bring grief. rather than joy. So again, this this just um um this should mo motivate it in our own our own um um prayer Quite often we th we we we we we pray rather emotionally detached from someone Um but Paul but that's not Paul. You know he he is he is he is he is emotionally attached when he's in prayer. And um Um he um because again he gives thanks to them, he gives thanks for them, he and he does it regularly, continually. Um Once he prays for them, he doesn't forget. So we go we're going to um to um go go on to um to verse nine Paul says, In this I praise that your love may abound still more and more in real knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve the things that are excellent. in order to be sincere and blameless unto the day of Christ, having been filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory. in the praise of God. So the basic framework in this prayer Is the present existence of Christ as both the already and the not yet. Paul's prayer for them is that they may live the life in the of the future in the present So they might thereby be blameless at at its consummation on the day of Christ. That is, they are to live for Christ now and keep on doing so in light of his coming again. So when Paul says, And may the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love for one another from First Thessalonians chapter three, verse twelve. You can also see that in chapter 2, verse 2. Love, first of all, points to the character of God and to God's actions towards his people based on that character. The rest of the prayer emphasizes love not as a mere affection, but has a behavior that is both pure. That is, it stems from the right motives and is blamless, yet lacking offense. Now Paul is not questioning their current love, but that they let But that they not let their behavior mo be motivated by selfish ambition and vain conceit. undermine the very thing that has long characterizes them. That is, yes they love, but they need to grow in that love. They need to keep on growing, keep on abounding You don't want to have your love grow old and stale, but keep growing in that love. Then Paul says, we'll knowledge that obtained through Experience and personal relationship refers to a knowledge of God um of who he is and what he does. So so so this knowledge is of God. And then Um like for example and um in um Colossians chapter one that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the of the Lord. You know. That's the same type of knowledge here. It's a it's a it's it's a knowledge of of God and what He's doing in your life. Now the things that are excellent Are also the things that are essential. Now, for the Christian life, some things matter and some do not. But these are the things that matter. Now when Paul says this uses the word sincere, that refers to purity of modus. Or or in terms in terms of community relationships. That's being honest with each other. Sincere Blameless refers to not offending or not causing someone to else who stumble. So that's blameless Um and now to stand on that day full of righteousness, they must now be living out that righteousness. You know, Psalm fifteen Who may dwell on your holy sear? Ask the Hathomas He who walks with integrity and Amen. I mean integrity and works righteousness That is those who can dwell on the holy heel of God. And fruit, of course, denotes behavior. When one is filled with the fruit of this kind of righteousness, then one's life is characterized by the fruit of the Spirit. Which means that in part um it's ha it means to have one's love overflow and keep on overfl f f flowing. And in this of course comes through Christ. It is quite unrelated to being religious, which for Paul is just another f form of boasting in the So that there is the introduction to this letter from Paul to the Polybians. Um he is um he um again note that this is a really intimate letter of friendship. Um and Paul really does care about these people. And you could tell. And sells You know, he's no longer Paul the Pharisee, but he was these Gentiles. And um And so he so he's going to to in to uh to encourage them, yes, what you do, keep on doing. Continue to abound in your love. Continue to grow in Christ. And now Beginning with verse twelve, Paul trans trans transitions to what we might call his affairs. That's his present situation in Rome. And then towards the end of this chapter, he's going to do a transition as well to their affairs. Because um they are also suffering persecution. And we'll get to the details of that next week. Um. Are there any? Um sick sequestions