Morning, morning everybody. So the goal today is to finish oh we will finish chapter three. Okay. So Uh for those of you I'm I mostly you've been here the last few weeks, but just to uh give a recap, so in chapter three we started out where we talked about um Um Paul was addressing those who what it really means to be a true Christian because there is confusion from the outside, particularly the Judaizers who mix mix um Christianity with Judaism. And so in doing that so he he described, you know, um characteristics of a true Christian. You know, there's those three characteristics Um if we look back um in the notes see okay here So it was those who worship in the spirit through well really through service and then also who do not boast in Christ and not themselves and those who who put no confidence in the flesh. So that was in the first three verses, and then the next uh stance of uh verses between four and eleven, Paul talks about his own journey and And now uh pursuing Christ and leaving his old life of where he was himself, um someone who was uh very involved in Judaism and Here we have he talked about this um he talked about the um contrast between this what he thought was prophet but then he counted all as lost when he knew Christ. And so now what we're talking now the section we're in now is um how do we run that race in terms of um going for the ultimate prize which is um being more like Christ and knowing him more fully which we cannot fully realize on earth of course but it's something that we work through. And as we talked about earlier too, there's a different stages in our Christian life we've got to justification and then sanctification which is what we're going through here um as we uh sanctification which we're all currently going through as Christians which is uh um you know becoming part of becoming more like Christ and then it's fully realized. Um a lot of what you'll see in this notes now is eschat eschatological which you know means in the future. the final state. And so now we're gonna continue to talk more about how how Paul's saying we need to pursue the price, how he's he's urging the Philippians. So with that we were um if I remember correctly we were um We stopped on page thirteen. Um does everyone in agree with me? That's that's what I remember. Okay. I I circled page eleven and Oh, um okay I think we were on verse fifteen, so um okay. So the way um I'm having you all read through the notes with me, so Um okay, so let's start with okay, let's we can read actually if I can get Maria to read um If you can read the section uh Philippians 3, uh if you could read verses 15 through uh through the end of uh the chapter. All of us then who are mature should take such a view of things. If on some point you think differently, that too God will make it clear to you. Only let us live up to what we have already attained. Join together in my following in following my example, brothers and sisters as just as you have as a model, keep your eyes on those who live as we do. For as I have often told you before, now tell you again with tears, many live as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their destiny is destruction. Their God is their stomach, their glory is their shame, their mind is set on earthly things, but our citizenship is in heaven, and we eagerly await Savior from there. The Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body. Okay, great, thank you. Okay, so then again we're we're now in um okay, so just before that section before uh verse fifteen Uh Paul's saying, I press on toward the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. So now he's contrasting I mean so now he's he's he's now now um talking to the to the um um Philippians and saying, okay, let us therefore, as many as are perfect, complete, or mature, have this attitude. And if And if in anything you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. However, let us keep living by the same standard to which we have have attained. Now before we continue, I thought um so yesterday we went on this hike to Old Rag. So and Larry was there too, I was quite impressed. I'm hoping that when I get to his age I can still do it. But sorry, I didn't mean I didn't mean a lot of the other things. I'm I'm basically saying that Larry's in good shape in in general. So So I was I was very impressed. But with the Christian life we we you know we need to continue to press on and and Paul is really urging us to do that and there's different hurdles that come along the way and This this passage came to mind with me because there's just one second. Have any of you done old rag besides Larry and I? Oh, okay, yes. So so there's this part that's called a rock scramble. And um so you you're hiking all the way up and then you get to this particular part and certain parts there's like a bottleneck because It's almost like you have to rock climbing, you're going up and down and and and uh as you're going through sometimes you think, well man, I should just turn back because this is just too difficult. But um but if you continue to what we continue to press on at the end, it was like it was very rewarding. I just think about that with the Christian life. You know what we're looking for is in the end we know we have a great reward that we're pushing towards. Okay, anyway, let's continue just then in in um looking at uh this this section where Paul is addressing the whole Philippians and and and more what um what what it means uh in what he's saying about uh verses fifteen and sixteen. So let's uh Larry if we can start. In particular uh this prize that we're pushing forward, Larry spelled it out here in his notes about knowing Christ fully and completely So that's uh you're a lyrics you could read um the first two points. Sure. Number one, after concluding his personal story with a passionate declaration of his pursuit of the prize, that is, knowing Christ fully and completely Paul now turns to apply his story to the situation in Philippi. Note the person Plural. Let us have this attitude. Paul does not say all you who are mature have this attitude. Paul does not disociate himself from these readers as in other cases when there is a presence of outsiders. There is nothing in this letter which indicates the presence of those who oppose Paul. This that not all of them will see things the way he sees them is implied in the letter. Indeed, some of these some of the believers need encouragement to distance themselves from associating with the Judah Juderizers, for example. So Paul, who is not yet complete in the eschatological sense, is already complete or mature among with them in terms of how they live in keeping with what they have been already obtained, and are therefore complete to that degree, even though the final completion is not yet. Okay, great. Thank you. Okay, so as you can uh as you can see here, um He's he's spurring he's spurring the Philippians to um well okay the the thing to to highlight in these first two two notes says, okay, um indeed some of the believers need encouragement to distance themselves from associating with the Judaizers. So for the most part, uh you know, I think most of the congregation is on on par with that, but there are some who are not and so The interesting thing is that Paul is is kind of he's not distancing himself from them. He's saying like um he's saying we're in this together and he's just spurring spurring them on. So um okay let's look at the second part where um where it's talking about um what it means to and and the part oh okay let's continue in in the notes. on um in this section with um if if Sarah if you could read uh three and four There is many I for factory includes how many good others This is not a statement about those who do, not are not. Rather it is a statement about those who do and are. For example, Romans 8. 14 says, in many of us all were led by the Spirit. Oh God, these are the children of God. Just to tell me that God has some other children who are not loved with Most being left by the characterized all are truly God's children Paul makes a surprising qualification. If anything if we have a different attitude Paul is already given to follow his example, but his location isn't the same as a plan The emphasis here is not on the difference to the disagreement from God continually work among them. And grew up what further interesting they may be a matter of f for yes. They might not be ready to grasp yet. Here is the offer free ship and Pontress God's free to fluence and speed Okay. So um I kinda get ahead got ahead of myself, but but the uh in um so in the the portion where he says that um Okay. Um and and and verse to what Sarah just read, if in anything you have a different attitude. So Paul is really exhorting them to follow his example. Um but exhortation is not the same as command. Um Um okay. So basically Paul is just um okay the emphasis here is not on any anticipate differences or disagreements. But on God's continuing to work among them and clear up what further understanding they may need on matters that they're not yet ready to grasp. So he's he in in saying that if if uh Um than anything you have a different attitude. So he is including the whole congregation. There might there might be some who are not on the left who are not totally um Who are who some who are more mature and less mature, but he's kinda including all of them. And he's spread all of them on. And so um okay, l let let's look at the next the next uh uh point in verse five. However, bring however brings this uh conclusion and true meaning of all that is discussed, whether you understand fully or not, whether you agree Let us keep living by that same standard means let us bring our life and behavior into conformity to something. Here to live in conformity to the gospel as that which has been spelled out repeatedly in their hearing. were spelled out again in the cr in the uh Christ narrative. So this we're looking back in chapter two where that's addressed. Um and again in his testimony. So so it's when he's talking about what they've attained, he's referring to that. So there's um Yeah, so Paul encourages encourages them not to lose focus. So let's um okay, let's go back to what what was said about Christ's narrative. So um earlier in Philippians So if Oh Carol, do you have uh a bu a Bible? Yes, I have to Oh okay, sure. So if you could read Philippians two, six through eleven, just to remind us of Where do I start? Up verse 611. Right here, I can who although he existed in the form of God did not require a question Regard equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but empty himself taking the form of a bond servant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man He humbled himself for becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. For this reason also God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord Oh to eleven. That is eleven. Okay. Great. So now so now what we've discussed, you know, we're talking about pursuing the project, and now we talked about the attitude that we should have. And now going forward and then at the end now is talking about the there's the examples that was given. of you know Christ himself and then Paul talked about his own testimony which we just went through and now uh that leads into now this next next section about examples that we should follow that we can follow in in pursuing this. And actually by way of of review um earlier, I mean we talked about this, but Um what are some th some things that you know we have access to that help us pursue the prize, you know, this ultimate prize of knowing Christ fully and completely, which again we cannot fully do here on earth, but we we run towards doing that. Or um the word of God of course, um prayer, um following following your the uh following others example that that it You know. Following on example like Paul and then those even like our uh people that are in our contemporary times. And then also Christ also um through trials he also helps us, you know keep that focus. You know, some a lot of times with trials, at least personally in my life, it's uh I've gotten sidetracked on things that, you know, are outside price. Maybe it's pursuing, you know I did a lot of schooling so for some time, you know, I really was pursuing like PhD and everything and during that time I kinda hit my lowest point and that's when I got familiar with the sermon that I mentioned and so that that trial really kinda you know got me focused on, you know, what's most important. Not that it not that you shouldn't be well trained for your field, but that shouldn't be something that you put up uh above your wal with price. So so definitely trial is another thing Okay, but now let's go into the next section where we where we talk about where Paul's talking about examples that you can follow in in this regard. So I think Chuck is next. So we're we're now on page uh page fourteen. So Chuck, if you could read um Read that, read those four four um points under well let okay. Let me first read. So, brethren, join together and following my example, and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us. So I'm gonna pass it over to you, Chuck. 1. Paul amplifies the appeal in the language of imitation. The principle of a pupil imitating his teacher has strong Jewish roots. Paul is implying here as I imitate Christ for, he says in Ephesians 5:1, be imitators of God as beloved children. 2. You also become imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit. First Thessalonians 1:6. 3. There are two earlier hints of imitation in Philippians 1. 30 and Philippians 2. 18, both occurring in the context of suffering from for Christ. For they are joined together in unity with one mind. Walk has to do with behavior. Who are those who walk according to the pattern you have in us? They are contrast to the many that walk who are enemies of the cross. Very likely Paul is referring to eternates for whom the chur for whom the church would grant hospitality Okay, great. Okay, so so the point here is that so this is focusing on the idea of like as you're pursuing the prize and and following those who who have who are doing that well. And um and like I mentioned before, so in our context, you know, we have elders and deacons. And even if they're not elders or deacons, they're those that you you could see are um You can find people in church that you can get mentored by that you can see are, you know, who are who are who are really pursuing their walk in a way that um is honoring. to God. So um okay so let's go to the next section. Oh and then okay one thing um w walk is something you see quite a bit in in Paul's epistles and it's just it's basically you know how how you walk on it. how how you live on a day-by-day basis. Um you see that a lot in Ephesians when there's commands of, you know, where Christ is saying how how um you should walk by the spirit and not by the by the flesh. Okay, so uh moving on to the next uh couple of verses then. So now we we talked about this example, and now now Paul is going to warn them again about those who could um warrant about those who who stand against that who who could be a stumbling block. So so for many walk again how you live daily of I am often told you, and I'll tell you even weeping that are enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their appetite, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things. So now after again after sh after talking about the the way to properly walk in a good example, now now it's a warning about um not to be um deceived by those who who are not doing that, who who are enemies of the cross and who may not appear to be. And so that that's what we're addressing in this section Here. So let's see who is uh next. Um Andy, do you have the notes? You don't. Oh, okay. No problem. Uh you do. Um oh okay. Um okay, so if if oh excuse me. Oh, okay. Um if you could read the first two points. Under seventeen? Under um eight under um under eighteen and nineteen, so one page fourteen and there's uh yeah there's two points under 1. Who are those these enemies of the cross of Christ? Some say Paul, as in mine those described as dogs. workers of iniquity, and the false circumcision, mutilators of the flesh, of verse two. But this is unlikely since the emphasis is on their walk that is their behavior, not necessarily their teaching. And this group is not merely outside pagans, as if Paul is really concerned about pagans acting like pagans. Instead, this group is in contrast to those who walk according to the pattern you have in us. This group is the insiders. as professing Christians from their point of view, although certainly not a part of the Philippian church. 2. The enemies of the cross of Christ are probably those who claim to be friends of the cross, but actually are enemies of the cross They have been attracted to Christianity, but have not embraced Christ. That is, they are false believers, not born again, and not spirit-filled They may well be itinerates, those whose views of faith allows them a great deal of undisciplined self-indulgence And who travel from place to place expecting believers to show hospitality to them. That is, they seek food and shelter before moving on to other places. Okay. So so you can see um I think I think in terms of those who are enemies of the cross The what is probably the most damaging is really those who are within the church but aren't really don't really know Christ. And I think that's how people really stumble stumble the most because um you know um those people can re I mean they may they can really uh deceive uh deceive people with you know With I for instance, well so an example of this is um two examples that I think are very damaging within the church is Those who who who and actually some of this was discussed in some of these sermons that I was referencing things. So one is those who say that Christ is not enough and that you need works as well. So that's that's what we were addressing earlier, Paul addressed earlier with the Judaizers. But then there are also those who say that, you know, yes, we believe in Christ, but but then you don't have to change um your life. You can go on living the same way and saying that you're a Christian. And so that so in general that that I think is those are some examples of of uh enemies of the cross who may not appear because especially in the one camp, you know, they appear that they're very pious and you know really loving Christ and they're a good example, but but they're adding to more than what the gospel And then the other way it's appealing because I can still I can come to church but I can still live how I want to. And there are others who are doing that. So so those those I think where it's describing here is those enemies of the cross that are more um kind of more subtle as opposed to someone who totally rejects God and has nothing to do with it. There that's not as much of the an issue, but he's warning that um within within the church context. Sarah. And the third one is so dangerous. And um I was thinking they go today. And and then we got and a lot of people, well, I will say a lot, but you know, people need to be a little Mm-hmm. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, sir made made the good point is what we were discussing that you need to be alert because Um there's always um those enemies within the church that are coming in and out. So um even in our our church is great and very solid, but there can even be people who deceive Even within a solid, very solid church, so we always need to be on the alert. Okay, so Now we talk about what what is the um so then Paul describ talks about those who could be enemies and then he talks about what is what is their end state, what's what's their final state So that is um and he talks more about their characteristics in the next couple of points. So um Matt, if you could read uh points three and four. Their end, destiny, is destruction. This phrase speaks of their eschatological end, destruction. They have abandoned abandoned the cross and abandoned the pursuit of knowing Christ as evidenced by their walk. There is something seriously wrong with their faith, so their end is total loss Christ would say to them, Depart from me, you who work in equity, for I never knew you. Number four Whose God is their stomach, and whose glory is in their shame. This phrase gives concrete expression that they set their minds on earthly things They live for the present and spend their lives fulfilling their own desires as their chief end. They need they see nothing beyond themselves. Their glory is what they delight in, and their shame is how they should perceive themselves. They ought to be ashamed of themselves if they had any spiritual discernment. In contrast to Christ's body of glory, they are not destined for glory at all. So so Paul is um so so what he's showing too is like helping them know that hey that that those who are who are doing those things their end is not good is is destruction. And now moving on to the next point, so what what is the issue? The issue is that that that um in all these cases they these um individuals they've put their emphasis on earthlings. things. That is the issue. And so in point five we have, yeah, they set their mind on earthly things. They do not merely think about earthly things. Their minds are set on such things in contrast to Paul setting his mind all together on Christ. But but those but these who set their minds on earthly things are characterized as those who have abandoned the pursuit of the heavenly prize in favor of what belongs only to the present scheme of things. And I can think in terms of the case of those who they believe in Christ but they live the way they But they live, but their life isn't changed. They're very enamored in what is here on earth, whether it's pursuing um possessions or it's you know sexual immorality, they're just very wrapped up in those things. And they um so they're living that double life and really their their mind is set on the earthly things and not on Christ. So so moving now, uh now that he's said that now, we're We're moving towards looking what our mind should be set on, which is on things above. And so the next couple of verses which we'll um finish out this chapter are in relation to that. So um okay so let's read it here. So for our citizens our citizenship is in heaven, from which Also, we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of his glory. by the exertion of the power that he has even to subject all things to himself. So so starting out here, it says four, uh Marx I'm looking at point number one, both a contrast with those who set their minds on earthly things and the ultimate reason for imitating his example and looking out for those who do so as well. So remember we we just ended with talking about those who who are the enemies of the cross and they're they they focus on earthly things and now it contrast was you're pursuing the prize, what do you need to do instead? You need to focus on on um headling things and so that four is like a um what what's that uh is that preposition. So uh English is not my best like I said I became an engineer because I'm not best in English, but this preposition is is transitioning us now. Um okay. And like I mentioned, this section is talking about looking um looking upward rather than the things on So then um in point two uh the citizens of Philippi had pride in their status as Roman citizens, but believers have an even greater heavenly citizenship. Under a heavenly Lord and Savior. And they are all and they are already citizens of the heavenly commonwealth, even as they await the consummation that is not yet. Just as Philippi was a colony of Rome and Macedonia, they function as a colony of heaven and that outpost of Rome. So in making this analogy, the Philippi the Philippians can really relate to this because they themselves so that they were a colony of Rome, but they were far away. So that was their s citizenship was Rome even though they were far away. So similarly like we are here on Earth, but we still are citizens of of heaven and that's our final destination. So he's he he's appealing to that that um parallel because they can really understand in the way they function as society being an outpost of a colony that's far away Um okay. So um in in the in note three then it's not that we awake Christ from heaven, which can only mean his physical coming from heaven, that we do so eagerly is reminiscent of Paul's active pursuit of the prize and also the imminent nature of Christ of Christ's coming. So we should be focusing on that on that heavenly perspective. And um okay before we finish off the note that I'll have have you guys read more Again, um I thought it'd be useful to um read a few scriptures about you know about heaven itself, you know, what what we're looking forward to being in Christ. The place that we'll be with Christ. So okay, let's see. Um okay. Revelation okay. I'll have so I'll have you guys read a few of these scriptures before we finish out these notes. Um okay, who's next? Oh Suzanne is next. Okay, so let me let me um Make sure I got the right reference here. So if you if yeah, if you could turn to Revelation Okay, Revelation four one. Um Suzanne, if you could read Revelation four one Revelation 4. 1 After this I looked, and there before me was a door standing open in heaven, and the voice I first heard speaking to me like a trumpet set. Come up here and I will show you what must take place after this. Oh thank you. So the first characteristic that we talked about is that we know the reason why we say looking up because heaven is is upward in that test Um what you could see in the um in Revelation, which of course, you know, John also John wrote and had that vision. Um secondly, if we could look at um I can have let's see. The next scripture, Ezekiel. Um, okay Is it Ezekiel 1? Actually, okay. So the next scripture I'll have us read is also in Revelation Revelation. Oh, sorry about that. There's another scripture here. Okay. So I'll read this. So uh if you could turn to Second Corinthians Uh two or twelve, sorry. Second Corinthians twelve Okay, so another description here. Um, okay, I'm 2 Corinthians 12, 2, that's where I'm at. So um I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago, whether in the body I do not know, or out of the body I do not know not know. God knows. Such a man was caught up in the third in the third heav uh caught up to the third heaven. So again heaven of course is up, but in scripture the actual place of heaven is called like the third heaven. So there's like the heaven heavenlies and then there's which is just like above us and then forgot what the second heaven is called, but then then up above that there's what's called the third heaven. Um so that that's the second Corinthians. And then in terms of of course uh more concretely, um the last scripture I thought we'd read is Of course there's several others. So it in uh it another scripture you can look at is Ezekiel, it talks about like the Old Testament. um discussion of heaven in Ezekiel chapter one. But this last discussion of you know what we what we have looking forward to is in Revelation uh twenty-one Um okay, who's next? Um Yeah, if you could read um let's see. Uh if if you could read verses versus one through sorry, twenty one one three Yes. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there's no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell among them. And they shall be his people, and God himself will be among them And he will wipe away every tear from your eye, and there will be there will no longer be any death. There will no longer be any mourning or crying or crying. The first things have passed away. And he who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. And he said, Write, for these words are faithful and true. Then he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the springs of water of life without cost. He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But for the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers And immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Thank you. Jeff. So I just had this uh so in the interest of time, um of course it talks more about the New Jerusalem later, but just just to give you some scriptures about about heaven and what we have to look forward to and um and also what happens to those who um those who are enemies of Christ of course um okay so So let's move to uh back back to the notes um and four and then we're so we're talking about the second part. So if you who will transform the body of our humble service State into the conformity with the body of his glory by the exertion of the of the power that he has, even to subject all things to himself. So um if let's see here. Who's next? Oh, Rebecca. So honey, if you could read um points four and five. Yeah. Um the second clause who will transform metorf metamorphize the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of his glory, focuses on the way in which Christ will function as the Savior And also that Christ will save both body and spirit. This is the future bodily resurrection of believers. Those who are being conformed to Christ's death will one day be conformed to Christ's present glory. Our humble state echoes the humiliation of Christ in Philippians 2. 8. His glory echoes his exaltations of Philippians 2. two nine through eleven. 8. So um so what we can see here um So when Christ is talking about our humble state, so even even now as we are um as Christians, you know, we we are justified and now we're going through the sanctification process, we still have to battle our unredeemed flesh So that's connected to our humble state. And uh what's saying here is that you know in the end Christ is gonna save us. He's gonna save us in the end and and allow us uh re uh take us to the the glorified state. So coming back to what we were talking about here. So Paul earlier was talking about what he gained with Christ and there's all these different things that he's gaining. So Uh so of course the knowledge of Christ, we don't fully get that till till we're with him in Christ. And then righteousness, which is, you know, we're right with God, but of course we still battle our f our flesh. But then we have the power uh and then of course we talked about the fellowship with him. But then now we're talking about the glorification. So in knowing Christ at the end, you know, we're we're working towards that um here on earth through the sanctification process through the ways we're talking about, but ultimately he will complete that and it's talking about how, you know Christ himself, he not only saves us, but he also bring us to that glorified state. And so it's it's talking about that about that here. Okay, so then let's finish off the last uh couple of notes. Uh Michael, if you could Finish us off actually. Okay. Point six. Christ can do this transformation because he can also subject all things to himself. A reference to Psalm eight seven, where God will subject all things to his Messiah, who in turn will turn over all things to God the Father, so that God might be all end in all. Point seven. So with Paul we would do well not merely to await the end, but eagerly press on toward the goal Since the final prize is but the consummation of what God has already accomplished through the death and resurrection of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thanks. Thanks. Michael. Um okay, so so that that completes uh chapter three and I thought I would I would end with in terms of you know, having this heavenly type of approach. So um so again I I encourage you to listen to these series of messages Um where I got some of this outline on that it's on GTY series of um messages that McCarthy was going over um in this section. Well the whole the whole book, but then I of course I'm in chapter three. But he talks about um you want to have this taste of the heavenlies. Like the w And so some points he was me mentioning um well first we know that we have the life of God within us, right? Because we have the Holy Spirit within us. And um we know we can live by the rule of the word of God, and we can also what we what we need to think about is laying up our heavenly uh treasure. So Um so we should have that mindset of um in everything that we do to have the focus of what is the eternal benefit of you know how we live Okay, so with that, that concludes um chapter three, and um I will turn it back to Clary. Well thank you Seesaw for leading us through chapter three and now we're into chapter four we're not done yet And um does everyone have the notes for chapter four? I do have one copy left. I have some copies. Okay, um in this time um I would like to um begin reading in chapter four, um beginning with verse one. Therefore, Pay one more, therefore. Therefore, my beloved brethren Whom I long to see, my joy, my crown, so stand firm in the Lord, my beloved I urge Eurodia and I urge Syntheci to live in harmony in the Lord. And do indeed true or loyal companion. I asked you also to help these women who have shared my struggle in the cause of the gospel, together with Clemot, also, and the rest of my fellow workers. whose names are in the book of life. I'm going to pause right There for for one moment. Okay, so Paul begins this chapter with another therefore, which is a transitional word. It points you back to the preceding passage. Um namely um chapter three, um beginning with verse seventy through And that and that was that describes the eschatological blessings of their heavenly citizenship. In the glorious return of Jesus Christ, who will complete their sanctification. So now the sanctification becomes glorification. And Paul begins here with a profusion of vocative expressions indicating their intimate friendship. And their eschatological hope, the terms he has previously used in this letter, he says, my blood brethren. He says, whom I long to see, my joy and crown. In this way stand firm in the Lord, my So Paul does not mind repeating these terms, these friendship terms And he adds his own heart, as indicated by the use of the first person pronouns. This is not mere, you know, acquaintance, friendship Paul does indeed have these Philippian believers in his heart. My beloved brother. Again, that emphasizes the enduring relationship of family and community. whom I long to see, emphasizing the deep longing Paul has to be with them. It is no that even in his absence, they are to remain steadfast in the Lord. And then he adds this, my joy and crown. The joy is eschatological. The crown is a boasting in the Lord. They are, of course, his present joy, but he points them to the time when they will stand together with him in the presence of Christ. And they will serve as this victor's crown. And then he also adds, my beloved. One more time, a term of endearment. from his very heart. And again he reminds him, he urges him to stand firm in the Lord, firmly rooted in relationships with the same Lord who will come from heaven as we have seen, and were transformed in by the same power by which he will subdue all things to himself. They are citizens of heaven. And this is what happens to such citizens, citizens And so Paul has urged this before, but he repeats this one more time. Um just to emphasize that their hope is in front of them You know, death is not going to be the end of their life. They don't have to be afraid of death because there is eternity On the other side. There's a crown waiting for them. There's blessings. There's joy. So even though in this period of time, which we call earth, which we call our own lives, though there'll be trials, though there'll be hardships, though there'll be persecutions, Though we may look and see that the unrighteous are prospering and were not uh at least according to what we think. You know, you know, everybody else is getting what they want, but not we. But for us who are believers in Christ We can't even imagine the blessings. Um I mean we You know, no C Sun has has showed us some some verses that speak of habit. And yes, those are very significant verses, but this But it's hard for us to even imagine what life will be like in the presence of Jesus Christ who loved us, who gave himself for us. Um and so again Paul exhorts them, urges them Um to stand firm in the Lord. This is the way you should go. This is the way you should walk. You know. So going on to verse two, Paul returns to Earth for oh for a little bit of time. And he's going to apply what he has learned, what he has taught, to the situation at Gillibide. In verse 2, he speaks of this conflict in the church that he wants that he that he urges these two women to address. He says, I urge Euronia and I urge Sympathy to live together in the Lord. Indeed, true companion I ask you also to help these women who have struggled, who have shared my struggle in the cause of the gospel Together with Clemot and also the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in this book, this book of life So Paul is now addressing an issue that might hinder the believers from being of the same mind. Maintaining the same love, being united in spirit, being intent on one purpose. Now Paul does something that he would he would typically not do. He actually names these two women Specifically. I mean how would you like your name in the Bible in in this context? Um but um and but you know Paul doesn't take sides. He doesn't say, you know, Eurodia, you're wrong. You need to get right with synthetic. No, he he um he um and he doesn't identify what the problem is. And so he does he doesn't take place. He says, I urge Eurosia and I urge Syndicate. There's no favoritism here Um but he urges them each to work together to live in harmony in the Lord. So the sol so there's apparently some there's some conflict between these two women And they should live together in harmony in the Lord. That is to address their differences by adopting the same mindset in the Lord. And here is evidence that the issue is not new merely a personal issue, but it's still it's it's going to be dealing with doing the gospel. Now, let's note this. These two women, Eurotia and Sytechy, they were not immature Believers, they're not new believers. I mean they've been co-workers with Paul. So they have shared my struggle and the cause of the gospel, along with several other co-workers, including Claymont. Now, we can assume also one more thing. This is not the only conflict within the church. I mean, these two women Here have been picked out specifically, but they're not the only ones. This is not the only conflict in this church Um indeed, um Paul points them out perhaps because of their being his own co-workers And perhaps because of their because their reconciliation will be a model for somewhat for the rest of the congregation. So no so but but repairing such disharmony, such such conflict may require help And godly counsel. So Paul urges someone identified as true companion to help these women. Now this certainly indicates the importance of resolving this matter. I mean this this requires help. Um this cause someone mature in the faith to resolve this conflict And um so the question is who is this true or loyal companion? Now, obviously, he's someone well known and trusted by Paul, and someone well known and trusted by this church. Now, one thing I I will point out. Um in your Bible, if you look at at the beginning of verse three. And um it will probably say indeed true companion or loyal companion. Now I actually have the 1990 version of the NAS V And it actually says, indeed, true comrade. But they've actually changed that in the 1995 five edition to true companions. Because you know comrad, you know that's a strange term to use in an in an in an English Translation. But the question is, you know, who is this true companion? Um well um Gordon D. in his commentary on this book postulates that this royal that this royal companion is Luke And he does a really brilliant job of uh of of um of um of um defending his case. Um that that is Luke Um and now so we see this this term companion in our English translation, um but it could also be a proper net Could. Could be. Um Suzkus would be the name of this person. Um It could also be used as a type. You know, someone like Barnabas is a son of encouragement. So it could be that case. Now, and some would also refer to this as to bea. Liz is. Liz is, yeah. But the term itself is masculine. Um so we could debate as to the to the identity of this true companion. But at the end of the day, we'll all have to admit, no one knows So you can pick which one you um think is the proper one. But you know You still don't know. So um in yes, question it shows that there are a number of mature believers to come in and help. Yes. Yes, yeah. Yes and uh yes, but that is right. There are there are several there. Um Um but yeah. So we're we're just trying to uh to say, well, who is this one, this one person? Um and we don't know. Well, um we are actually at the end of our class period Um so during these next few weeks I will we we will finish chapter four. And also at the at um at the end if we have time and I hope Oh I I want to go back to oh C C something? Oh, oh thank you. Okay. Yeah, and so at so at the end I would like to to go back to a phrase that I haven't really addressed in chapter two. Um this fear and trembling. What does it mean to work out your salvation with fear and trembling Twilling. So I hope to um to um return to to that passage. So that be um quote in prayer and we can be dismissed.