Okay, welcome to this class. We are on chapter two of Philippians. Um this is a section that began back in chapter one of verse twenty-seven when Paul transitions from his affairs to their affairs. Now this church was a very bloved church. Paul was very, very proud of this church. Um power does not address any doctrinal issues or concerns in this book. Um But that doesn't mean that there are some issues that the Philippians need to address. And um So Paul begins um by encouraging them, exhorting them, urging them. To grow in Christ, to be citizens of heaven on this earth, and to live out their responsibilities as citizens of heaven. We saw last time in verse one that that Paul brings in all of these treasures that they have backing them up. Um this is not I mean so I mean Paul's not saying you know Pour pull up yourself and just act right and you know you know um you know do the best you can Um Paul is urging them because Christ has has empowered them. Christ has gifted them. They have treasures in Christ that they can rely upon. And his appeal to them is, in verse 2, make my joy complete. And this is how you do it, by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. So how are they to do this? In verse 3, Paul urges them to do this. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit. But with humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. Verse 4, do not merely look out for your own personal matters, but also for the interest of others. And so we come to the notes on page four. We're going to begin with this concept of humility. And um in this concept of the high value of humility Paul says in verse 5, have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. And so this added to that was in Christ Jesus, Paul urges them to imitate. Have this same mindset. And so in verse, so beginning in verse six Paul says, Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God, a thing to be carasped. Now there are some alternative trans t translations here. The King James Version says who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal to God The NIV says who being in the very nature of God did not consider a clawy with God something to be grasped Um now the proof itself um that you that you see in the um the MC NAS B existed um is probably not the best translation um because the verb is not to exist but it's actually the verb to be so it's some form of to be um as indicated by the King James Version or the um new in international version Um so this verse begins with a transition from Christ being God, that is his pre-incarnate to his becoming human while still at the same time being God Now the word translated exist denotes a continuation of a previous state. The verb itself stresses the existence, the essence of God, of a person's nature, which is that which is absolutely unauterable and unchangeable, which is which in any circumstance remains the same. So that's why the the the the transition in the form of God is is good or being in in very nature God. That's a that's a um a very good translation here. So um but I do want to say something about exist that verb here for just one moment. You know many people you know, um, you know, kind of brush off God and they say, well, you know, prove to us that God exists As if such a proof is necessary. But still, look at this. God doesn't merely exist. Like you and I. God self-exists. He's the only being who self-exists. And so Jesus Christ eternally existed or self-existed and will forever exist and continue to exist and self-exist In the very form of God. From all of eternity past through all of eternity future, Jesus Christ is God. He is fully divine. That will not change. Um specifically in his pre corn up Christ possessed all the attributes of God and was recognized by all heavenly beings as being God. I mean Christ self-existed. So that's why King James Version uses a better verb in this translation, to being in the very form of God. And um now Hebrews chapter eleven verse six says this And without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is And that he is the rewarder of those who seek him. It's not enough to believe that God merely exists, but that he is. He is God. Um and that he he is a God who reveals himself to be exactly who he is through the pages of Um you know the the um the demons believe in God. They believe he exists But they shudder, they tremble, they are terrorized. And man should also be trembling before God. Now, so I'm down now on I think number six here. The word form refers to the outward manifestation of an inward reality. It is the essential form which never alters. The meaning is objective, not subjective. It's not just my opinion or your opinion or what I want it to be or what you want it to be. It's the very essence, the very form. It's objective. The form will be real even if no one is there to observe it. It is reality, not thought. From this word morphe, or shape, we get the bio biological term morphology. The study of anatomical pressure Now, yet in one sense, even the human even the English translation form, scalsey expresses its four significance. Quite often we use this term form to indicate the very opposite of reality. You know, some sometimes we say something like something is merely the form. By which we mean the external appearance is really misleading and does not represent the true inner substance. That's not the meaning in Greek. We're looking at objective reality. What is on the inside is what is real. What you see is what is real So we use the word for because there's really no precise English equivalent to the Greek word, and there's really no other better substitute. So it's for. But the Greek word emphasizes that this external form, that which we can see, actually represents the underlying nature. Um you know there's there's no deception here. Um there's no um There's none of this well I see this, but you know, you may see something else. Um This is reality. Jesus Christ is God in essence, in form, self-existent. Um and we could use other phrases to denote this very basic but real and important reality And so certainly in Paul means by this that all heavenly beings recognize the pre incar recognizes Christ as being the pre as being pre-incarnate of God. Now this meaning of form is further confirmed in verse 6. He emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant or slave. Now no one claims that Jesus was merely a servant only in appearance Now we um people back then could see him, they could touch him, they heard him, they saw him, they saw the miracles, they heard him teach. No one could say, well, he was merely some some appearance that was not the reality. So considering how this noun form is used in English, the NRV translation is worth knowing who being in very nature God. And this reminds us of John John chapter 1, the Gospel of John. In the beginning was the word And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. In the beginning was the word. Yes, he existed and not only existed, but he self-existed. The word was with God. He was face to face in fellowship with God. The word was God. Yes, he was face-to-face fellowship with God. I mean when we're not talking talking about the same person here. Um so he was God in essence, um, but he was also face to face with God. And this was true from all of eternity past. So um Jesus said of himself in John chapter eight, verse fifty-eight Truly, truly, which means this is true. Um you can count on this. Um I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am Um and that word I am in the Greek is emphatic, which which clearly indicates Christ was claiming to be God Himself Divinity. You know, not the same person as God, but God in essence. And so in the audience clearly knew what Jesus was talking about. I mean because Jesus said that I mean they they were accusing Jesus of blasphemy Because no one would make himself equal to God. So now, does the invisible God possess a form? Well the Apostle John says that no one has seen God at any time. But we also have the testimony of men like Isaiah, who said, I saw the Lord. Sitting on a throne. And then he said, Woe is me, for my eyes have seen the king. The God of hosts, the Yahweh of angelic army. And so Isaiah and others saw the Son in the form of God, that is a form which strikes division. It has no s it has no superficial resemblance, but with but which is truly indicative of God's inner nature and invisible substance I mean Paul himself says in Colossians chapter 1, verse 15, that Jesus is the image of the invisible God. And the Rite of Hebrews says that Jesus is the exact representation of his nature. But here we see a transition from God, from Christ being God to his becoming human. Um and let's just note that the word becoming, that he became, denotes not a continuation of Some characteristic, but now adding something else in his pre incarnate existence Christ was not man. That happened at his incarnation, his birth, his conception in the womb of Mary. So going on to verse six, the last part of verse six who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be dressed, but he emptied himself. Again, let's just look at some alternative trans trans translations. King James Version, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal to God Or the NIV, who being in a very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. So Jesus' first step in humbling himself was that he did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. Now, the phrase to be equal with God repeats in essence the sense of the preceding phrase to be in the form of God. So together these two phrases point to the same reality. Just two different ways of saying the same thing. Now Jesus is on page six now. Jesus is in pre-carnate state. had to be equal with God in order to have the form of God. He could not be God the Son without being deity. He who showed us the form of essence of God had to be Equal with God. He had to have that same essence. Now, the verb translated here to be grasped is problematic for two reasons. One is it's pretty wet in the Greek We don't have a lot of information here. And where it does appear, it denotes robbery. Um that is it denotes seizing something that doesn't belong to you and it and then holding it onto yourself as if it's yours. And making sure you keep holding on onto it so that someone else doesn't grasp it away. That's the idea. And the verb form of this word is used also in 1 Thessalonians 4 chapter 17. Then we who walk alive and remain shall be caught up Together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord Now, just looking at that verse, you may think, well, what does that have to do with grasping? Well, look at the word cut, cut up, what we call rapture. That's the same. Verb four. Um one day for those of us who are Alive on this earth will be caught up when the Lord returns in the air. Um the whole the whole church will be caught up. Those who aloft at that moment of time will be caught up Um in the in the picture is is is like a bird of prey coming down and grasping a prey, holding it in its talents and then carrying it off Um whatever is grasped um is isn't taken. There's no resistance. Um So the so the so so so so the idea is is is that this idea is that a thief would grasp something, steal something. Um not his, and to keep it to himself. Um so that's the That's the foundation for this word. So what does that all mean in this context? Um okay the here's the probable meat, I think, in it um Based on the noun form, this is an abstract noun. But what that means is it is that no thing is to be ceased. That is. The verb itself is the is the whole meaning. There's not a noun. Rather, the noun emphasizes the concept of grasping or seizing. Thus Christ did not consider equality with God to consist of grasping or being selfish. Rather, he rejected his popular view of kingly power by pouring himself out or giving himself away for the sake of others. This would be a contrast to the Greek and Roman mythologies, where the gods and the goddesses were constantly fighting each other and seizing what was not theirs. And another meaning, although it's somewhat less likely, is that is that the word is is a synonym for beauty or prey. And hence the phrase denotes a manner to be seized upon in the sense of taking advantage of. But that's somewhat less likely. So Christ's entire life on earth was characterized by being that which he always was. Prior to his incarnation, he was in the form of God. And after his incarnation, he was still in the form of God in spite of his voluntary humiliation. And what that bas basically what that all means is that Christ was God. He was God in essence. He had all the attributes of God. He was recognized as God. But it was not something that he had that he had to grasp as if it was not his. It was his. Um also no one could take it away. From him. He was God in essence, in form, in appearance, in all of his glory. But here, but here's the the um essence of what Paul is saying. Though Christ was God, laid aside From being face to face with God the Father, from all of eternity past, he Put that aside. Uh he he did not keep it to himself. Uh and he became a man. And he became face to face with us so that we would be able to share in that fellowship that he had with the Father from all of eternity past. You know, he kept it not for himself, but he was going to put it aside so that he could share it with us Um so that w is what the essence of this next verse says. Um but he emptied himself taking the form of a bondservant to be made in the likeness of man. Again that the the King James Version says, but he made himself of no reputation He took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. D NIV says, but made himself nothing. He emptied himself. We get the term kinosis, which means emptying. Now, the question might pose, okay, so he empied himself Of what? And we might expect Paul to explain that. What did Christ empty himself of? But Paul doesn't. Um so in on page seven now Many interpretations of this passage seek to describe that something. He emptied himself of something, but what is that something? But just like the verb to grasp doesn't require a noun or an object, neither does the verb to empty. Christ emptied himself. He poured himself out. So it's not like he emptied himself of something. Um Um but rather this is how he emptied himself. This is how we see this is a you know this a this is a new new definition of the word empty This is how Paul says he emptied himself. Taking the form of a bonser or slave. Now, it is clear that the verb here is not the main verb of the sentence. The main verb being he emptied himself. Instead, the phrase modifies the main verb to empty. How did Christ end himself, or how was this ending expressed? Well, he took the form of a slave. That was his And again and again the form the verb the verb tooth the verb uh the meaning the form is used here meaning that was his essence. Um he was God, yes, and now he is a slave. So the verb to empty regularly means to become powerless or to be emptied of significant, as in first Corinthians verse 1, verse, chapter 1, verse 17. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not in cleverness of speech, that the cross of Christ should not be made void, should not be made insignificant. And this stands in sharp contrast to the empty glory or the selfish ambition of verse 3 It functions in the same way as the metaphorical metaphorical phrase, he became poor. 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 9, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, who though he were rich, yet he became poor Um so that you through his poverty might be rich. Um same concept So on number nine, nothing in this passage teaches that God the Son emptied himself of either his divine nature or any of his attributes. But only the outward invisible manifestation of his Godhead God may change form, but he cannot cease to be God. And so Christ certainly did empty himself of the proper recognition he had in heaven as God. And he entered a world of men. Most of whom did not at all recognize him for who he was. He lacked the recognition among men that he that he had with the Father. Men saw Jesus and they saw him just as a man. But no more. You know, maybe maybe a good teacher, maybe a miracle worker Um maybe someone close to being a prophet. Um But for most of people, Jesus was just a man and no more. So going on to verse seven, the last part of set set s verse seven B Okay, Christ emptied himself taking the form of a bondservant or slave and being made in the likeness of man. So this is a way Christ empty himself expressed itself in human history. This is now flesh and blood. Um this is now in time. This is now in human history And now note that the verb to take here is not the main verb of the sentence again. describes how Christ emptied himself. The proof is a worse active particle having taken Which indicates that humanity did not disgrace deity. Yes, he was man, but he was also God. Rather, he took upon himself voluntarily, in addition to his pre-incarnate condition, something which veiled his deity. Now there were a few times that his deity was unveiled. For example, on uh on what we call the Mount of Transfiguration When he was there with his with some of his di disciples and he he received a visit from Moses and Elijah. And the disciples heard that voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. Hear him And then I have um Isaiah 53, verse 11 here. By his knowledge, the righteous one My servant will justify the many as he will bear their iniquities. Again, again, a picture of Christ becoming human. Um and again um Mark chapter ten verse forty five Uh well going back up to to number three, I I wanted to point out that point out that that word my servant, you can also s translate it my slave Mark ten forty five, Jesus would say, For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for Minnie. So he took the form of a slave. I mean that's his characteristic that that was um That was his nature. A slave, a servant, someone doing the will of another. In this case, Jesus Jesus Jesus was doing the will of the Father. So to go into the last part of verse 7 And being made in the likeness of men. So now I'm I'm on verse on page number eight Number one, okay. Nothing in this passage teaches that God's Son emptied himself of either his divine nature or his or any of his attributes But only the outward, invisible manifestation of the Godhead. God may change likeness, but he cannot cease to be God. I think I have repeated that more than once. Paul does not say that Jesus was in the form of a man. Okay, let's just note that. He was in the likeness of man. Now Jesus was a man, yes, but he was no ordinary man. He was fully divine. He was both man and God. Now he was man, yes, but it was also God. He did not cease to be divine when he took on humanity. But he was not merely human only. In this noun likeness, well that's a somewhat weaker term than the than than the noun form. And this permits this somewhat ambiguity here, emphasizing that he is similar to us in some respects. But still dissimilar in other respects. The similarity lies in it's for humanity Yes, indeed, no one questioned Christ's humanity. No one questions his Jewish heritage. He was Jew. All considered him a rabbi or teacher of the law. Some consider him a good man, a miracle worker, and someone who's socialized with social outcast. He also had hunger and thirst, he experienced physical pain and t t tiredness. Okay. So now there's but there's also one critical dissimilarity between Christ on earth and you and me. Christ had no sin nature. He was made in the likeness of sinful man. This sinlessness does not dist distract him, d does not distract from his humanity. I mean sin is universal to mankind. You know, you're a sinner, I'm a sinner But it's not innate. God did not treat us with a sin nature. We got that on our own. It's not there by creation. He was God living out a truly human life. And this phrase is also part of the contrast. Christ made himself of no reputation in becoming human. Christ was recognized by all the heavenly inhabitants as God, the Creator. Now he is recognized by his creatures as a creature. Think about that for one moment. This earth was not a friendly place for Jesus And so let's go on to verse 8 here. He was found in appearance as a man. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. So here's verse 8 begins with a particicle emphasizing Christ's incarnate mode of being that is being found in appearance as a man. Um I should say Christ's incarnate mode of being. He was being found in Appearance as a man. This is followed by the main clause He humbled himself. And this is followed by another part of the cycle modifier, which spells out how he did so. How did he humble himself? Well, he did so by becoming obedient unto death And this is followed by what means he died. He did he didn't just die an ordinary death. Um he died of death on the cross, on the Roman cross. So here's the, and then going back to the to verse six, the structure begins with a particicle emphasizing Christ's pre-incarnate mode of being in the form of God. Followed by the main clause, he emptied himself, followed by the particle modifier, which spells out how he did so, taking the form of a slave, followed by what means he did so. By being made in the likeness of man. So that's so so that's a contrast between those two two verses six and verse eight. So on page nine. The primary sense of being found in appearance as a man is external recognition as a man on this earth. Those men who saw him saw a man. The word translated here, appearance or fashion, comes from the word with from which we get schema. And there's also a contrast between what he is in himself and what he appeared in the eyes of men. So the two phrases, being made in the lightness of man and being found in the purance of the man, accent the reality of his humanity. So that's that the two phrases being in the form of God and being equal with God, excess, accent is deity. Okay, so and so being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself. By becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. The verb to humble meanings to take the lotiest Placed deliberately, echoes the phrase with humility of mind in verse 3. This is something Christ chose to do. This was not accidental. This was by design. This was by intention. This was by plan. um that he humbled himself. And being found an appearance of God of a has a man He has humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Now Paul in the church understood Jesus' death not from the perspective of those who crucified the Lord of glory. who acted on the basis of human wisdom in their cheer ignorance of God's ordained purposes, but from the perspective of one who saw his death Has an as an act of obedience to the the divine will Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore be imitators of God, his beloved children, and walk in love, just as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us. An offering and a sacrifice to God has a fragrant aroma. Again, that in emphasizes that that that Christ gave himself up Voluntarily, on attention, on intention, for the divine purpose to obey the will of God. And it was a sacrifice. It's an acceptable sacrifice. It will be a sufficient sacrifice. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 22. For indeed Jews seek ask for signs, the Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified To the Jews it's a a stumbling block. To the Greeks it's foolishness. But to us who were called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. And in John chapter 10, verse 17, Jesus would say, For this reason the Father loves me, because I laid down my life that I may take it up again. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have the authority to lay it down, I have the authority to take it up again. This commandment I have received from my father. So that is the humility of Christ. Christ being In the very form of God, God in essence, being face to face with God, enjoying God, um being recognized by all the heavenly beings as being God, being the Creator, and now he Puts that aside for the moment, and he makes himself a part of the creation, a man. And a man that will eventually go to the cross to die. All of that being the will of God. um and um and then into and to die upon that cross burying the sins of many. Um you know how how How much humber can anyone be? So, okay, so that's the humility of Christ. But what does God think about that? Well what we we see in verse nine um what God thinks about that. Therefore, also God highly exalted him. And bestowed on him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord the glory of God the Father So that's how highly cr God thinks about humility. Um now this passage is not a is not a doxology. That is, it's not a hymn of praise, even though this passage has been put put to me hubic. Paul is not including this passage with a doxology, even though at other other times he has he has done that. This is a teaching moment. I mean this passage, yes it's uh it's about Christ Um it's you know, it it's worthy of about considerations just to know the mind of Christ in into um but it's a teaching moment Paul um is not sharing this just to help the Philippians have a little bit more Theological understanding here. This is intended to help to urge the Philippians to do likewise humble humble themselves because if Christ their Savior their King their master humble humble themselves in this way Well, I mean, shouldn't we also be be willing to humble ourselves? in the same way. Or not not not to repeat what Christ did. We could never do that. But we can have the same mindset And that's the importance. That's what's important here in this passage. Okay, so I think I'm on page 11 now. There was some question about whether this verb to exalt and to bestow expressed a two-fold action or single action. But probably Paul intends a single reality. That is, God highly exalted Christ in gracing him with this name. However, there is certainly a sequence of events that Paul does not mention that are still part of the exhortation. His resurrection, for example. His ascension, for example, his coronation, for example And his high priesthood. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 22, verse 20, says, God raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and every name that is named not only in this age, but also in the age to come If he put all things in subjection under his feet, he gave him his head over all things to the church, which is his body. Also in Matthew chapter twenty-eight, verse eighteen, Jesus would say this to his disciples All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. In John chapter 5, verse 22, Jesus would say, For not even the Father judges anyone. But he has given all judgment to the Son, so that all will honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. So this name which is above every name Um this name which identifies his rank, his essence, his nature, his character, is above every name. whether it's on earth or under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. So this name is incomparable It is the supplitive of supplatives. There is no one like him, no one like Jesus, and no other name. Now, what is this what is this name? Uh well we'll we'll get to that soon. Um the proof Um this name I'm on thank I think I'm on on on number two here. But this name, which is above every name According to this passage, it is the same name by which every knee shall bow, and it is the same name by which every tongue shall confess. Same name here. The name is identified as Lord. You can also translate it master. You can also translate it sovereign. Sovereign one. The Lord has ultimate sovereign authority over everyone and everything else. And Jesus Christ has this name. The proof in the significance of this name is found in Isaiah 43, verse 23, where the Lord Yahweh The Creator says that to me every knee will bow and every tongue will swear. Allegiance. Okay. So this name emphasizes Emphasized here is Yahweh, God, um, Lord Um in most English trans translations it's rendered Lord or uppercase And um Hugh, and it's the covenant name of God. It's the name that emphasizes his holiness. And he is separate that that he is separate from his creation, and the name alone is the is that of the eternal self-existing God. In the Greek New Testament, the word translated Lord, when applied to Christ, is equivalent to the Old Testament name garlic. So that is the name above every name, Lord. And one day every tongue will confess That name. And every knee will bow before that name. And that includes everybody, every man who has ever lived. And now some will battle, some will make that confession because they are defeated innoc in enemies But those of us in Christ can do so in joy. We can make a confession in joy because Christ is Lord of our lives. And we can bow in joy. uh because we are before our sovereign lord. S so in verse so in verse um nine Therefore, God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow of those who are in heaven. And on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So on number one on page twelve, every knee shall bow. That's you and me included. That is the whole created order shall give him obedient obsession on obeisance. The bowing of the knee is a common idiom for doing homage, sometimes in prayer, but always in recognition of the authority above us. Those who are in heaven include the angelic beings and saints, that is, those who have died in Christ. Of course, they are actually doing that right now. Those of us on earth include both the redeemed and the unredeemed that are living. What Paul doesn't address is whether the emphasis is on is on the process or on a And it uh or an individual moment in time when Isaiah forty three verse twenty three is fully fulfilled. That is, is this now Or is it feature? Um now it's not fully deleting aided here. Um But the but the actual fulfillment would be feature because um that's That's when everybody makes that rec recognition, whether they are believers or or unbelievers. So this could refer to the second coming of Christ at the close of the seven-year tribulation in the beginning of the Mulino kingdom. um specified in Revelation chapter 19. Or it could also be at the final judgments which occur at the close of the Molinor Kingdom After Satan and unregenerate man attempts one last effort to defeat God. But certainly God is already enacting the process to bring this to full conclusion. That is Yet Christ will return in rapture, by rapture, he will return at the close of the tribulation period And then he will finally defeat all of the of his enemies at the close of the New Kingdom. Um so um And I say in verse um four, Paul probably is referring here to the second coming of Christ. And we'll get into that next week because it's time to close. But this is something we can do now. Enjoy. as we um continue to worship our Savior, Jesus Jesus Christ, as as we gather in the worship center So let me pray and we can close.