Well, welcome on this concluding Sunday of this quarter as we um finish our study of the book of Polypians. I believe we're on page number twelve at the bottom bottom of the notes And just as a review, we've seen that this letter is a thank you letter. It's a letter of friendship. From the Apostle Paul to this beloved church of his, this church at Philippi. The church has sent Paul a gift of support while he is and bonds, prisoned in the in the city of Rome, awaiting trial before Nero Now, we've seen that um Paul is enemies and these are primary Jews have accused Paul of many many things um some of which uh according to Jewish law Um are deserving of yeah. For example, um They accuse Paul of bringing a Gentile into the temple at Jerusalem. Now Paul knows he's innocent of all these charges. He knows that in some way he will be vindicated. But being a Roman citizen He has the right to appeal his case to Caesar. And so to Rome he went. And Now this is um before now we know um Nero um was very much of a the deranged fruit war Um he was not the epitome of justice or righteousness by any means. But this was before the so-called infinite infamous burning of Rome. And so um there was relative peace between the Christians and the Roman government at this point Now, later Nero would accuse Christians of burning Rome Um and um he would then outlaw Christianity. Um and what that meant was that from then on Christians were fair gain for persecution by the Romans. Um but at this time um Um that persecution had not arisen from the Romans. It was primarily from Jews. Um and of course This church of Philippi, these believers were being persecuted by the Roman citizens of Philippi, but not the government yet. So we find um Paul imprisoned, we find the Philippians being persecuted for their faith because again They have a Lord Jesus, not the Caesar Nero. And um So during this time the Philippians sent this gift to Paul along with the service of Epapoditus, one of their beloved members, an elder in this church. He came to Paul with this gift, but very but during this journey, or very shortly after that journey, Epapidus became sith and he almost died. So Paul thought it best to send Epapodis back home to Philippi. Along with this letter. And part of the letter we saw in chapter 2 dealt with the reason Paul was sending a paper that is back. Um so that the church would not think that Papadotus failed in his mission, or to think that Paul did not really want Epapodias around. So then in chapter 4, we come to the section that Paul specifically thanks the believers at Philippi for this meeting. gift. And um so we are right now down to ch to verse number eighteen. And um I will read I'll read this passage eighteen, nineteen, and twenty. Verse 18, but I have received everything in full and have an abundance and amply supplied, having received from Epapodidas what you sent. And it's a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God, and my God will supply all your need according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus And now to our God and our Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. So Paul has um discussed this Principle of giving and receiving. And again, this church is known for that by Paul. No other church had this relationship with Paul. And this is a mark of friendship, but it's not just a two-way friendship between Paul and this church. It's a three-way friendship because Christ is also different. And So whatever the Philippians would give to Paul, it was actually a gift to Christ. And they can expect Christ to supply all of their needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. So with verse eighteen on page thirteen Now Paul ch changes the metaphor from a business accounting perspective, that is a gift that is giving and receiving To a sacrificial offering, to emphasize a point that the ultimate recipient of the sacrificial service to Paul is none other than the living God. In verse 18, Paul indicates how richly his own needs have been met by the lavish generosity. Again, we mean by this church is being persecuted. It's not it's it's not a rich church. Um But in their friendship, in the love of Paul, they have sent this gift. And Paul would say, I have received everything in full. That is Any obligation of friendship is now on his side. He also says, I have an abundance. Paul knows how to be abase, of course. He also knows how to abound in his experience both is the present imprisonment. And right now he's abounding. Now, at least in part from their gift. The idea is I have all things, indeed, I have more than enough And furthermore he says, I am amply supplied. That is, I'm field to the full And again he says, I received from Epapoditus, and he's a minister to my need, what you have sent. So the imagery is that Paul who is content with little Walking with an abundance, he now has from this church hand abundance for his own need Because again, re remember, he's in he's imprisoned in Rome by the Romans, and the Romans they don't feed their prisoners They they they they they don't close them. Whatever the prisoners need they have to get it from friends and family and t So um so this is why this gift is so important Now, a number two. The imagery, going back to a sacrificial offering now, that Paul uses is that of a burnt offering or fragrant offering to God. The picture is that of the aroma of the sacrificial fire going heavenward into God's nostrils as it worked. And properly offered, it becomes an accessible sacrifice, well pleasing to God. This is their gift from the divine. The gift has met Paul's needs and it has in fact pleased God. And this leads Paul to rejoicing in the Lord with a doxology of praise. Thank number four. Friendship does presuppose recipi precip That is as a mutual giving and receiving. But Paul cannot reciprocate this gift in kind, for is already a sweet, smelling sacrifice given to God But Paul can assume the can well I said but Paul can assure, yes, assure the Philippians that my God My God will assume such responsibility for reciprocating by supplying them according to his riches in are in colleague authority. And this covers all of their needs All your needs. Yes, the context certainly requires all material needs, but the language also intends every other deed Infeeds every other need. So these Philippians have given lavishly And gives and God gives lavishly far more, according to his riches and glory, made specifically available to his own in Christ Jesus. This is in accordance with his infinite riches, not merely out of his riches, as if it was some limit. Or if there could possibly be a point that it's all gone. You know, God was a gracious giver, and he is the ultimate gracious And to and to give graciously is to imitate the character of God. So this letter opened with the Philippians being designated in in Christ, and now the letter comes to a conclude to a closing with the Philippians being in Christ Jesus. I'm not sure why I said that. Huh? I'm not quite sure what what what what I meant by that, but uh let's go on to num to number seven. And now these concluding doxological expression of praise In fact, if you read his letters, you often see these little toxolists. And um here Paul says, Now to our God and the Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. As Gordon V states, true theology is doxology. And doxology is always the proper response to God Even in response to God's prompting friends to minister to friends. That is, yes, you can thank your friends But be sure to thank God, because God is the one who acts through people to meet your seats And so it is to God and the Father be the glory forever and ever. So let's go on to the closing um Greek um greetings. Verse twenty one Paul ends this letter with this phrase. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. And all the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Now, the concluding greetings are short. Yes, they are short But this gives us one more piece of evidence, as if we actually needed any evidence, that this letter was written by Paul from the city of Rome. Um that is um that is if Paul were written this letter someplace else He would not have mentioned this phrase. The brethren who are the all the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. Because I'm not sure if I've I mentioned this at the beginning, but there are some who have who claim that Paul was someplace else, like at Ephesus, when he wrote this letter. Um but it's very clear that he's in Rome because he mentioned in chapter one about the Victorian Guard The Petroleum Guard would not have been in Ephesus. He talks about Caesar's household here, but the Caesar's household would not be in Ephesus. But also note this he mentions those of Caesar's household. And what that means is the gospel is impacting them. It's penetrating even to the high levels of Roman government, even at this time. And um so there will be believers in Caesar's household. Um and um so then Paul says to greet every saint in Christ Jesus This this is not, well, greet all the saints in some collective body, but rather greet each saint individually. I'm here. And then he concludes with this then this phrase, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. um a very Christian closing. Um that that we um dwell in the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. And um and we have peace with God. God, because God has just showered upon us his grace, his unmerited favor. Okay, so we have um can gone through this book, but I do want to say this one. Even though we fit we have spent twelve weeks in this book, um we have really just touched the service. There's so much more. Um we could have gone into much greater detail. Um And um so so again um I encourage you to continue to read this book, st study this book, just just um I think this book more than any other just indicates the very heart of Paul. Heart of Paul Uh you know, um just think what change Christ made in this man. You know, he began as a Pharisee. Um he hated Christians, he despised Gentiles. Um he was persecuting the church. He was pride he was for pride. Um and he was going his own way. And then God just changed him. And now he is pouring out his very heart to this church. And again, speaking of of of some phrases that we haven't really talked about, let's go back to chapter two. Verse twelve. And I want to talk about this phrase with fear and trembling. Because um Verse 12, so then, my beloved, just as you've always obeyed Not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good. Pleasure. Now we've seen that this is a call to sanctify yourself. Progressive sanctification. And this is something that you just don't do once, and it's done. This is something you do on a daily basis It is something that you do, howbeit, you have help. In fact, you have God's help. In fact, God is at work in you right now, both to will to do it, that is, that that you would have the desire to do it And also not just to give you the desire to do it, but God gives you the means to do it, the ability to do it, the wisdom to do it. And then we have this phrase with fear and Triumph. Now, we often think of fear as being something rather negative. What we fear we want to be separated from. No, we're do And then if we can separate ourselves from that fear, then we feel safe. No more fear. Like, for example, suppose you go to the zoo. and you visit all of the all all of the it oh it sixty six sixty six it exhibits And eventually you come to the Alliance exhibit and you see through the fence, over the wall, across the moat. into a pit and you see the lion. And you say, well, what what a creature. And then you sip on your coke and you go off to the next thing. But suppose someone just dropped you into the African African serenade. Now over there you You see the lions just napping under the shade of a tree. But there is no fence. There is no wall. There's no moat. There's no pit. You have a much different response. So um that's the Uh and so this term with fear is twinkling Now that's a fairly simple phrase. I mean I mean fear fear means fear Trembling means trembling. But what does this mean? Well there are many phrases that repeat throughout Scriptures and give a variety of nuances that can be gleaned from a word study. One such phrase is found in the conclusive imperative of Philippians 2. 13. That is, work out your own salvation with fear and Trembling. For it is God who is at work in you both to will and to do of his good Now this phrase with theory trampling, um Paul does not define what that means. But you s but if we look at this phrase how it's used throughout the rest of of the Bible. We can get a a better idea about what this means. Psalm 55, 5. Psalmist would say, Fear and trembling comes upon me, and horror has overwhelmed me. Um the psalmist is saying that he's in trouble. He is in danger. This view you might say is somewhat negative in this writing, in this verse. The scholar says pleading for help Because he's sphering. He's trim. But let's look at it from Jeremiah 33, verse 8 and 9. The prophet says, I will cleanse them from all the guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me, and the city will be to me a name of joy. Praise and glory before the nations of the earth, which will hear of all the good that I do for them, and they will fear and tremble because of all the good and all the peace that I make for it. Now notice here, people are afraid. They are fearing. But it's not because of some judgment. Um they are fearing because of God's birthday Um about the goodness of God. So This place can um is broad enough to to en to in to encompass all of that Daniel chapter 6. Nebuchadnezzar. No, this is not Nebuchadnezzar. This is a this hittum. This hithum Darius. Darius says, I will make a decree that in all the dominion of my kingdom men are to fear and tremble before the God of Daniel. For he is a living God and enduring forever. His kingdom is one that will not be de The dominion will be forever. Now here are the fear and trembling. can basic basically be described as global worship. Um submission to God. Um it's not just yes, I know God exists I know there is a God. No, this is more more emotional. This this is a This is the proper response because if there is a God who says that he is according to what the Bible says If he is a living God, if he's enduring forever, then it's proper to fear him. Um and then um on number D, I quoted from First Corinthians chapter two, verse three Um Paul says, I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much scrambling. Now it's pretty hard to to exactly understand exact what Paul was he was saying here. See but he's big he big Um basically saying that he understands the gravity of this situation You know, he has he's been entrusted with the gospel. And so he he is one he he is very careful to preach it Um and to give no offense And number E. Um Paul says this in Second Corinthians chapter seven verse fifteen. His affection, that is Titus' affection, bounds all the more towards you, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received with him with how you received him with fear and Now if you look at this phrase, you may think You know, what happened when Titus visited this church? That they received him with fear and Trembling. Um you don't often think of, you know, going some place and having people receive you with fear and Trembling. Right. Um you know, w yet we are the fear and tremble of God before God. But here Paul is using the same phrase to to um to com to um describe receiving someone Um and um but I'll you know I'll and I would say that the that that that this verse here is probably the closest To the one in Policy. Likewise, number F, slaves. Be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the sincerity of your heart, as to Christ. So they are so the slaves are to um to um to be obedient to the masses with this attitude with fear in turn Trembling. So it's a it's it's a response not just between man to God, but also man to man Um, I think that's a good thing. The next one number G, and so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I'm full of fear. Trembling. Again, that's a reference to the glory that Moses saw. So now again fear means fear. The Greek word for fear is a typical Greek word for fear. Um and likewise If you look at those passages in the Old Testament, the Hebrew word for fear is a typical Hebrew word for fear. It's it's a word that we would use for fear. And it describes a whole range of meetings. It can be fear, standing in awe, or a reverential respect or a reverential feel. Now trembling. Let's get to to what that word it means to tremble. That's just a typical word for trample, to shake. Number four, I said um that this is a physical response. As indicated by Psalm 99 verse 1. The Lord reigns, let the people tremble. He is enthroned above the serpent. Let the earth shake. Okay, so twimpling and shaking are pairwell terms. Now, Robinson is word pictures of the New Testament described includes the following descriptions of this phrase with fear and fear and twinling was not a slavish Terrible. But it could be. It's but um it's not whole but it's wholesome. You know serious caution It's a nervous and trembling anxiety to do what is right. Now, again, the emphasis here is upon Your attitude, your response. Paul has no sympathy with the cold and dead orthodoxy or formalism that knows nothing of struggle and corruption. Now that's that's that's that's an important change of here. Because fear this fear Um can't drive some people away from God. I mean, the the unbelievers They fear God. And what does and what do they do? They run. They pretend He's not there. Um they live the life as if he can't be there. Um and um they want nothing to do with And they pretend that maybe if they ignore him long enough, he'll go away. They fear God's judgment. It drives them away. Now, the fear we have of God doesn't drive us away from God. No, it drives us to God. Um and um you know John McAthers say that this that this fear and trembling will cause believers to pray earnestly for God's help in avoiding sin, as the Lord taught them Do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from evil. The prayer again reflects the spiritual tension that exists between our duty and God's power. This is a reverential fear, wholly concerned to do to give God the honor he deserves. That is, what is your response that you now that you know that God is at work in you? God is causing you to will to do of his good pleasure. He is causing you to do of his good pleasure. God's giving you all of this Is your response to say, well, yeah, okay. Um you know I'll think about sanctifying myself You know, I'll would do it when I have some time at night. Um no, you would not do that. Um This fills you with a holy concern. This work is important. God's doing it. And um therefore you need to participate. Think about that about the parable of the um slaves that said, well, you know, my master's gone and he's mean and um I know he's cruel and so I'm going to take what he's given me and I'm just gonna Um just keep it, hide it in the field. When he comes back, you know, I'll give it back to him. Okay. Oh, so you knew your servant was Touch her and uh this way, the s the the the master would say, well then you should have taken what I gave you and at least the invested this so that I can have something else in return. Um so this servant this This un this unrighteous servant didn't do what his master told him to do. And um to think that And so to just to accuse the master of being mean and cruel, um no. That's that's not what he should have done. Um if his master was cruel and mean as he thought, well, he should at least do something instead of nothing Yeah, so number seven. Both fear and trembling are proper responses to an awareness of one's own spiritual weakness The power of temptation, but is not a fear of judgment, and it's not a fear of some single attribute of God This godly fear recognizes just how sinful sin really is based on what God did To free us from its condemnation. This godly fear indeed identifies grace as God's unmerited favor towards sinners. This godly fear doesn't drive us away from God, but drives us to God. Um so Why do we fear God? Think think about this. Why do you fear God? I'm I I'll say this. If you fear God just because God because you're afraid of God's judgment, that's not the reason to fear God. Your fear of God is not just a fear of God's judgment It it's a fear of who God is. I mean this is not Um just something you know, God is is is not just an acquaintance God is not just someone that that you can, you know, meet occasionally, have a good conversation and then go off on your way. God is at work in you, in the world. He's sovereign and he's good He's gracious. Um and in how much does God care about you? Well, he saves you. Think about your salvation. What did you do to earn your salvation? You did absolutely nothing You could not possibly have done anything. You were dead in your sands and in your transacts trans passes You were enslaved to sin. You were deserving of God's record, and rightly so And but God rich in mercy, rich in love, He saved you. Not by anything that you've done But strictly by his grace. And um he sent his son. He who emptied himself, who became a slave, who became human, who became a creature And this son further humbled himself to die upon a Roman cross. But he wasn't dying for his own sin. He was dying for your sin and my sin. The sin of the whole poop world And um that's was there any other way for you to be saved? Well, if there was another way, God would uh would have known it But if God doesn't know us another way, there is no other way. And so you are here Because of what God did. And yes, that should fill you with love. I should also feel you with a godly fear. Um and um but this fear is not is is not separate from love. It's really love. What's the two greatest commandments? Is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind. with your whole being and to love your neighbor as yourself. And um that That is it that comes very close to To this place. Why why were the Corinthians greeting Titus with fear and trembling? They were excited that Titus came. They were thanking God that Titus came. They were overjoyed. And um no, I am remember some time ago, um you know Sarah and I were um keeping uh uh um dog for him. See this was see this was see this was a This was a no no no small small Yorkie dog. And and on this dog really loved me. Um and um every time I I came home this dog would run to me at the door and just begin to jump up on my leg. Okay, this was how excited this dog was to see me. And that's really how excited we will be when we see our Christ That's here in twin place. That is that is removing everything else. And just focusing on Christ, knowing that it Christ is a all in all. So that is so so that give gives us a little bit more flavor of what this fear in Twumbling means. Um it's it's um not a negative term. Uh it's toss. Uh If yeah, uh now So fear, again, can be positive or can be negative. Number eight, I said, we often think of fear in a negative sense. And often fear can originate from un Believe. Matthew chapter eight. And they came to him and woke him, saying, Lord, save us. We are perishing. He said to them, Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea that became perfectly calm. The men were amazed and said, what kind of man is this? Even the winds and the ways see obey him. Um so this fear that they had was a fear just from un But there's actually another feel in this passage. It's not quite It's stated that way in the translation, but when it but when the men were amazed Uh the men were amazed. You can actually basically say the men were were with fear and Trembling. This is not just amazing us and says, Wow, Christ, look at what you did. No, they were terrified. They were even more afraid. Not afraid of those to storm, but they had this fear of God Because they saw Christ who he really was. So the fear of the Lord is positive To us who believe in Christ. What it says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, beginning of wisdom. Um you know it's a compass. It's it's it's a compass. It gives you direction. You know, and and again, I want to point out point out point out this Christ had the fear of God. And he shares it with us. Furthermore, when we are in heaven, we will live in the fear of the Lord. It's not a a negative thing. We won't be afraid of his judgment But we will see God, we will see Christ as he really is. Um Isaiah chapter eleven. Then a shoot will spring from the stem of Jesse, and a branch from his roots will bear fruit And the Spirit of the Lord will rest upon him, the spirit of understanding and first wisdom, the spirit of counsel and choice, choice, story, story, strength. The spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord, he will delight in the fear of the Lord. This is something Christ delighted in So Michael Reeves said this in number ten. Evidently the fear that Christ Himself has And shares with us is the opposite of being afraid of God. Godly fear casts out being afraid. But neither is it a cruel passionless regard of God. Time and again we have seen in Scripture that believers who have a godly fear they tremble before God. Overwhelmed by His goodness, in His Majesty, in His holiness, and His grace. In his righteousness, all that God is, the faithful tremble. The difficult theme Um a fear sh a fear of God helps us see that this sort of that see that the sort of love that God that is is fitting shows us that what sort of love of God is is fitting. Love for God is not just, you know, some, oh, I am just emotionally loving God. It's it's not it's it's not just some some deep feeling. No this consumes you. Um The biblical theme, it shows us that God does not want passioness performance or vague preference for Him. You know, we we we we we just don't we we just don't obey God because yeah, we just feel feel like doing it. Or we would rather do right than wrong because we know we get rewarded if we do right. Um It's not a vague prefer preference for you. To a talent to the living, holy, and all gracious God truly means that we cannot contain ourselves. Is not truth to be known unaffectedly, or is it good to be received listlessly? Seeing clearly the dazzling beauty and splendor of God must cause our hearts to quake. Number 11. The fear of the Lord is very much like our love for the Lord. It blossoms as we meditate upon his unmerited favor. As displayed at the cross. You know, Psalm 130, verse 4. But with you there is forgiveness. That you may be feared. Think about that. Here we're fearing God because He's forgiven us. Um there's forgiveness with God and causes us to run with common because we know Apart from God, forgiveness is nowhere else. So again, let us just wonder at this stop that God is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Think not that this work is anything but very precious to you now, both now and for eternity. So your participation is required. Yes. So what keeps coming to my mind is as we read through all this is is here is more of of where I'm coming from is in all So in awe of the closer, the more we know about him is who he is, what he's done, what he's going to do. So that he even cares a sago out of us. Yes. Um it says I'm not sure. That's right. Yeah. Any other comments Before we close in prayer. Well, I do want to thank you for coming Um I I've enjoyed this class and I hope you have too during these weeks as we as as we've gone through this book of Hippians. And again, um there's so much more That we that we could have done but this is Um but I do hope that hope that we have a really good understanding about why this this book is here. And um okay. Um