So welcome on this day as we um go back to Philippians chapter 2. I believe we are we are on about page 12 of the notes And I just want to briefly finish this section on humiliation. On the humiliation of Jesus Christ, how he humbled himself Going from being in eternity, past, in face to face fellowship with the Father Being recognized by all the heavenly beings as being God himself, and now he humbles himself How by emptying himself, how by taking the form of a slave, the slave of God The servant of God. And how far did he humble himself? Well, he became a man. A creature face to face with sinful humanity Oh, and that wasn't far enough. He went even further. He went to die upon the cross, by the Roman cross And he died not for his own sin or his own or just just dying like every other man dies. He bore The sin of mankind. And he bore the wrath, he died uh paying the complete sin debt. And how was how how did this How about God, the father thing is this? Well, he highly exalted him. Not just exalted him a little bit. But highly to to the uttermost. He went from being at the lowest point that anyone could possibly be And now he's at the highest point. He is back in face-to-face fellowship with the Father. So that is how God views humility. He likes it. He's pleased with it. In 1 Peter chapter 5, Peter tells us that God resists the proud. But he gives grace to the humble. If you're proud, watch out because you're being resisted. By God Himself. But as you are but as you are humbling yourself, God is granting you grace And that's a good thing. And and then how high is God exalting Jesus Christ? Well in verse 10 It says that at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every knee of those who are in heaven And on the earth, and under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord To the glory of God the Father. And so this So so on very based on um twelve, page twelve, on this one. Um just look at number seven for example. The verb to confess means an open public decoration. Now it does not necessarily refer to salvation for the salvation, for the day of salvation for everyone At this point has come and gone. And Paul says nothing in this passage about individual salvation. Now in Romans chapter 10 verse 9, Paul says that if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. Now, the unredeemed. Um, they can only confess the reality that Jesus is Lord. Think um and they will one day. Um but for them it will be a confession That the Lord's judgment upon them is just. It is like a robber who attacks and beats up a man and robs him of his possessions The robber thinks that he has gotten away with the crime, but later the this robber feels slighted by his neighbor, and so he hauls his neighbor into the court, expecting justice. To make this guy pay. But then he has this horrible realization that the judge is the same man that he once robbed. That's what it's going to be be like for the unrepentant sinner. He has, in a sense, crucified Christ Thinks that he's now free and he's now, you know, sh Lord of his own life, but then he's going to meet the one man, Jesus. Who's judge over all mankind? So that's the unrepentant. You know, in Acts chapter 2, Luke says, This man delivered up by the predetermined plan and forth knowledge of God, you nailed to the cross by the hands of godless man and put him to death. But God raised him up again. Um So Peter was speaking to guilty men, but men for whom the day of salvation was still open. They were given the opportunity to repent, and some of them did repent. But the day of salvation is still here today. You have the opportunity today, right now, even to repent. And this is God's will for you right now. And this is and this is for every this is a message for every unre unredeemed person alive today. Repent. The kingdom of God is at hand. But one day that day of salvation will be gone. So, um, and all of this is done to the glory of God the Father. That's the purpose. That's the ultimate purpose, to glorify the Father. In John chapter thirteen, verse thirty-one, John says, The Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify yourself in himself Well glorify him in um himself, speaking of the Son of Man and God the Father And so on number three on page 13, Paul believed that Jesus Christ is the true nature of the living God. had been revealed ultimately and finally. God is not a grasping, self-centered being, but is most truly known through the one who himself in the form of God, an equal with God, poured himself out in sacrificial love But taking the lowliest place, the robe of a slave, and by obeying the Father, even to the point of dying for us upon the cross This is God's nature attested for all time in Christ's divine vindication. And so that's a lesson for us. For has the master went, well we should be willing to do also. I mean, now we can't repeat what Christ did. There's no way Um but we can repeat the attitude that Christ had in ourselves. We could have this mindset that humility is good. Humility is what is something that God blesses. And we should think it we should ask ourselves this question at all times. What Do I need to do? How do I need to think in order to empty myself? To to serve other people, to meet their needs. Um I mean so on on number five, the Christian grace is absolutely necessary for such behavior, walking worthy of Christ in unity, uh selflishness and humility. in which one looks not merely to one's own interest, but also to the interest of others And again, let's just note that Paul wrote this to the Philippian church, a church very rooted in doctrine. There are n I mean there is no doctrine or ish issues with with this church. But that doesn't mean that the that they can just rest in and and be happy with what they are. Um this Attitude of humility is something they they need to continue to work on. So now we we come to verse twelve on the bottom of page thirteen Paul says, so then my beloved, just as you've always obeyed, not as in my presence only. But now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to do for his good pleasure. So the so the phrase sows in indicates that what follows is a proper response based upon what has previously been said. So this is a conclusion. This is based upon what Christ did, now here's what you need to do. This is the example of Christ, whose perfect motto of humility, submission, and obedience to the Father's will, Paul has just presented. How do the Philippians, how do we, empty ourselves? So we apply the principles of Christ's example to our own lives. So how do we imitate such humility, such submission, and obedience to the Father's will? Well it it is not by working out Is it not? Is it not by working out our own salvation in the spirit of fear and trembling? Our emptying ourselves would not be exactly like that of Christ, but it will be an emptying of ourselves, none the less, and it will be d a display of humility, submission, and obedience to the Father's will. Okay. Now okay, so that's the task that's before us. And it looks like it's a big task. But we're not alone. No. We're not alone in our endeavor Paul addresses the Philippians with the provocative, my beloved. This reminds them of Paul's continuing affection for them, which he's noted already previously many times And he's also mentioned that he's prayed for them. He continues to pray for them. And so Christ, Paul could even call them Christ beloved. Paul wants them to progress in their salvation. And so does Christ. Furthermore, Christ equips them with the indwellings of the Holy Spirit so that they may be empowered to do so. Um I Ephesians chapter five verse twenty-nine be being filled by the Spirit. As we are living in this by the Spirit, we are putting to death the deeds of the body. Yes, we are being led by the Spirit if if indeed we are the children of God in Romans chapter 8 And so the exhibition is for us to set our minds on the on the things of the spirit. And we can do this because we walk according to the Spirit. The Spirit is our enablement. Christ also walked by the Spirit while he was on this earth. Think about that. We walked by the Spirit, so did Jesus Christ. Um and this is not a this is this is not a let go and let God quiet the chism either But Scripture says that in his incarnation he offered up both prayers and supplications with loud crying to the one able to save him from death. For though Christ was a son, he learned obedience from the things which he suffered. And now a a few weeks ago, um um You know, Pastor Pastor Kirby um reminded us of a phrase that we need to avoid. Um and that is um you know, God helps those who help themselves. Um that's a Ben Franklin Deism quote. Um but this is another one. Let go and let God. Um you know, y you may have you may have often have heard that. Well that's also not true. I'm on even though I'm not sure who who first quoted it, but um So now on number three, Paul next reminds him that they are have a that they've shown a long history of obedience. And not merely while Paul was absent from them or with them, but much more so now that he is absent. So the question is, but to whom has such obedience been given? Paul does at times urge obedience in a very personal way, like in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 He says, and if anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, take special note of that man and do not associate with him, so that he may be put to shame But do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. So even here we need to recognize that faith in Christ is ultimately expressed in obedience. To Christ, as Paul says in Romans chapter 5, in Romans chapter 1, verse 5, through him, through whom? Christ Jesus. We have received grace and apartorship to bring about the obedience of faith among the Gentiles. And this obedience is not merely following rules. You know, rule number one, do this. Rule number two, do this. Rule number three, do this. It is coming under the total lordship of Jesus Christ, of being completely devoted to Him and showing it by your obedience. Now, but there's a geographical factor here that Paul is is addressing. Paul is in Rome. They are not. Absent and he's absent from them for a while. So Paul is appealing to them as if they as if he were present. And he's admonishing them to get on with obedience, much more so now in his absence, so that it would not appear as if in his presence alone it's prompting him them to obey. Um you know, if you're a parent, you want your children to obey you not just when you're with them, but even more so when you're not with them. And so I mean that's the mark of true obedience. And Paul wants them to keep on growing in obedience even though he's absent. Now, work out your salvation. Um that's uh that that's going to obviously require some some thought here. Um the verb to work out is what they call a middle a present middle imperative, indicating a command that has a continuing emphasis is something that you do for yourself. You work out and keep working out to the ultimate completion. In the possessive, your is in fact it's your own salvation. Salvation is personal. Yes, indeed. But salvation is also developed in a community setting. Now salvation. Let's talk about what it means to work out your salvation. Now salvation can't have a can have several nuances. You know, when we think of salvation we mean we think of well being saved, being in Christ. Um now salvation actually has several nuances, sever several facets um like a diamond. You know, it you just don't look at a diamond for W with one um C C C C edge. Diamond has multiple edges. So this is salvation. And this is three of those edges here. We um there's Just there's justification. Now, to be technical, there's actually something prior to justification. But for us, for today, we're going to talk about justification, sanctification, and glorification. Now Justification is also salvation. It's just a legal decree which says you're not guilty The reason you're not guilty is that Christ paid for your sins. And this is Essentially, this is for a for a believer. Half chance. You're justified one time and just one time. That's all you need. One time justification. It's also um that's also strictly by grit. You don't do anything for your s for your justification. Now, I should point out, yes, there is a human element. There is a calling of God God gives you a measure of faith. You exercise that faith back to God by repenting of your sins In confessing that Jesus Christ is Lord. At that time, you're justified. And there's several other things that happen You're you are regenerated by the Holy Spirit, or you're born again, or you're born from above. And then in justification is essentially instantaneous. It's not a long process Um now so that's passions. Now that that then we drop down to lubrification. Glorification is featured. You're not glorified now except by the promise of God. And glorification is also instantaneous or essentially instantaneous. It's not a long process And it's also you also don't do anything for that. Now, in the middle, there's sacrification Sometimes called progressive sanctification because it progress throughout your life. Yes, you're sanctified now. Yeah, you you can say you're sanctified now, uh, but it's also an ongoing process. Um And so this is this is a present tense. This is happening to you today, tomorrow, and for every day of your life. And this presentation is what Paul is is talking about. So when Paul says work out your salvation, that's work out your progressive sanctification. And so um that's that's that's that's essentially what number seven means on page fifteen. Um and I th I think I I've included everything, so um basically here. Um so in one sense we can say that we have been saved We are being saved and we will be saved. There's both a past tense, present tense, and future tense Okay. So are there any questions about that? Okay. So let's go on now to verse fourteen. And these are these are kind of this this is kind of how will the rubble meet the road. Paul says, Do all things without grumbling or disputing Verse 15, so that you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you appear as light in the world, holding fast the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may have reason to glory Because I did not run in vain, nor toil in vain. But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon sacrifice in the service of your faith I rejoice and I share my joy with you all. You too, I urge you, rejoice in the same way and share your joy with me. So number one, Paul spells out through an imperative how to behave in particular how they may work out their salvation while he is absent from them. Yes. Going back to the previous point, so with the glorification I mean with the sanctification we're still battling the flesh, but I think it's the glorification that we have in the body Yes. That's right. Oh yeah. You will not see this in your present life. Here on earth. This will occur either when you pass away in Christ or when the Lord comes to rapture his church. That's that's the end of progressive sanctification. You remember to say sanctification is the hardest of the three. Because really Yes, that that's what I mean. Sing sin sanctification yeah is is um um is um you're ba batter battering your flesh. Well think of think of it this way. In justification, God frees you from the purity of sin. In sanctification, God delivers you from the power of sin. In will become, God frees you from the presence of sin. But but overcoming the power sin, yeah that's what we have to to deal with now. Okay. Okay, so here so going back to verse fourteen And number one, God spills out through an imperative how in particular that he may work out your salvation while he is absent from them. Do all things without grumbling um or disputed. Now grumbling, that's basically internal Toymoil. Disputing that ex external. The verb do refers to the verbs obey and work out in verse twelve. The phrase all things is all inclusive of everything that makes up the common and corporate life at Philippi. So so don't grumble internally. Don't dispute externally. Now without grumbling, you can also say without complaining Echoes the grumbling of Israel in the desert, such as in passages like in Exodus 16, verse 12. Paul uses the same w w wo w word word in at First Thessalonians ten. Do not grumble has some of them dead and were and were destroyed by the destroyer That is stop being like the murmuring Israelites in or during their wanderings. Don't act like them. Now grumbling is internal, like I said, is and it's also emotional Think of the resentful liberals who grumbled at the landlord for being paid the same as those who had only worked one hour of the the day in Matthew chapter twelve twenty Think of the Pharisees who grumbled at Jesus when he associated with tax collectors and other sinners in Luke chapter 5. That's grumbling. Disputing. Well that is external, and it's more um intellectual This is the same word as in 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 8, when Paul says, Therefore I want the men in every place to pray Lifting up holy hands without wrath and dissension And also in Romans 14 verse 1, this word is used of passing judgment on another believer's opinions. That should be opinions. So number five, does Paul know of any current issues of grumbling or disputing within the church? Well, maybe not. Perhaps not. Although he does later urge Eurodia and Synthy to live in harmony in the Lord in chapter 4, which we'll get to in a few weeks. But Paul knows that just as a little leaven, leavens the whole lump, the whole bread, so grumbling or disputing can sow seeds of disunity. And yet Paul does not merely leave this imperative on a negative note. There is a reason for doing all things without grumbling or disputing. The phrase so that you may prove denotes a purpose clause, so that you may prove yourselves to be blameless And innocent, children of God above reproach. This is one of three reasons that Paul gives as to why believers should stop complaining and disputing with each other. There is for their own sake. You know, to show that they exhibit behavior consistent with being children of God. I mean God doesn't grumble He doesn't dispute, so neither should we. For the sake of unbelievers, so that they would not have a negative impact upon unbelief. These heavers. Unbelievers always complain. They always dispute. That's their nature. Um and um there needs to be a difference between them and us. No so for the sake of pastors, so that the pastors may have joy. You know, Paul wanted to have joy. And um so he's he's he's exhorting them, urging them to stop complaining, stop disputing. uh for all of these reasons. Now blameless and number seven. That has a meaning of being without defect Without blemish or false. Innocence has the meaning of being unmixed or unadulterated Again, from Matthew chapter 10, Jesus commandeth his servants to be shrewd as servants and innocent as doves. Romans chapter 16, verse 19, Paul says, For the report of your obedience has reached to all. Therefore I am rejoicing over you, but I want you to be wise in what is good and innocent. In what is evil. And number nine, above reproach has the meaning of being without blame or guilt. The word is used in the subtuagent in regard to sacrificial animals being without defect or and without blemish. It designates the absence of something amiss and a sacrifice of something that would render it unworthy to be offered. Now Peter says that we are redeemed with precious blood, as of a lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. And so no one could ever say that this is not what God expected it to be. God was well pleased with Christ's sacrifice So now on page seventeen. Um and also Ephesians chapter five, verse twenty-seven, that he might present her to himself, the church, and all of her glory, having no spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that she should be holy and blameless And also in Jude chapter in Jude verse tw verse twenty-four, now to him who is able to keep you from falling. Orful. I'm awful. Um or from his tumbling to make you stand in his presence of his glory blameless with great joy Okay. And then um yeah In part 10, number 10, Paul gives us a supreme motive for pure, blameless living in Titus, chapter 2. Adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior in every respect, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to to deny ungodliness and world and worldly desires. And to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in this blessed age, looking for the blessed hope and the purance of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. who hims gave himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. So Paul says do all things without grumbling or dispute or di I'm disputing that you may prove yourselves to be blameless and in in and innocent. Children of God above reproach Okay. So now I'm uh I'm on on number eleven. There ought to be a difference be of course between believer and an unbeliever. We live in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. I mean that's God's That's how God views the world of mankind. It's crooked and perverse. But we are not of this world. The term comes from the Song of Moses in Deuteronomy 23 verse 5. They have acted corruptly towards him. They are not his children. because of their defect, but are a perverse and crooked generation. And that's speaking of the Jews who who supposedly thought that that that they were now in the in the kingdom, the family of God But they're not because they are perverse and crooked generation and that generation died out Okay. The pronoun they in this case refers to the first generation that had just passed away. The emphasis is that is that this generation saw the signs that they had that the Lord had done in the midst of but still could not believe and furthermore that they were not grateful at all. So the world around us is that crooked and perverse generation today. They are crooked, that is, they are bent. Curved, twisted, that's used metaphorically of any one of anything that deviates from a standard or norm. It can also be translated perverse in morals. Like Proverbs chapter 22, thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse. He who guards himself will be far from them. Now, perverse is very similar to crooked. But with an at with a more active sense. The perverse person practices fraud knowingly. This is not merely a blind spa spot. We're not merely talking about sins that people commit that they really don't know that they'll commit. These people are committing sins that they know they are committing. They see them. They know them. There's no excuse. Unlike in um like a number C, um I'll just read one one of these. Acts chapter twenty Verse 30, and among yourselves men will arise speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after them. So this is a reference to people who will come and they will be teaching things that they should not teach and they'll do it knowingly. They are uh they know they're all they are deceiving. Um so that's perverse. Um but we but we appear as light in the world. In other words, light shines. Shine is light that has do the has do the do the has do the s Celestial luminary bodies. The emphasis here is on proclaiming the gospel message and the revelation that God has given to us. Metaphorically Paul declares that Christians are to be moral and spiritual luminaries to radiate God's truth, the word of life. into an otherwise sinfully dark universe. Like Daniel chapter 12, and those who have insight will shine brightly like the brightness of the expanse of the heaven, those who lead the many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever. Um or the or that very Sumilyo quote from the Sermon on the Mount Let your light shine in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. And then so we so we um so we um shine as light in in the world, holy fast, the word of life The poly fast here is better translating poly forth. Um the context of of the text makes clear that the point is not the believers remaining faithful, holding on to God's truth, but rather they're sharing with others, holding forth, or holding out. To the redeeming the redeeming word that brings eternal life. The idea here is that we have been given the word of life And so we share it. We'll we'll give in the light and we let it shine. We let others see it. This is not something that we hide to ourselves This is something that is to be shined in the dark, in throughout the darkness. Okay, so we hold fast the word of life So that in the day of Christ I may have cause to glory, because I did not run in vain, nor toil in vain. Now and I'm I'm I'm on number sixteen now. N now Paul gives another reason. That results from holding forth the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I have reason to glory, because I did not run in vain, nor did I toil in vain Paul and other servants and pastors have given their lives in ministry to guide the Philippians in growing in maturity. But is this ministry wasted? And Paul believes that by no means this would be the result. So the day of Christ. Now again that is an eschatological term Now it's not identical to the day of the Lord. The day of Christ is for us. The day of Christ is for our rewards. Um now there will be judgment, but the focus is on the rewards. So that each one may be recompensed For his deeds in the body, in this world, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Um second Corinthians chapter five We've seen the day of Christ also in Philippians chapter 1 verse 6 that commences um With the rapture of the of the church. That's the day of Christ for the church. Now that Paul would say that he would have reason to glory on this day of Christ is not a a statement of sinful pride. Paul is not showing pride here. But rather, Paul is looking forward to receiving the joy that the Lord promises to every faithful believer. As Jesus would say, These things I have spoken to you so that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. So Paul is anxious for these Philippians to be found blameless and innocent on that day of Christ when man's work is done. He labored well for this church and see the fruit of their own ministry. So now on the day of Christ, Paul can confidently say that he did not run in vain, he did not toil in vain. This is not This is not a church of those little plants that sprouted in the shallow shallow soil only to be burned by the heat of trials or else smothered into the fruitless fruitlessness By the weeds of cares and pleasures of the world. That's not this church. And so um like in Hebrews chapter 13, obey your foe your your leaders and submit to them, for they watch over your souls as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would would be unprofitable for you. That is You don't want to be like a little plant in shallow soil burned up at the last day. You don't want to be choked with weeds on that last day. Okay. Um number tr on on number twenty, and I'll just read this I'm passive, I'm don't try and um but even if I'm being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice in service of your faith I rejoice and share my joy with you. And you also, I urge you, rejoice in the same way and share your joy with me. Now even if, and be poured out as a drink offering, even if translates a first class conditional phrase, that is, which refers to something that is known to be true, as we've seen. previously. You can also you window this phrase as because I'm being poured out as a drink offering. That is, Paul was being poured out as a vibration. This gives a pi uh a picture of Paul's service as being unreserved and sacrificial. He was keenly aware that he had a special calling giftedness and empowerment for which the Lord would hold him accountable. Yes, he was a living sacrifice and not a dead one. Um now what is Paul saying here? Um Um he's being poured out as a drink offering. Well what does that mean? Well the drink offering Well I vibration was a practice common to many ancient people. As placing the sacrificial animal on the altar, the priest would take wine or some other drink and pour it either on the sacrifice or on the ground around it. around the altar. This act simplifies the rising of the sacrifice into in the smell into into the nostrils of the deity to whom it was offered. Paul speaks as if their faithfulness was greater than his own, which he describes as being poured out on the greater sacrifice in service of faith. Well now Paul himself speaks as if he is expendable. You know. Um you know his concern is for them Um and if and and the idea is if the only thing he accomplishes in life is to mature these believers Then he's for the choice. He he he doesn't need any saying else. He wants to see these believers that Philip I mature in the faith. Uh so and and if that cost him his life, so be it. Um But that's his joy. And so he says um in t in in in twenty three I rejoice and I share my joy with you. The phrase, share my joy is a compound, intensified form of the verb to rejoice. It describes a mutually deep purpose and feeling. It's an intense shared joy. Like Like on Luke chapter 1, verse 58, and her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had displayed his great mercy towards her and they were rejoicing with her. Same type of verb. Um Um when when um win um win um C C Elizabeth, the mother of John Um Jujana the Baptist found out that that she was with Chihuahua and the neighbors could rejoice with it. There was great rejoicing. In s in um on page twenty um And when she found it, she called together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I found the coin which I had lost, in Luke chapter 15, verse 9, the parable of the lost coin. The same phrase is also in Luke 15 verse 6. When the shepherd found his lost cheap, there was great rejoicing Or in First Corinthians chapter twelve, and if one member suffers, all members suffer with it. If one member is honored, all members are honored, all members rejoice with it. Same rejoicing here. And so Paul finishes this section with saying, you too, I urge you, rejoice in the same way and share your joy with me. And so since Paul and the Philippians had sacrificed together and served together, they were now able to rejoice together. Okay, I'm going to stop here and next week we will finish up chapter two And um we will see and we'll probably get into chapter three as well. Um