Well welcome on this Sunday as we um journey through this book of Poisapians. Um we are in chapter one And I think on your notes we'll begin on on page twelve. Now we see Paul Um writing this letter to this beloved church at Gillibai, he has just received a gift from them of m of a material support And he's going to write this letter and then send it back to them by way of Epapodis. Epaphodus is a bearded beloved man, whom we'll see more about in chapter 2. He was intending to minister to Paul's knee for some period of time. after after this after giving him this gift, um, but he became sick, almost to the point of dying. So Paul thought it best to send Epapodis back, and he's going to send him back with this list. And it's it's a letter of friendship, it's a letter of thanksgiving, um, it's a letter of joy. And it demonstrates the very heart of Paul towards this beloved church. You know, for for example in verse in chapter one verse six, he um says this, for I'm confident I know this. of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will continue to perfect it until the day of Christ, Jesus. In the day of Christ Jesus, that's the day that we will all receive our rewards. That will be a period of eschatological joy. Um when a work on earth is done and we will receive the rewards um that God has promised to those who love him. But now Paul is in Rome. He's chained to a Roman guard. Um not particularly why he wanted to be chained to this guard, but it turned out to be really for the good of of the gospel. He's been able to preach the the gospel, been able to receive the visitors, and he is the top of the of the town now. And every day this this guard, this Victorian guard is hearing Paul preach, hearing Paul sing with others, others. And this he's witnessing this joyous of fellowship among the Christians Christians. And so that that's got to have some impact upon the Petroleum guards and it did. And um so news about him um was everywhere. Um but he is on under trial before Caesar, in this case Nero. And so the outcome is uncertain because Paul of Force is there because He has enemies, namely the Jewish leaders. Who accused Paul of certain things like speaking against their nation, speaking against um the temple, um e and even bringing a gentile believer into the temple, um, which to them that's an act of blasphemy, and that is worthy of death. And believe me, they want to see Paul dead. In fact, they even try to ambush him. to um to kill him. But that plot is heard and it's and so the Romans come in and they rescue Paul from the Jewish mob. And so Paul being a Roman citizen has the right to appeal his case even to Caesar. So that's what he does. So he sent to Rome by way of the Roman Roman commander on the ship, which happens to be shipwrecked Um but um but through all of that he receives the respect of the Roman commander and so when he's in Rome, even though he's he's in he's in prison, he's a prisoner Um he still can stay at his own rented course. Um so you so we see him um very free Much more so than most prisoners. But there is this trial that's overhanging him. So let's talk about well what did that mean to him. Um you know last week we So that even among the Christians, well, he still had some um issues with them because some of them were were um were um not all that friend friendly towards him. And they were preaching Christ out of selfish ambition thinking that they would even cause um um Paul to um be distressed um e even more But Paul sees that the gospel is being proclaimed. And that to him is what counts. So we're going to um now talk about his life upcoming, which possibly could include death. So on page twelve, I'm going to begin at I'm at the bottom. Having appraised the Philippians of the present effect of this imprisonment And that and by the way, that's cause for joy. In that the gospel has been advanced. Okay. I mean this is not I mean Paul is not resentful. Um he's not um anxious um he's he's not um in some He's not agonizing over the loss of friendships, over people neglecting him, over the prospect that maybe he could be executed But now he turns to the future to reflect upon the possible outcome of his coming trial before Caesar. This letter takes place after his arrival in Rome, of course, and probably towards the end of his first imprisonment, which is approximately A. D. 62. And if you read Acts chapter 21 through 28, you'll see his quick from his desire to go to Jerusalem Even though he knows that he's going to be um arrested, he still wants to go to Jerusalem. And even after he is arrested, he um he w he now appears to to Caesar, so he now is sent to Rome. Now the future in this is also calls for joy. I mean his his present circumstances is reason for joy, but his future is also reason for joy for himself and for the gospel, and also because he expects to be released and find his way back to Philippi. And we'll see that more in chapter 2 Then on page thirteen, then he anticipates that Christ being magnified in his in his trial and the joy which he expressed Return to Philippi is realized. So again, joy is is a significant theme in this epistle. In this section, in fact, let me um read the section from 19 to verse 26 to begin with. And Paul writes this, for I know that this shall turn out for my dehaverance through your prayers. In the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I shall not be put to shame in anything. But that with all boldness Christ shall be even now has always exalted in my body, whether by life or by death For to me to live is is Christ and to die game. But if I am to go on living in this flesh, this physical body This will mean fruitful labor for me, and I do not know which to choose, but I am hard-pressed from both directions Have we that desire to depart and be with Christ, which is very much the better? Yet to remain on in the flesh is more necessary for you And convinced of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all in your progress and joy in the faith, so that your proud confidence in me may abound in Christ Jesus. So am I coming to see you again? Okay. So Paul expects through their prayers and the supply of the Spirit. That he will be saved or vindicated and thus fulfilled his hope that Christ will will be banified whether through life, that is, through through the fact that he is released Or through death. That is the fact that he could be executed. Now the mention of whether by life or by death leads him to ponder these options Although he knows that he has no real choice in the matter. But even as he ponders, the focus is on the eschatological price, that is Christ He would like to choose, I mean, in some sense he would like to choose death because that means that he will gain the eschatological prize. Christ. Nevertheless, he has little doubt that he will be life because since that is what's best for this church, as we feel like So the end result of him being given life is to see them to advance in the faith and be filled with joy with at his return. Okay, so verse 19. Let's go back and and ponder this verse. In fact, let me begin with a little bit at um at the end of verse 18. Yes, I will continue to rejoice, for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance or salvation through your prayers and the provision or the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Jesus Christ So here's the shift from present rejoicing to future rejoicing. And again, God um though he's not um Mentioned here, he is the subject. God himself will orchestrate this according to his sovereign will. Because Paul himself is not in charge. He knows that and it's not due to Paul's wisdom that he's there or that he will be released. It's not um the fact that this that that that just Paul knows that he can endure a whole lot of pain and still come out. Um, you know, it he knows that it's all the provision of the Father. Paul says, For I know. Because the verb here means to know something with certainty. This is not, oh, I hope that this will happen Paul can say, I know, because he knows it for certain. He knows this for certain because he has a God who is sovereign. He was in charge of all things. And so that his present suffering at the hands of both unbelievers That's the Jews and the Romans and believers alike would turn out for his dehiberence And again, um Paul is a firm believer in what he wrote to to the Roman Church in chapter eight. And we know That God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose So let's just note that God Paul wrote this and that Paul would actually believe what he's he's has written. He's going to live it out and for all the world to see Um and um so he's not going to tell the church to do something, but he himself doesn't do it. That's why, you know, Paul is someone we know we can imitate because he does what he preaches. Um and um now the word for Deliverance is often translated salvation, referring to salvation from sin and death through faith in Christ Jesus. But it could also refer to salvation or rescue from physical danger or suffering or could mean vindication. In this case, perhaps meaning that vindication before Caesar, and in consequence, release from prison. But the word can also mean vindication from accusations That is vindication from the accusations that the others, like the Jews, have made against Paul. Um so there's a whole wide range of meaning behind behind that word salvation or key the disappearance. Um it doesn't necessarily have to mean salvation from sin. Um But now Paul certainly understood that his present circumstances are temporary. I mean this trial is coming up. It will happen. Now Paul is actually quoting here Job 13, verse 16, and I wrote that here on the board for you. Job says this This also will be my salvation or my excuse theorem Well godless man may not turn into his crest. That's chap that's um verse sixteen. Now, let's note what Paul Job is going through in chapter 13. He is having this conversation with his buddies, his friends. And basically, they are accusing Job of committing some horrendous sin. And so they are exhorting him to confess that sin. And they believe that he is sinned because no one, they believe, could suffer as much as Job is suffering in the innocent. For them, if you sin, you're punished by God. If you do well, you're rewarded by God. That's their Theology. Now, I should say that's rather simplistic. Um So now Job on his mind, on his for his part, he knows he is innocent. Listen. He knows he's committed no sin um that would warrant how much he's suffered. But he's he's suffering because of this. You know he's what he wants, what he really, really wants is to come before God And to argue his case. If he knows if he could do that, he knows that he will be vindicated. Or he thinks he will be benicated. And so he always so he's so throughout this most of this book, you know, his desire is to see God. Be in God's presence. Um make his case before God Because he believes, yes, that's going to be his vindication. God's going to s agree with him and say, yes, you're suffering too much. Um now what Job doesn't understand at this point is that when he does see this vision of God When he does have this communication with God, it it doesn't vindicate him. It just makes him um undone. I mean just like Isaiah, when he saw the glory of God in the temple It's like John the Apostle seeing the glorified Christ on the island island when the Patmos. So that's but But the idea is that is is that Joe knows he is innocent and he believes At the very end he will be vindicated. Well that's the same same um same uh I um same idea here. Um When Paul says this also will be my salvation, this whole affair, my circumstances. This is a conscious embedding of Job text into this epistle, which includes the language in the context of this Job text Fit to Paul's situation. So the setting here is echoed through Job through the time of Paul. Now, Job understood that his terrible sovereign was not God's punishment for sin, and hence that he would one day be vindicated from any accusation. Job is on trial before his friends. He wants to be safe from being found as a hypocrite. Same here for Paul. Paul knows that he will be do D he will be delivered or vindicated from the acquisition of his detractors in eternity If not in this life, those who are preaching Christ and drawing attention to themselves. Paul does not want to be found as a hypocrite before Caesar And Paul does not want to disgrace the gospel. So that's on that's the number seven on page four fourteen. Okay, so Paul chooses his words wisely. We borrow from Job's own words of defense. Like Job, he knew that he was not guilty of wrongdoing. Like Job, he was ready to die if necessary. Like Job, ready was Paul was ready and willing to stand before him and make his defense. Like Job, he knew that somehow God was going to make his circumstances Turn out for his salvation. In the end, if not in time, he would be vindicated, and his enemies will be silenced. In the end God's purposes and promises will be accomplished through his innocent suffering. So that's the idea. When when win um to win um Paul says to I know that this will turn out for my deliverance. The same idea. Paul does not want to be found out as a hypocrite He knows that he will be vindicated. Well, if not in this life, certainly in the life to come. But got but Paul does not want to disgrace the gospel. Okay. Now On number nine. Paul is clear in verse 19 that his deliverance is not his spiritual salvation, but rather his vindication. Note that Paul's salvation was not dependent upon the prayers of saints. He was saved once and for all. The prayers of the saints and the support of the Holy Spirit were those things which Which gave swing to him in his times of adversity, and which gave them courage to stand firm in the gospel. Because of this, he would not be ashamed when he stood before God or before Caesar. His goal was to glorify God in his body, whether it is by life or by death. So verse nineteen, so I know that this will turn out for my duller This is the difference through your prayers and the provision of the Spirit of Christ So a number ten. So how does God how does Paul intend for his price process of deliverance to come about? One way is through the prayers of believers, through your prayers. Paul believes in the absolute sovereignty of God, of course he did, that is, God will carry out and fulfill his purpose, which he has made from the very beginning of time. Yet God's sovereign plan in some mysterious way incorporates your prayers. Your prayers do count. Um I mean, we may not always understand that. Um Um we may not always fully appreciate that, um, but our prayers count. And because I mean Paul said that and and we can we we we can count on scripture as being true. Your prayers count. And that should encourage us one to pray. Um especially for each each MCTC uh other. Um And um so as James says, the fervent, effectual prayer of a righteous man avails much, can accomplish much. And we are commanded, of course, to pray, even pray without ceasing. Um and um So there are many, many reasons to pray, and we should avail of that. So let's just note that, of course, you know, even back in the beginning of the letter, you know, we see Paul as as a person who prayed. He he was always praying with Thanksgiving. He was always mentioning this church. And And because this church was a joy to him. And um and then on number eleven I quoted Second Thessalonians chapter three. Brethren Paul would say, pray for us, that the word of the Lord will spread rapidly and be glorified just as it did with you Romans 15 and number 12. Now I urge you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit to strive together with me in your prayers. to God for me. Um and um also um that prayer is important And God's plan is evident in the that the Spirit helps us to pray. That's how important prayer is. Um in Romans chapter eight, tw verse twenty six, and in the same way the spirit also helps our weaknesses. For we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. He searches the hearts of he who searches the hearts knows the mind of the Spirit because he intercedes for the saints according to the word of God. Again, um one more ev evidence among many of our need to be people of Prayer. Just like we're people of the book, we also people of prayer. So, the Word of God, the prayers of the saints, and the power of the Holy Spirit always work together for the benefits of the servants of God. The provision describes a full, boundable, sufficient supply of what is needed. The Spirit is a source of power Um and then on on to page fifteen. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works within us. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. And if you go on to chapter 4 of Philippians, my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And so Um and number sixteen, in my body, that is in the flesh, means his physical presence. Well what would happen to him physical. So um so let's um now go on to verse twenty According to my earnest expectation and hope, that I shall not be put to shame in anything, but that with all boldness Christ shall even now has always be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death. Now, the implicit idea here is that Paul's earnest expectation and hope were grounded in the Lord's promise. Not in the apostles' wishful thinking. Ernest explication was often used figuratively of eager longing. A connotation reinforced by the synonym here, by the synonym hope. Earnest expectation and hope. It means watching With complete focus, not being distracted by anything else Paul is certain that it is at the eyes of God, that in the eyes of God he would never be put to shame. Whether before Caesar or the world or the church. And number two, Paul's ultimate joy is that Christ be exalted in his body. Whether by life or by death. You know, he told us in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, I urge you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God which is your spiritual service of worship. We can be sure that He did it as well and that He did it as we should as a continual sacrifice. Again, as I said a few times before, Paul practiced what he preached Um and even in his sufferings, even in his uncertainty, Paul is going to practice what he preaches. Um even facing death, he's going to practice what he preaches. Um and so when um So when um um Paul says always, um that means that includes the tough situations And so has always re exalted in my body, whether by life or by death. Life here means vindication or being granted a reprieve. Death, well, that's a possible death sentence. But Paul's concern is singular. The advance of the gospel. He has seen the gospel advance during his detention. He looks forward to further advancement of the gospel, whatever may be the outcome of this trial before Nero. Okay, verse twenty-one. For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. Or or Prophet. Okay, has Paul this, he is doing everything for Christ. He is preaching for Christ, he is persecuted in the prison for Christ, he is laboring for Christ, and he will continue to do so. That's not going to change. Having been apprehended by Christ, Christ has become the single pursuit of his life. He has suffered the loss of all things and counts everything he has given up as but rubbish in light of what he has in Christ. And we'll see more about that in chapter in chapter three And one day Paul himself knows that he would die for Christ. But this is not the end of Paul. This is Paul's gain, for he will be with Christ. His labor for Christ, his whole being with his whole being. And then upon death he will have his reward, his price. And that will be being with Christ. So Paul is not afraid to live. And he's also not afraid to die. Now, there are some people living today who would choose death. Um for they have reached a point in their life um where they just have no hope. They feel their s they feel pain, they feel suffering, whether it's physical, whether it's emotional, um, or whether it's imaginationary Um they hurt so much, they are so despairing that they would rather die. Um for to them they believe that death Will be the end of their pain. And so giving a choice, they might choose death because they despair of life so much. But that's not Paul. No, Paul is not wishing to die. He's not thinking that you know that um that that he would rather die just to get rid of the pain. Um But he's not afraid to live with his suffering. He's not afraid to die. You know, before Sarah and I moved here to Maryland, we um lived it in Michigan. And uh around that time It was this doctor, a path pathologist, his thing was um see Jack Kubuk. Um, he um came up with this homemade contraption, what he called his suicide machine. And um the person who wanted to commit suicide would put this mask over there mouth and nose, and they would pour this level, the the the heaver on this machine, and they would breathe in carbon monoxide And that supposedly was his um his way of having death with dignity. Um now um um the authorities in Michigan had a hard time trying to to um can But he but eventually he was put on trial, he was convicted, he was sent to p prison. Um but before then He has several patients. Now, um why someone who was hurting so much Whether it's real or imaginary, would show to a to a p pathologist for counseling or care. I'm not sure. Um I mean I I'm not knocking pathologists, but if you if you if you needed counseling, you would not go to one. Um Now, has as it turned out, many of these patients were not sick. They just wanted to die or that although they thought that if they died it would be better for the for the family. So but that's the war w world. And since then many states have legalized death by suicide. Um Um and that's the worst because um they live in such a state that that they would rather die. Then this. Now, if they knew what was on the other side of death, they would not be so quick to give it. But um but Paul he knows what's on the other the side of death. And yes, he does have a desire to be with Christ. But he knows that that's really not his not his option. So in the meantime, while he's living, he's going to be serving Christ. Um now going back to verse twenty one, for me to live is is Christ and to die is game. On number six, I just mentioned that the verb to be is actually not in the Greek. It means literally to live Christ, to die gang. But what does it mean to live as Christ? Well, this means to be in Christ, to live in union with Christ, so that he becomes my all-in-all. It means to exalt Christ in everything we do, to make Christ look good. It means to die to selfish dis desires In order to live to serve others for Christ's sake. And this means making that our constant aim in life. Now, in the Sermon on the Mount, or maybe it wasn't the Sermon. Jesus would say this, what prophet Is there to a man if he should gain the whole world but lose his own soul? Well, this is the opposite. So this is Christ. That's the opposite of of what Christ said. Um this is the this is the other side here So what does it mean to die is gain. I mean, what does that mean? Well, it doesn't mean that a believer desires death because he hates life. Paul did not hate his life. It also doesn't mean that a believer, it also doesn't mean that a believer does not grieve over the death of a loved one. Until Christ returns, death itself is not our friend. It's our enemy. That robs us of the presence of our loved ones. Scripture doesn't condemn greeting. In fact, it tells us to weep with those who weep. It means that for a believer, death is a means of exalting Christ. It means that for a believer there is return on investment. It means for a believer that there are no more trials and temptations. It means being immediately in the presence of Christ. So the instance a person truly believes in Christ, he is joined organically in a living union with Christ. has a head, has a member of the body of Christ, the church. He's life in Christ. This is a present reality. This is our true Yet we must grow in our experience of that reality. So that in our own lives we live in fellowship with Christ, communion with him And depending upon him for everything. It means growing to know Christ intimately. And we'll see that in chapter 3 So on page 617, see it means growing to love Christ with all of a heart. soul, mind, and strength, a whole being. It means submitting all of our thoughts, our emotions, our words and deeds to the Lordship of Christ. So that I may seek him to please him in every respect. From Colossians chapter 1, verse 10 It means to experience Christ as my all-in-all from Ephesians chapter 1. Every aspect of life must be centered on the Lord Jesus Christ. So number 10, note that Paul's main focus here is not to get out of prison or to be spared from Death. Yes, he would like to do that, but that's not the main focus. The purpose is to exalt Christ. That is to get everyone around him to focus on Christ. Now, when we say when Paul says this, for to me to live is Christ Every one of us needs to sort of answer what that means when we say for me to live is suffering. In um for some people, it means for for to me to live is money. Accumulating money, accumulating possessions, having riches and and things that that um that um that um That make me look good or feel important. I mean some and there are some a lot of people who live that way. Okay. But they don't answer the other part of the question. For yeah, some people say for to me to live is money, but what does it mean to die? Well, if you have money and if you live for money, I mean when you die, you just leave it all. It's all gone. It's Um um it's that's it. Um and um that's not a very good way to die. Um Um some people say for me to live as safe, to feel important, to be respected, to have lots and loss of friends, um Okay, I mean that's that's what some people believe. But again, that's that's not finished there. We're not done. What does it mean to die when you live that way Well, to be dying means to be forgotten. I mean um and and that's not a very good way to die as well. For some people it means for me to live as power, you know, to get authority, to be able to tell people to do what I want them to do. Um and um so that's the way some people live. But um what does it mean to die? Well it just means you lost everything. It's the end. So for those who who live in a way that is other than for me to live is Christ they're going to face a very horrible death. And um so some will say for for for for for me to live as Christ plus something else. Um but the problem with that is that plus something else is always what you want to live for. Um and that sets the course of your life. So on number 13, many sincere Christians believe that most of heaven's blessings are intended for us to be to enjoy net. If we have but the faith to claim it, we know that in heaven there will be no sin, but some saints believe in sinless perfection now We know that in heaven there will be no sickness, sorrow, or death, but some believe that if you have enough faith now, you will be healed of all. Your ill illness is now. In short, some folks believe that because there will be no suffering in heaven, there should be no suffering here on on here, on earth And now if you're a Christian having enough faith to claim God's blessings, if all you need is faith and that. Um some people assume that future blessings belong To Christians now. Yet this is not what scripture teaches Yes, there is a a time that there will be no suffering and death, but this for us is not the time. So we can expect suffering, but that should not rob us of our joy. We have a Christian hope, a true hope, not just wishful thinking. So verse 22. But Paul says, But if I am to live on in the flesh, this will mean fruitful labor for me, and yet I do not know which to choose. So Paul here assesses what it means to live in is Christ. But if I am to live on in the flesh, the flesh here refers to physical life on the earth, not to the thin nature as it sometimes represents. This will mean fruitful labor for me. The fruitful labor here refers to what is glorifying Christ. This has been Paul's life It will continue to be Paul's life as long as he lives here in the flesh, in the physical body So Paul's choice here is not between living and dying, but between the present fruitful labor and the ultimate gaining of Christ So in verse twenty-three, Paul says, But I am hard pressed, torn From both directions, having the desire to depart and be with Christ for that is very much better So page 18. So Paul is hard pressed here. He's torn from both directions. That is choosing life on the one hand and choosing death on the other hand. Both are good. Paul has lived his life with Christ and will continue to do so for fruitful ministry. But in the front of him somewhere is death. I mean Paul knows he's going to die one day, and he will die for Christ just as he lived for Christ. And by dying he will be with Christ in Christ's presence, and that is his eschological Joy. So now this is not a bailout. Again, he's not afraid to die. He does not wish to die in in the the sense that he would rather die but not live. Um this is not a philosophical philosophical discourse on life and death on either. I mean he's facing a prospect of life and death. The trial before Nero. Yes, he knows he's innocent of these accusations Um but what's Nero going to d decide? He doesn't know. Um So the verb to depart here carries here the idea of untying a boat from its moorings where it is set to sail. It refers also to a military detachment breaking camp. And it refers to death has of a the lever. Yes, many of us um well un well until Christ comes, until the rapture of his body, the church, um We are um you know one day we will depart. Um we will detach from our earthly mornings and we will set sail for our heavenly kingdom. Um And um second Corinthians chapter five, um Paul says, For we know that if the earthly tent which is our house, is torn down. We have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, eternal Eternal in the heavens. Second Timothy chapter four, verse six Paul says this, for I know I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. Now at this time, Paul knows he's going to die very, very soon. So the phrase here is very much better, translates a double comparative in Greek. It's not just a little bit better. It's not just going to be a little bit better in a in eternity than it is here. It's a whole lot better. It um it is the absolute best. Verse 24, yet to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake. At this moment, Paul is living. He's in the flesh. He's in his physical body. And so he assumes that this is God's current divine plan. He's alive now. So as far as Paul is concerned, that's his that's God's plan for him now. You know. Um And so now Paul is not a selfish here. He recognizes that he still has more fruitful ministry. ministering to the churches such as that Philip Philippi. And so for the sake of the church, Paul will continue to minister. He knows that he can continue to nourish the spiritual growth of the church He also knows that he can continue to witness to the Roman guards. And he also wants to see love abound still more and more in real knowledge and all of discernment. I mean he wants to see the fruit of what the or what this church does So he has reason to live. So for this and in second Timothy chapter two again Paul says, For this reason I endure all things for the sake of those who are chosen, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus, and with it eternal Call of the Tory. His focus is on the gospel. He's he's um preaching now. He will continue to preach as long as he's in the flesh. Verse twenty five And convinced of this, I know that I shall remain and continue to serve you all in your progress, the joy, and the faith. That is, I know that I shall remain, that is, I will shall remain in a sense of being alive, in a sense of being in this physical body. Paul is convinced of this principle, so he's going to act upon it Now, actually, Paul does not have to make a choice. This is a choice that Paul doesn't have to make. Neither do we. We don't choose between life and death. As long as we all uh we are living, we live. That's the will of God. So Paul knows that as long as he is living, he will continue to serve Christ through serving God's people for the spiritual progress and the joy and the faith. Even though Paul throws himself into with abandon into life in the present, the entire orientation of his life is towards the absolutely certain future. He's future focused. Why is he spending his time preaching the gospel? Because he knows that that's that's what counts. In verse 26, so that your proud confidence in me may abound in Christ Jesus through my coming to you again. Now this this verse here um sounds a little hard to understand what Paul is actually saying here. Now the phrase in Christ Jesus actually should occur before the phrase in me. So what Paul must have had in mind is so that your grounds for glorifying or boasting will overflow in Christ Jesus in me. That is, the Philippians are not rejoicing in Paul They're rejoicing in Christ Jesus. They're rejoicing in Christ Jesus because they now have Paul back. Paul is with them. Um now the word proud confidence um it could also mean proud boasting, proud glorifying, um It reflects Jeremiah chapter 9. This is this says the Lord. Let not the wise men boast of this wisdom. And let not the mighty man boast it of his might. But let not a rich man boast of his riches. But let him who boast boast of this, that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord who exercises Loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth. So I delight in these things So boasting does not mean to brag about, rather it has first of all to do with putting one's full trust or confidence in something and secondly glorifying in that something Paul means that if their prayers are answered, and Paul is released so that he can be with them, they then can boast in Christ. You know, not in p not not in Paul. So Paul again anticipates that he's going to be released He anticipates that he will eventually make it back to Philippi, and he's confident that the church will be able to rejoice in Christ Because of all that God has done to preserve Paul through this imprisonment Um and likewise we can also be confident that God will preserve us whatever may come to us, whatever whatever trials Whatever suffering that that we may have, um, we can also um um Be confident that God will see us through that. Even when we go through that last valley of the shadow of death, God is with us. You know. You know, he's not going to leave us. Um and so from to the time that we breathe our last breath Um, we can be confident that God will continue to to keep working all things together for good. Um so that's the testimony of Paul and that should be our hope as well, whatever our circum circumstances would be. Okay. Um are there any questions? You've been very quiet.