Okay, welcome on this Sunday morning as we continue our journey. through the book of Philippians. Um we're still in chapter two and we hope to finish chapter two today and go on into chapter three even. So I want to begin in chapter 2, verse 19, and read through the end of this chapter. And you can follow me. But Paul says, but I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, so that I may also be encouraged when I learn of your condition or your Um uh A says, will have no one else of kindred spirit who will genuinely be concerned For your welfare. What welfare? For they all seek after their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus. But you know of his proven worth that he served with me in the further month of the gospel, like a child serving his father. But you know of his Jesus Christ Therefore I hope to send him immediately as soon as I see how things go with me. I trust in the Lord that I myself will be coming shortly But I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphoditus, my brother, and fellow workers. and fellow soldier, who is also your messenger and minister to my need, because he was longing for you all, and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. For indeed he was sick even to the point of death. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. Therefore I send him all the more eagerly in order that when you see him again you may rejoice And I may be less concerned about you. Therefore receive him with all joy and hold men like him in high regard, because he came close to death for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete that which was sufficient in your service to me So we're on page 20 of the notes. Now Paul addresses the Philippians about now about his current affairs. back in chapter one and about their affairs beginning mostly in chapter two and now he is going to transition those then to what's next And that is, he's going to visit them, but not yet. So here Paul hopes in the Lord to send Timothy to them shortly. Now shortly means as soon as possible. Although not necessarily right away. Indeed, this visit is contingent On this, I how I see things, how they go with me. Um that is Paul is awaiting trial. You know, he does not know when the trial will come. Um, but he he but he and he certainly doesn't know the outcome. Although he has confidence, of course, as we see, that he will be vindicated. And hence he'll be released. So he wants to know that before he sends Timothy. Now why why does Paul send Timothy? Well Paul's purpose in 7 Timothy is so that, as he says, so that I may be encouraged or cheered. We're going to learn of your condition. Um, presumably on Timothy's return trip. Um And your condition means your affairs. What's happening to you? So Paul is expressing his hope that Timothy would report that they are excelling particularly in the affairs which he has just addressed. That is, that they continue steadfast in one mindset, together, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Um in showing humility towards each up. Um and working out their own sanctification, their own salvation with fear and trembling. For this is important because God Himself is engaged in this work. Um so um so n but no but note this Paul sending Timothy is for their sakes, not It no, is for his sake, not for their sake. Um Paul is expecting Timothy to bring back a good report because he trusts that the Philippians We'll put into practice what Paul is instructing at this moment. So when Paul says, I hope in the Lord, um verse 19. Or I trust in the Lord down in verse 24. This is more than the English phrase, well I sure hope so. This is more in line with what Paul said back in chapter one, verse seven, when when he's when he says, For God is my witness, how a long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. That is, this is a deep, deep longing of Paul to send Timothy. Um and um um and we know from from what from you know Paul's manner of life or his witness that that that That Paul genuinely seeks what pleases the Lord. So now, verses 20 to 22, it kind of sounds like a letter of recommendation. of um commendation um for for Timothy. Um now But Timothy really does not need a letter of recommendation from Paul. I mean, because the Philippians, they know Timothy. He's Um he's trusted. Um he's been a a very faithful servant of the Lord. So he's so he's he's scarce so he sc scarcely needs such A commendation. However, besides all this, Timothy is not coming with this letter. Um well Paul is going to send this letter by Epaphodius. Now he he also commend Epapodis. But again You know, he really needs no common c communation because he's an elder in the church at Philippi. The church knows him very, very well. And yet, Paul also wants to know why he's sending Epapoditus back so soon. But going back up to to um verse um twenty, Paul says, I have no one else like A like soul or like mind. That is, Paul trusts Timothy that he can carry Paul's own deep convictions and concerns at his heart. Paul, Timothy has spent time with Paul. He will be genuinely looking concerned for the welfare of this church body because he's also been at Philippi with Paul. So Paul knows Timothy's heart. Timothy knows Paul's heart. And both of them know the heart of this blood church. Now when when um now when Paul says for I have no one else else kindred spirit like Timothy, um, who will be genuinely concerned about your affairs. That kind of seems On the surface, like Paul is saying, well no one else is qualified. Um now so Um but we know that Paul would not disparage his fellow co-workers. I mean he does have other co-workers. And he does have friends. He also has this church at Rome. Isn't there anybody in that church? Isn't there anything, anyone among Paul's friends and co-workers who can also do this task if necessary? Well, the idea is not that no one else is qualified. It's the fact that Timothy is uniquely qualified. Um because for for this reason, Timothy is well known to the church at Philippi And Paul wants to send someone well known to the church, someone who is who is really genuinely concerned about the church, who knows the church body, who knows the members. Not someone who is brand new. Because Paul wants Timothy to go. And then return with a re with a report. And Timothy was is Jim is uniquely qualified to bring back that report because Timothy knows what's on Paul's mind. Timothy knows what kind of report Paul wants. So that's the idea. Timothy is uniquely qualified. Um not that anybody else couldn't really do the job, but they could not do it as well because they would not be able to ascertain the heart of this church. And then verse 22 sounds clear enough, but that you may know of his proven worth that he served me in the furtherance. the advancement of the gospel like a child serves his own father. Timothy's proven of worth refers to his character developed through trial and testing. I mean Timothy's been there. Um he's been with Paul, he's been with this with this with this church. Um he's proven. And so So not only will Paul send Timothy because of his character, but also more important because Timothy shares the heart of Paul. has a child serves, as a child shares and knows the heart of his own father, whom he serves. So again, the issue is not that no one else is even close to being qualified. It's the fact that Timothy is uniquely qualified. Now, verse 21 is maybe not so clear. Paul says, for they all seek after their own interest. Not those of Christ Jesus. Now that seems rather strange for Paul to say because again, he has co-workers He's not going to disparage them. He has this whole church body at Rome. Again, he's not going to criticize every single person. There may be some in that church who are um um who are seeking their own interests as we've seen in chapter one. They're they're preaching Christ out of selfish ambition. in vain conceit. They're trying to disparage Paul himself. But this certainly cannot refer to everyone. Uh uh. But there's this but this one part is clear. Timothy has the interest of Christ Jesus. That is, he has the interest of the gospel in mind in distinction to the whole body. of um c um c others. No, so when when Christ so when Paul says for they all well that's talking about all. What does all mean? Well in this context, all can only refer to the people in Rome. It cannot refer to people elsewhere. I can filipine. On the surface, all does not seem to refer to the other co-workers of Paul. You know, Paul consistently commends his friends and fellow co-workers. Later on, Paul concludes his letter with the note that the brethren who are with me greet you. So Paul is not criticizing this group as being just selfish. And then there's also this Greek. At the end. All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. So it doesn't appear that Paul is criticizing this group either. Now, Paul is really not criticizing or disparaging anyone Except perhaps as he reminds himself of those who are preaching the gospel with selfish and self self-centered ambitions ambitions. But certainly not everyone, no matter how mature in the faith, is qualified for this mission. Indeed, Paul Cs Timothy has uniquely qualified In fact, he says, I have no one else like him. And then note again, as I said, note that any visitor from Rome Unknown to the Philippians would not have the impact that Timothy w would have. This mission requires someone Known and trusted by this beloved church. So I'm on page twenty-two. So now we have but now so what we've just seen is that Paul plan intends to stand Timothy, but not yet. But now Paul is going to send Epapodias. And and we see that beginning verse with verse um twenty five. Um But I thought it necessary to send to you Epapoditus, who Paul identifies as my brother. My fellow workers, my fellow soldiers, who is also your messenger and minister to my needs. Now him now at Paphodias we would consider to be a missionary sent by the Philippian church to minister to to to the needs of Paul. It's your messenger and in the minister to my needs I mean that's really the definition of a missionary. One sent um um to minister to someone else. So in the name of this church, sent Epapodius, one of their elders To visit Paul in order to bring a gift of material need to support Paul during his imprisonment. And furthermore, It was the mission of Epapoditus to remain with Paul for some period of time to minister to his needs. Now um sometime during Epaphoditus journey to Rome, or maybe shortly thereafter, Epapoditis became sick. Very sick. Sick as Paul would say, even to the point of death Furthermore, Paul would say this, Epapodus risked his life to do this. Um now before we go on I just want to draw your attention to to something that we People in uh in our modern age have a very hard time understanding just how difficult It is to travel in ancient times, or even into a a more recent times. Um You know, can consider for a moment your trip from your home to this church building. No. Sarah and I, um, we live about fifty miles fifteen miles away. It takes us about 20 minutes to get to this church building. And if I wanted to, I could even shorten that trip a little bit. in time. Um now the road itself is paved, most of it intersect And the highway engineers have s s smoothed out a lot of it. They even saw bridges across it or creeks or um or um things like that. And so the um route is very good, uh very safe. Um uh Um and um it doesn't really matter what the temperature is or what the weather is, um and um it's and the route is very Consistent. Yes, and um now but suppose We live not in 2021. Let's go back maybe 200 years to 1821. And that's and let's imagine you taking this chip In eighteen twenty one. Now, there's no freeways, um, there's no paved roads. Um Whatever roads there may be, and there's and there's much more fewer roads back then than there are now. Um, whatever roads there may be, um, at best they're hard packed dirt. play roles. But even when it rains, it turns into mud and slippery and a mess. Plus you've got streams And you got um rivers um and um all of that. Um and so your trip would be would take you much longer, it would be much more arduous, um, um, much more uncertain. Um And so and you know, like if you lived in Baltimore, I mean this thing, you would have to cross the Potasco River. Now today we have have um route seventy and route forty and route ninety-five I mean there's bridges and we cross those bridges and we hardly even recognize that there's a river down in that deep gorge. But go back to eighteen twenty one. um trying look t look look what you would have to do to cross that river. It it would be a much more arduous trip Um so so again, we just don't appreciate how arduous travel was back in um back in time Um no, in Rome. They also had roads. In fact they were pretty good. The Roman legionnaires, they built roads. And they build them pretty well. Um they would um basically um dig out a twinch about fourteen feet wide. And then it would and then they would make um shoulders about ten feet wide on each side. And they would dig down and they would fill the base with rock and cover cover with gravel Um and then also s small s small pad wasn't quite, then they would put paving stone stones on top of that. So that was their roads, and those were pretty good roads. Um they were built primarily to transport the lesions of rope um quickly. But there were also really good bowls for commerce for for from trade and for tr travel. But even with those fairly good roads, in fact they I mean all in total they probably built about seven hundred fifty thousand miles of roads back then. Which which to kind of kind of um put that into perspective, that's about ten times the mileage of paved roads here in this state of Maryland So um so traveling on on these roads were pretty good, but it was still rather dangerous. Because I mean around the communities it may be safe, but when you get out in the wilderness, there's bandits. Robbers, wild wild ank wild animals. Um you didn't travel by yourself You always had this big entourage. Um and even if you went on the high seas Well there's a palace. Um so travel was Still rather rather dangerous back in those days as well. So you did travel along, so Epapoditus um would have traveled here with others And then those others would return to Philippi. But since Hippaboditus was sick, he was nearly dying, um, the Philippians learned of this. And um that greatly disrespect it And so that was that is why Paul plans to send Epapodite stack. But now, he's not going to send Epapodite stack empty. Um he's going he he's gonna send a papaitis with this letter. And so um so Capodidas was sick and he learned that the fip that the church Was distressed because he was sick. And so Paul thought it best to send Epapodists back home. shortening his trip to minister to Paul. So he's going to to uh to explain Why he's sending Paproditus back so that the church does not think that Paproditis somehow failed. So um um so um So so on so on number four on page twenty-two. Um Paul specifies the circumstances of his so that the church would not think that Epiphroditus had failed whether or that his ministry was not appreciated. Paul urges urges them to welcome Epapodis with honor, and Paul offers them no less than five epithets. Epaphagitis is my brother, a very term of endearment. He is a fellow soldier, a fellow worker, a term Paul uses for those who labored With him in the gospel in some way. He's a fellow soldier, a reference to a soldier who is being sent back home after being wounded in battle. Epaphodas is your messenger and minister to my knees. Hazapaphodus was present at the writing of this letter, Paul expresses this both for his sake and for their sake. Paul sees the valuable service that Hippodonis has already been given, even though he's now Even though he now must return. The term minister, the minister to my needs, as has a reference to the psychoficial system You know, in some way, he has performed a priestly service for Paul. And so Paul is of course is going to wait the outcome of the trial before he comes. Of course of course that's um necessary Um and to wait to send Epap Timothy first, but it's going to send Epapodotus now alone for this reason. The church has already learned that Epapodis Nearly died. And so they all worried. Um and um And um so Paul acknowledges the illness and its potential outcome. So Paul, so Epapodis did survive, and this is a cause that That God had mercy on him, and not on him alone, but also on me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. It's God who brought the healing. Now, I just want to um minute mention this. Paul himself had the gift of healing by the Spirit. In fact if you just go back to um Acts chapter twenty-eight Um Paul and his um entourage, his friends on board this ship Um, including a Roman commander and and the legionnaires who were on this board this ship, they were in a storm. A very fierce storm on the Mediterranean and the chip shipwrecked on the island of Malta. And I just want to read um verses seven through nine of chapter twenty-eight. Um Now in the neighborhood of that place were the lands belonging to the leading man of the island, named Fluvius, who welcomed us and entertained us Courteously, three days. It came about that the father of Publius was lying in bed afflicted with recurrent fever and dysentery And Paul went in to see him. And afterwards, as he prayed, he laid his hands on him and unhealed him. And after this had happened, the rest of the people of the island who had diseases were coming to him and being cured. And this is a miraculous gift of healing that Paul had. But it did not extend to Paphoditus. The gift of healing was given only in some cases, probably in most cases it was not given. In the case of his paperis, it was not given. But God Himself brought the healing. Now, one last comment about this. Um you notice that Paul um says um like in Like in verse 29, therefore we see him to therefore we see him in the Lord with joy, with all joy, and hold men like him in high regard. I mean Paul I mean does Paul really have to command the Philippian church to receive Epapoditus with joy? I mean, he's They're b I mean the he's he's he's beloved of the church. He's an elder of the church. Which just means that not all of what not all of the imperatives of Paul are really imperatives. Um this this this this is really Paul's invitation for them to to rejoice. You know stop worrying And start rejoicing. So Paul is not correcting something that they would get wrong. Um and also in another number seven on page twenty-three, finally in verse thirty Paul confirms that there is a casual causal connection between the bringing of the gift and the risking of his life. Most likely, Epaphidus took Eod during the trip, but she pressed on to fulfill his commitment to the church in Paul, and therefore exposing himself to the very real possibility of dying. Now, when Paul sa says this because he came close to death for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete that which was deficient in your service. to me. Now that seems a rather s awkward thing to say. Um that the the service was somewhat deficient. Um Well, that's not a declaration that their gift of ministry was somehow not good enough. This phrase refers to making up for the absence of the rest. And that is, Paul is acknowledging that Epapodis truly was eager. And prepared, though ultimately unable to complete all of their ministry plans namely that Epabodus was sent, not just with the gift, but with an instruction to remain with Paul for some period of time to minister to his needs. Yes, the gift was received, although the time of ministry was not complete. And so Paul is sending epapidotis back now. And with this letter. So it's not that their ministry was not good enough. It's just that um what they intended to do um they did not do the whole thing. But it was not The fault of the church. It was not the fault of Epapodias. Both were very much willing to complete what they had begun. But Paul thought it necessary to send Epapoditus back at that moment. Um and then of course he sends Papadotus with this letter. And then he hopes to send Timothy very soon. So that so that if Habgaius will come with with a letter, the Philippians are going to read read it, and they're going to c correct what they need to correct And then Timothy is going to come and make sure that they have corrected what they need to correct. Then he's going to send a report back to Paul saying, yes, they are doing what you told them to do. And then Paul is going to come. Okay, so that's so so so that's the idea. of this chapter. Well, we have completed chapter two. Are there any questions so far? Okay, well we're going to jump into chapter three. Okay. Um morning everyone. Um I think uh Larry mentioned that I'm going to be um teaching chapter three, so I'm the backup teacher. Um it's been great, you know, learning from him so far. So hopefully I keep up the standards. Um okay. So before I jump into it, so I okay with my style I like to have people read as well. So is there anyone here who doesn't want to read? Okay, great. So what what we'll do when we start reading is I'll just start from the beginning and go go back. But before jumping in, I'm involved with uh have any of you here taken gamma courses? Yes. So I'm always plugging. I used to be involved with the ministry. But um it's a great way of having getting a deeper understanding of you know the scriptures and and um gleaming from the minds of a lot of these uh pastors that have you know had many years of seminary they poured their um poured a lot of their knowledge into these notes. So I thought uh just Larry's already given us a lot of good context, but I just wanted to add a few things as we before we jump into chapter three. So in chapter three, the idea is that um Um what they're confronting Paul's confronting, you know, there's um fal um people that are uh putting in false ideas, you know, the Judaizers So do you all remember what the can anyone summarize real quickly for me what the Judaizers were in in like one sentence? To follow Christ you have to be Exactly, yeah. So they were mixing Christianity with Judaism, kind of putting it on top of it. Um so that's that's what we're gonna address here. But in pulling back some of the things I thought were really nice, um uh from gamma uh that I wanted to discuss with you before we jump into the chapter. And does everyone have the notes too? Does anyone not have the notes? Everyone has the notes. Okay great. So there's so again the the theme of this book is joy, but these are some uh nice um kind of summary things about the book. So of course um Paul was imprisoned as as we um as we were told. Uh the term joy is is you find that it's listed over 16 times in this book. And um but despite this of course uh Paul just he still had peace and hope despite the circumstances. And he's also kind of teaching this to the Philippians Another thing too is that in this book of 104 verses, again, this is from Gamma News, Jesus' name or title uh is mentioned fifty-one times. So this is an area of Christology because of the number of times that that Christ has been being mentioned. The other thing that I uh wanted to mention really quickly well okay, in terms of the purposes, we've we've kind of gone through a lot of this, but He he wrote this book to thank the Philippians for their gift to Paul and to explain the present circumstances while in prison in Rome, which Larry has covered quite a bit, all the while exhorting the congregation to the joyful pursuit of Christ despite the threats of persecution, pride, and ambition, false teachers, which we're about to address now in chapter three, and um yeah, and material needed. So Okay, so the last thing before we jump in jumping into the actual text set um from the notes is um what I wanted to share is is a nice chart. So I'm also like a teacher, so I like to use the board. So I'll write this up because if you don't have access to this. But this this is some general context for the Pauline epistles in general. So and again this is from gamma. So I highly recommend actually the gamma course is the Pauline Minor Epistles When it gets offered again I I recommend taking it. I think Larry was in it with me. Okay. So let me work with this. Uh okay. Oh, okay, there we go. So this is in terms of uh the canonical order, meaning the order that we have our books written. So you know like with uh when you read Bible through a year you can do the chronological and canonical just uh Genesis the Revelation that we usually have. So um so we have in the Pauline epistles first uh the natural hand Okay, great. And so this is Romance. I'm coming to Philippians. I'm not trying to derail us too much. Okay, then we have the distracted man. That is first So we have first and second current. Oh take this with me. Okay. First and second Corinthians and Galatians Now some of this um this issue with false teachers is also kind of a a theme that's happening in Galatians and some of the cross-references we've looked at have mentioned that and will also be mentioned in chapter 3 And then we've got next we've got uh the spiritual man. Yeah, and to be more specific, this these are notes from Pastor Matt White from um Belcroft. He's excellent teacher. Excellent teacher. Um okay. Ephesians And then Philippians, which we're going through. And then we've got the heavenly man. And that is first and second Thessalonians. And then we have uh the ordered man. Uh the order the ordered math. The ordered math. Sorry, that's not the greatest writing. Okay, so that's first and second Timothy, uh, Titus, and Philemon, And so what you can see here when you're going from left to right is that what you're having is a progressive Maturity. So the congregation like here in Philippi and Ephesians, they were um much more mature than, you know you know, in Corinthians there was all kinds of things happening, um sex uh sexual immorality and all the kinds of things that were um they were addressing, but as you go further, these are more mature congregations, and so you have this um like like it's saying here, this progressive maturity. Okay. Um so now we can get back to the actual actual notes, but I thought those were just some extra context. to give to you as we're reading the within Philippines but seeing thinking about what happened during Paul's Paul's ministry. So I will start with Maria. Um so if we could start with uh Okay, so well actually okay. You know what? Let's let's read the so so the idea today was to try to go through the first three verses. Um I'm not sure what w uh when do we need to end? Ten fifty or what So let's let's read the first three okay so if you have your Bibles let's let's first read the uh First three verses which is what we're gonna what we're going to cover. So if uh Maria if you can read verse one and then Marg two and then Sarah three. Okay Oh, is every is everyone one there? Okay. Further my brothers and sisters, rejoice in the Lord. It is no trouble for me to write these same things. Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of false circumcisions. We are the person the more the glory and closedness and flesh Okay, great. Thank you. So the idea now is we're trying to find out who is a true believer, who is it like what is the distinguishing quality of of that. um a true believer. Which is also a theme that you see quite a bit in the epistles as well. Um okay, so So then we have here in the notes, so finally my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. So this is something that that Paul is constantly asking them to do and even mentions it in other epistles. Um so let's uh read the first uh the first note there. Uh Mark, if you could read the the first point there. Oh yes, yes, please. Oh Matt, I'm sorry. Finally, me finally means here furthermore for as for the rest of us of what needs to be addressed. It is not a conclusion but a transition to the final matters to be taken up in this letter. Right, so um so as we know this is a letter that was written and you know initially Um they was talking about being able to still still rejoice in the midst of circumstances and then just recently um Larry was talking about, you know Paul's plan for following up with the with the Philippians with Apodis and Timothy, and now we're up to this part part of the letter. Okay, so in in in point two there's some examples. Remind me your name. Sorry, Michael? Michael. Michael, yes. Sure. Uh okay. Finally then, brethren, for your request and exhort you in the Lord. Jesus, that as you receive from us as to how you ought to walk him, please God, that you may excel still more. First Thessalonians 41. And we finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may spread rapidly and be glory just as it did also with you. That's Second Thessalonians. Yeah, so these are just examples of the similarly what's being done here in terms of finishing the rest of the letter. Um So that's examples of that that being done in in 1 Thessalonians and 2nd Thessalonians as as as it's being done here with in Philippians. Um okay, so then um Carol, if you could read uh number three, yes. Okay. Paul addresses these believers as my brethren, a term of endearment. This illustrate this illustrates one more aspect of the total transformation. Paul's life. For as a Pharisee he would never address Gentiles as his brethren. Yeah, so if you can remember the way Paul started, you know, he started as someone who was steeped in Judaism and was persecuting the church. It's quite amazing the the way Christ you know transformed him. Um Okay, um oh Chuck if you could read read the next next one. Or this is a further indication of a transition point in the letter As we also see this term in the transition in Philippians 1. 12. For I want you to know, brethren, that my circumstances have turned out to be greater progress on the gospel. Okay, great, great, thank you. Um Okay, so this is another mention of of brethren here. Um Uh okay, so then uh uh number five, uh Jim, right? Okay. Yeah. Paul begins this section with the framework of their Christian life. Rejoice in the Lord. He has already urged them to share their joy with him. Philippians 2, 17 and 18. And he will repeat this imperative later. Philippians 4:4. Indeed, he urges the believers to follow his own example. Indeed, they too are experiencing suffering in much the same way that they have seen Paul suffer. And they should count this as a privilege. Philippians 1, 29 and 30. Okay, great, great. Thank you. So again, you know the the the uh theme of this book is joy And so I how do we again how do we distinguish joy from happiness anyway? Exactly, right, right, right. So you know, Paul himself, I mean, he's being imprisoned and he's not in the greatest conditions, but he's still, you know He still has a a um a good outlook and and but yeah, so that yeah that is exact exactly um exact exactly it. And actually one thing I wanted to add is a way of also looking at this book, a simple outline, this is also from the Gamma and the class in terms of these four chapters is in terms of the theme of joy. So um okay, just bear with me for a second. Okay, so so initially in chapter one, uh you could look at that as joy in persecution. So the whole idea is, you know, are we focusing on Christ. That he's our ultimate hope. So r regardless of s of of circumstances, you know, we we know that, you know, in the end Uh that's what we have look looking forward to. That I mean that's what keeps Paul going. Then in chapter uh later in chapter two, Joy and Ministry, as we can see that even when he was being those who are persecuting him but Christ was being preached he still joyed because Christ was still being being um get being preached to the people. Now i in the in the portion that we are in the short outline this is joy and salvation. And again the idea is that Christ is our goal. And then in chapter four is that it's joy in need. So Christ is our supply. So that's what we have to look forward to in chapter four. Okay, so then um I think uh is it Marie? Okay. I'm trying to also m memorize everyone's name. Okay, okay, thank you. Um if you could read uh number six. Okay. This is not happiness, which is merely a humanly produced and humanly. maintain gladness in good or pleasant circumstances. We can rejoice because we abide in Christ. This joy is an act of the will and truly is a fruit of the spirit Spirit controlled life. Galatians 522. Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. So again, showing the difference between joy and happiness. Happiness is obviously based on circumstances. If your circumstances are going well, then you're feeling happy, but joy is despite the circumstances. Okay, so then in the in the later part of the letter. And um so you can see that this um these verses are in the NASDAQ. So um Yeah, just so keep that in mind. So in the the later part he's saying, okay, to write the same things to you again is no trouble for me, and it is a safeguard for me. So now we're we're um addressing this portion of the of the verse Um uh Suzanne, if you could read first. Oh you don't? Oh okay. Um uh you don't want to read. Okay. Um in the f in the back, um Oh Jeff. Could you read um uh under under uh under the bottom of page three the first the first point? things again it's no trouble for me. And it's a safe part for you. Phrase to write the same thing again in case that Paul is about to elaborate on something He has previously mentioned. In this case he certainly had in mind his accusation of Philippians 1, 27, 28. Induct yourself in a man already. So yeah, he's he's re repeating himself, but that's repetition is good, you know. Um okay And um oh Larry, if you could read from your own notes. This is a face correct companies so that they will not stumble or trip They are beginning to experience persecution, wondering what they should do, and pondering about how they could possibly avoid it. Yeah, so again, uh yeah, so this is something to encourage them in the midst of the persecution that they are facing, which we're addressing now the some of these the the the um ideas of the Judy from the Judaizers' perspective. Um so okay so then the next the next verse then is addressing we're addressing those um those false teachers um the description of them is saying Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcisions. So now we'll we'll break down each of these these components here and honey, would you like to read? Oh that's my wife actually We've been married for almost two months, right, right now. Did I get that right? Okay, good, good. All right. Beware of the dog, that is, look out. This is the time to be different. Don't be caught off guard. Registrants don't see on what they have. Okay, thank you, honey. Um so this okay, so in the next in the next um And number two, it's going to address exactly what they mean by dogs. And then later we also look at other parts in scripture where this term has been used in this context. Um remind me your name, sorry. Rob. Rob, okay, yes. Oh yeah, a member from the membership class, yes. Okay, great. These dogs are not family pets. They are not guard dogs or guide dogs Paul is picturing the all-too familiar sight of a pack of despised semi-wild dogs. They roamed the streets, they were scavengers, they would feed On the food scraps thrown out onto the garbage dumps, ancient society had contempt for dogs. Indeed, the term dog has generally a negative connotation scripture and is metaphorically applied to humans only maturity. Dogs were zoological like that. So so to this point about where where you've also seen this in other parts of scripture, there are a few verses that um I'd like us to read. So um oh Maria, this is we're back at the top. If you could read um Psalm twenty-two sixteen. So this I believe actually is a prophetic psalm. And then Margo, just for preparing up, you could read Revelation twenty-two fifteen. Uh Psalm uh twenty two, uh verse sixteen. In this context, the phrase was commonly explained in the early rabbinical paraphrases that they bite like a lion from my hand and feet The Jewish Publication Society translates the phrase as a like a lion, they are my hands and feet. But that's not the Jewish publication. No, no problem. Sixteen. Yes. Dogs surround me, a pack of villains who circle me. They pierce my hand Right, so this is David, um you know, he was constantly being pursued by different people and he's referring to those um So his enemies as dogs. Um and then we have um uh uh Margaret Revelation 22, 15 Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the immoral persons and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves the practice of Maria Right, so this is the context in which they're talking about um these false false teachers. Um okay Um oh Sarah, if you could read now moving to point number three. Please. I'll I'll also call you an income because They are not okay with one. This is good for consequences. specifically in need of media. They had a media, but no one went too far and it takes themselves to create It's true, but very likely they never embraced the golf price. The candy brought back even Pointing and passing. Like I don't think I'll How it could say any possibility that the relationship really have ever so crap or What the teaching each apart is computer to get more either poems. They level for a sort of Yeah, so so one thing that which we're gonna address shortly is that they you know were really requiring people to do that put a top on Christianity was circumcision, which which we'll we'll get into shortly Um okay. Um Matt Matt. Uh if you could read number four. Jews often call the Gentiles dogs because the Jews see the Gentiles as unclean and filthy. And outside the commonwealth of Israel and having no But those who call the Gentiles dogs, Paul calls them the dogs, for these Jews are outside the community of Christ, and they themselves are earthly with no spiritual discernment. So you could see uh the big thing in them, a lot of what they were they were displayed was outward. It wasn't they really weren't changed from the heart. And so they were focusing on those outward things. Because of course circumcision it really it was to point the need that you needed a savior and um the actual act of doing that didn't didn't change your heart. And and even actually later we'll talk about even the Old Testament where it talks about circumcision of the heart. Um Yeah. So um uh Michael, if you could read uh the fifth point. These false teachers pride themselves on their supposed righteousness. That is, they view themselves as workers of righteousness. But in reality, they are workers of iniquity Scripture plainly states that all of our righteousnesses, the best we can do, is but filthy garments. Those in the flesh cannot please God. Romans eight And this reminds me the another theme that we see here is there's always this distinction between those who are religious and those who are righteous. So the Judais were very religious, but they weren't actually actually righteous very much about the outward. Um all right. Uh Carol, I think we'll have to Okay, actually we Okay, we should probably end here and and pick it up pick it up next week because it's Our time is pretty much done.