So Paul is in bounds bounded, but he's still um He still has the freedom. You know, he's not the ordinary Roman prisoner. The reason is that during this journey to Rome, he earned the respect Of the Roman commander. I mean, basically, Paul saved everyone's life in a shipwreck. And so he's allowed much more freedom than your typical Roman prison. But he's still bound. He's still chained. So Paul writes this letter to his blood church. After they have sent him a gift for support, and after they had sent him A man, Epapodias, who would be coming to minister to Paul's needs during this time. Now, Epapodias, During this journey became sick. So much sick that he almost died. So Paul thought it best to send Epapoditis back. Although not empty. He's going to write this letter and then send it back by way of the Papoditus to this church of the Olohide. Now, this is a letter of friendship, a letter of thanksgiving, a letter of joy. And so Paul is going to introduce himself not as an apostle. Necessarily, even though that's what he was, he's going to introduce himself in Timothy as slaves. Slaves of Jesus Christ You know, he's a slave of Rome now, bond, bound to this Roman guard. Now, Paul says, well, I'm really a slave of Jesus Christ. And so he's going to write this letter with this very Christian greeting, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he's going to launch into this prayer of thanksgiving for them. For example, in verse 6. He says this, I am confident of this very saying that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. Now we're very familiar with Romans chapter 8, verse 28, when Paul says, for we know. that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Well this is another type of greeting of that same type I'm confident of this, I know this, that he who began a good work in you with his, which the you is the whole church body. That Christ that Christ is going to begin this work in them, which he has, and then he's going to perfect it. He's going to to complete it. He's going to bring it to Parishion until the day of Christ. He's going to keep working in this church until the day of Christ when the work is done. And then Paul expresses this emotion of earning to see them Verse 7, it says, For it is only right for me to feel this way about you all, since both in my imprisonment, which is my bonds. And in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel, you are partakers of grace with me. God is my witness how I long for you with the affection of Jesus Christ. So he's going to invoke the oath To express his affection for this for these dear brethren And this is his prayer, beginning in verse 10, so that you may approve the things that are excellent. In order to be sincere and blameless unto the day of Christ, having been filled with the fruit of righteousness, which comes Through Jesus Christ to the glory of in the glory and the praise of God. Um so that is his prayer of of of um of of a petition um um to them. Um And when Christ and when Paul says, and may the love and may the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love for one another, okay, now that implies that, yes, they do love. They are loving. Now Paul exhorts them to love even more. And because of love, first of all, points to the character of God and to God's actions towards his people based on that character. And again, this love is not merely an emotional affection. So that it's behavior that is both pure, that is seeming from the right motives, and blameless is lacking offense. Now, he's not questioning their current love, but that they let their behavior be motivated by selfish ambition or fain. that but that they but that they not let their behavior be motivated by selfish ambition or vain conceit undermine the very thing that they're trying that has been that has long been characterized of them. Um again the things that are excellent here are the things essential. Um And for and for us, you know, some things are essential, some things are not. Um And um and then to stand on the day full of righteousness. That's Paul's Desire for this church at Philippi. Psalm 15, verse 1-2. Who may dwell on your holy hill? He who walks with integrity and works righteousness. So fruit, of course, denotes behavior. Um And when one is filled with the fruit of this kind of righteousness, then one's life is characterized by the fruit of the Spirit, which means in part to have one's love overflow. And this comes through Christ. Is quite unrelated to being religious Which is which for Paul being religious is just another form of boasting in the flesh So with this introduction, this preamble, this prayer of thanksgiving Um this prayer that they desire that Paul desires them to abound still more and more in love for each other. Now he um you know I'm on page six now. Um now Paul um begins A section on his affairs. He's going to talk about his affairs, and then he's going to go on to their affairs. Okay. So beginning with verse twelve, it's this is his affairs, and I'm going to read um twelve um through fourteen. Now, I want you to know, brethren, that my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel So that my imprisonment in the cause of Christ has become well known throughout the whole Victorian God and to everyone else. And that most of the brethren, trusting in the Lord, because of my imprisonment, have far more courage to seek the word of God without fear. Now, um let me begin with this one principle of interpreting Scripture. Always begin by looking at the main verb. Okay. Now, verses twelve through fourteen, at least in my version Um or is one sentence. Now what's the main verb? Here we have to sort of go back to our English um high school um c class. To know, right. I One two no No, the reason why I bring it up is that everything else hangs on this verb. I want you to know. Now notice that Paul is addressing this church and Delebi And you want them to know something. The implication is say do not know it, or else they know it but they're not focusing on it. Um Because they are anxious. And Paul is going to address this one issue very quickly. Paul says, I want you to know. Now, let's look at this for a moment. What would it take for you to be robbed of your Christian joint? Now, look at Paul. You know, he has experienced many experiences of difficulty Things unpleasant, things painful, yes, things even life threatening Yet none of these things has robbed Paul of joy. In fact, they have actually encouraged his joy to increase. But now could you ever lose your Christian joy? I mean think for a moment. Isn't it a grace gift from the Father through the Son? You're given by the indwelling Spirit. Isn't joy a fruit of the Spirit? And didn't Jesus say, these things I have spoken to you that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full? From Matthew chapter fifteen, verse eleven. Now Note that joy is grown. I mean it doesn't just come all at once and stay static. It grows, it develops, it matures. You know, the Apostle John wrote this, and these things be right so that our joy may be complete. But now let's face it. Our joy can at times be rather sm smother. Um we may lose focus. Um for example, sin can certainly rob us of joy Sin corrupts our fellowship with the Lord, we're left without with such sinful attitudes as dissatisfaction, bitterness, sullenness, doubt, fear And the list can go on. I mean, consider David as he described his experience in Psalm 51. So here we must confess that our sins and receive forgiveness in 1 John chapter 1, verse 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins to and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But now but anything other than sin need not take our joy away. I mean James chapter 1. We know this well. Don't let trials of your faith make a casualty of your joy. Now, Scripture speaks that trouble in this life is certain, indeed. We are not exempt from the common problems and difficulties that all people face. We live in a fallen world that doesn't that that that at times falls on us. And we are also subject to persecution because the world will hate us. They hate Jesus, and so since we are in Christ, they're going to hate us. In fact, um Jesus said this, a slave, and by the way, a slave, that's you, is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. And also, Jesus said this in 1 John 16, verse 33. In the world you will have tribulation. But take courage, I have overcome the world. So let's go back to Paul. How does Paul understand the many trials that he has faced, including his present Imprisonment. He says this. Now I want you to know, brethren, that my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel. Now, the Jewish leaders themselves, they were delighted that Paul isn't bounds, is is is is imprisoned. I mean, and their joy would be complete if the Roman emperor sided with them and sentenced Paul to death. That's their joy. But but and so notice here there's a great difference between them And Christian joy. But let's understand that Paul's wife is at is is at stake here. He knows the risk. You know, he's not Just positive thinking guy. He knew the risk. Um and um and the Philippians of course would be deeply concerned His circumstances. And so um so Paul understands that through the eyes of faith And the faithful God, that his circumstances, no manner how oblique the s current situation may be, has turned out for the greater progress of the gospel. The reason is that Paul's focus is on the gospel, is on Christ, not so much on himself. So the phrase I want you to know Calls attention to a to a very important point that might be easily missed, misunderstood, or hard to accept. Yes, Paul means exactly what he says. There is no bitterness Or discouragement on the part of Paul. His enemies may be rejoicing, but he can also rejoice. And he can truly rejoice. His circumstances, which is his his affairs, or his situation, or things pertaining to him Dire as they might be, seen from a human perspective, can have a very legitimate, different interpretation. And so the phrase, my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel, should probably be translated in one of these ways. And I'm on now on page eight. The King James Version says this, the things which happen to me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. That's King James Version or the E S V. What has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel of Christ. Advanced the gospel of Christ. And so the progress or the advancement Describes moving ahead against obstacles. Yes, there are obstacles. And um those should not be unexpected, uh, but there's progress Against those obstacles. And so the term was used of an army advanced team backing packing a path through the forest. Moving slowly and with considerable effort. Resistance, resistance is in is there. And Satan will resist the progress of the gospel. You know, he's not giving up. Um his current in Paul's current imprisonment is bonds being chained to the soldier all day long and all night long. Is the result of resistance of persecution. And now I'm on number eleven. Paul now cites an example, each of which progress is outside the church, namely the Victorian Guard, and also inside the church, namely those proclaiming the gospel. And Paul can speak along with Joseph and say, It is not you who sent me here. But God, and he has made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his household, and ruler over all the land of Egypt. As for you, you met it you met evil against me, but God intended it for good. So God's supreme act of using men's in Satan's evil schemes is to accomplish his purposes was his son's work of redemption by his death on the cross. The world was very happy to crucify Christ. Um Satan was probably very pleased with what he is what he did. But God turned it all around. So that is Paul's perspective. on his present situation, however bleak that may be. Now consider the Victorian Guard. Okay, these are the soldiers entrusted with guarding the affairs of Rome, including watching over prisoners They were the only soldiers permitted to carry arms in Rome. And the relationship with the emperor would be quite complex over time. Yes, they provided guard services, although Libro knew that he needed the loyalty of the Petrolean Guard to maintain power. I mean there was a Petrolian guard that assassinated the previous guy, um Coleglia, in AD 41, and gave support to Claudius. And when Claudius died in A. D. 54, Nero became emperor on support of the Praetorian Guard. Sometime in the future, Nero would abdicate the throne in A. D. 68 after losing support of the Praetorian Guard. And he would commit suicide very soon thereafter. So these soldiers were disciplined. Um they were um And so and they watched over the affairs of the Roman government. Now throughout Paul's stay in Rome, he would be stationed under guard with a chain. He would be chained to this Roman guard. And now as we read in at the end of the book of Acts, Paul continued to preach, he continued to exhort those who came to visit him. So you can so you can imagine this Roman God. He's chained to Paul and Paul is preaching. All the time. Um, so that would that would probably have a profound effect upon this Roman gosh. Um Um so um so Paul being there, um his the news would be s spread all around. People knew Paul was in Rome. Um And um so so this would be not only among the God itself, but to everyone else. Um So Paul says in verse 13, my imprisonment or my bonds in the cause of Christ is there for one reason only. for for preaching the gospel. It's been well known throughout the whole Victorian God and to everyone else. Everyone else Is everyone else in Rome? And um so these guards would quickly learn that this man was no common criminal But was there by because he was preaching the gospel, the same gospel that they were hearing day after day. And so Paul was given liberties that most prisoners would enjoy such, would most prisoners would not enjoy, such as having private quarters. But still there would be very little privacy. Whenever Paul was with others, preaching or exhorting them. There was this guard within a foot of him. And so these guards would be listening in on his conversations with Visitors. Again, notice that Paul would be preaching. There would probably be worship a worship service. They would be singing. Um And um so the guards would would be hearing all of this. And so these guards would also recognize that Paul When he's preaching, you know, he's actually the same type of guy when he's preaching than when he's than when he's all alone. You know, he's living out while he's preaching. He's not saying one thing and then Living off a life of a of a different matter. So his imprisonment for the cause of Christ has become well known throughout the whole Petrolean Guard and to everyone else else in Rome because there would be talk about this prisoner. So the Jews who had brought these charges against Paul and even tried to murder him did not intend for his imprisonment for the cause of Christ to become the talk of the town. They also did not intend that most of the brethren, trusting the Lord because of his imprisonment, would have far more courage to speak the word of God without fear. I mean these Jews thought that Paul would would be silen silenced and that blue believers likewise would be afraid and would be silenced. Well, they're not those Jewish People who are opposed to Paul, although not getting what they want here. So Paul makes it very known that his joy is complete. The Jewish type of joy Um those who oppose Paul um are probably disappointed. Now, now one might also think, well, why is Paul in Rome? Why is he before Caesar? Well, here's the idea. The Romans, when they acquired new land, new people groups They never imposed their religious system on these people. They basically let the people keep their own religious faith, whatever that may be. Because again, most people were um polytheistic. They had many, many gods, I mean numerous gods. And so it was common for People add more gods all the time to their pantheon of belief. So the Romans just let the people do as they please and basically the religious systems were were the ones who sort of governed the people. And the and so that so the priests and everyone else that controlled that religious system they they were permitted to um maintain their citizens and to administer justice as they seemed as they saw fit So now, the only thing that Rome insisted was that none of these religious faiths could impose capital punishment. That was reserved for Rome in Roma law. Of course that did not prevent venge vigilante justice at times. I mean, we see in the book of Acts the Jews tried to kill Paul. They tried to ambush him. Um the Romans were the ones who rescued Paul. Um but the charges against Paul, which he doesn't say in this letter, were basically that he he Blasphemy against God by speaking against the donation, speaking against the Jewish faith. speaking against the temple and maybe even bringing this gentile believer into the temple. Those charges are blasphemy and punishable by death Um I mean, and um any religious system back then would have put a blasphemy to death. Um So the Romans come in, they rescue Paul and they s and they send him to Rome because he's a Roman citizen. He can appeal to Caesar. He can actually hear it, let his Caesar hear his case, and Caesar has the right to decide what the outcome would be. Caesar can can release him, or Caesar can um put him to death because the charges against him was blasphemy, which is a punishable which is punishable by death. So since Paul is in prison now, going before Nero You know, some of the believers in Rome might be a little reluctant to associate themselves with Paul. Because if the way Paul goes, They will also go. Um but now because of Paul's joy because that he continued to preach, he continued to to exhort these believers, um they they they were seeing joy in themselves and encouraged to speak the word of God without fear. I mean perhaps I'm on page nine now. Perhaps they they was they would saw how God had protected Paul and blessed his ministry despite persecution and imprisonment. You know, courage is contagious, just like power does So we see um Paul's joy in his circumstances. Now Let's admit there's a potential source of stress for Paul. And we can begin in verse 15 here And I'm going to read through verse 18. Some, and Paul is referring to believers. To be sure, are preaching Christ even from envy and strife, but some others from goodwill. The former proclaim Christ out um back to verse 16. The latter do s to be sure. Are preaching Christ even, the latter do so in love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaimed Christ out of selfish ambition rather than from pure motives, thinking to cause me distress in my imprisonment. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed and in this And in this I will rejoice. Yes, I will rejoice. Now There is one consequence of Paul's arrival in Rome as he awaits trial before Caesar, and that is many of the brethren are preaching Christ without fear. Okay, that's good But there's two groups represented here. Some are preaching Christ, but are envious of Paul. They accuse him of some wrongdoing. They preach out of selfish ambition, not from pure motives. They intentionally distress Paul They preached in a way that makes them distinct from Paul and supposedly superior. They made no attempt to aid Paul I mean, those are believers too. Imagine that. But some are preaching Christ from goodwill, doing so in love for Paul. Considering him to be a true apostle and preacher appointed by Christ for the defense of the gospel. So there was these two groups of believers. Um Now, verses 15 through 17 form what is called a chias with emphasis on group A Um and what basically what that means is that uh Paul is going to to talk about group A And then he's going to talk about Ruth P. And then he's going to to um to um to conc conclude group B, then it's going to go back to group A, and then conclude group A Okay, so that's that's the pattern. Okay. So it's only the two two on two on beginning with book A. But talk about group B first. And then he says go go go go go back to group A Um so group A. Those who pre some preach Christ out of envy and rivalry That's group A. Group B. Others do s others because of goodwill. In the group B again, the latter do so in love. Because they know my imprisonment is um in behalf of the gospel. And now he's he's going to go back to Group A. The former That's group A. Proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing they are causing afflictions in my bounds. Bonds. Okay. Now This group A, they are not false teachers. Like for example, the Judaizers Those who insisted that the Gentile believers abide by the law of Moses. In fact, if you go back to Acts chapter 15, And I will read on verses 1 and 2 of Acts 15. This is what Paul, this is Paul's response to false teachers. But Luke says this. And some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised, according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. So what's Paul's response? And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, The brethren determined with that Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders concerning this issue. That is Paul and Barnabas immediately debated this. So Paul is no friend of false teachers. Um but this group A, even though they're causing him some difficulty, um, they're not false teachers. Paul would not include false teachers as brethren. This group A is preaching the true gospel, and this is Paul's focus on committing commenting on this group. Paul knows it now Paul knows there's poor motives and behavior, but can still rejoice somewhat in that people are hearing the gospel. Okay. So Paul is not focused on the reception of his person or ministry. No. He has lived out from Galatians chapter 2 verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live. But Christ lives in me, in the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in a Son of God who l who loved me and who delivered himself up for me I mean, Paul understands that Christ himself was accused of many falsehoods, but his teachings were often rejected. And that even his friends misunderstood him at times. And that he ultimately was rejected by the whole nation. And again, all the Old Testament prophets experienced the same thing. Um they were all rejected. Um, you know, has has um has um Jesus Jesus once commented, you know, it's not possible for a prophet um um to be uh um um key'd outside of Jerusalem. Um and um Okay, so let's go back to this first group, what I call A. This first group consists of some, of those, who preach Christ from Indy and Okay. What's envy? Well envy is the desire to deprive others of what is rightfully theirs to wish that they had did not have it or had it to a lesser degree. Envy is closely related to jealous jealousy, which is wishing to to have what someone else Oh, fit hashes Then the likewise strife refers to contention. There's conflict is especially with the spirit of enity. And it's often also s associated with envy. So envy and Now Paul doesn't state that what's being said about him to either disparage him personally or direct his reputation. But because the charges are false, the particulars are not all that important to Park. It is ironic that Paul is on trial on account of the f accusations, the false accusations of the Jews, yet Paul is also being slandered by fellow believers who should know better and behave better I mean, Paul is being slandered by the Jews, but in some ways he's being he's being slandered by fellow Christians. Christians who should know better. Now there's probably several factions involved here. Some of the de detractors might have seen Paul's imprisonment as an opportunity to magnify their own ministries. I mean we see that today. Preachers, they magnify what they do And they um they disparage what others do. They might have also assumed that Paul was indeed guilty of the charges against him. So his imprisonment is just proof that God was disciplining him. I mean, they were free. Paul was not. And this might have served as their justification that Paul's ministry was done. And so they're going to do what they want to do. Um now. So that's possibly some of their motives. Now others might have had claimed a deeper and more complete und The standing of the face. You know, this is this could um they could have had an early version of Gnosticism here. Um And so they may have claimed that a newer, fresher approach is now necessary necessary. So here was their opportunity to get their act going. And there were probably certain of those who were just jealous of Paul. I mean Paul was gifted. They were not so gifted. Paul had many had seen many revelations. They had seen none. Paul had already had a great impact upon churches in Rome, even though he had not yet visited Rome. I mean, because he had written the book of Romans in about the year fifty-eight. Um so Paul um was a blunt of all this criticism, um And for Paul, none of this criticism was brand new. I mean, he's faced it time after time before. Um I mean Paul defends himself in Second Corinthians chapter eleven and elsewhere from those who either d demise him outright or I mean d dismissed him outright because of his physical appearance or the or his inarrogance Inum, in em C elegance in speech, so we also claim that Paul was doing ministry for his own financial benefit. So so all of this was false criticism and even though none of it was true, well, it kind of did um go back and forth across the empire. So so Paul, you know, is um under this um Criticism, there's false accusations, um, but notice that Paul really doesn't dwell on any of it. Because his focus again is not on Paul himself, it's on Christ. And then some could have been like the friends of Joke, you know. You know, they probably counseled Paul on how to do ministry. And so when Paul refused to heed to their suggestions, they turned on him They criticize him. These detractors, detractors, were proc proclaiming Christ out of selfish ambition. I mean their doctrine was not what was at fault. It was their motives. They looked merely for their own interest. They not only distance themselves from Paul to magnify their own ministry, but intentionally they were even trying to aggravate Paul, discredit him. Certainly their churches were more like the Corinthian churches than this beloved church at Philippi. And okay, so that's the first group A and you know C C A prime. Now let's go to this second group, group B. The second group is preaching Christ with an attitude and motive of goodwill. Towards Paul. No, they're not criticizing Paul, but they are enthusiastically supporting him. They love him. They were sympathetic to him. They were great grateful to Paul. I mean they would be the would be the ones who would would be visiting him in prison. Um hearing him speak and praying for him. I mean, they truly loved Paul. So this second group, and I'm on number seven on page 11 now, the second group recognizes the great service in the ministry to which Paul has given himself. They understood that Paul is imprisoned, one, not because of his unfaithfulness to the ministry, not because of any wrongdoing. Not because he was outside the will of God, but because he remained loyal to Christ. They recognize that Paul was appointed, appointed, chosen by Christ, and chosen for destiny. So his imprisonment in Rome was not an accident of fate. It was not primarily the decision of men, whether Jews or Romans. It was not primary, or even it was not even primary of Paul's decision to appeal to Caesar. But rather, it was an integral part of his divine assignment to defend the gospel, even in Rome. And they also did not compare Paul's pace with that of Peter's deliver deliverance in chapter twelve. Peter is miraculously released from prison. Well, Paul was not miraculously released from his prisonment. Um so um you know so some some someone might say, well, you know, Paul just doesn't have enough faith. Or or um well Paul's is this not well thought of by Christ? But no, um the uh the fact that Peter was released and Paul was not, you know, that's not a matter of um who is better or who is worse. God has a purpose in both cases And again, as I was as I read read this morning, Paul did have a desire to visit the Roman churches and proclaim Christ to those who did not know him. He says, um, for I long to see you, and I do not want you to be unaware that often I plan to come to you. And have been prevented so far, in order that I might obtain some fruit among you also, even among the rest of the Gentiles Thus, for my part, I'm eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. Well, now Paul is in Rome, although in circumstances not of his own choosing, but he does not consider his circumstances as a cause for complaint. Instead, they will cause for joy. Because God, in his wisdom, is carrying out his purposes for good. And you know, we see that throughout the New Testament. And note, and note this. Paul isn't the person that preaches something and then just doesn't For even himself. When Paul tells you, for we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. You know, Paul believes that too. He relies upon that too. Um he uh you know, his life we we reflects that. And so as Paul is is is going to say later in in this letter, um, you know, the things which you have seen in me and heard in me And know of me, these things do it. You know, imitate me. Uh and Paul can and Paul can say imitate me because Paul is doing exactly what He is preaching. So now in some ways, verses fifteen through seventeen can some can sometimes can s maybe can be thought of maybe as something of an aside. You know, Paul begins by explaining the net fallout of his imprisonment has been to advance the gospel, and that alone is a cause of his joy. You know, Paul's joy is not over his imprisonment. You know, he's he's not the type of person that's going to rejoice just because he suffered. He's rejoicing because he's suffering for Christ. It's not some morbid thanking God for all things. And because that out life that lies outside of Paul's own theological perspective. The pain is there It's real. And there are Christian brethren who are maligning him. Yes, that's real. Yes, it may be deep inside that disappoints Paul. But Paul's joy is seeing that God is weaving everything together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purposes. Paul is looking beyond his present circumstances to the many opportunities that are opening up to proclaim gospel. Paul sees that the newly emboldened, fearless preaching of the gospel by his friends is cause for joy under any circumstances. whether um those friends are really dear blood friends or even if they're friends that are somewhat of a disappointment. So Paul is not merely putting the best possible face on a bad situation. This is not mere positive thinking, it's deep conviction. This is not Paul being so heavily minded that he is not in touch with reality. There are three related but principles that from Paul for to us. Number eight, Paul sees everything in light of the bigger picture of God's God's sovereign hand over history and the affairs of nation and the lives of all individuals. There is nothing that doesn't fit in this picture, even suffering and death. B. Paul is a man of a single passion for Christ, the gospel that proclaims Christ. Now he has been apprehended by Christ. And number C, discipleship means to participate in the sufferings of Christ. We take up our cross and follow Christ. Paul's imprisonment belongs to those trials for which we are um to which we orden Testened, and thus they should come as no surprise. So these three principles in large part, although not in a way that the religious pluralists would contend Um the religious pluralism today, it has little tolerance for Paul. Paul's theological n narrowness leads to his large heartedness. Within because both within those convictions, precisely because he recognizes the gospel for what it is. It's God's thing. It's not his. And so we also note that Paul will exhort the Philippian believers that the things which you have learned And received, and heard, and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace shall be with you. So that is Paul's message to us that we can look at Paul And see him in his sufferings, and yet also see him with genuine joy. Not complaining But rejoicing. Not saying, well, well, what about me? But saying, well, what about Christ? Focusing not upon himself, but upon the gospel. Looking at look look what's happening to the gospel Um and so in this um are there any questions? Okay, um we will go on to the to the the next section, beginning with verse nineteen And yeah that let me just read um verses nineteen and twenty, just to in in introduce this section. Paul says, For I know that this shall turn out for my deliverance through your prayers and the provision of the Spirit of Christ. According to my earnest expectations and hope, that I shall not be put to shame in anything, but that with with all boldness Christ shall even now, as always, be exalted in my body whether by life or by death. So in this section, Paul addresses four issues that might seemingly rob him of his joy. These are one, well, trouble His present imprisonment. Sigam error, those detached Detractors. Those who are pretending, those who are who are preaching Christ out of selfish ambition, thinking to cause trouble to Paul. The third one is death. The threat of impinning death for for which she is awaiting trial. The outcome is uncertain. And for the flesh, his physical suffering Now, Paul does expect to be vindicated Because he knows he's innocent of all these charges. They're they're they're just trumped up. Um the Jews have tried to prove them But they failed. I mean they they had a chance before Felix and Festus and and Agrippa. Um but they And so Paul is confident that he's going to be vindicated. But There's still that uncertainty. I mean Nero is Nero Um and and no, he you know, he he could be rather unpredictable. Um and um So so um so let's go down to the in introduction at the at at the bottom of first of page twelve Haven't appraised the prohibitions of the present effect of his imprisonment which is cause for joy in that the gospel has been advanced. Paul now turns towards the future to reflect on the expected outcome of this apparently soon coming trial before Caesar, which is in this case is Nero. This letter takes place after his arrival in Rome, probably towards the end of his first imprisonment, which is approximately A. D. 62. And so Acts chapter 21 through 28, that should be 28, is the account of his arrest in his journey to Rome. Now, um let's just note that Paul did um Get did did receive vindication here in this trial. Um he was released But his freedom did not remain very long. Um he would be s imprisoned again and eventually he would be ex executed. But that's the old feature. So this feature is also cause for joy in that he in that he expects vindication for himself and for the gospel also because he expects to be released to find his his way back to Philippi. And thus he an anticipates Christ being magnified at his trial and the joy when he is expected his return to Philippi is realized. Um so joy is a significant theme in this epistle. Um it's a thank you letter, as I've said before, for the recent support of his physical needs. So this is a beloved church. And we'll see when we get to chapter four just how beloved this church is. And to talk about, well, what does getting gifts mean? And so I'm going to stop right here. So we'll pick pick it up here next week.