Okay, well, welcome to this Sunday morning as we journey through uh Philippians chapter three and as we've begun last week. Um Um C-Sun will be teaching us, will be our guide through this great chapter. And so we just welcome C Sun back Good morning, everybody. Um Okay, so last time like I like have having you all read but it was hard to pick up so what uh what we'll do is we'll pass around uh the mic as as you're reading. So um we started talking about uh chapter three and and um Paul was addressing um the false um what it means to be true Christian also addressing kind of um what what's um what things are false about Christianity in particular what connected with the Judaizers who We're mixing Christianity with Judaism. So in this, so we're going to finish up that part. We left. So if you turn in your notes to Um page three. So we left off on the top of page three. But what I thought I would do before so we're going to finish this last verse that talks about what it means to be a true Christian. There are three characteristics. Um so yeah, actually yeah, we'll so we'll start with that. Um and then then the ne in the next section then um There's basically there's some points that I want to discuss that we can that we'll uh go over after we finish this section on chapter three. But just the uh just so that we're um on the same page again, uh let me read those first three uh verses in Philippians chapter three. So let's see here. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Uh to write the same things again is no trouble to me, and it is a safeguard for you. Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision. For we are the true circumcision who worship in the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. So again last week we talked about who who th who those who were the you know not true Christians were and how and um you know what they're mixing they're mixing kind of They're focusing on outward things rather than you know Christianity is a change from within. So now we're looking at the characteristics in ch in verse 3 about who are true Christians. And so with that, we'll start with number six on page three. So I'm going to pass up Maria, we'll start with Maria. And I'll So if you could read um uh number six Is everyone there? Okay, great. Something to read from the paper. Oh from the paper, yes. In ancient times, few cultures circumcised their baby boys The Romans and the Greeks did not. So the Jews prided themselves on their physical circumcision, which was prescribed to Abraham. But Paul calls these opponents the false circumcision. The Greek word used is katatome, meaning mutilation. The word means to cut into pieces. The word is used to the LXX to denote the mutilation done in pagan practice. There is nothing here to suggest that the Oh stop it's sorry. Okay, thank you. Uh okay, so actually we we we weren't quite done with talking about the uh the false circumcision of those who weren't really Christians. Um so this uh does so does anyone know what LXX means? By way of hands. Oh yes. Um yes. Uh that that is true, but what what is being referred to here is the the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Uh Testament. Um so that's what um cor right Larry? Yes. Okay so I should have put that Oh no no no problem, no problem. But um that that's what's being referred to. Um Now in terms of okay, so let's let's look into like the origins of of circumcision. So i that was in Genesis seventeen. Um if I could get Um oh okay actually Larry, um if you could read um I'll give you the mic, but let me see. If you could read Genesis 1710. Sure. Yes, Genesis chapter seventeen, verse ten. This is my covenant. which you shall keep between me and you, and it and your descendants after you, every male among you shall be circumcised And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. And every male among you who is eight days old shall be circumcised throughout your generations A servant who is born in your house, who has been bought with money from any foreigner, who is not of your Descendants. Keep on going? Uh yeah. A servant who is born in your house or has been bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. Thus shall my covenant be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. But an uncircumcised man Male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his full skin, that person shall be cut off from his people. He has no He has broken my covenant. Perfect. So as you can see that z um this was the origin of you know where circumcision came underneath of it was the sign of the Abrahamic covenant. And um and what we were dealing with here with the Judaizers is uh they believed um that two things. So first that, you know, if you're circumcised and then also if you keep keep the law that you know that you're that shows that you're a Christian, which of course the law really points to the fact that we cannot keep it and that we need Christ. And so this is some of the the um some of the um antagonism that was happening um within within the church. So um So so anyway, this is that's the origin of of of circumcision and actually by that time though circumcision wasn't really um it was really more of an outward thing and it really didn't necessarily show that someone was more um It didn't really show necessarily that they were sp uh that they were in good spiritual standing. Um okay. So let's move on to um To the next point on number seven, uh Sarah, if you can read number seven. There is nothing to say yes. that defoss teach you for actually a within the church film pie. This is not like regulations for pop go to deep leavers You foolish Galatians, who have witness you? Are you so foolish? Haven't begun in the spirit. Are you now perfected by the flesh? Big behold, I paw say to you, if you receive second seasons, fight will be of no benefit to you. And I testify again to every man who seems fake decisions and you've got Under obligation to keep the whole law. You research Christ You for your thinkings be justified by the law. You have fallen from grace. Okay, thank you. Great. So um so the point here is that you know circumcision does not save you. And Paul is is um Paul is making that point. And one thing that Larry pointed out that is important to um to see here is that um the The false teachers weren't actually within the church, but they were influencing the church. Whereas in Galatians, they were actually within the church. Okay, so if we go on now to um To the eighth point, um Suzanne, do you have notes? You do. Okay. So let me um get past that. Thank you. But these false teachers are perhaps bringing a message. that is potentially tempting. There are two reasons. A these believers are experiencing persecution, but perhaps some might think that if they more closely identify with the Jews that this persecution might pass, but then by. And B, these believers have the Old Testament, which includes the Mosaic Law, which mentions circumcision dietary laws and the other elements prescribed by God to his people. These false teachers might be appealing to these Gentiles that if they would follow God then they need to follow all of what God has prescribed. Oh, pretty thankful. Um okay, yeah, thank you, Suzanne. So Um as you can see, you can see why it could be tempting um for for people to for the those in the church to be um Uh to be tempted by this because at this we have the benefit that we have the whole canon. We have both the New Old Testament and the New Testament They only had the Old Testament and you could see that that um how they could feel like, oh, we need to to uh practice all these laws that that you know these Judaizers are talking about. So Um but we know of course that's not the case. But those are some reasons that were um laid out there. Um now if we look at nine, uh so let's read that today. So this is kind of application to today of of you know this concept of what the Judaizers are putting um basically mixing, you know, what the truth is with additional loss. So in in nine weeks We read here today the specific teaching of Judaizers is not so prevalent, yet the spirit of the Judaizers is indeed quite present. So A the health and wealth prosperity gospel teaches a faith that must result in such prosperity Otherwise, the faith is weak. B. The name it or claim it gospel teaches a faith that must result in the attaining of extra biblical promises. Otherwise, the faith is weak. And then C, we've got uh the charismatic movement teaching that you know you have to exhibit certain you know gifts of the Spirit like speaking in tongues and things like that. And then of course you also have the the positive thinking of teaching of faith in your own self. So that's like, you know, if you've heard of Norman uh Van Pieler, Vincent uh Peler, that's what his positive the the power of positive thinking. But you know, all these all these things are are uh extra biblical. Um Okay, so now let's move uh to uh verse three. Now we're talking about the uh the what true Christians exhibit, like what the true circumcision of the true Christians are. So, um verse three is for we are true uh the true circumcision who worship in the spirit of God. So that's the first thing. And and we'll we'll address that point first. And then secondly, glory in Christ Jesus. And third, put no confidence in the flesh. So these are the the three different um aspects of a true Christian. that we that we're going to get into now in the next section of the notes. Um yes. Thank you. Um yep. So we can start with uh Jeff. Oh okay. Oh we can start with Jeff. Oh Jess, okay, sorry. You want me just to read one? Uh yeah, read the first one. Okay. In contrast to what these opponents are trying to get Gentiles to do, Paul states that we are the tr we are the truth of circumcision, the first person plural. Pronoun we is emphasis. Okay, great, and if you uh uh The phrase true circumcision is the Greek word paritome, meaning to cut around, and is the standard word for circumcision. Uh Paul does not go into a theological discourse on circumcision, but the theology follows Romans two, twenty-five through twenty-nine. um a I guess for indeed circumcision is of value if you practice the law but if you practice the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. Um B, if therefore the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision uh be regarded as circumcision Um see, and will not he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the law, will he not judge you who though having the letter of the law and Circumcision are a transgressor of the law. Um D for he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh Um E. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that which is of the heart, but the spirit Oh by the Spirit, not by the letter. And his praise is not from men but from God. Oh Natasha, do you have uh the notes too? Okay oh well I I I'm gonna discuss some points, then we'll get to you. Okay. So I like to use the board, so let's um okay, so you can see like, you know, so Paul is is is uh We just read about talking about, you know, the purpose of circumcision and that, you know, it does not save you. And he talks about that, you know, what saves you is that Um circumcision is that which is of the heart by the spirit and not by the letter. So um what so what you can see here is So my background is in electrical engineering. So I like these so one thing that you learn there is these things called truth tables. This is like binary um but so we have the situation where it's like a circuit where you have, you know, um where you do a tooth table and you have so it with with binary numbers you deal with the zero and one. So we have the situation here we have Uh practice the law. Practice law and then uh circumcision. Oh, this is adorable. Uh Okay. Then we have circumcision here. Okay. So zero is going to mean that you either um practice Or sorry. You vi it means you violate the law and then um or that you don't practice or are not circumcised. And then one of course is that you practice the law and circumcise. Um okay. So we have here in the situation in Romans that was being talked about. Um So you have uh okay So this is like I mentioned, this is like a w what's called a truth table from electrical engineering. So essentially this one here means that you know you Violate the law and you're not circumcised. Oh, can everyone see? Okay. And then, of course, okay, I'd like to make this interactive. So what what's this one mean here? On the left, I'm gonna have what? Maybe violate the law, right. Exactly. Yes. And so if you if you follow that pattern then you have um You practice the law. So I'm just gonna say law, you practice it and you're circumcised. Um oh not circumcised, not circumcised, yeah. Thank you. And then here you do the law and you're circumcised. So really if you so here really this um So the thing is, you can be in these either of these categories and be a true Christian. Hold on. But Okay, the the point here is that circumcision is not what saves you. It's it's you know you're saved by the Spirit. So you you don't have to be If you're saying you need to be circumcised as well as a physical thing, then you're adding to what the gospel is really saying. So hopefully that was a useful illustration, but that's what was going on Um so as Gentiles we're usually one zero. Exactly, yeah, yeah, we that's exactly right. Um Okay, so now let's let us uh continue on to okay, let's see. Oh to four, two number four so uh Thank you, buddy. This is based on several Old Testament texts which mention circumcision of the heart. Point A. Moreover, the Lord your God will circumcise your heart. and the heart of your descendants, to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, in order that you may live. Deuteronomy thirty thirty and six. Notice here that in this inner circumcision you are passive. This is the work of God. Great, thank you. Okay, Yeah, so as you can see, uh as is mentioned here, the true circumcision is is when you change uh from the heart. And so um if we move on now to Um to the fifth to this next several points. So unless I'm on number five now, unless there is an inner circumcision, any outward circumcision becomes no circumcision or a false circumcision And so in this case, uh peritome, which is uh uh the um standard way of circumcision, becomes uh catatome, which is the the um unstandard or the false way. So that so now okay, so now let's move to what or how are we the how are we the true circumcision or we're talking about the characteristics of a true Christian. So uh so the next set of points points um speaks to that. So Maria, you can read uh number seven. Oh what? Oh yes, yeah. We worship in the spirit of God. A. This is certainly a true statement that should bring what Jesus said in John 4, 23-24 to our remembrance. But an hour is coming, and now is when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshippers. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth be. But this is probably not what Paul has in mind. The word translated worship can indeed be translated worship. but it is not the usual word for worship. The meaning is in contrast to the false and evil service rendered by these false teachers. The phrase can be rendered we serve by the Spirit of God and is We are the true priests of God who render true spiritual service. See, the word refers particularly to the performing of the Levitical service as in Hebrews 8. 5 and also in the heavenly temple, as in Revelation 7. 15. The meaning of worship and service is intertwined in this word This concept is also apparent in Romans 12, 1, the Hebrews 13, 15-16, Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God that is the fruit of the lips and give thanks to his name. And do not neglect doing good for sharing and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is pleased E. Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. F. The emphasis here is what we worship by the Holy Spirit who enables us to serve and please God in our deeds. Oh, great thing. So uh so the m the main point that to to um see here uh that Larry pointed out is that when we say you know, the first aspect of a cr true Christian is is that they worship in the Spirit of God. In this sense it's talking about service, service towards God in particular. And so um so there's several passages about that and for instance uh in in Ephesians 2 10, you know We're created uh in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. The peace is always one of my favorite books because Uh that's another it's a good book to read in terms of and and you remember like last time we talked about the different um among Paul's ministries, there's there's like, you know uh Ephesians and Philippians, they were spiritually more mature congregations. But what's what's really nice about uh Ephesians is it's a great book that shows like what we as Christians how we should live. So the first three Um and actually I got this from Past Week. We were I was in uh one of his uh he had this men's discipleship group that we would meet at Bob Evans and he went over Ephesians and he always started out by saying Ephesians is really a a great book uh you know, for you to be encouraged by as a Christian and understand like how you should live because the first three chapters talks about your position in Christ and all the things that you're you're declared and then the last three is how you should live. And so um I always remember that a lot, so I'm always like if you're looking for for a devotional like Ephesians, going through Ephesians is a good place. Um Okay, so let's look now at the the second characteristic of a true Christian. So we we look at this first one of them. of worship uh in the spirit of God which is through service and now w the next one is about glory in in Christ Jesus. So um Larry if you could read Jesus Christ, we boast with exultant joy about Jesus. Let him who boast boast in the Lord from Jeremiah. Therefore, in Christ Jesus I have found reason for boasting and things pertaining to God from Romans chapter 15. Okay, great thing. Thank you very much. So you can see as the aspect of a of a Christian, um you're not boasting in yourself, but you're boasting in in what Christ has has done for you. Um okay, so then the last point then of course is putting no confidence in the flesh. So if Sarah you could read um Point nine. In contrast, many who both according to the flesh Second Corinthians eleven eighteen process that we put no confidence in the flesh. We recognize that it is foolish to believe that we who have become birth for it. would now be perfected by the flesh, closely great. The flesh here reversed to Life here for a secondary circle were primary this is a good new word of life before and outside of Christ. We put no consequence in what we could possibly do apart from the Spirit of Christ Okay, great thing. Great, thank you. So as you you can see like as as Christians we don't we don't we're not dependent on our own human effort. You know, we're putting all our our confidence in in Christ. Okay, excellent. So again, so the three things are uh that we worship um in the Spirit of God, and that's really through service, about you know, boasting in Christ Jesus and then putting no confidence in ourselves, but putting our confidence in Christ. So that that uh so now we've covered the first three chapters and now um the first three verses and now the next from verses four to eleven. What we have here is this this idea of a um actually okay, let me let me back up here. So um So this particular book is means a lot to me personally because um uh so what happened like several years ago, I think I was probably at probably at one of the lowest points in my life really. Um So what happened was um I I was in a graduate program and I was having difficulty finishing and I was I was I really got into depression and Uh I I don't remember if it was Bruce or Pastor Leek, they were like, well, you know, there's this series that MacArthur has on joy, and it was on the book of Philippians. And I went through that series and wow that I mean ever since then I would say that, you know, I've I've had a lot of spiritual growth. And so I revisited that when when I was um quote knowing I was going to help Larry with with the book and so in the he has the I recommend listening to the series as well But um and my wife and I have been been listening to it. But he breaks it down really well about um how, you know, Paul he was um from a from a man's perspective, you know, even before he became a Christian, he he was, you know, um from an outward perspective, he was very impressive. And that we're going through all the different credentials he has. But once he knew Christ, he threw away all those things. And so in these next verses, what you're going to see is what Christ the what he supposedly had that was prophet and how he threw it away for generally knowing Christ. And so in the in these next set of verses, what I'm going to do is give this outline that MacArthur gives in his sermon about those that dichotomy. So first First in verses uh four through seven it's it's talking about what Paul like he used to have. And then in verse eight he meets Christ and then And then the last verses is what he gains by having Christ. And what we all gain as Christians. So what I'm gonna do is put those put these uh um Put those points on either side and then as we're going through Larry's notes, you can kind of see how you can connect the points to that. So um let me see that now. Um And that will be that'll be something that we can use uh to guide us as we're going through the notes too. Okay So in terms of okay, um in terms of the uh the things that he he had, you know from a worldly perspective that were um quite impressive. I'll write those first and I'm just looking at my notes here. Okay. So and actually e even those are Okay. So he has so the way he breaks it up is when he said those things are is in relation to once you're saved you have Christ, right? So he uses what salvation is not. And that is connection to what what what Paul had. So that's what's on on this page. So this is what was um okay, so on this side we'll have that. So the first thing was that um so salvation Is not by ritual. Secondly Um salvation is not by race Oh, and this coincidentally, so if you go to uh Gty dot org and you look at the sermons And you just look for Philippians, then then you'll see this. Um okay. Um and then the third thing was uh salvation. Is not by um by rank So like that that was the standing, you know, as society. And then the the next thing was um okay. Okay, salvation is is not Uh by tradition. And then there's seven of these points here. Um okay five okay, salvation is not by religion. And then six is Salvation is not by sincerity. Uh sincerity, yeah. So what what's what's point to there is zeal. Paul had a lot of zeal as a um When he was a Pharisee. A passion, yes, yeah. And then the last one, uh I'm not the best speller. Hopefully I spelled that right. Is that right? Okay, okay, good. Um My wife is better at uh English than me, so she can help me with that. That's why I became an engineer. So Okay. Lastly, uh salvation. And so these are things that look like they're a profit. Um Um but these are things that you uh so this so on the other side is what you gain in knowing Christ Oh sorry, can you um okay. Um all right, so let me move to those points. So there there are five of these points. Um so these points will start with salvation there. So this is when you have Christ, you have salvation So okay, uh third three four six seconds. Okay, there we go. So the first one is that So salvation this is what you gain um by knowing Christ. Um okay so salvation in involves the knowledge of Christ That's the first one. Uh secondly, we've got uh Salvation involves the righteousness Um of Jesus Christ. And then thirdly You've got um okay. Okay, salvation uh provides provides the power of Jesus Christ. There's two more after this. Okay, then fourthly. Um so salvation Fellowship, fellowship with Jesus Christ. Yeah, fellowship, yeah. Okay. I can't see the ship. Oh sorry about that. Okay, yes. And then um sure. And then the last one is that uh salvation uh results And the glory of Jesus Christ, in the glory of Jesus Christ. Um yeah, glory. So you got uh knowledge, righteousness, power, fellowship, glory. So um okay, let me move get I can use the kin oh okay. Okay So the interesting thing here, okay, we'll get into the notes now, but as we go along, just think of these, so we're in we're in the first part talking about what uh Paul had before he knew Christ in terms of from uh from a worldly perspective You can look at here and then what he gained when he knew Christ. And like I said, what we as we as Christians gained. Now, what you see here with these first three um What do you see as a common I mean what do you see as a common three common thing between these first three things that you know Paul had um that that he considered prophet uh originally Can you see a can you see a cum thing between these three things? Sure, yes. And and to be more specific, these are things that he inherited. So these are things that not by his own he inherited because and we'll talk about that because of his own standing because he came from j uh a Jewish family that even exactly. So this these are things that he didn't earn himself. But these last three things or last four things are things that he he gained by uh from his from his own work. So we'll see that as as we go along. So okay, so yeah, so now so let's get into that first part and I'm not sure we'll we'll see how much we can finish today, but hopefully we can at least finish the first the first part of what um what what can what was considered profit um that he that he that he threw away uh what was all considered loss once he found Christ Okay. So it says here then, uh yeah, so what what once was precious to Paul, as uh Larry has mentioned here. So although I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. Um so you remember before we said we put no confidence in the flesh, and now Paul's talking about like what he once was, and he said now he's talking about he himself. He has a lot of credentials that we'll see that he what he what he's saying means a lot because of his standing. Like his standing was greater problems than a lot of these Judaizers that were causing problems uh philosophically. So um if anyone else has a mind to put confidence in the flesh, I far more So with that let's um okay I don't know who where did we uh leave off of oh Suzanne okay Suzanne if you could read actually if you could Um read the first first four points there. Oh. If anyone could have achieved if anybody could have achieved salvation or perfection based on religious works, it would be Paul. Here Paul states his list of points which he could boast. In one sense, he is like Solomon, who is in ecclesiastics, recorded his search of joy and fulfillment among all things under the sun and found none, just vanity after vanity, emptiness after emptiness. He sought it all, he tried it all, he experienced it all. If anything in Judaism is enough necessary for the life in Christ, Paul would certainly know. For I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries and my countrymen, being more extremely zealous for my ancestral traditions. And Paul is saying that he excels on their turf. So yeah, so as you can see, um Paul he was uh his standing was quite was was um Well first he had the the inheritance of his family and then even within within the Judaism sphere he was advancing beyond his comp uh his contemporaries. He was Um in fact he uh was taught under uh one of the uh um priests um What was his name? Gamido. Thank you, thank you. Who who was a very high up there and he was he excelling. Yeah, he was he was excelling quite a quite a bit and he was fluent in Hebrew and He was a very impressive uh individual in in that regard. Um okay, so then now now we're talking about more of his going more into those credentials. So in verse 5 there in the notes you can see circumcised the eighth day. of the nation of Israel, of the tribe Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews as to the law of Pharisees. So you see all these different um attribute. So um so actually so this this particular one not by right. So he was he had the circumcision. He had that done. And he had that done at birth. You know. In some cases people even in Judaiz, they may be someone who came to the faith and they were not circumcised until like maybe they're adults. So it wasn't in the in the in the purest form of of the of the practice. Okay, so then um okay, who is next? Um oh um Jeff. So yeah, if you could read all those points under Paul was circumcised the eighth day, the day prescribed by God. He was circumcised long before the Philippines even knew what circumcision was. And if there is a is and if there is benefit in circumcision, Paul would certainly know it. Paul was circumcised of the nation Israel, and so was given the privileges of being a part of the Commonwealth of Israel by birth from the very beginning of his life. Paul was of the tribe of Benjamin, a favored tribe, and a tribe that continued in its faithfulness to the Davidic covenant. He could trace his lineage, in contrast to most Jews of Paul's days, after intermarriage, during the exile years, had blurred tribal lines. Also in contrast, Gentiles could only become members of the nation Israel, but not a tribe. Paul was a Hebrew of Hebrews, a Hebrew born of pure Hebrew stock, and holding pure Hebrew heritage even in the diaspora. among the Gentiles. He kept the authentic Hebrew faith without compromise. He didn't just dabble on the outskirts of the Jewish faith. He was very much at the pure center. Acts twenty six Verse four So then all youth know my manner of life from my youth up, which from the beginning was spent among my own nation and at Jerusalem. Verse five, since they have have known about me for a long time previously, if they are willing to testify that I lived as a par Pharisee according to the strictest sect of our religion As to the law, Paul was a Pharisee. Paul studied the law, pondered the law, obeyed the law, and taught the law. He knew the law well He was advancing in Judaism beyond many of his contemporaries, which meant that he was highly regarded. Again, if any if anything in the law is necessary for our salvation or right standing before God, Paul would know Yeah, so you can see all all these credentials that that um that Paul had. And actually if we look at from From what's saying about you know all these credentials, we you know we've looked now, you know, we've we've talked about how he was circumcised the eighth day, he was a Hebrew of Hebrews And and and and by that uh so by Hebrew of Hebrews, um if you can think about it, um the Hebrew people originated um from um I guess from Eber and then you have, you know, through Abraham, right? And so w w when you say Hebrew of Hebrews, um you have this uh And actually this was in the sermon too, that was well said. So what what you have going on here is okay hopefully oh maybe I'll do this in a different color. Um okay. Hopefully this works. Okay, it does work. So you have um okay, so Eber is is from the Hebrews. Were any of you in that Genesis class with Pastor Plumley? Oh yeah, we went through all of Genesis and it was kind of cool to see the origin of all the different peoples and and everything. But Eber is where you know the Hebrews came from. But then eventually you go down and you know we we're talking about the um Eventually we're talking about the Jews, um, but we have um Abraham, so this is you know several generations. Um and then you have Abraham of course and then you have Isaac And then you have Jacob. So of course the Jews can of course come from Jacob. But you have some people who could say, Yes, I'm a Hebrew, but they're from, you know but then you know, Abraham, you know, where w who was his first son that we hear about? Ishmael, right, exactly. Ishmael, right, exactly. And of course here Isaac had Jacob but then he also had Esau, right? So a Hebrew of Hebrews is like, you know, um so you have so actually so Ishmael we know that this you know Arabs these are modern day Arabs And actually I was listening, I did not know that um well at least according to what Macarto was saying that, you know, Esau, you know they called them the Edomites. Apparently they're considered Arabs too Um but with with uh Paul, you know, he was, you know, descendant from Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And and and not only that, with you know, with Jacob He knew his own tribe as was mentioned because, you know, what happened is eventually um uh you know, you had the Davidic kingdom and you know the the the the tribe split up. So you you had like, you know, Judah, the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom. And Benjamin and Judah were in the southern kingdom and so he knew that he was a Benjamite and so when he said appears to pierce he had all that going for him in terms of, you know, ra race and rank and hit and so Um, this is what he was speaking to like he had the authority and and saying that, you know, I myself could have profited mo more but I threw that all away because Knowing exactly how much he gained in Christ. Like he he had a lot of credibility in what he was saying. That's the point. Um Okay. So uh if we look now in verse six as to zeal, um a persecutor of the church, as to the righteousness which is found which is in the law, found blameless. So now we're we're getting to these points about salvation is not by sincerity. Okay, so then I think oh oh Rebecca's next. Okay, so if you could read Um okay let's do this. If Rebecca you could read the first three points and then Connor you could read the next. So that's regard to verse six. Number six? Yeah, yeah, yeah. True. As to zeal, Paul was a persecutor of the church. This seems like a strange thing for Paul to state as something he could potentially boast about But this speaks about his zeal, a trait highly regarded among Romans, Greeks, and Jews alike. Paul was a strong defender of Jewish faith, since Paul perceived Christianity as like an apostate colt cult he was determined to eliminate that faith and cleanse Judaism from it. Probably he sensed that Jesus so since Jesus was especially cursed by God being crucified on the Roman cross that his followers also would deserve the same designation and so could be persecuted, even killed for the sake of the nation Israel. Ironically his oppon opponents are persecuting the church and yet he can say that he had persecuted the church even more. As to the righteousness which is in the law, Paul was found by all others as blameless, without fault, without blemish. No one could accuse Paul of coming up short of anything. This is a reference to uh Torah observance, understood as observ observable conduct. Paul scrupulously adhered to the uh Pharisaic interpretation of the law With its finely uh honed regulations for Sabbath observance, dietary laws and ritual cleanliness Um this righteousness does not refer to right standing with God but rather adherence to the law as defined by the Pharisee tradition. The issue is not um it's not his claim of sinless sinlessness, but rather his being without fault based on the kind of righteousness that these Judaizers would carry on carry in. Okay, great, thank you. So you can see here um so the yes the request they're talking about really is from the outer perspective. Paul's not claiming that he was sinless. He definitely See well so a lot of the comparisons, a lot of the things were everything was very outwardly and ex you know, external, what people saw. It wasn't talking about kind of what was going on internally. And actu actually to that point I think it's useful for us to look in Romans where Paul even talks about that struggle. So if Maria, if you could read for us uh Romans seven, uh verses five uh through eleven. Oh, do you have your Bible or Oh oh okay, okay. Um I I can give you mine actually. Um let me let me cut there here. Um okay, just bear with me for a second. Roman seven Um okay, yes. So if you get some reward set it's uh five through the Romans 7. Or do you not know, brethren, for I am speaking to those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over the person as long as he lives. For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living, but her if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband. So then, if while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined with another man Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit. For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in the members of our body. to bear fruit for death. But now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the spirit and not in the oldness of the letter What shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. for I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, Thou shalt not covet. But sin, taking opportunity to the commandment produced in me, coveting of every kind, for apart from law, sin is dead. But I was once alive apart from the law, but when the command commandment came, sin became alive and I died. And this commandment which was to result in life, proves to be result in death for me. For sin, taking an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me. Okay, Chris. So you can see you can see Paul talking about his internal struggles, particularly in the later verses of that chapter. So so again this this righteousness is talking about kind of the in the pharetical pharasidical can um aspect and is more of like an outwardly thing than not um can talk about uh inward sense so uh uh like covenant for instance. Um okay. So now uh if we move now to verse um seven. Um okay so but whatever things were gained so Were gain meaning we're gain. We're talking about all these different attributes that we've just kind of gone through. Those things I have counted as loss for the sake of Christ. So um so Larry if you could read read those points uh under under verse 7. Sure. Um whatever things were for me gains These very things I consider because of Christ as loss. Gain and loss here are accounting terms. Gain Points back to Philippians chapter 1 verse 21, for to me, to live is Christ, and to die is game. Paul's previous prophecy now considers as total loss because there's ultimate gain, that of Christ Himself. These very things are those that Paul and others considered has gained. So everybody had poor judgment here. But the great by by the grace of God Paul learned that his prophets in the flesh were worthless And of course, many others don't know until Path. Okay, great, great. So again to reiterate then all these things the all these things were once considered profit. You know, his standing um in terms of what you know, those rituals that he had done being circumcised, um, the fact that, you know, his his lineage um as a Hebrew, you know, and and his his rank um like within uh the phariseutical condition, you know, how how he was zealous for Judaism and you know he had uh righteously he he he he um was uh he was blameless uh from from that perspective and and um those things were all um They're all worth losing um to gain Christ, to gain life, you know. Uh yes. Any of his attributes or what our cultures consider successful Yes. Oh, Suzanne makes this great point that these attributes that were were connected with Paul are well today uh you you can make a parallel today about what what people talk about. Um what they boast about you you can uh you can make a kind of parallel mapping about their standing in society and things like that. So yeah, that excellent point. Okay, so now let's now we're going to move more into okay what is what has Paul gained by knowing Christ and and what do we what what have we gained as Christians? So um verse okay, so verse eight then, so more than that I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. So again that that speaks to the knowledge on the other side. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish in order that I may gain Christ Okay, so i okay these are pretty um dense points. So um okay, so s I think Sarah was next. So if Sarah if you can read uh the first two points. Yeah. So wait, wasn't that the emphatic statement of the ri with meaning not only so but what is more? And because nowhere else in Greek Great Shift Brian congrats religious credits for Paul, which is still farm more than our flesh and not impress God and incalcular Christ. But all what all things entails is not immediately apparent. It includes scene of verse seven thirty five more. that Pa suffering the loss of all stage implied that all stays increased at least the physical results of his suffering for the cause of Christ. such a persecution that he ha has endured. The best he could and all things all things that are possible to accrue on earth. Okay, great. Thank thank you, sir. So yeah, this is speaking more again toward um so how uh so like it's a contrast of um so all the things that he's given up it's still he he so um so the the point to to look here at the end is that this could could extend as Larry was saying to just gaining all things on earth It's still better to have Christ. You know there's that um um I forgot what what passages. Maybe one you could help me where it says uh um It it there's a passage m there's a passage that oh actually no no I think I have that I have that on here. So this is in the gospels. Um is it in Matthew Okay Matthew sixteen. Let me see if I can find that here quickly. Matthew sixteen Um all right. Oh yeah, okay. So discipleship is copy. So if you want to follow along with me, I'm in Matthew 15. Um Sorry, Matthew sixteen verses twenty-four through twenty-six. Um okay. So then Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? So what what he what you what from a worldish perspective look like all gain, well, uh that's at the expense of losing your soul. So when it's comparing to that It's not a contest. And so Paul Paul is is is uh referring to those things. Okay, so uh We'll have to quit here because it's basically uh ten forty five, but let let me close us in prayer and then we'll we'll pick back up this week.