Morning, morning everyone. Uh for those of you who weren't here last week, um I explained what's on the board here. So um We're in chapter three and the first part of chapter three uh Paul was addressing uh you know what it means to be a true Christian in the first three verses. So um We went over that the first week and then last week we got into the next section where Paul talked about what he used to count as What what he used to focus on, you know, when he was in into Judaism and then talked about how he gained Christ. And so um What we have forward to looking to now is is that Paul's kind of he's encouraging people to now pursue being like Christ. So we're gonna see that coming up today and next week I'm anticipating that we may it may take two weeks to finish the rest of it. Maybe we'll finish it today, but I don't think so. So um but but uh this This outline I got and I had mentioned so Philippians has always been a um book that's dear to me because um at at a time my life where I was pretty low. Um, I was encouraged to read it. And you know, as we read, as we talked about earlier, it's all about having joy despite your circumstances. And I was in a really bad place at the time. And so um I got this. I was encouraged to listen to some sermons from MacArthur on this, and I got this this outline here that it that speaks to um verses four through eleven um that Larry um labeled as uh okay let me see what what he called that this section we had what once was precious to Paul. So this there's this idea of of you know What he considered what was um gain, uh what was profit, but then but then when he when he um when he found Christ he considered all that as loss. So this this is like an accounting type term thing uh uh accounting type term like profit versus loss and so on the left is is basically all the things that you know before he knew Christ that he considered as very important. So some of this is repetition for some of you, but not everyone was here, so I'm just going over this. So These first three things are things he inherited. So he was in Judaism and even though he was in Philippi, which was a uh a Roman colony, um uh that had like you know Greek Greek culture influence, he stayed pretty pure in terms of Judaism because he was a line of Well, he was part of the line of of Hebrews that were um connected to uh the tribe of Benjamin. So he knew his tribe. Some some um Some uh Jews didn't know that because you know the the the northern and southern kingdoms split up and so you had some people who there was a lot of intermiring. They didn't know what tribe they came from. He knew what tribe they came from In addition, he was circumcised. He was circumcised, you know, the the way that the most appropriate way, you know, the eighth day, the you know, the classic way. And it wasn't like, you know, some of the Judaizers, they may have been circumcised later as adults, so he had that going for him. And then also he himself was a f a Pharisee and he was a Pharisee that was, you know, increasing in high rank. And, you know, there's some uh Larry has uh uh some verses talking to that. You know, he he was advancing beyond his peers. And so he he was someone that that really had the um the pedigree to even speak to like he had this prophet, you know, from a worldly sense. And so um these first three are related to the inheritance and then these last are things that he attained himself. And so um So that included included in particularly like I mentioned as like how he advanced within Judaism and he was quite scholarly and he he he uh he um learned under some really prominent people and he was highly esteemed in that regard. And he had quite a bit of zeal. You know, he was persecuting Christians because he believed he was he was they were corrupting like what a true Christian was And so you you have all that, and he discusses all that in the first verses, verses four through seven, which is what we went over last time. But then in verse eight, you know, he talks about meeting Christ. And so when he meets Christ, these are all the things that he gains. So that's that's on the right hand side. And so that's what we're gonna start getting into today. But in particular, you can see that there's um he gained the knowledge of Christ, the um The righteousness of Christ. Now, this is righteousness meaning that you have a right standing with God. Not the righteousness over here. The righteousness that he thought it had before was just outward righteousness. It wasn't like he still was obviously a sinner. So this is having the right standing with God. And you know, we're declared righteousness when when we when we become Christians. Um and then you have also the the pa having the power of Jesus Christ, which we'll get into, and then the fellowship. And then also eventually there's the the uh glor glorification. So um you know um There's a different stage in the Christian life. Right now we're in the sanctification stage, but then eventually we get to the glorification where we're made perfect. We don't we we can no longer sin. And so These are all things that he's gained, and so we're talking about that section, and then like I said, next we'll talk about how you can be more like Christ, which is he encourages like this is what we're pressing on to as Christians. So, okay, so with all that background, um where we left off was on page um Page seven. So we were on in verse eight. Okay, so if I could have actually Maria, if you could read. Oh do you do you have your Bible or Um I'd have to look it up. Oh okay I um pass it to Margot. Uh okay sure, sure. So uh if if Margot um if you could uh Read this section. Um actually okay, we just read verses four four through eleven um of Philippians three Oh I need to give this so one three or one four? Uh Philippines three, yeah. Four through eleven. Uh four through eleven, yes. Although I myself might have confidence even in the flesh, if anyone else has a mind to put confidence in the flesh I farm more circumcise the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law of Pharisee As to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless. But whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as lost for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be loss, and view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ. It may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, in order that I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Okay, great. Thank you. Okay, so we're talking about now um what Paul means by gaining Christ. So so um looking at verse eight now then So we're we're in the on page seven in the middle of the notes. So then again it says more more than that I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value. of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. Okay, so let's let's read this section of the notes and my style is to have you guys participate, you know. So um Actually, we'll start with Larry then. So Larry, if you could read the uh first two points here. The phrase more than that is an emphatic statement with the meaning of not only so, but what is more. and occurs nowhere else in Greek literature. This strongly contrasts the religious credential credits of Paul, which are still far more than DMC others, which do not impress God and thus in the incalculable benefits of knowing Christ What all things entails is not immediately apparent. It includes those things of verse 7, but applies more. That Paul had suffered the loss of all things implies that all things include at least the physical results of the sufferings for the cause of Christ. such as the persecutions which he has endured. It's best to include in all things all things that are possible to a cure on earth. Okay, great Um so we get more into what um what Paul's considering all the things that that he considers loss and and as um Larry Larry um pointed out here it's even You can even expand it to to things uh things you can attain on on earth, right? So we read earlier that you know what what benefits a man to gain all gain everything but to lose his soul. So um he's kind of speaking to that. So um so let's let's get into what it means by gaining Christ. Well actually okay there's one more point about loss. So um if uh Sarah you could read um points three and four. All counts, all things lost. view the surpassing value over the Christ Jesus my Lord. This value is not merely considered if we're seeing product C war value, so much so that everything else really has detoned that worth a zero. That is a lost. Knowing Christ is not me having the intention delightful knowledge about him, but knowing him personally having an intimate relationship with him. Part of him was from the Greek word skinovka. Which we should know is we are really by personally wrong. Great, thank thank you sir. So as we can see firstly by gaining Christ, the first thing we're talking about is knowing Christ. And this is just it's beyond something that's intellectual, right? Someone can can intellectually know a lot about the scripture but not have a personal relationship. with price. So we're getting more into what that means. And we'll hear more in the next next couple of uh points here. So um Matt, right. Sorry for calling you Mark last time. You could read uh points uh five and six. Oh, uh I need to pass this to you for questions Certainly, Paul is taking up the Old Testament theme of knowing God and applying it to Christ. This Old Testament theme was first of all to do with Revelation. One knows God by observing the ways of God, and thus his character that lies behind all his ways, that you may know that I am the Lord is a phrase that occurs multiple times in the Old Testament Inherent in such knowledge was obedience, loyalty to him through behavior that conformed to his covenant love and righteousness. The word translated rubbish is just that, rubbish, garbage. The word was also a slang term for it exc excrement, although Paul is certainly not using the word in this way. It's probably best to attribute the meaning of food scraps thrown out onto the garbage heaps upon which the dogs would eat What the Judaizers view as prophet, Paul calls it foul-smelling street garbage fit only for those despised dogs. Okay, uh kind of broke that up not not the best because he was talking about the rubbish in the second half. But going back to into knowing God, so as it mentions It's it's uh getting more into the this Greek word of uh Okay Larry help me out. How do you pronounce that? I'm not I I don't know Greek. How do you pronounce that? Uh the g is it gnos? Oh yeah, good. Ganosko. Ganosko, okay, yes. So it's getting more into like what what it means to know Christ, like I said, from from personal having a personal relationship with him. And actually, um It looks back into the Old Testament and actually uh one way that you see this is used in the Old Testament is actually even in in a in a husband-wife relationship where they say they know each other. So it's a very intimate type of relationship with Christ. Um so it it requires actually, you know Not just like having intellectual knowledge like we're saying, but actually uh doing what he says. You know, it says in that part B that that uh Matt read for us. And such a knowledge was you're obedient to what God's commands, loyal to him through behavior that's conformed to his covenant, love, and righteousness. So you're actually showing evidence of having fruit. Um okay. And actually there's one more point I wanted to make there related to that. Uh there is me for a second. Uh what is that? Okay. Yes. Yeah, so the gonosis so it's used in the term of the um uh the old testament version of uh uh use of the word. Um the New Testament usage of gnosis a lot of times is more like uh mystical elevate elevated knowledge of a deity. So this is more of a personal uh connection. Okay, so in part in six then we see again all these things that Paul once considered prophet, they are now you know considered rubbish and and we're getting more into that. And and in specific uh as an example, um I mean he even calls it um excrement uh oh sorry, not he's not using this way, but like food scraps, garbage. So an example of this is, so what's something that the Judaizers considered prophet? What was it, what was it, by way of review, what was important to them? Right. Right, appearance are doing good, right, right. A lot of things were outwards. So circumcision and o observance of of the law, you know, of the Moses. Um okay, so if we can now um move to point seven Um more about you know why why Paul counts all these things rubbish. Um Carol, you could read. Point two. Okay. Um the purpose that Paul now accounts all things as rubbish is in order that I might gain Christ. What was gained is now considered the loss because of gain uh because of true gain, Christ Himself. And B furthermore, Paul implies that the gaining of Christ requires the loss of all former things Because to be rich in Christ is to be rich in him alone, not in him plus other gains. And see Grace and self-confidence as radical opposites for grace plus anything else cancels out grace. And D Paul is in no way implies that our gain in Christ came with a cashing in of any previous gain. He came to Christ with nothing to offer. In light of Christ all that he had was a loss. Okay, so as you can see here, um it's getting more into um what it means to truly gain Christ and And what it entails. So you remember earlier we talked about how you know being a Christian is that you have to deny yourself and you know fall across. And it's a thing you do daily. And and a a big thing too is that you know It's um it has nothing to do with yourself, right? So when we come to the cross, it's it's nothing of our own doing. It's all Christ. And we have to respond to the call, but But um it's not you like what we bring to the table is you know is filthy rags as it says in Isa Isaiah. And so um Okay. Okay, so if we move now to the next uh part of the note, so that's in verse 9, and may be found in him not having a righteousness of my own. So now we're getting into the second point now about about the righteousness of Christ that you gained. So yeah, it may be found in him and not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. So this is, again, you can contrast this with the righteousness that Paul apparently had, which is really just outwardly, it was outwardly It was he what he didn't have a right standing with God. This is righteousness where you're right with God, before God. Okay, so if uh Chuck, if you could read. If you could read uh let's see the first the first three Uh three points under uh first number. One and may be found in him elaborates what it it means to gain Christ. 2. When Paul expects this gaining and being found to take place, for Paul this phrase in him or in Christ is a present reality, but also a future astrological fulfillment at the day of Christ of Christ Jesus. Philippians 1. 6 ten and two sixteen when Paul expects to be found in him, that is, having a righteousness that become that comes from God. A. Galatians 2. 20. It is a faith, the life of faith in the Son of God. B there is this already, but not yet, perspective. C Paul expects to gain Christ and be found in him on the day of Christ precisely because this is already his experience in Christ. 3. Paul is hence found in Christ, who has given him a righteousness that turns blameless to observance into street garbage. Thank you. Okay, so we're seeing more about what what that means to be uh to be um to to gain the righteousness and to be uh and to know Christ as well. Well um okay so in particular let's let's look at um let's revisit some of what what we discussed earlier in in Philippians that speaks of this point Now, one thing to notice too that that you'll see even as we go forward is that um that even though I mean as Christians we are, you know Um obviously we are children of uh we are known in Christ, but we still have this journey that we're going going across that we talked about before. So we're justified, but then we have the sanctification process that we're currently in the Midst of doing and then we have the glorification. So that's what he's kind of talking about to the future eschatological I get tripped up on that, but when we're with Christ, then that's when we're totally completely in him. We know we know we know him as he is at that particular point But um we're not there yet, but we're in that process, and that's what is being spoken to right now. But let's kind of like just just to connect it to previous um part of Philippines, let's look at those um Look at those verses. Okay, um so Philippians 1, 6, and 10. Okay So Philippians 1, 6. Okay. For I am confident, this is Philippians 1-6, for I'm confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. So this also talks about, you know, Larry talked about working out your salvation. This is speaking to that. And then in verse 10 What we have is so that you may approve the things that are excellent in order to be sincere and blameless until the day of Christ Jesus. So then we're talking about until you until um wait Larry is that that's not talking about the um the rapture is it or um no okay well Kind of, yes. Yeah. It does. I guess w when we're all together with Christ in heaven. Okay. Um okay. And then also we have um Philippians uh okay two sixteen. So Okay, holding fast to the word of life so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory because I did not run in vain nor toil in vain. So this is going to speak also to like you know So Paul gives the analogy of uh the race that we're running. And so we're running to the whole idea is that the point is to be more like Christ. So we're running that race to become more and more like him until we're finally if we get the final realization when we Him with Christ. But of course, we're not going to get that here because we still are battling unredeemed flesh. But we but we fight it each day. And we um we that that's what our goal is. That's our goal in life as Christians. So okay, so let's now um look at the contrast. So um okay, so that's going to be addressed in point four So yeah, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. So we're we're um addressing that in this next note. So So um okay who wants to read uh Suzanne, can I have you read that point for us? No, that not But contrast A. Not having my own righteousness that express itself in the Torah observance for it is based on observance of the law. Two. This is based on the performance of religious trivia 3. This is the religious taught by the Judaizers. 4. There is no future in this righteousness. B. But that which is through faith in Christ one that expresses itself in serving by the Spirit of God, boasting in Christ and having no confidence in the flesh Two, this is rational. Relational, excuse me. This is relational. Three. This is the true circumcision of the heart Great, thank you. Okay, so when when you looking at this contrast, um so it's all it's like in this outline here it's like Um the righteousness that was you know associated with like like let's say the Judaizers was one that it was very like we were talking about before outward and just like um It's not from the heart. It's basically performing for others. And so like observance of the law and then you know um things that are just outward things like you know being circumcised as opposed to um part b which is faith that's through Christ and then this this goes back okay so if you look at part B what Okay, we covered that earlier. Where where is that from? Where do we hear these these three um aspects of what a true Christian is? So serving by the Spirit of God, boasting in Christ, and no confidence in the flesh. Where where did we see that? It's within earlier in the notes, as well. Sorry. Right, that's right. So in verse or it might have been verse three. Um yeah, so in verse three, you know, it talks about you know what it means to be a true Christian and those are the three points. So It was worshiping the Spirit of God, but uh as Pointed in notes, it was by service through service, and then boasting not in yourself but in Christ, and then also having no confidence in our own flesh. So that's in our own humanness. So we we totally rely on Christ. And and what does it mean to um to have faith in Christ? So it's a personal trust and a complete surrender. Right? And total exactly. So exactly. So that speaks to no confidence in the flesh. So Okay. So um so through faith in Christ is shorthand. uh for by grace through faith. So if you look at Ephesians 2. 8, uh for by grace you have been saved uh through faith, right? The promise comes by faith so that it might not so it might be by grace. And so you can look at that reference there in Romans 4, uh 4. 16. Um, so now let's look at the next point. Um Which uh Okay, uh let's see who's next. Um re you can read um You can read point six. Okay. And then I'll generally read the last point three things. Okay. Thank you. The law is a schoolmaster. The law does not save, but points you to Christ. Indeed it drives you to Christ. It cannot save you, even if you try to befriend the teacher All the classroom activities, such as circumcising your boy babies, are just pictures or types of what is to come in the New Covenant. A. When you are circumcising your baby boy physically, you should be looking to that day when God will circumcise you spiritually in your heart. B, just as the baby boy is passive and does not circumcise himself, so you too do not circumcise your heart. Seven. This context implies that the faith that leads to righteousness also leads to the participation of Christ's sufferings. in the next clause. Um Philippians one twenty nine says you read those thank you, sir. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. And then Philippians 2, 17 Let's see here. Okay. But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith. I rejoice and share my joy with you all. Okay, so yeah, so we can see here now now we've gone through what it means to to know Christ and And to have his righteousness. And now as part of that, what's next is where we're going to see is that this also leads to participation in Christ's sufferings, which we covered on now. So if we look at um the next part of the notes, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, in order that I may attain to the resurrection uh from the dead. Um okay let's see here. Uh Jeff, if you could read um the first two points under under that section. Yes. Knowing Christ is the ultimate goal of being in right relationship with God. And this is both already and not yet. We know Christ now because of the righteousness that he has affected for us, including knowing the power of his resurrection and participating in his suffering. But the ultimate prize to have present knowledge of him, fully realized, awaits our resurrection. To so that I may borrow, so that I may know, intimately but not mystically, Him Both, that is, the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of participation in his suffering, even to the extent of being conformed to his death. If some if somehow I might attain the resurrection from the dead. Oh, thanks. Um Okay. So Okay, so then okay, actually one thing I want to ask though. So in terms of this is kind of backing up to what we've already kind of discussed but in terms of knowing Christ, uh what is a practical way how how how can we go about knowing Christ in a practical way? And any uh any thoughts about that? spending time with them reading his word praying. Excellent. All all very good points. So Zan was saying um uh by reading his word and praying and you know fellowship fellowshiping with others. Exactly. So um that that's that's exactly right. Those are the points I was gonna make. So excellent. Um But um in in terms of the suffering aspect, you know, we know that because you know When Christ lived, people, you know, they they didn't um they were um those who didn't who who weren't for Christ, they were uh hostile towards him, and we know we're gonna experience that ourselves and we through Paul's life we can see he experienced that quite a bit. Even writing this letter he was under um he was under um He was being in prison while he was writing this letter. So you can see that, you know, we're warned that this is part of what we have to do. But but the beautiful thing is that we know that When we when you go through suffering you you really get to know Christ well because you know he himself has experienced that suffering and so that's a comfort And we know that ultimately this is not suffering, it's not for not. It's for this prize of being with him and knowing him fully. So, um, okay, so let's look now at um The power of his resurrection. So that's point three, and I think, okay, Michael, and then so Michael, you can read point three, and then Natasha. Oh you have the notes, Natasha as well. Okay, great. Um if you could read uh point four. The emphasis on suffering, although quite significant in this context I'm sorry, point three, I apologize. The power of his resurrection is the power that comes to believers for the resurrection sets future kingdom life in motion. it makes our resurrection a necessary because even though death is defanged, it still remains an enemy. But this ceases with our resurrection, be inevitable. Because Christ's resurrection as first fruits guarantees the harvest, first Corinthians fifteen. C. It completes the hope exceeded in Philippians 1 6. d. Rejoicing in the Lord in the context of suffering makes sense only in light of the resurrection of Christ. Our suffering for a dead man would be meaningless And E. We are clay pots always carrying about in the body the dying of Jesus, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body. 2 Corinthians 4 10. The emphasis on suffering, although quite significant in this context, does not diminish the emphasis on the power of Christ's resurrection. Paul knows nothing of gloomy stoicism. Did I say that right? Uh Stoicism. Okay where the believer resigns himself to slugging it out in the trenches with little or no sense of Christ's presence and power. A. Paul frequently refers to suffering on behalf of Christ as the ordinary lot of believers, indeed that we will have to bear the cross B suffering is the direct result of ha of his having suffered for us to the point of of death on a cross. And so to follow him is to go along that same path of suffering. See, we don't suffer the exact same way that Christ did, but through our suffering, the significance of Christ's suffering is manifested to the world. Hence, such suffering is on behalf of Christ. D, the connection between Christ's suffering and our suffering is that both have the same goal, his for our sakes, and ours for the sake of the gospel. Um yeah, so just to reiterate, like this suffering is not for not. It is it is um as it says here uh Yeah, rejoicing in the Lord in the context of suffering makes sense only in the light of the resurrection of Christ, and our suffering for a dead man would be meaningless. Now we we suffer for the sake of the gospel. So we may not suffer the way the way Paul does, but maybe it's you know how you treat it in your job or um You guys can talk about other examples, but it's all um it's all in light of um being ambassadors for Christ. And okay, so let's and actually let's look at First Corinthians um okay who's okay we're back to the top. So I think it'd be nice to read um some of 1 Corinthians 15. Let's see. Um it can I have a volunteer to read that? Okay, let me see the exact verses though. Hold on. Um Okay, actually I'll I'll I'll read it for us. Okay. Um Okay, I mean 1 Corinthians uh 15 verse 20. Um let me start with 15. Moreover, we are found to be false With Oh actually let me start with twenty. But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep. For since by a man came death, by man also came the resurrection of dead For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive, but each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, after that those who are Christ at his coming. Uh then comes the end when he hands over the kingdom to God and Father, when he has abolished all rule and authority and power. For he must reign until he has put All his enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be abolished is death. For he has put all things in subjugation under his feet. But when he says all things are put in subjugation, It is evident that he is expected who put all things in subje subjection to him. Oh, this is a na Nasbi, by the way. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself also will be subject subjected to the one who subjected all things to him. So that God may be all in all. Otherwise, what would those who are baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why then are they baptized for them? Why are we also in danger every hour? I affirm, brethren, by the boasting in which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. If from human motives I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, and what does it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. Do not be deceived. Bad uh company uh corrupts good morals Being sober minded as you ought, and stop sinning, for some have no knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Um but some will say, How are the dead raised? and what kind of body do they come? You fool, that which you sow does not come to life. unless it dies. And that which you sow you do not sow the body which is to be, but a bare grain perhaps of wheat or of something else. But God gives it a body just as He wishes, and to each of the seeds a body of its own. Okay, so I'm skipping down to 42. So all the also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown a perishable body. It is raised an imperishable body It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Um so also it is written, the first man Adam became a living soul, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. However, the spirit is not first, but the natural, then the spiritual Um okay. Actually let me skip skip over. Okay, so let's jump to fifty. Now I say this brethren that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed. In a moment in the tinkling of the eye at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the devil be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. For this perishable must put on the imperishable, and this mortal must put on the on immortality. But when this perishable will have put on the imperishable, and this mortal will have put on immor immorality, then will come about the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death where is your victory? O death where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of the sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Um therefore, my brethren, be steadfast and movable always, abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain. So the whole point here is that all that we're going through is not in vain. We have forward to to being looking to be with Christ and um um being um immortality with with him so just speaking to that in terms of with suffering and and the resurrection so let's move on to um Uh point five, uh if if uh Mariah if you have Being conformed to his death amplifies participation in his sufferings and indicates the character of the participation. Paul expands on Philippians 2. 8. He sees his and their sufferings in Christ's behalf as God's way of conforming them to into the likeness of Christ. To know Christ is to obey Him, living in such a way that our lives bear the same likeness. Be the deepest moments of our spiritual fellowship is the living Christ Living Christ are at times in of intense suffering, which drives us to Him. We find in Him a merciful high priest faithful friend who feels our pain and experienced all of his trials and temptations that we face. He is uniquely qualified to help us in our in our weakness See, therefore, I am well content with weakness, with insults, with distress, with persecutions, with difficulties for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, I am strong Being conformed to his death means that all of life is stamped with the divine imprint of the cross as we live out the gospel in this present age. Our lives must be cruciform if they are to count for anything at all. But the word is preceded by the equally important one. the power of his resurrection with both enables us to live as those marked by the cross and guarantees our final glory. Okay, so that's more about how we participate in the sufferings. And actually, in in in the aspect in terms of knowing Christ, we talked about um you know, reading the Bible, fellowshipping with others. But another thing that that through a way that we're conformed to Christ is through the trials that we we encounter so that it speaks to that there. So if we look now at point six, um if somehow I may attain unto the resurrection So if somehow is not an expression of personal doubt, but rather his resurrection is intimately tied to their first being conformed to his death. Without this death there cannot be a resurrection. In Acts 14, 22 it says, we we must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of heaven. So the final complete knowing of Christ is not yet. Neither he nor they have attained to it. Nonetheless, such a future prize is the one certain reality of present existence. And uh this this and and is thus worthy every effort in order to realize they are to join Paul in pursuing the prize that has not yet been attained. So um so let's move towards that particular you know how to attain this prize. So again the the prize is is to be more like Christ. So um now that we've we've uh you know Talked about what means the gain Christ uh gaining Christ, we know we have the knowledge, the righteousness, power. We talked about power of the resurrection. Um there's the fellowship. And there's also, of course, glorification as well. But now we'll talk about like how you go about, more about how you go about attaining that. Okay, so in verse twelve, okay, so actually this section is Philippians uh three, twelve to sixteen. So uh Oh sorry, we're on page uh 11 and we're in the middle. So we're we're about to start the next the next um section of the notes um that looks at verses 12 through 16 on um in um Philippians three. So again that's the middle of of page of page eleven. And uh Margo it just so happens that I would like you to read from Philippians again. Verses twelve through uh sixteen. Not that I have already obtained it, or have already become perfect, but I press on, in order that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching before to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, have this attitude, and if in anything you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. However, let us keep living by that same standard to which we have attained. Okay, thank you. So again this goal is is to for being to be more like Christ. That that's the goal that we're looking towards. So um okay, so verse so in the notes there in the middle of eleven Um in verse twelve, not that I have already obtained it or have already uh become perfect, that is complete, but I press In order that I may lay a hold of that for which also I was laid a hold of by Christ Jesus. So let's uh look into these section of the notes. Okay. If uh if Larry you can read um the first community. Sure. The phrase not that qualifies something previously said, so that the readers would not draw the wrong inference from it. Indeed there is a twofold Disclaimer about the present not yet dimension. These are realities that will only be realized at the ecological consummation Knowing Christ is indeed a present reality, but it has not yet been brought to full completion. In the present, to know Christ means to experience the power of Christ's resurrection, as Paul participates in Christ's sufferings, thereby being conformed to Christ's death as though as so that he might also thereby obtain the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained it. So what's the object? It must be an eschatological realization of the goal of knowing Christ. Okay, great. Thank you very much. So again, this is um there's this aspect of we can't fully com uh this can't fully be done on Earth, but we we press towards that goal And so um okay, let's keep reading about that then. Um Sarah, if you could finish off reading the rest of this section then. From starting with war. War have already become perfect. Tell tele can sometimes be perfect. It is a permission that has to do with the goal or aim for something imported. often in the sense of completing or fulfilling it. Tell me that it finds diet intended it reaches It can be gold. The neighbor of Brussels that is to pursue with all his mind. It is a despair. complication term. This is due precisely because he dialed at the goals. He must say how worthy the goal is That I may lay home on it for that for which I was laid home by the Christ that says Christ's word is a prior one and that all Paul's effort is supposed to respond to and for the sake of the pri appreciation of him by Jesus Christ. This is a general thing. For me to live with Christ and to die is And I should get him. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. Okay, so as a part of this and attaining this goal, it's it's necessary for you to realize that um Okay, it says here to realize that you know while you're on earth you're never going to attain it, so you should always have that mindset that you're always striving for. And actually what's nice in it actually is kinda kind of appropriate because the Olympics is going on, he used this analogy of uh which will come up about an athlete and And uh I always took to that 'cause I myself did track. So I always feel like the Christian life is a good good um analogy to that. So Um okay, so um I think Chuck is next. Um Okay, what now we're in the next section. Um So verse 13 and 14, brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid a hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting, paying no attention to what lies behind, and reaching forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. So um let's look at those uh notes. If Chuck uh you could read Um versus uh we could read the points one and two 1. Paul emphatically repeats his disclaimer again for clarification. I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet. But what this is now secondary to the current and all worthy pursuit of a prize itself, which is also Paul's primary concern regarding the Philippians. Two. Now Paul presents himself as a runner. The basic analogy w which can r really uh can take only take us so far is in three parts. A The runner is not distracted by other things, including others in the race. The image is that of a runner who is in the lead and does not look back to see where the competitors are Rather, he focuses all his atten energy and attention on the goal. He pays no attention to w what doesn't count in the race. He runs unhindered and unencumbered. Torah observance, for example, is not an advancement, but rather the very thing Paul had has gladly put behind him as rubbish. You can see Hebrews 12 here B. The goal in the imagery is a finish line, which for Paul is eschatological consummation of what is already his in Christ. He Paul is concerned that the Philippians follow him in keeping a firm grip on their future certain future. Note that the meaning of his this pursuit is not merely directional C. For the runner the prize is ultimate reason for running. This is n no mere vine wreath for Paul, but rather his prize is is of surpassing w worth by far to gain Christ fully and completely. D. The analogy w does break down in one im important aspect. It is a prize that enables him to run. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay. So as you can see like um the the analogy of a runner is very useful because they're just focusing towards that finish line and they're not looking to the left or to the right, they're just focusing on that goal. And so he's encouraging the Philippines to do that. Okay, so let's look at the next section, uh next couple um Next couple of uh okay, yeah, let's read the next two sections. Uh three Carol, you can read three and four, and then okay, we'll have to we'll have to pick it up after that next time. Um wait, so I start at three-three, yes. Okay. Um the upper call of God in Christ Jesus has this sense A. First, God has called Paul to himself, which will accultimate in glory. B. Second, that call, which began at his conversion, is heavenward in terms of his final goal. And C third. God's call found as historical experimental locus in Christ Jesus and fourth, at the end of the race, Paul will gain the prize, the tangible evidence that the goal of God's call has been reached. and for we humans are by our very nature future oriented, even though apart from Christ, we would have no future to look forward to And we tend to deny death and keep showing it further and further or sh sh I'm sorry, shoving it further and further into the future to make our present eternal. But we as Christians have this understanding. that God's purposes for his creation are not finished until he has brought our salvation to its consummation. There is no other price. So please join Paul as we pursue this same prize. So I think actually this is a a nice a nice place to end. Um and next week we'll talk more about what it means to the ultimate goal of to of um to being more like Christ. Um okay. So let me um close us in prayer