Okay welcome on this Sunday morning. Um we are in the book of Philippians, chapter four. Um last time we um discussed Paul's admonition to these believers, saying, Do not be anxious. Stop being anxious. Do not be anxious about anything But in everything, that's everything else that's outside of nothing. Everything else with prayer With supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto the Lord. And his peace will keep you. And therefore we can set our hearts and our minds upon those things that are excellent, you know are true, those things that are honest. And you know Paul is admonishing them about this because they are being anxious, probably because they're suffering persecution. Probably because there are certain teachers, though not particularly in the church, but they've been influencing the church. And Paul is saying to them, Look at me, look at my example. And we've seen that all throughout this book. You know, Paul is saying in chapter one. You know, as I consider The circumstances that have befallen me, I see these as fallen out to the greater progress of the gospel. Yes, I am prosecuted. Yes, I'm bound. Yes, I'm awaiting this trial before N Nero, the emperor. But when I look at my sort of my situation, I see that people are more inclined to speak the word of God without fear. That's good. No, that's what makes Paul happy. People are talking about Christ. Now there are some that that are um being rather um self-centered. Um they are building up their own men mystery. They are drawing attention to themselves But even there, Paul can still rejoice because he sees the gospel advancing. Um he sees it in Rome, and of course he's seen it elsewhere So Paul is emphasizing to these believers That they don't have to be anxious about their circumstances. Instead, bring it to the Lord. And again, that they should, instead of being anxious, pray. Instead of being anxious, set their minds upon things true. Now um we are actually on verse um verse um verse ten now This is on page eight of the notes. This is Paul's call to contentment. I'm going to read through verse thirteen. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly. That now at last you have revived your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned before, but you lacked the opportunity Not that I speak from want, for I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am in. I know how to get along with humble means. I also know how to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of being sealed. and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering need. I can do all things to him who strengthens me So now so going back up to verse 10, the word but. Okay, that's the word that's the word that's translated from the Greek di. It's sometimes untranslated. But if this marks a transition to a new section. Um also I do want to point out one Saying here. When you talk about sections or paragraphs in Scripture, sometimes a translator will help you or try to help you. You will notice in your Bible On verse 10, the number 10 is um is a bolt in in most English translations. Some sometimes there may be it's just just a little space between a previous verp verse. Um but that translator is telling you that this is a new section, a new paragraph, we might say. And um and b basically what this does for you is if you want to understand a verse or phrase in its context. Then then look at least look to the previous bold font um first because that will give you the That will usually give you the context. Now I say that usually because it's not always the case, and sometimes a translator will will um We'll um um make we we'll we'll not always be so precise. But verse ten um is a new section and so in So number one, Paul addresses his concerns about their affairs and circumstances is now going to give his conclusion And now he returns again to the very first reason for the letter, to acknowledge their recent gift and to express his rejoicing at their display of friendship. Again, this is a letter of friendship. It's a thank you letter. So now Paul is going to thank them. And we might wonder, why does Paul stand, you know, twelve verses on thinking them? Um and but still teaching them. Um because Paul wants them to understand The real significance of what they've just done. So number two That Paul is indeed very thankful for this material gift, along with them sending Epaphodus to minister to him, is clear in that Paul can honestly rejoice in the Lord. And not only that, rejoice in the Lord greatly. Paulus is very happy. Because they've done they have what they have done is not just supply him a gift for his own needs Although that certainly is part of it. But they have also demonstrated their love for him and the love for Christ. Now this is and this is not a new concern by the by the polypians. This is not their first gift. This is not something that they just decided to do. For this one time. The Philippians have been concerned before for Paul, even though they have lacked the opportunity before to send such a gift. You know, and maybe because they did not have someone like Epaphoditus to deliver the gift, and perhaps because they may not have known where Paul would be. You know, Paul um didn't particularly stay in cities very long, for the most part. I mean um Although he may have intended to stay here for a certain period of time, sometimes the people just drove him out. And he would have to go elsewhere. Um so you could so maybe they could not really tell where Paul was going to be when they sent they sent the gift. Um But they've done it before. In fact, if you go back to the book of 2 Corinthians, Um let's just look at ver Adam chapter eight for one moment. Second. I I am took out the marker. Yes, um In chapter 8 of verse 1, I just want Paul says this to the to the Corinthians Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which had been given in the churches of Macedonia. That in a great ordeal of affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality. Will testify that according to their ability, and yet beyond their ability, they gave of their own accord, begging us with much entreaty for the favor of participating in the support of the saints. So Paul is committing the churches in Macedonia Well he doesn't particularly identify any one church, but we can be certain one of these churches is a church at Philippi. And um then if you um go over to chapter eleven of Second Corinthians Paul is well, he's kind of scoty the Corinthians because they have practically turned against him. They no longer respect him Um they they um think that he is deficient that that he's really not necessary anymore. They have now better teachers, they have other teachers. They can seem to get along quite well without him. And Paul is reminding them that if they're all in Christ, it's because he's in Christ. Because they want Christ because Paul preached the gospel to them. He's also clothing them for this because he himself ministered with great effort to this church with great sacrifice too. And you know, unlike these other teachers, these itinerants that come in and they teach and they expect monetary support, they expect gifts, they expect the people to to um um to acknowledge their reputation as a good teacher. Um Paul himself did not do any of that. In fact, he didn't even ex Ex he didn't even let the Caribbean support him see financially Uh but if he was not being supported financially by the Corinthians, who was supporting him? Well, he was actually a tent maker. Um He worked with his own hands while he's doing this. But beyond that, there was there were churches that were supporting him. And if you look in verse chapter 11 and verse 8, Paul is sort of being sarcastic almost. He's saying I robbed other churches, taking wages from them to serve you. You know, you you you you you you you accusing me of robbing you but no I was robbing other churches they were supporting me who were these churches Um and I think very plainly it's these churches in Macedonia, particularly the church at Philock So this church was had very often in the past given gifts to Paul for his own material needs. So again, this is why the letter to to the church at Philippi is quite a bit different than the one that Paul wrote to the Corinthians. And this is a letter of friendship because this church was dearly beloved by Paul. And the Paul was dearly beloved by this church. And this is um this litter kind of gives us also an example of how we should Support, provide for, and pray for our missionaries, whom we support. We depend upon our gifts. This this is not just, you know, we giving something that we think is is going to be suitable. and they gain something, you know, at at some random time. Um so this this is a this this this is clearly an example of them um Making a commitment and doing a regular gift to Paul So they sent this this gift this gift before, but now um but after some time they would they would send this gift. And so um yeah, so so so going back up to number two, this is not a new concern by the Philippians that suddenly displayed here in this immediate situation of his imprisonment in Rome. The Philippians had been concerned before Even though they had not the opportunity to send such a gift. Remember that they were deeply distressed when they first heard that Apapadus was near death While on their journey. And the idea behind the phrase, you have revived your concern, is that of a plant flowering again after some period of dormancy. So there have been some hiatus of time in the given. And stated by the phrase at last. So So um so Paul would say, now at last you have revived your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned before, but you lacked the opportunity. So now Paul's, so now beginning with verse 11, Paul says, not that I'm speaking from want. Now there is of course a difference between your wants and your needs. His needs are supply. He is also using this letter to eliminate any distress that may uh that they may have concerning his material Provisions. Whatever they could have given, that would be enough. He had been content with what he had, but the gift is still Precious. To Paul, it would be a sign of their friendship. And to the Philippians, because their gift to Paul is also a display of giving to the Lord. And Paul is guarding against anyone drawing the wrong inference from what he had just said. Now, Paul is not rejoicing over the actual material gift as if his joy comes only by the meeting of his needs. He can rejoice, whether he has a little or much. So it's not the actual gift that Paul is necessarily rejoicing about. He's rejoicing over their friendship. And this friendship is not is not being viewed as merely unitalitarian. That is, it's not related to what he can get from it That is, he's he's not enjoying their friendship because he can get something from them. Now Number four, I said this. There is of course one thing Paul is lacking. That is there. presence. Although in part this was made up by the presence of a paper dias So Paul uses this moment to exhort them to imitate him in the manner of being content. Content. The word translated content occurs only in the New Testament But the word itself speaks of being self-sufficient, having enough, or not being dependent upon others. Now, this was a term that the Greek philosophers would love. Content. Not be concerned, not be dependent upon what other people have, but be content with what you have, because this was their ultimate goal. But for Paul, contentment in this context is not self-sufficiency, but it's Christ's sufficiency Okay, number six. I've learned to be content in whatever circumstance I am At this time, Paul is continually chained to a Roman soldier within a rented quarters and subsisting on a sparse diet. And he's awaiting an uncertain future. I mean he's under a death sentence. I mean he he knows he's innocent. Um but you know, what's n what's Nero going to say? He doesn't know But his contentment is not affected by his physical depredation Deprivations. And contempt is not automatic, it's not natural. It is learned. I have learned to be content in whatever circumstance I am. So it's a learned behavior. It's a learned attitude. And how do you learn it? By the Word of God, through discipline, through applying the Word of God, through faith. Believing the Word of God and through experience, knowing God will provide for you So through instruction, through discipline, through faith, through experience. That is, through the daily Progressive sanctification that you go through each and every day. That's how you learn contentment. And contentment is not related to how much or how little you might have. Paul is saying, I can get along with humble means. That is, I know how to be humbled, abased, which is probably the idea that Paul had in mind, since humbled is not the ordinary word for being in want. Now, the Greek philosophers would have reveiled and contempt, and perhaps especially if if they have a superabundance. But they would have scorned humiliation. But Paul can likely say that I also know how to live in prosperity. That is, I know how to abound. I know how to excel. So whether Paul has little or much or a sufficient amount, he can say, I am content. I have a sufficient amount. Because Christ will provide what I need. And um So Paul has learned the secret of contentment in any in every circumstance. He says This for I know how to get along with humble means in verse 12. I also know how to live in prosperity. I've learned the secret the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering need. So Paul has learned the secret on number eight of any in any in every circumstance. It is clear that Paul has seen plenty. plenty of humiliation in various forms since Paul describes in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, chapter 11, you know, he sees he says this, are they servants of Christ? Speaking of those who are self-invent and who who are trying to to exert their own selves, I speak as if insane, I more so And far more labors, and far more imprisonments, beating times without number, often in danger of death, and so on and so on. Paul can say, yes, these other people claim to have have um their teaching um But have they endured what I have endured? By far no. Why are they rejoicing over themselves When I can rejoice over myself, but I'm not going to do it. So Paul proceeds again to describe the dangers from the Jews and the Gentiles, sleepless nights. Nice without food, and always, and more than that, under the concern of providing for the churches. He's concerned about the people, the churches, the individual Christians Now, so we know that he's been deprived. We know that he suffered want. But now, does he actually Has has ha has the actual stuff has has has the actually seen a superabundance? Well Um we do have lack of general of direct evidence from him or from from scripture in which he's abounded in plain, but at least on the material side. But perhaps Paul is referring to this particular gift and possibly other such gifts from churches or in or in individuals. He can tell, at least he can say right now, I have an abundance. Because they sent him a gift. And he is content. So number nine. Now, again note that Paul did not choose this life for himself. But whether there is much or little, Little. He has learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having an abundance and suffering needs. Paul's life is not defined by either plenty or want. In this in his relationship to Christ makes one or the other essentially um C C three um C C C or representable for the event in any case. Um So that's Paul. And this is the Paul that Paul is saying to the Philippians, imitate. What I say, what I do, who who I am in my character, that you imitate Because Paul has you know and again, you know, Paul isn't is not the person that just tells you what to do, and he doesn't do it No, Paul has done. And so we can be confident as we imitate the Pa the Apostle Paul. And um so um number t ten But how can Paul be content with his within his own circumstances, or whatever type they may be? He says this in response to that question. How can he be content? I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Yes, it is because of His self, of His Christ-sufficient, Christ-centered life. All things, what does all things mean? All things here referred to as living in want or plenty. That is in all of life. Paul finds Christ himself sufficient in times of bounty and in times of need. He takes what Christ gives. If it means abundance, he's still Christ sufficient, and that alone. If it means want if it means want, um He is still Christ-sufficient and accepts deprivation as part of his understanding of discipleship. So think about that as you look at your own circumstances. Quite often, you know, we we we we we tend to um want more than than than what we have. We get what we have, what we want, and then we want more. You know that's that's human nature and because we're Christians we're not we don't escape that human human nature And to learn contentment, you've got to learn contentment. It takes effort. Yes, it does. But um look at the example of Paul. Can we say we have learned contentment in all circumstances? Um and that's a challenge we need to take to ourselves each day. And um Now, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Um, you know, we I'm sure you've seen that quite often in a self-help book. Um that sounds you know, life positive thinking and you know um you know um the um so this text has often been mangled, misinterpreted, taking taken out of context And maybe say something like, well, I can do all things, especially extraordinary things, to Christ who strengthens me. I can erase all mountains and and in all trials. I can make myself happy and and And Rich and everything else. Um Elsa and yeah, I yeah You know, that's how the you know the the prosperity gospel um um um get this Um ti fuse t um ti fuel for what they say. Um And so but this is not a name it claim it verse. Um And because the issue is not having the issue is not having um so the it's so number twelve the issue is not having want versus having abundance, both of which can have Deludice effects. I mean we often think if we have want, then that can that can be hard on on us. That can that that can that can be neg negative. Well, I mean having abundance can also be negative. And um because you because your your your your your your your life does not consent consist of the abundance of things that you possess, whether thus a little or a whole lot. Um but um Christ's sufficiently is being conformed to his death so that ac so to to to obtain the resurrection. So that because this raises the people of God above the dictate of Isaac. That is, we're we're not enslaved to want or to abundance. Um you know, will in the image of God. Um and um And we need to um um recognize that our life is not just what we have or what we don't have. It is the fact that we have have a have an identity in Christ. Um we have We are in the image of God. We have an eternal spirit. We'll be spending eternity with our Father. And um so um those who want to learn patience and trust in their suffering, those in wealth learn humility, independence, and prosperity. prospering, not to mention the joy of sharing. That is um Whatever you have is is it's it's it's an opportunity to trust Christ. Either trust Christ to provide you with what you need or trust Christ in being able to share with other we have said um ct uh um ct uh uh uh uh uh uh others I mean this church kill by I mean this is this this is not a this is not a rich church. Um you know, this is a church under persecution. And yet They willingly sacrificed to provide for Paul. Not just this time, but time after time. They've proven their friendship. James chapter one, verse nine and ten. But let the brother of humble circumstances glory in his high position, and that the rich man glory in his humiliation So we can we can rejoice in our high position because we are in Christ. We can also glory in our humiliation because Because uh on the the fact is to exhortation is only from God Him s um Himself. Um and being rich does doesn't mean that Um d just means we need to understand that That we trust that we have that we depend upon Christ even just as much. So that is Paul's lesson on contentment So now let's talk about Paul's gratitude to this church. And before I add that, I just I just want to say something. Um af after I finish chapter four, I want I want to go back to chapter two for one. a moment moment to um to talk about another feature of um scripture and that is there are certain phrases in the bible That repeated. Repeat themselves. And um one such phrase is this phrase with fear and trembling Now Paul says in Philippians chapter 2, work out or continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Well, what does that mean? Um and we'll cover with they'll cover we'll we'll we'll they'll cover that next week. So going on to verse 14, you know and I'll read um through verse um seventeen Nevertheless, yet one more nevertheless, you have done well to share with me in my afflictions. You yourselves know, Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the manner of giving and receiving but you alone. For even in Thessonica, you sent a gift more than once for my needs. And then Paul says in verse 17. Not that I seek to give to self, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account So Paul began his letter with the language of thanksgiving, giving thanks that the Philippians have been in partnership. in fellowship with him in the prevalence of the gospel, as well as in his suffering, in which they also share. Then in verse 10, chapter 4, Paul rejoices in his tangible gift as evidence that they will care for him for him as blossomed afresh. The word never, the less, or yet, continues the discussion from verse 11. Not that I speak from want Nevertheless, you have done well to share with me in my affliction. Paul is certainly in need of financial material support. Paul doesn't determine his life by need since he has learned contentment, whether being full or hungry. Yet contentment itself doesn't remove the need. If you're hungry, you can be content, but you're still hungry. Yes, that is true. So they then will to share. Yes, it's good to sh it's good to share with those in need. But Paul's emphasis is here on is on the good that they did. And Paul sees his good as more than just the material gift itself. They've done him good. But not just in giving him material support. The gift is a tangible sign of their renewal of their care for him, and that they and that they indeed partner with him in his affliction. That is Yes, the material support is good. Very he's very thankful for that. But he's even more thankful for their friendship So in so in the presence in instance he refers to his imprisonment with the broader t work word word afflictions. Yes, he's a he's afflicted. He's a change. He's going to go to Nero for for um b before Nero and so um so um yes he's under affliction Because of Christ. And not only did they send the gift, they also send it in the context of their own afflictions. Yes, they are afflicted. And they thank you. So they both share in afflictions. They both share in the joy of this gift. They both share in the joy of their friendship. So Paul reminds them that at the beginning of the of the That at the beginning of the first preaching of the gospel, when I set out for Macedonia, not one church shared with me in the manner of giving and receiving, except you only. Well even in Thessalonica, once and again you sent for my need. So here's a three-fold emphasis. So now on page 11 on their friendship, that is their partnership in giving and receiving. That that this goes back to the beginning when he was with them, to when they initially believed. This was a church that that um that believed when Paul preached This was a church that continued to support Paul, pray for him, and provide for his needs. This was a dearly beloved church. And number C, they would be the only church with whom he had entered into this kind of contractual friendship. This is a friendship unique among the other other other other churches. Now we've seen Paul did not accept anything from the Corinthians. Because he did not want anyone to accuse him of just living off this church Even though, as an apostle, he had that right to do that. It is right for a pastor, a shepherd to ex to to um to expect support from those that he shepherds. But Paul chose not to do that. To this church, Corinthians Um and you know he he he could do that because one he was a tin maker. He could work with his own hands and two There was this other church in Macedonia that did enter into this friendship with him. And so And so this was a church that he supposedly robbed. But um Yeah. So only in field of Christ among all his churches did Paul accept patronage well present with him And thus in Seneca, when he left Philippi, he chose to work with his own hands, so as to set a good model before this church. No so that corner, right? But the Church of Lilify continued to support him with periodic gifts for support Now Paul specifically excludes Thessanica from the same language kind of contractual friendship, even though the city of Thessonica was much larger than Philippi. It was a more influential city in the province of Macedonia. So again, this church at Philippi was not rich. It was not big. It was not all that prominent, and this church was persecuted. But this church, despite all of that, chose to support Paul So number six, the soundworking of this friendship continued after Paul had departed Philippi. Yes, even when he left Macedonia, the Phil the Philippians participated in a matter of giving and receiving. Yes, even after he left Macedonia, while he was in Thessalonica, the Philippians again sent aid to Paul on several occasions. So this these two phrases are chronologically reversed with the emphasis on being on their long-term relationship. So Paul is saying all this to to to acknowledge this friendship is long term And um so Paul reminded them how they had repeatedly upheld um their end of the giving and receiving after from the time they left to the Bible, even until now. Now Paul would say to the Corinthians, concerning those who had accused Paul of being in ministry just to be financially supportive, I robbed other churches, taking wages from them to serve you. But when I was present with you and was in need, I was not a burden to anyone But when the brethren came from Macedonia, they they fully supplied my need. And everything I kept myself from being a burden to you. Again, this church in Macedonia, that is most certainly Philippi And so um so aga so again we see that Paul worked when he could with his own hands And he also depended upon this church at Philippi. Now, this is this is not another phrase in the matter of giving and receiving. You know, what does that mean? Well, it's a it's a language of commerce, of accounting. The phrase means that they have opened up an account with Paul, in which there is a mutual credit or giving and debit, receiving. This understanding is further correlated by verse 17. Not that I seek the gift itself, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account. So again, this is an accounting term, a business term. Um And it's quite common in the context of consensual friendship, which benefits mutually given and received And this is further corroborated by the phrase, no church shared with me, but you alone. The gist of this language has a meaning like you alone entered into partnership with me in this matter. Furthermore, this partnership is not just between Paul and the thief Philippians. This includes Christ. So this is really not just a two-way friendship, but a three-way friendship. Now, when we talk about the manner of giving and receiving in terms of friendship, there's one potential problem with that friendship. That is, it can end up rather key directive. For example, suppose you and I have a Friendship based upon the manner of getting in you see. Okay, so you do something good to me. What that obligates me to do is something good to you even more so And then you repeat and then I repeat. Eventually it's going to break down. Right. Um Now, so how does this relationship between Paul and the Philippians not break down? That's a good question. So let's talk a little bit about that. Okay. Now, um so Pay, ordinary consensual friendship may end up in a destructive one-upmanship No. You reciprocate and then two um So if one's reciproc reciproc so so if one's gift did not exceed the formal gift, it would come under long-term obligation. That is, the friendship would degenerate into a kind of patron, client Relationship, well only one party held the upper hand. If I did something good to you and you did something good to me and I could not repay you, that relationship would degenerate into you being the patron, me being the client, me being totally dependent upon you, because there was no way I could repay you. Okay. So in one sense, in part B, all the churches have this patron client relationship with Paul and his growth as an an apostle. Because Paul gave the gospel to them. Okay? There was really no way that any church could fully recipificate what Paul, what benefits they received from Paul. But they don't have to. No, they don't have to reciprocate Paul. Because these relationships have been leveled out by Christ. Whatever Paul preached, it came from Christ. Whatever they received, it came from Christ. Paul's apostleship came from Christ. Their faith comes from Christ. So even in a letter of friendship, Paul can take such a strong stance of exhortation. But here in this letter, Paul identifies himself and Timothy as slaves of Christ, Jesus, on their behalf. But rather than simply exhort them out of an imperative, Paul appears to his own example as a model for them to follow. So when the Philippians send this gift to Paul, he can rejoice that there is a prophet to their account with Christ. That is, their gift is not just given to Paul. Their gift is to Christ. And Christ will repay. Christ will reciprocate. And you can't outgive Christ. So number 10. One might wonder why Paul reminds the Philippians of the long and laudatory history of sharing with them. True friends, of course, do not need to express thanksgiving directly and at every occasion in order for Thanksgiving to be received. That is, if you and I have a friendship, I don't have to thank you every single time. You already know I'm thankful. That that that that thing that particular Thanksgiving doesn't have to be displayed all the time. If I thank you and thank you again and and keep um so I yeah so I thought yeah so so so so so the actual Um friendship doesn't require we sub we um that um that um that I'm giving of reciprocity all of the time. Um so So Paul here rejoices, yeah, and their gift that they gave him. Yes, yes, that's true. And their friendship with him Yes, that's true. But more so that their gift is a gift to Christ. And that's the importance of the gift. When you give to the church or to the missionaries, your gift is not just to some person. However important that gift will be, however necessary that gift will be, but that gift is a gift to Christ. Because how does Christ meet needs like your needs? He quite often does it through other people So um so lastly on number 11, Paul again reminds him, not that I see the gift itself. No, that's not the important thing. But I seek for the profit that increases to your account. No way can this passage be interpreted as an indirect request for more help. Paul is not saying, Well thank you, but I need something else I'm just anxiously waiting for your next gift. No. We can count on the honesty of Paul. Paul is content Paul has sufficient amount. Paul's real concern has expressed over and over again throughout this letter is for them. The Philippians will be Paul's eschatological reward. But this particular gift, as well as previous gifts, has the effect of accumulating interest Towards their esological reward. The material gift itself is evidence that their relationship with Christ is growing. Yes, the gift serves Paul's physical health, but more sufficiently the gift serves as evidence of their spiritual health. And basically What that means again is that the gift is for their account to sh to so that Paul um so that Paul can look at them, see What they've done and rejoice because they have their eschatological reward. Paul again wants every believer to get. No, to get his eschatological reward. He he he does he he he doesn't want to see anyone fall short He doesn't want to see anyone um be burdened with anything on this earth uh that would rob him of that reward. And so so um so this gift is is um is of evidence to Paul that they are growing in Christ. Now, so with all that said, um, what does that mean for us? Again, um Imitate Pop and um look at Pond the gifts that you provide to Mish Shir is not sh not just say, well, you know, this is just, you know, I don't need this, so I'll So I'll just give at give this at um at this time. You know, the missionaries need our support. Um you know, yeah they they can be content with what they have. Um but um but you know how does God supply their needs? It's through us So so don't think of you know supporting the church or supporting missionaries as something that that you know you can do when you feel Like it. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling, knowing that God is working through you to help other people as well. Okay, well it is time to close. So have me pray