Okay, welcome as we um continue our study of Philippians chapter one. We see here that Paul is writing this letter of friendship, of thanksgiving. to this church at Philippi. He is in Rome. He is chained to a Roman guard. He is awaiting trial before Nero. And though he's confident that he will be vindicated, because he knows these are trumped up charges and and they're not true But there's still this uncertainty. Um but even then Paul is Is looking at this not from his own perspective, but from the from the perspective of the gospel, from the perspective of Jesus Christ, and above all, whether He lives or whether he is executed, he wants to make sure that that that um his life reflects Christ in that in no way is there any um um um judgment or um all calls um that the gospel um would be re strained Now, he's not a typical Roman prisoner and has he preaches, has he visits people? Well, I should say as he receives visitors, um, these Roman guards, I mean they hear everything he says, they hear his prayers And they know that this man, who no garden, lives out while he preaches. And um so the guards know it, they they they talk about it among themselves, and in fact his the news of his imprisonment is is is now well known throughout Rome. And so even though um he has his detractors, those people who are who are trying to take advantage of him, um, even with that happening, he is amazed that the gospel is being preached. And that's what and that's what makes him joyful. Now, Hesse, so we finished this session in chapter one about his affairs. Namely his current imprisonment in Rome. Now we go on to the second section on this book, and that is their affairs. The affairs at Philippi And we're going to begin with chapter 1, verse 27 Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one Spirit. With one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel, in no way alarmed by your opponents. Which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you. And that too from God. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me and now you hear to be in me. That is the the conflicts that he has experienced before, well, they're still with it. Now this these three verses, four four verses. In the Greek, comprise one sentence. And so there is one main verb. Um, you know, as as we see as we interpret scripture, we look for the main verb because that gives us key to to what the whole sentence means. The main verb in this case is conduct yourselves. Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that's the main phrase. And now, um I want to be a little bit careful here. Careful here. Um Here in it in in saying that that perhaps hidden in the English translation is the nuance of this verse. And I want to be careful because I don't want you to think that there's anything wrong with your translation. I mean our English trans translation is very, very good You know, even that Catholic Bible is really good. It's just that they have to read it. So but the word conduct that is used here is not the typical word that Paul uses. Um Whitney's means conduct. Um there is a nuance here. Um And that is um Paul is playing on their dual citizenship. That is, as citizens of Philippi, they are Roman citizens Now, as believers, they are citizens of heaven. Um they are a heavily they have heavily censor citizenship, even though they reside here on earth. You know, think of this with other um of the of them this way. Um we are ambassadors for Jesus Jesus Christ So what does an ambassador do? Well he pretty much often lives in a foreign land and he represents the native country. So these f Philippians are ambassadors of heaven in Macedonia. In this citiz in this Roman citizen colony of Philippi. And they are citizens of Rome because virtue of their being citizens of Philippi As we've seen, Philippi is a Roman colony. Anyone born in Philippi has automatic Roman citizenship. And so they are citizens of heaven by virtue of their faith in Christ and their incorporation into the body of believers. And yes, just as Siliphi is a colony of Rome and Macedonia, so is the church a colony of heaven and Siliphy. And uh I'm now on page twenty Okay, so hence Paul is urg urging them, this is the exhortation, to live out your citizenship. And here he addresses what that means. Paul makes the same contrast in Philippians chapter 3, verses 17-20. Where our citizenship is in heaven, in contrast to those whose mind is set on earthly things. Now, it is assumed that the gospel has no has no ethical content. That's the assumption. That's what we live by. And there that is, there is behavior that behooves a person with heavenly citizenship. So Paul can exhort the Philippians in whatever they do or suffer in Philippi to live out their citizenship in heaven in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. For example, the following are not in keeping with citizens of heaven. Selfish ambition. Pain, conceit, grumbling, and disputing. Those are a few of the negative things. So these believers already have a long-term relationship with Paul in the cause of the gospel. Verse 5. For the confirmation in the defense of which Paul is now imprisoned, an imprisonment which, in its own way, has fallen out for the advancement of the gospel. So Paul begins the session with the adverb only, as it say, in light of what I had just said about my coming. That is, whether Paul is writing to them and say, whether I come To you, or I remain absent. I want to hear of your faith. I want to hear of your citizenship. And um so but so in the meantime, before I get there, um Let this be what I hear about you, namely your living out your heavenly citizenship in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. Okay, so I'm on number six now. But prior to discussing essential elements to what that means to live out your heavenly citizens citizen citizenship. Paul tries ties two Paul ties two concepts together. His coming in the Philippians current situation. Now, Paul anticipates that he will come soon. I mean, because you know he is confident that he will be released. He's confident that he will he will um um be found not guilty before Nero. I I mean he doesn't know that for sure, but he does have that confidence. Um So so um so first here's what he plans to do. He plans to send Timothy before he sends himself And we'll see that in chapter 2, when he came. But then Paul expects the share of their affairs. Presumably on Timothy's return. That is, he's going to re he's going he's going to send Timothy to learn up their affairs. Um and then Timothy's going to come back. But this letter itself is is being sent by Epaphodius. And so Paul is desiring to hear from Timothy's report that the plebians are heeding Paul's instruction and so our standing firm in one spirit with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. Okay. And so Paul is expecting a good report before he actually comes. And of course Paul knows that there's a possibility that he may not come. So this is what Paul wants to hear about them. They are standing firm in one spirit, and that word spirit. Um there's some debate as to whether that should be a lowercase C, meaning the spirit of man. Paul's Or capital S has in the Holy Spirit. And we'll talk more talk talk more about that soon. Or be that they are continuing that they are continuing together as one person for the faith of the gospel. And number C, that they are not intimidated in any way by the opposition that is responsible for their current suffering. Now the phrase in one spirit, and that again that's also that's an in That V is also in the in the ESD. Can also be translated in one spirit. Uppercase C has in the Holy Spirit. As in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 18. Where Paul writes, for through him we both, both Jews and Gentiles, have our excess in one Spirit, upper K C, the Holy Spirit. To the Father. And there are some other justifications here. The phrase in one spirit, lowercase s Although it makes good sense in English, it has really no analogy in Greek literature or the New Testament. When Paul uses the verb stand firm following by the preposition in The prepositional phrase is locative. That is, it defines the sphere in which one is to be standing firm in. It's not a data indicating that they are in indicating how they are to stand first. Okay, so So so the um so I just wrote that to to s to s um say that. Um here The meeting um might be debated. Personally I think in either way, it's um it It reads well it um um and it um um would be um Um but would it would be in in um in um in accurate translation. So, number nine. The reason we are to stand firm in one spirit, whether that's our spirit or the Holy Spirit Spirit. is that they may strive or contend together for the faith of the gospel. So the verb strive here means to engage in in an athletic contest. In this context to engage together side by side in a sense of helping one another. in the struggle for the gospel in Philippi. And the same verb is used again in chapter four in referring to Eurotia in Syntheti who once contended side by side with Paul in spreading the gospel and syllabus. Okay, so this one let's go let's try um refers to an to an athletic context. Context. Context. You know, it it it involves work. It involves diligence. It's something that Now you had to work at. Um it's not easy. You face opposition. But the surprise at the end. And then um the faith of the gospel um go going back to that text text Paul says, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. The faith of the gospel. That's that's um uh the faith of the gospel means the faith that is the gospel for the faith that is contained in the gospel It is the Christian faith. It is the gospel of Christ from Galatians chapter 1, verse 17. This is the gospel. This is the reason for our faith Um this um this is the the body of truth of the gospel So now they are to strive to get in number eleven. They are to strive together For the faith while in no way alarmed by your opponents Um alarmed could be translated as frightened, frightened, frightened, or intimidated Um no matter how formidable as that may appear. Whatever your opposition is, um Paul is saying contend for the faith. for the faith of the gospel. Now Paul mentions opponents. Um he doesn't identify these opponents. So who are these opponents? Well, even though Paul doesn't identify them, um, we have a pretty good idea about who these opponents are that are that are persecuting this church at Philip at Fill a party, um, um Um so Paul doesn't identify the source of persecution, but we can safely assume that on account of various hints in this epistle, that is due on account to their life within the Roman colony of Philippi. Now this Roman c colony of Philzipi was loyal to the re to the emperor. And the Roman citizens citizens would have honored the emperor. Emperor, um their lord, who is their lord, at every small L, at every public Gathering. So this would put undue pressure. This this would put special pressure on the Philippians believers because their allegiance is not to Nero But to the Lord Jesus Christ, who himself has been executed at the hands of Rome. So the Polybian believers are under persecution by their fellow citizens, citizens of that colony. Um because the Roman citizens will say Caesar is Lord, but that's something that the that the Philippian believers cannot do, will not do And so they are persecuted. That's their opponents. Um So now Paul and his co-workers were persecuted by the Jews and leading citizens of Thessalonica with this charge. These men who have upset the world have come here also. Jason has welcomed them, and they all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. So it's because of their testimony of this other king, Jesus, that these Philippian believers are being persecuted So these believers um are probably underneath Distract. I mean they themselves are being persecuted. And now they know Paul is being persecuted. Um and so one reason that Paul writes this letter is to assure them that That their persecution is in the name of Christ. And that and that they should not be surprised if they have opposition. I mean Paul himself, in numbers thirteen, has also faced persecution when he first visited Philippi in Acts chapter 16. Paul can understand the threats of those who oppose him. He himself is facing his own opponents. Christ said to Paul in Acts chapter 9, I will show him How much he must suffer for my name's sake. So Paul is not surprised. by the persecution. And neither should these believers at Syllabic. But they can see Paul's joy and contentment just to see the just to see the gospel advancing. So Paul gives two encouragements based upon his eschatological mindset. A Their bearing of suffering is a sign, an omen, a proof of destruction to their opponents. Now, this sign would not necessarily mean the man's act to the to the opponents. But will be a reality for them whether they recognize it or not. Destruction carries the theological sense of utter ruin on the part of those who do not. P leave. So there's going to be a sign, an omen, to their opponents. Um and Um whether they recognize it or not. Okay. Now, but this same sign will clearly manifest salvation or vindication to the to the Leavers. And this sign comes from no other, none other than God Himself. God marks out his enemies, he marks out his children as well. Okay, so there's going to be a difference between those who serve the Lord and those who serve him not. Now, why are these Philippian believers suffering? Now of course they're suffering because of their testimony, right? Um but there's actually A more fundamental reason for why they're suffering. Yes, they're suffering because they're they're being persecuted. But this persecution, though it seems a trial Is actually a gift from Christ. Because on number 14. But why are the Philippian believers suffering? Paul begins with an emphatic Because to you it has been graciously given on behalf of Christ to suffer on his behalf. Here again is the emphasis, not a general exhortation to endure suffering. But to strive together for the faith of the gospel as they live out in a world that is openly hostile to God and to the people of God. And they ought to keep this thought in mind that they are suffering on behalf of Christ. That is since Christ suffered for the gospel that he proclaimed in advance. So should they continue to see their own suffering in this light? The gospel is important. That is, as Christ suffered, so these Philippians Believe was suffering. It's not a separate suffering. It's it's a shared suffering. And so on page twenty-two, num number fifteen. So this is why Paul can now explain that their salvation includes sufferings on behalf of Christ, since those who oppose them as they proclaim the faith of the gospel of Christ are of the same kind with those who crucified the Lord Jesus Christ in the first place. So Paul in number 16 reminds them that they, that he and they share in this suffering. That they are experiencing the same struggle which you saw in me now here to be in me. The accent falls on the word same. Which we also reflects the common source as well, that is the Roman Empire. The term struggle or fight. emphasizes in an athletic metaphor the noble contest of the of the gospel itself as one contends for it in in a world altogether hostile to it. Um and again Paul um Refers to this concept over and over again. 1 Timothy chapter 6. Paul reminds Timothy, fight the good fight of faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called. You have made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. Colossians chapter 2. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have on your behalf for in for all of those who are the Odyssey. To all of those who have not personally seen my face. First Corinthians chapter nine And everyone who competes in the games exercises self-constraint in all things. They do it to receive a perishable crown. But we and imperishable. So whatever forms the suffering takes, the suffering is precisely of the same kind with Paul And with within his own current Roman imprisonment. The Philippian believers know now Paul's current suffering and his response to it. So to suffer on behalf of Christ is not just an imperative. It's not just, well, do this because it's right. It's also a Privilege is a calling from Christ. And to suffer on behalf of Christ for the gospel implies that one is not watering down the gospel with liberalism or materialism. Okay. So that is Philippians chapter one Um are there any questions so far? Okay, well we are going on to Philippians chapter two. Okay, and I'll read um okay, so the church at Philippi was theologically sound It was devoted. It was moral. It was loving. It was zealous. It was courageous. It was prayerful. It was generous among many other wonderful characteristics. I mean this this was a this was a very Church this this was a church very well pleasing to cr to Christ and to Paul. Um this is an example church. Um Yet, the church itself also faced the danger. Because, again, the church consists of people. So it says you and I. Um and it's also so it's a in a danger of being of having discord. Um that it's often gener generated by just a few people. I mean I mean it only takes a few people to um to really cause a serious um issue. Um so Paul is in this chapter is very good is is is going to be very gin digital Um, but very firm in pleading with those beloved believers to be constantly and diligently on guard to maintain Christian unity Standing fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. So that's that's we turn to the text. Um I'll read chapter two verses one through four. Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love If there was any fellowship in the Spirit, if any affection in compassion, make my joy complete by being of the same mind Maintaining the same love, united in one spirit, intent on one purpose. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility and of mind. Regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look on your own personal interest, but also for the interest of others. Now now um now the um nineteen ninety edition of the NSV, um which is what I use, um It begins with this passage, with with with this opening in verse 1. If therefore Now it's been updated in 1995 to read therefore if This new order more clearly connects, therefore, to what Paul has just said previously. So that the point is that they are to have the divine injunction, that because they have the divine injunction to stand firm in one spirit with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel We must therefore, and then launching into the rest of verse 1 of chapter 2. Now, in verse one, there's four if test statements, four conditional test statements And all in a called first class concerns. And basically what that means is that Is that the the um the idea is if this statement is true and it is, then Um so so um so the condition statement we can assume it to be true So you can also translate if since or because um Um so uh so so uh so in number two um I am uh um I am have to this spare spared out if there is any encouragement in Christ And there is. If there is any consolation of love, and there is, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, and there is If there is any affection and compassion, and there is, then then what then then all that's true. So So therefore, we we um we then march over to to the conclusion of all of that being true. So just as the opening word therefore looks back to chapter one, particularly up to verse Twenty seven. So the can conjunctions if look forward to the divine bestowed enabling treasures of encouragement in Christ, of consolation, of love, of fellowship of the Spirit, and of course there's affection and compassion. Yes, a question? Yes, sir. In your point number one, you didn't mean NASB. You mean that uh Z has NASB, you didn't mean NASB. I mean um NASB. Oh, okay. That's yes. Okay. Okay. So I'm on on on number four now on page on page one. So one may consider the first two treasures as related to Christ, the first explicitly, the second implicitly. Likewise, the last two realities, number three and four, are related to the Holy Spirit. The first explicitly, the second implicitly. Now the first treasure we have is encouragement in Christ. Encouragement comes from that word paraclete, um from which which is a root word for the for the Holy See a Spirit being the one who comes comes along be beside us. Um that has a root meaning of coming along Someone to give assistance by offering comfort or counsel or exhortation or any other type of aid And Jesus uses a closely related word to refer to the Holy Spirit as another helper or pericrete whom he would also ask the Father to send in to all who would believe in him Okay, the second, so that's a treasure that we have in Christ. We have encouragement. It's there. It's real. We can assume it to be there. The second of our Treasures in Christ. The motor base unity is a consolation of love. Um the word console Console, having the root meaning of speaking closely with someone with the added idea of giving comfort and solace Hence to console and to encouragement are very closely related. So again, that's another treasure we have in Christ. It's there. We can assume it to be so. Okay, the third one, the third treasure, the motor-based unity, is the fellowship of the spirit. Fellowship of the Koenia. Describing partnership and mutual sharing as each believer is a temple of the Holy Spirit. And so that's the third treasure we have. The fourth treasure we have that we can rely upon is That motivates unity is the affection and compassion. Affection. Well that's basically means that basically refers to the vows. In a physical sense, um and emotions um in a medital sense So compassion can also be translated mercies So those are the four treasures that we have we can what rely upon as we conduct or live out our Christian life So, now the main imperative verb is actually found in verse 2: Make my joy complete. Um in the sense of to feel up or to be to the full. Um it is a also notice that it's a very personal appeal In a very personal letter. And notice here, Paul is exhorting them to do this for his joy, as if they are pleasing him. But it could just as well as say that they should be doing this to please Christ. Well because this is the will of Christ. And this speaks volumes of Paul's pastoral heart. His own life and apostleship are deeply bound up with the spiritual maturity of these Be these behivers. He wants them to display true Christian maturity. He wants them to display obedience to please Christ, which gives him the joy of being used by God to disciple them. Um you know Paul never did want to run in vain. Um but instead he divided when he was divided when other fellow believers displayed maturity. In the full graces of the Christian's life. Here was a pastor who had deep concern For this church, in not just that they would survive the persecution Um but that they would live out. They would live out the Christian citizen citizenship on this earth, whatever that may be. And they'll do it in a way that would honor Christ. So Paul urges them with this imperative make my joy complete, make it to the full Um I'm happy when I see you progressing in the faith. Um that's what pleases Paul. Um So, how can the Philippians still pause joy to the full? By having these four characteristics, Um evident in the life of the congregation. Now I'm on I'm on number 10 of page two. Number eight. Being of the same mind. That is being like-minded. You can also translate it like-minded. A similar exhortation appears in Philippians chapter 4 verse 2, where Pa urges the two women, Eodia and Syntheti, to live in harmony, in the same mindset in the Lord. So by being of the same mind does not mean thinking alike or having the same opinions about everything. But instead having a certain disposition towards something, such as life, values, people, or a certain way of looking at things. in a Christian perspective. It's valued it's it is valuing um together the things of Christ You can think of it that way. Whatever the things of Christ, if we value those things together, we will have the same mind. It's the idea of um Paul saying in a in the book of Colossus, set your mind on things above. Not on the things of the earth. So this is the same idea, being of the same mind. Sharing the things that that that are that are of value to um to Christ Or maintaining the same love. Um and that's a shared love among the president. Paul has already exhorted them to abound in their love with each other, still more and more, in verse nine of chapter one. So the issue is not a current lack of love. Um but rather a warning that love could be eroded by internal f friction Or by though not having the same disposition towards one another. You can basically say that love begins When someone else's needs are more important than your own. So, then united in spirit, or being united together in spirit. Not only are they to be united in mind, but also in spirit. That is the whole be. Um you know so and on page three um number D, being intent on one purpose, that is setting your mind on One thing. It's the athletic metaphor again. You strive for the prize. You strive to win the race. Whatever the opposition may be. Now, in one sense these are not really four separate characteristics, as if any of these four could be separated. Um in an life apart from each other. Evidence of being like minded is that is that is it is that there's a shared love That there is a unity in spirit, and that there is a shared focus. And a weak link would weak would weaken the whole thing. Okay, so these are just just as facets of of what it means to be united In love, maintaining the same spirit, intent on one purpose. So now the question is, can we possibly do all of that? I mean is that humanly possible? Well, again, go back to chapter one. These are our enabling enablants, and those are what we have. Um now from a human perspective, um it would be impossible. Um but we have all of these treasures in Christ. And um So we are enabled to function in this way in our corporate life because we all have these treasures of enablement in Christ, which are identified in verse 1. But what is this one thing, this one purpose to which the Philippians should be striving together to make Paul's joy complete? And this is a uniquely Christian virtue of humility, so supremely evident in the life and ministry of Christ, to which the Philippians will do well to imitate Knowing its great value before God. So so so going back to verse three In verse 4, Paul says, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind Let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. Do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interest of others. Okay, so um so first of all A number fourteen, what baggage needs to be discarded and what clothing needs to be added. Paul makes two very Which rightly require two imperatives to put off in and um and put on. These are commands we need to obey to establish ourselves in a mindset for humility Number eight, Paul says, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit. But with humility of mind, but each of you regard one another as more important than himself. The second one, do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interest of others. Okay, number fifteen. So do nothing from selfishness, that is, selfish ambitions or rivalry. The word selfishness is also used in chap in chapter one, verse seventeen, to describe those in the Roman community Who preached Christ out of selfish ambition and envy in order to cause distress on Paul because of his imprisonment? Okay. This is in contrast to those who preach Christ out of love. So selfish ambition Stands at the very heart of human fallenness, where self-interest and self-aggrandisement are at are at the expense of others primarily. And and those primarily dictate the value in behavior. Okay, so that is do nothing from selfishness. Do nothing from selfish ambition. Do nothing from personal rivalry. Um Do not be like those who are preaching Christ but are doing so to um um to cause grief to Paul So do nothing from empty conceit, that is empty collory, which thinks too highly of self This is doing what pleases mean in society. This prideful glory is baseless. Indeed, James tells us that God opposes the proud God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. If you are proud, God will oppose you. And so that's something you don't want to happen. Um so now, um So on seventeenth, true godly humility stands in stark contrast to selfish ambition and empty in empty quoth. Society never has valued humility, but Paul roots humility in the old testament sense of Lowliness, creatureness. We are aware of our own physical weaknesses and human frailty Yet also aware of our tremendous value before God as being created in his image and for his Call order. True humility will be focused on God. We don't deprecate or do no, I should say no. We don't depreciate ourselves because of the limitations of our weaknesses Nor do we focus too much on our accomplishments due to our strength. The truly humble show themselves by resting their case with God rather than trusting their own and abilities Now, if you want to think, if you want examples of humility, in chapter one, there's Paul. Look at Paul. He was imprisoned, chained to a Roman guard. Um awaiting trial. Um he um was even uncertain of his life. Um He was hearing people preaching Christ out of selfish ambition at his expense. But he was humble. And he d he he wasn't going to look at his own situation But he knew he was a slave of Jesus Christ. And so since Jesus Christ suffered, well Paul is also going to suffer. And he's not going to try to eliminate that suffering by some means that is contrary to the gospel. So we must think humility. That is and and and again that's not na unnatural Um in in verse nine so so num num num number nineteen. So we are faced with this imperative. Having a mindset of humility, regarding one another as more important than yourself. Now this does not mean to consider others better in a sense of of having more value than yourself, but rather putting others and their needs ahead of your own. Their needs now surpass and go before your own needs. And note importantly that obedience to this command is dependent upon appropriating though these treasures in chapter in verse 1 of Napal. That are hidden for us in Christ. Hidden not from us, but are hidden for us. Now how but now in next week we're going to talk about this concept. How does humility How does that you know what does God think of that What does Christ think about? Um how is that so important? And So we'll we'll so we'll pick up with page number four next week. Okay, well it's about time for us to close. So I will pray.