Okay, welcome on this Sunday morning as we can um study through the book of Philippians in Ryan chapter four now. And last time we will in this section that Paul addresses one potential Issue that could cause disunity within this church. And in verse 2 Um Paul addresses two of his co-workers, you know, mature women. But I'll still have but there's still this conflict between them. Paul does not describe the conflict, he does not take sides. But he urges in verse 2: I urge Euronia, and at the same time I urge syndicate to live in harmony in the Lord. And these are probably not the only two women or two people that have conflicts with within this church. Um but perhaps Paul is addressing these particular women because their reconciliation will probably be a model for everybody else. So indeed, he urges this person whom he calls my true companion or my loyal companion. To help these women who have shared in my struggle in the cause of the gospel, together with Clemont also and the rest of The my fellow workers whose names are written in the book of life. Now we saw last time that Um that um some identified as true companion as Luke. Um and some identify this true companion as someone known as being true. companion, much much like Barnabas was known as the son of encouragement Some also claim that this true companion was a very leading woman within this church Although the although the term itself is masculine. And some even claim that this True companion was actually the name of a person, Susukas, in the Greek. And Um what's surprising is that Paul doesn't name this person. He d he often does name people. But it doesn't name this person. So that's why there's this debate about who this person is. And however you want to interpret this person, you know at the end of the day, we just have to conclude that no one knows. So pa so so I'm now on the notes on page two and I'm down I think in on number six. Paul is going to end this section on an eschatological high note. Encourages not only to these two women, whom he does mention by name, but to the many co-workers that he that he has that he did not mention by name And encouragement to anybody is your names are written in the book of life. Now this book of life does have several other references in the end of scriptures. Um it's mentioned especially in Revelation, but it also is mentioned um several times in the Old Testament. Now The book of life, what is that? Well essentially, um if you look at the citizenship motif of this book of Holy Sciapians. The the most prominent explanation is that it's a book that lists the names of all the citizens of that seat. That is if your name is in the Book of Citizenship Then you are a citizen of that city. You have all the rights, all the privileges of being a citizen. And they can also refer somewhat to a book of life as being the names of people who are alive. Physically alive um or spiritually alive. Um So this, but in the eschatological sense, this book of life is Lamb's book of life. That is, it has Your name in it, my name in it, those who are in Christ, their names are in this book. It gives a record of who has citizenship above. And so number seven, given the citizenship of motif of this Letter it appears evident that Paul is referring to it a list of names designating citizenship. Citizenship in heaven in this text. Hence they are to live out their lives as citizens in the midst of a darkened world. So this entails many things, such as godliness, including doing all things without disputing. And so on page and three We begin now a new section, which I call a call to rejoice, or Christian Piety. In verse four, Paul says, Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Let your gentle spirit be known to all men, the Lord is near. Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. So on number one, Paul repeats his earlier emphatic imperative call, rejoice in the Lord. As he did in at the beginning of verse of chapter 3, rejoice in the Lord. And he peace that called one more time again for emphasis. This is a call for worship, genuine worship and praise focused on the Lord. Even though they are suffering at the hands of their opponents, they can nevertheless rejoice in that they have heavenly citizenship. With their names already written in this book of life. Now, this call to rejoicing is a common theme. You will see it over and over again throughout the pages of Scripture. Psalm 64, verse 10. The upright in heart will color. They will rejoice. Um Psalm ninety seven, verse twelve, be glad in the Lord, you righteous one, and give thanks. Or Psalm 618. So I will say, Praise to your name forever. And I could go on and on and on. Again, the phrase in the Lord designates the sphere in which rejoicing occurs. And this is a distinctly Christian rejoicing. So has a number four, has Christians even in the face of suffering and opposition, what should the world That is, all men see. Well, they should see this. Let your generous spirit be known to all men. So all men, that is, those on the outside, what should they see? They should see your general spirit. Now, gentleness Has the idea of the graciousness and the contentment that produces the patience to endure injustice, disgrace Mistreatment without retaliation, without bitterness, or seeking vengeance So this is the gentle spirit. It means your graciousness. You living out the gracious spirit that is within you. Even if there's injustice Even if there's mistreatment, even if there's persecution. And then Paul gives this admonition: the Lord is near. Now there's a question about whether this phrase concludes what has been preceded or introduces what is follows. For example, in part A It could read this, let your graciousness be known to all men. The coming of the Lord is near. Or in part B, it could mean, because the Lord is near, then be anxious for nothing. Okay. Um option B um reflects Psalm 145. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in Truth. Option A reflects the eschatological theme in this passage Indeed, this echoes the language of Zephaniah 1. 7, that the day of the Lord is near. And if I read Zephaniah, Chapter 1, verse 7, it says this, be silent before the Lord, for the day of the Lord is near. Okay. So the phrase be silent before the Lord that's equivalent to let your graciousness be known to all men. Be silent before the Lord for the reason given, for the day of the Lord is near. So um so um so although both concepts have merit, that is um you are to be general Spirit before men, because the Lord is near. But also because the Lord is near, you you do not be you do not be anxious about anything. Okay. So but uh but option A is probably correct. That is the phrase goes with with um verse five. Um not necessarily with verse no it doesn't yeah. There goes the phrase goes with with verse five Um it is not ness it's not there to really begin verse six yet. Okay. So now comes this admonition be anxious for nothing That is, stop being anxious. That is, you are anxious about something. So let's just stop it. Don't do it. Quit it. Turn around, do something else. And that something else is is um Is this, but in everything with prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. So now Paul exhorts them to be anxious about nothing. Based on upon the promise of the Lord's coming, perhaps on the fact that the Lord is near in faith as well as in time. That is the proper response to this truth is to live a life without anxiety. A life with gentleness and a life without anxiety. So instead of of being anxious, you would entrust your life to God with prayer and thank giving Now, of course, this does not imply that you live carelessly, or that you live uncaringly. You are to care. Um you are to be careful. Um now When you look at this phrase, be anxious about nothing. Or we can also so translate it, do not be anxious about anything. Um it you know y you might um say you know this this this is uh this is something that you might hear in a you know positive thinking class No. And and and Paul would also say, well, you know, this is something that the Greek philosophers would teach. So but you know, Paul was not repeating Greek philosophy just to re Just to be repeating it. He is using phrases that could come from a Greek philosopher, but he gives it a distinctly Christian understanding. Um now again I'm not knocking positive thinking as it might be you know taught in your workplace. I mean I mean this up this probably a place for that too Um but there's a distinct but there's a clear but positive thinking really doesn't go far enough. Um Um it uh you know we're not just anxious, just I mean I mean we we did to don't say well let's don't be anxious just because we think it's a good idea. No, this is this is um We are not anxious because we have a Heavenly Father who cares for us, who hears us. Who is working in our lives everything together for good. Even if we don't quite understand everything Um even though we do go through trials, you know, persecution hurts Um it's you know it's in the will of God. God knows it. God feels it. But yes, it still hurts. Um being rejected by your family members because you are a believer, that hurts. Um it's so it's not just something that that we just say, well, you know, don't be anxious about it, ignore it. Pretend that it's not there. Um maybe it will go away. Um maybe it's really not real. Um has some people a Thank you. But no, we Are in a position to say, we don't have to be anxious because we have a father. We have a Savior who is near Um he's with us um and he's coming back one day. Um and all of the of the suffering that we may endure now all of the trials that we face, um, you know, that's you know, you know, you know, you know, that doesn't even compare to the glory that we will see in eternity. And um So um number eight now. Usually when Paul gives the negative imperative do not, then Paul counters with that command in the positive sense You know, there's a put off. And it's a put on. You put off the sinful, the negative action. And you put on the positive, you put on the the imperative that that By which we live out truly the Christian life. And in stark contrast to do not be anxious about anything or be anxious about nothing, Paul exhorts the Philippians to pray in everything. In everything. So the contrast is nothing be anxious. And everything pray. So Paul says be anxious for nothing. Okay That's the put-off and put on, but everything with prayer and supplication and thanksgiving, or with thanksgiving Let your request be made known unto God. So Paul uses three terms here for prayer: prayer and supplication and thanksgiving To give a full flavoring of the request, of the believers request before God. Yes, God enjoys our thanksgivings Being thankful to him, but he also enjoys our supplication. Um, you know, the heartfelt request for help. Um the um the desire um um for That shows our dependence upon God. And so all of that prayer and supplication And Thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. And so this is a recognition that everything comes as a gift from God. And and He's good. He's gen He's generous He's there. And number ten, praying the Thanksgiving is not just thanking God in advance for granting you what you want. Yeah. Um in situations where others would fret and worry, believers in the Lord submit the request in prayer accompanied with thanksgiving Thanksgiving is the explicit acknowledgement of our creaturelessness. I think I pronounced that right Well being a preacher, let's let's let's just say that. In our dependence, of recognition that everything comes as a gift in expressing his attributes of goodness and generosity before God. And so um again prayer with with Thanksgiving is not thanking God in advance for granting you what you wish is thanking God for what He will grant you now that you have made your request. And that um and that is the peace of God which surpasseth all understanding in which shall guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. God's promises support the wisdom of gratitude For example, number A and number 10. God will not permit you to be tempted to sin beyond your capability. But instead will grant you a means of escape by which you will overcome and not yield to it. That's God's promise And also God will work all things together for good to those who love God, which is a deaf def definition of believers. And are called according to his purposes. Again, another definition for So that's just looking at it from from two ways. We love God, God, God, um God calls us to his purpose. Both aspects define us who are in Christ. And again um on number C, after you have suffered for a little while The God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ Jesus will himself perfect, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. And there are so many others. Okay. Are there any questions still for yes? Because um so I've been taught that the ancient issues can be um I read your prayer Answer the case. So the case is prayer. So this is the worst that calls us to pray Yes, yeah. And to have all kinds of prayer. I mean I mean nothing I mean this includes everything. Um yeah. And um case of that. Okay. So um I think I'm down on on um Number 11. This peace of God transcends all understanding. In one sense, it means beyond all comprehension. But it means more. God's peace totally transcends a merely human, unbelieving mind, which is full of anxiety, because it cannot think higher than itself. But the God to whom we pray, his ways are so much higher than ours. Peace comes because prayer is an expression of trust. We do not need to understand f things fully in order in order to trust him. So, in the peace of God which surpasseth all comprehension, shall guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Okay. So um so God's peace will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. God's peace will watch over your heart with all From Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23. Like a garrison around your heart, so that you will not fall into anxiety. And since God's peace surpasses merely Human under understanding in any case, it will protect the mind from those very thoughts that lead to fear and distress, will keep one thing and and that will keep one from trusting God. So that's the peace of God. a merely human understanding. So so what that basically means is that when we trust God, you know, let's just let's just say this. Sometimes we'll in a situation Call to trust God, and we really kind of understand much of what's going on Um we sort uh uh think we know what the outcome is going to be. Um and um And we're sort of sure sort of of sort of of just hoping that God would help us to get what we want. And so we try to understand everything Um and our trust in God is primarily um just hoping that that what we're doing is going to work. Uh that um and so we say we're trusting God for this. When in in reality We're just hoping God um cooperates with us. Um Um but the true trusting God is trusting God when when we really don't have any idea how God's going to respond We don't have any idea how things are gonna work out. Um and um we really don't know what's and we know that, you know, uh unless God God protects me, I'm dupe. And so that's also trusty God. But I say that's really that's the that that's the real trussy God when when we um um trust them when we don't really have when we know no we don't have control um of things. Um there is little sort certainty. But it is it is in those cases that God that peace of God will um will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ G Jesus. No, we don't have to be anxious. Now, the question is Um we can actually be anxious about good things too, you know. I mean Yeah we we could be an anxious about and and have that have that anxiety about something that's sinful, yeah. But you know anxiety is something that Is that we all um experience because the something we want And we want it now, but we don't have it. Therefore we have to wait for it. And so we are we are anxious for it And what so what exactly are these Philippian believers anxious about? I mean Paul's not going to say do not be anxious about anything And you know, and that's not really a problem with this church. Now, I imagine That these Philippians are anxious because they're being persecuted. Because, you know, at this time, you know, we're talking about 6062 A. D. The Roman government officially was not persecuting Christians Christianity was still a recognized religion, most um largely uh a sect of Judaism. So the persecution was not coming from the Roman government necessarily, although in the coming from the Roman citizens. of that city. And um but elsewhere Christians will not be be persecuted. So proven is will probably get whether weather anxious about about this. It nobody else is suffering persecution, but we are. And that's the problem. Um so maybe they were thinking, well, why why why are we doing it wrong? Um why why are we in doing this persecution about you know going to um going over to um To other parts of the Roman Empire. That persecution just wasn't there. So that's probably what they were really most anxious about. Um but I want to say this. Um Just about two years after this, it was the infamous burning of Rome in Um many of course blamed it upon Nero. Um and he probably was the we responsible for it. But He would not admit it. Instead, he blamed the Christians. He then went so far as to outlaw Christianity. And at that point, Christianity was an outlawed religion of the Roman Empire, the only faith outlawed And from that point on, Christians were fair game. Now, they were not always persecuted But if the Roman author authorities wanted to persecute him, they had the per they had permission from Rome to do it Um so at that point every Christian was subject to persecution And if they will not be persecuted at the moment, just wait a while and it will come. So um on page five I just want to add the command do not be anxious applies not just to each individual. But also to the to the question body of believers, as each grows in his own faith and sanctification. And again, Paul reminds us that the true peace is not available from any source, but only in Christ Jesus. That is Um if we want peace we don't go any place else but Christ. Um don't don't don't expect peace from the whoop whoop world Don't expect peace from the government. Don't expect peace from your neighbors. That's not the source of peace. Okay, then we come to this next session, which I call Call to Think. How to Discern. From a Christian point of view. Paul says in verse 8: Finally, again, this word, finally, brethren, whatever is true. Whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely Whatever is of good repute, if there is any excellence, and if anything worthy of praise, dwell on these things. The things which you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and God of peace will be with you. So going back to verse eight finally. And we have now we've seen this verse this word before Particularly in verse 1 of chapter 3, it does not mean that we are near the end of the letter, but still we're at a climax point. In this case, a section on spiritual stability The principle that Paul is about to relate is both the conclusion of all the previous items, but also a key to implementing them. That is, your mind. The discipline of items, the discipline of Christian thinking, to be precise. And this thinking leads to Christian conduct. Again, we see the principle of putting off the old, the old being being anxious, and putting on the new. The old, the new is dwell upon these things. The main verb of verse A is dwell on these things. It emphasizes that spiritual distribution is a result of how you think. Dwell on. The verb dwell on means more than a casual, undiscerning thinking. It means to evaluate. As if to make a right decision or right judgment, to consider, as if to determine the validity of an argument Or the calculate. Here is a call for habitual discipline of the mind To set all thoughts on spiritual virtues in order to have conduct in keeping with God's own righteousness Now the verb dwell on is what we call the present middle imperative. And it emphasizes the disciplined habit of thought which leads to right actions What that basically means is we are responsible for our own thoughts. And we can hold them to high and holy ideals. That is um this is not just you know let go and let God you know. This is Um this is something you need to discipline yourself to do. So what are these things? Whatever is true. Basic which basically means whatever is true. It's true speech, true witness, true wisdom, it's righteousness in the eyes of God. And this is in contrast to those who suppress the truth in unrighteousness and choose to abandon their natural function, as in Romans chapter 1. So whatever is true, think upon those. Think upon whatever is true. Whatever is honorable. Which basically means noble, dignified, worthy of respect. And then in number C whatever is right that is righteous In harmony with God's eternal, unchanging standards, consistent with God's own moral law Whatever is pure, it means holy, morally clean, undefiled. These are clean thoughts, clean things, clean deeds. And whatever is lovely Um basically means sweet, gracious, generous, patient And finally on number F on page six, whatever is a good repute, that is what is highly regarded of or well thought of. Now, notice this. Scripture is defined within all of these categories. These are ways of describing Scripture, as in Psalm 19 and then Psalm 119. Psalm 119, 34, give me understanding that I may observe your law, receive it with all my heart. Romans 12. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. 1 Peter chapter 1. Prepare your minds for action Colossians chapter 3, set your mind on things above, not on the things on the earth Now, the closest New Testament passage is found in James chapter 3. For example But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceful, gentle, full of mercy and good fruits, unwavering without hypocrisy. The seed whose fruit is is righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. And of course James himself is a New Testament book closest in theme to the Old Testament book of Proverbs. That is, um, if very closely related to wisdom Gaining wisdom. Setting your heart upon gaining wisdom. And number eight, the phrase, if there is any excellence, and if there is any worthy of praise, is a union of two first class conditions, as in chapter two, verse one. That is, this is is is an is this is an assumption that the condition is true. That is, if there is any excellence, and there is If there is anything worthy of praise, and yes there is, then think upon these things. And worthy of praise or praiseworthy has that deal of conduct that is in keeping with God's righteousness. Now these are not two additional categories Um these are not two summary statements, but rather they're qualifiers. Now, scripture does fit all of these categories. So it certainly is included. But the question is, is there anything else included? So the question is addressed in number nine is, but is this strictly a call to discipline study and meditation upon scripture? Does the Christian mind dwell on things discovered elsewhere, for example, in creation, or in history, or in logic, and elsewhere within the experience of mankind? So how broad is this? That's the question. Now, the final phrase If there is any excellence, and if anything worthy of praise, that might imply the Christian mind considers such thoughts true honorable, righteous, pure, lovely, and of good repute, which are across human experience in discussing, although certainly filtered through the principles found in Scripture. Now this world system is indeed crooked and perverse, but the earth is still God's. He still owns it. And we live in this world in a dual citizenship. Yeah, we're citizens here of this land, but also citizens of heaven. So this is sort of the an exercise of the creation mandate of stewardship, which still applies today. Applies very much today. So Paul's statement here is very consistent, but he probably intends to apply this teaching more specifically To the current situation in Philippi. That is, Paul is not merely repeating the creation mandate here. There's something else that Paul intends these believers to know. Now the book of Proverbs presents the teachings of a father as a source of son to know wisdom in instruction, to discern the things of understanding To receive instructions in Y PM For the wise men will hear and increase in learning, and the man of understanding will acquire wise counsel. That's in Proverbs chapter 1. Yes, wisdom applied to life is worthy to seek. Now, the Philippians would certainly recognize that Paul is using language very similar to Greek philosophical moralism. But with this clear To his distinction, God Himself is the source of truth, and His law is what defines righteousness. First Peter chapter 3. Thus sanctify the Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence. So the Christian must be able to state reason for this precious hope So a number ten, so do not be anxious, says Paul, but think upon these things That the Philippians needed such exhibitation was necessary in light of what Paul has already noted. They are anxious. The ancient is about Paul being in chains. But they should see this in their circumstances in light of the gospel. Yes, those who are in Christ will suffer persecution. Yes, they are being persecuted, but they should see this as a blessing from Christ. This is not something bad. This is not something negative. Yes, it does hurt Um is something that could cost them their their life, but they should see this as a blessing of Christ Um and there were they were ancient about F Ephaphroditus. He was sick. He almost died But even if he did die, they should still see his death in light of the gospel. So they were said to take into account the good that they have known from their own past as God has been at work in them, to accomplish his purposes, which also he will continue to do so. So God has begun a good work in them. Yes, God will continue to complete it. So they don't have to be anxious about that Um and next in number twelve no number el um eleven Um Christian faith is essentially think is it's a thinking man's faith. Look at the birds. You know, Jesus says think about them and yes draw your deduction From that. Look at the grass. Look at the lilies of the field. You know, consider them No, God made them. He provides for them. I mean, won't He do even more for you? Um you know and trouble with many people is that is that they just don't think. Instead of doing this they ask, what's gonna happen to me? You know You know, oh me. Oh what is going to happen to me? Instead, um this is not thinking, this is basic basically surrendering. Um, the Lord is here is urging us to think and to think in a Christian manner. And as Martin Lloyd Jones has said, this is the essence of faith It's thinking in a Christian mantle. It's thinking God's thoughts Thinking from God's perspective. We see it from my perspective, but you need to see things from God's perspective as well. So Paul next is an application of not being anxious and of dwelling upon things which are true and honorable He says this. The things which you learned in verse 9, the things which you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. What a statement Paul can make here. Um the verb practice um Means, implies, repetition, continuous action. This is not something that you do once and you know it's done This is continuous action to master a skill. You're mastering the skill of living a Christian life So, in number 13, if the Philippians were anxious about suffering that they were encountering from their opponents, which is the Roman citizens of Philippi. then they need to consider the response from Paul as to endures his own suffering. Look look at Paul, Paul says. Um they can follow Paul's example because Paul himself is following Christ You know, you know Paul himself is not going to tell you to do something that Paul himself is not doing. You know, Paul himself is doing exactly what Paul is tell telling other people to do. And so um so what does it mean to be anxious for nothing? Well consider Paul. He's no hypocrite, he's not a false teacher, he has them in his heart. You know, he is not pre he is not perfect, but he is pressing on So Paul is saying, imitate me, just as I am imitating Christ. And as you Imitate the pattern that Paul gives to us, that you know, that will result in the peace of God being with you. Going back to chapter 1, what was Paul's response to the persecution? Well, I've learned that the circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel. So that's that's pop. So the result Of being anxious for nothing, but praying in everything is the peace of God. And likewise the result of imitating Paul is that the peace of God shall be with you. So in summary for the section on, Paul is giving himself as an example for them to follow. Because they are experiencing the same things that Paul has also been experiencing. And they are to look to Paul as Paul looks to Christ. Are there any questions? Okay, well I'm going to stop here and next week we'll we'll pick up with verse 10. So let me umsi pray.