A little over ten years ago, the Lord laid it on my heart to return to Maryland from the Master's Seminary in Los Angeles in order to plant a church here in Maryland. A church thoroughly dedicated to preaching and teaching all of God's Word. I had already concluded, even before I went to seminary, but I understand it more deeply now That people get saved only by hearing the gospel. It's the only way they get saved. They hear the gospel. If they don't hear it and hear it clearly, they're not going to get saved. I also knew then and understand more deeply that saved people grow in their faith only by hearing the Word of God. There's no other way. And that's why I'm committed to expository preaching. I say I'm committed. Our church is committed. What is expository preaching? Fancy word. It is preaching which lets God speak to us rather than man. How's that for a simple definition? You didn't come here to hear me, I hope. You came to hear what God has to say. It is preaching which lets God's Word, the Holy Scripture, speak for itself. How? By letting it speak in its context, with its correct meaning, to people today. We don't try to take man's ideas and insert them into the Bible. We want to take what the Bible said and bring it out so we can hear it. That's all. We expose the meaning. That's expository preaching. It's also preaching which doesn't judge parts of God's word to be a little too hot to handle, a little too controversial, a little too divisive. We don't make that decision. God already wrote his word We don't decide which parts of it we preach from and which we do not. It's not our decision. Although some these days are doing so. We value every book, every chapter, every verse, every word. Expository preaching is that which is designed to confront you with listening to the voice of God from this book. This is where God speaks today. And he continues to speak when this book is read and explained and preached and understood. I don't really want to shortchange any of you when you come to church. I don't want you to come here and hear me. I don't I'm nothing special. I don't know anything about life except for what's in this book. You've come here to hear God and what God says, and I don't want you to be shortchanged from that. And frankly, any preacher which mixes in his ideas is shortchanging his people. Some people are tamping on their pet issues, you know. You hear them talk about it over and over and over again. They're always talking about the same thing. It's their little soapbox, it's their little platform, and they talk about that Now some people are trying to turn some political philosophy into sound biblical teaching and they'll just talk about that and hammer away on that from church. Doesn't matter which side you're on, they just turn the pulpit into their political platform. Others provide some kind of worldly candy Coated poison is what it is. It tastes good, but it kills. It doesn't bring people life. That's not hearing God. That's hearing man. I don't want you to hear the spirit of this age. I don't want you to hear what popular opinions are. I don't want you to just, as a church, blow in the wind of the day, this is the consensus. This is what churches are doing. This is what churches are saying. So this is what we have to do. No, we don't. We want to hear what God says. It hasn't changed all through the thousands of years, has it? Do you really want to hear human psychological theory that 10 years from now is going to be disproven? Do you really want to hear that? Successful business advice? Is that why you came to Hope Bible Church? I don't think so You didn't come in here for water-down theology, did you? Is that what you want? Give us only the parts that sound good and fit with how people like it today. Is that what you want? There's a lot of churches out there who give that to you. I want to hear the mighty voice of God, the Lord of hosts. I want to hear him in my studies. I want you to hear him when the preaching and teaching happens here. Powerful preaching. What is it? It's preaching that unleashes the Holy Spirit's transforming truth and power into the lives of people who are listening. That's what it is. Contrary to the prevailing opinion, it's not about charm in the speaker, it's not about his wit, his eloquence, it's not about modern technology, it's not about overhead screens or plexiglass pulpits None of that makes preaching powerful, does it? It's not about keeping it short and sweet. Bite-sized It's not about being a masterful storyteller or wowing the audience with one's skill. What is it about? It's about being faithful to the message. It's about being humble and reverent before the truths in this book, before Almighty God. That's what it is about. It is about dependence on the Holy Spirit. It is about reverence for God. It is about humility of heart. It is about a determination never to drift with the spirit of the age. And I think 1 Corinthians 2, verses 1 through 5, expresses those very concerns in preaching. And since even the evangelical church today has let expository preaching die out, I would say that this text of scripture is dying to be heard. Let's open there and let's read it. 1 Corinthians 2. 1 through 5. Please follow along. What an emotional section. Listen. Paul writes, when I came to you, brethren, the Corinthian brethren. I did not come with superiority of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God. For I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling And my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith would not rest on the wisdom of men. but on the power of God. Very important words, very emotional words too. Now as we read, you may have noticed that this continues the same themes. Those of you who have been with us We've been studying and learning about same themes and even the same words from chapter one. Jesus Christ and him crucified. Does that sound familiar to you? Look back at chapter one and verse twenty-three. You see he was mentioning that and talking about that. That was his focus. A demonstration of power. He talked about power back in chapter 1, 2, verses 23 through 25. Weakness was also a theme if you look back to verse 25. Persuasive words or clever words and wisdom. That goes all the way back to chapter 1, verse 17. So this passage continues the subject matter of chapter 1. He hasn't changed themes And that means that all of the upside-down language he was using in chapter one, where the strong were the weak and the weak were the strong and all of that, that also continues into chapter two. What Paul is calling weakness here, he's going to relate that to the expression of God's power. And what Paul calls wisdom that he wouldn't preach with, he's relating that to the world's wisdom or to foolishness. In other words, these opening verses here in chapter two simply demonstrate the point that he was making in chapter one. Particularly if you look all the way back to verse 20, I think there's a verse there that really summarizes his thesis And it is this statement in verse twenty at the end, he says, Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? You say that's a question. No, it's not. It's a statement. That's what he is doing in this passage. Paul is explaining that, that God has made foolish the wisdom of the world. That's what he's done. And if you think about it, in chapter one, verses twenty-six through thirty-one, a passage we just finished He was illustrating this. He was showing how did God do this? Well, he chose the base and foolish and weak things of the world to shame those that are strong and wise. That's what God did In the church, Christians, you look at them who they are, they're not the mighty and noble and rich people basically. They most of the converts then and across the world, even now today, are the poor and they're the weak. And God picks them Them particularly so that he can shame the strong. God's done that. That's an illustration of how he shames the educated and the wise. Well, now he's giving another illustration as to how he shames the wise. This time he's doing it through a personal testimony. What happened in his life, particularly when he came to Corinth and he was preaching the gospel. That's what chapter 2 verses 1 through 5 is illustrating. God has made foolish the wisdom of the so-called wise. How do we know? Well, just look back to how Paul brought the gospel to Corinth. What happened then? Look what God did through his ministry. And so he provides a personal testimony. Notice in these verses that Paul is returning to his use of the first person singular, as he did back in verse 17 of chapter 1. So what he's saying is that his own example and ministry, the fact that he came in weakness and preached in weakness, illustrates yet again that God has shame those that think that they're so strong and wise. And really this connects with the very end of chapter one, too, because it look back to the end of chapter one there in verses thirty and thirty-one in particular talks about how Jesus Christ. Became to us what? Righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Remember that? And wisdom from God. So since Christ is the wisdom from God, why would we preach anything else? Do you get that? If Christ is the wisdom from God and he's sanctification for us, and he is the power of God in the cross. Why would we ever preach anything else? It doesn't make any sense, does it? If you believe in Christ, you preach Christ. Well, you know, we don't want to be too offensive. Well, do you really believe in Christ then? You really believe that he's beneficial to the people who've come. See, that's really the issue. He's connecting what he believes, the theology, with what he practices. The ministry philosophy. A lot of people get that wrong. The churches all over the place say, we believe in the inerrancy of the Bible, we believe in the authority of the Bible, we believe in the Bible, we believe in the scripture, but you don't hear them preaching it. I don't believe that they really believe it that. If you believe in it, you preach it. You say it. That's what he's saying here. Christ is this, so we preach Christ. Do you see that? That's very important. So this paragraph again is about the weak. It's about weak worldly preaching that they think is wise And that people think is just so powerful, they listen to it like, wow, did you hear that guy speak? That was really powerful. God says, no power in it. No power in it. No power to change lives there. Just moves emotions. I think the connection to our situation today is is just it's just like 2,000 years just skip them, boom, this is where we are today. Same thing. People back then, they just wanted to hear the great speakers, you know, those that would wow you. Same thing today. Same thing today. It's like we just zip 2,000 years gone by, people are still the same, and that's what they want to hear And it's sad. So I think that this speaks to us today. You know, if you're a teacher of the Word of God in any capacity, maybe sometimes you're in the pulpit, a few of you, you teach in a classroom, to children, to adults, you're leading a small group. Maybe you have some group you're teaching. Maybe it's just that you like to get out there and you like to evangelize and you like to talk to people. Well this speaks to you as a teacher, as a disseminator of the Word of God, because it tells you where your confidence should be. If you're not a teacher of the Word of God, it still speaks to all of us, doesn't it? It tells all of us what we ought to want for ourselves and what we ought to support. We ought not to support those that are not doing this. We ought to support those that do do this, no matter where we are. And I think that's really important. All of us need to understand that. And really building that conviction in your hearts today is my aim. That's what this is all about. I want you to have an understanding of biblical Christ-centered, cross-centered preaching and you to understand why that's so important and for you to have not just a preference but a conviction in your heart about the importance of this. Now Paul gives us his example in three areas. Three areas. I'm going to say three powerful areas of Paul's example. First, and I'll give it to you as we go along. First His first area of being an example to us was Paul's powerful message. Paul's powerful message. That's verses 1 and 2 Let's read it again. When I came to you, brethren, I did not come with superiority of speech or of wisdom proclaiming to you the testimony of God. For I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. Now when he says, I determined to know nothing among you, he's talking about what he was preaching, what he was teaching, what he was saying. And here Paul reminds the Corinthians of a little bit of history, not too far back in their history, 2,000 years back and hours. He came to Corinth. What did he do when he came to Corinth? What kind of a preacher was he? How did he minister the Word of God? He says, Well, when I came to you, that's what it's talking about And notice again the IU flavor of these first two verses. I came to you, proclaiming to you, was among you. So it's about Paul and them. He wants them to remember it and see it So he's going back into this personal history with them to make sure they remembered what he practiced and then to learn the lesson from it. Now, if we go back to Acts chapter 18, which I've mentioned before, you may remember Paul. arrived in Corinth in a second missionary journey. That was after he'd gone through places like Philippi and Berea and Thessalica and Athens. First he was alone in Corinth, and then Silas and Timothy came and joined him, and he preached to that wicked city. He preached the gospel. And he preached first in the synagogue to the Jews and the Gentile proselytes, and then when they were booted out of there, they went to the home of justice, and then it was all over Corinth. And so he preached and he taught there, and he's asking them to remember what happened That is how their church got started. Paul planted the church. They knew that. They remembered that. This wasn't too far after that time. And so he'd given them a visual example of godly preaching, but they had not yet learned from it. But they were still valuing another kind of preaching. He came to them, and he came proclaiming the testimony of God. Now some of you in your versions are going to have that he proclaimed the mystery about God. The Greek manuscripts are really divided on that, but the meaning is essentially the same. Don't worry about that. He came preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what the testimony or the mystery is about. And he's going to talk about the mystery in the verses to come. Because these Corinthians were valuing Greek worldly wisdom and eloquent style, Paul had to first remind them how he did not come preaching. I did not come with a worldly message, I did not come with a worldly style, he said Specifically two things, not with superiority of speech or of wisdom. Now that adjective goes with both nouns. Superiority of speech, superiority of wisdom. This is similar to what he said back in verse 17. Remember, he didn't use cleverness of speech, so the cross of Christ would not be made void. Same basic idea. Interesting, that term superiority, hooperake, means projection or prominence. It has to do with elevation. In the metaphorical sense, it would be something that is lofty, something that is high. Something that is preeminent or superior or excellent. It's used in 1 Timothy 2. 2. You could jot that down, look it up later, for those who are in authority. In other words, those who are up above others. It has to do with elevation. So superior speech would be what? It'd be lofty speech, right? Grand speech. Sometimes speech that goes over your head. You don't understand what it's talking about. You're like, wow, that was wonderful. It's just high and wondrous speech. He said, I didn't come like that Barrett in his commentary says speech making was highly developed and prized among the Greeks. It was even a form of popular entertainment, with speakers using various verbal skills to win the applause of crowds. Public speaking competitions were held throughout the Greek cities and were probably part of the local games held every two years at nearby Isthia. Great speakers, sophists as they were called, learned and wise men. They'd arrive in town, they'd talk big, they'd praise the town and all the town's accomplishments, and people would come out to hear the speaker. It was wonderful. Look what he's saying about our town and our city, all the things. And they'd erect a statue in some cases because he was such a great speaker. They would win an audience and gain fame. Baker exegetical commentary says this He is saying that he did not put on airs or speak in high flown language to foist himself off on them as one above the common herd. That posture only turns preaching into an exercise of dominance and triumph. Instead, his demeanor was humble and his speech plain. In other words, he didn't use his preaching to say, I'm superior to you. Now keep in mind, Paul is not rejecting carefully crafted words. He's not saying we have to be stupid or dull. Okay? That's not at all what he's saying here. Apollos was known as a man mighty in the scriptures. He spoke well, and that's given as a good example in Scripture. Much of what Paul writes in here and in his letters is quite eloquent. It's well done. It's articulate. It's strong. It's not wrong to have a little bit of spice and dressing with your meat, right? It makes it nice, but you just don't want that to overshadow the meat, if you know what I mean. You don't want it to be replaced. You want the meat. What he is rejecting here is pompous speech, made to elevate the creature rather than elevate the message. So he's pointing them to the cross, not some high-sounding abilities of speech. And this also applied to the content. I want you to see that. Not just superiority of words, but also of wisdom. That's the same word in chapter 1, Sophia, wisdom. Again, here it's referring to worldly wisdom. What do we mean by that? Do you remember the world's education, the world's philosophies, that learning which starts with man, consults man, and ends with man, it does not base itself on what God has said in Revelation. So it's sort of earthbound and it's blind. It never knows what ultimate truth is. It learns and learns and learns, but it never comes to the knowledge of the truth because God won't let it. Because it's proud and it's self-focused. Paul says, I did not use that when I came. Dr. MacArthur says, We should not come to church to hear the pastor's opinions about politics, psychology, economics, or even religion. We should come to hear a word from the Lord through the pastor. God's word edifies and unifies human opinions, confuse and divide. That's true. Notice now the first word in verse 2, for, and that means he's explaining his behavior there in verse 1. Here's the explanation: for. I determine. And look at that determination he had. That's the verb crino. I determined. I judged. I had decided. I had made up my mind ahead of time. I had evaluated what I ought to do, and before I got there, I'd already made up my mind and decided this is how I was going to preach. I decided that I'm not going to distinguish myself philosophically or rhetorically. Why not? So they could hear the gospel. So they would hear the gospel loud and clear. That's why He didn't want them to follow him. He didn't come in the town to start a following for himself. He came to preach Christ They'd follow Christ. And I think this is a real posture of humility. I think that when a man of God puts himself underneath the authority of Scripture and will not sound forth any other message than what God has, that is what humility is. People sometimes hear confident and loud proclamation from Scripture and they say, that sounds proud. But they don't understand. The one who's proud is the one who sets aside the Word of God and doesn't believe the Word of God and promotes His own words as worthy as being before God's people. The only thing that's worthy to be heard by God's people is the Word of God, and that ought not to be preached weakly, in the sense that the person doesn't believe it. Well he says, I determine to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I want you to hear Christ. I want you to hear him crucified. Now don't misunderstand, okay? Because people get funny when they get to some of these words, and their mind starts taking them right on out of the context, and they come up with some interesting things, some real imagination. What does Paul not mean when he says, I determined to know nothing among you except for Jesus Christ and crucified? Well it doesn't mean that he was hush-hush about everything else that Jesus did. That doesn't mean that Paul said, well, I'm not going to preach about the resurrection. I'm not going to preach about Jesus' wonderful and sinless life. His burial, his ascension. He just was talking just only about the crucifixion, day after day. It's not what it means You know, just look at Paul's preaching in about the resurrection in the book of Acts, for example. He preaches it everywhere. Chapter fifteen of this very letter, he he accentuates a whole chapter about the resurrection. Of course the burial goes with that Rather, Jesus Christ and Him crucified is a summation. It is a way of saying this was my focus. I was focused on the person of Christ and His work. The crucifixion standing for what he did. See? Who Christ is and what Christ did, that's what I came preaching. That's what it was about. Nor does this mean that every single one of Paul's messages was an evangelistic message. Some people go that way with this text. You know? He only gave gospel talks. No, that's not true. A preacher has to feed the flock. The preacher has to give his congregation meat to eat, or they will not be healthy. People could and often do twist the statement to justify shallow preaching the same three points of an evangelistic sermon over and over and over again, but just as I am at the end, and then pss that's it. And that's all they ever hear. Nor is this an expression of anti-intellectualism. I determined to know nothing. I'm not trying to say I determined to be stupid and to not know anything else. Paul was a learned man. His letters were filled with many teachings, as we'll discover here. Some of his teachings were quite complex. Learning is crucial to the Christian faith. My people die for a lack of knowledge, God said Nor does this mean, as some have interpreted interestingly, that Paul thought that he did a lousy job in Athens right before he got to Corinth. And in Athens he forgot to preach about the crucifixion, so when he got to Corinth he said, I'm not going to talk about any of that other stuff I talked about with the philosophers of Athens because that didn't go real well. I'm just going to preach about the cross. It doesn't mean that. Paul preached the same gospel every single place that he went. Is talking about creation and the resurrection are all presented in the book of Acts as a wise presentation. The failure in Athens was not Paul, it was the philosophers. They were too proud to believe. His resolve here is not a new strategy. It was his ongoing strategy. He'd already done it way back in Thessalonica. He'd already determined there not to engage in that kind of speech. 1 Thessalonians 2, 1 to 10 tells us he was already committed to that even before he got to Athens. Well then, what does it mean that you preach Christ and him crucified only? Well, he deliberately showcased the message about Christ. Yes, he was a learned man. Yes, he could have talked about philosophy. Yes, he could have talked about law. Yes, he could have wowed them. He could have done things like that, but he said, I don't want them to hear that I'm thinking about them. I'm thinking about what benefits them and I want them to hear Christ on the cross He says in Acts 22, verse 3, I am a Jew born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city, educated under Gamaliel, one of the great rabbis in Jerusalem. So yes, he was a learned man, but he didn't want to talk about all those things. See, I got a humbling fly up here this morning. Just keep me humble in the pulpit. Guy's persistent. Paul valued the gospel. He would not pervert it. He would not twist it. He wanted to preach it purely. He even wrote in 2 Corinthians 4, verses 1 and 2, Therefore, since we have this ministry, as we receive mercy, we do not lose heart, but we have renounced the things hidden because of shame. Listen, not walking in craftiness or adulterating the word of God, but by the manifestation of truth commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. Everything's right out front. This is the word of God. Your conscience should listen to it. Listen to it and see, is this not the Word of God? Nothing is sneaky. Nothing is hidden, he said, in our ministry. In that 1 Thessalonians 2 passage, he said, For our exhortation does not come from error or impurity or by way of deceit. But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not as pleasing men. But God, who examines our hearts. Let's do a little survey and ask all the people in the community what kind of a church they'd like to hear and what kind of messages they want to hear. Is that pleasing men or God? Well, God will be okay with it. He says, we never came with flattering speech as you know, nor with a pretext for greed. Flattering? Greed. Does that sound like anything to you? Tell people what they want to hear and use the ministry for money. Paul preached an authentic message coupled with a genuine example. Man, it's a breath of fresh air. He preached Jesus Christ. He preached Jesus Christ. When he says he preached Jesus Christ, that means all that he is. It's a summation statement. To proclaim Christ as just an abbreviation of all the riches that we learn about in Christ in the New Testament In Acts 20, 27, he told the elders of Ephesus, I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God. To preach Jesus Christ is to preach the whole purpose of God. In Acts 1811 it says that he was in Corinth teaching a year and a half. He taught him a lot about Christ. You know, some people go to church and they never really learn much about Christ anyway. Oh, they learn all kinds of how-to this and how-to that. Be in there for years, but they don't know Christ all that well. They don't know him. They don't have a strong relationship with him. Yeah, they know a few stories and parables from the Bible. But they don't really know the doctrine about Christ well. Talk to them about how thankful you are for justification and they look at you like this. What's that? What's redemption? What's propitiation? What did Christ really do for my soul? The doctrines of the coming of Christ and all that He will do. You know, pastors are under a divine command. We read that during our scripture reading. Did you get the command in there? They are to what? Preach the word. That's pretty easy. Preach, I know that is. The word, I know that is. Nothing else. Nothing else. Many pastors do not preach the word. They want to make it sound like they're preaching the word. They got a Bible in their hands. Some verses that are being quoted, but it's all mixed in with man's ideas, man's psychologies. And they're saying that's the word of God. The people are going, oh, that was so good, that was so helpful. And it's so foolish and it's so sad God says, preach my word, I'll do the rest. Because the power is in the word. Do you believe that? We once some had someone here, was actually in this church for quite a bit and he left. And uh they started dabbling with a church that had no preachers, no teachers. Just sit around and share your opinions. That is disobedient. The church was given preachers and teachers by God. They're gifted, they're equipped, and they're commanded by God to preach the word, and the people are commanded to listen and obey Paul preached to the Corinthians Christ crucified. There's that word again, crucified. The shame of the cross. The perfect passive participle from Stalra'o. Means he's crucified and it stands crucified and the effects are ongoing. There's no more sacrifice for anybody before God. No ongoing presentation of the body of Christ. Sacrifices. He stands already crucified. We just believe in his act of mercy to us. One time death of Christ is all that is needed. And that's where Paul wrote that wisdom, the wisdom of God resides. You preach Christ crucified. You go ahead and keep preaching that. Because that is the foolish message that the wise ones of the world have to believe. And frankly, nothing else that we would preach to people on a Sunday morning would matter at all if they didn't get the cross of Christ. If I told you how you can love your wife a little bit better, or how you can raise your kids a little better, or overcome your anger, and you took all these notes and went home and practiced it, but you had not repented of your sins and embraced the crucified Savior for yourself, it wouldn't matter for you. You're still lost. You couldn't even absorb or understand it. The gateway to the blessing of God is the cross. You have to come to God through the cross. It's the only way that He accepts, it's the only bridge that's made. Preach Christ crucified. Focus on the cross. Philippians 3, Paul wrote, For many walk of whom I often told you, and now tell you, even weeping. That they are enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their appetite, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things. Man, if that isn't our age, I don't know what it is Paul made the main thing, the main thing, the cross. Today even so-called conservatives spend so much time on other things, debating politics. Length of someone's hair, minute details of end times. They make big deals out of little things. What is our message? It's the cross of Jesus Christ, right? Jesus Christ and him crucified. That should be our focus. That's the message. Second. The second part of his example is this, Paul's powerful method. Paul's, not just Paul's powerful message, but Paul's powerful method, verses 3 and 4. And this just goes with that. He says And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. So I was with you. So that refers not just to the time where he first came, but that whole 18-month duration where he was there teaching them. I was with you like this. You saw my character and my method. This is how I was And then he lists three traits here, weakness, fear, and trembling. They're all joined. Weakness, that can mean actually sickness or weakness, and scholars debate what does he mean here? Was he saying that he was sick? He did suffer physical abuse many times and he had physical challenges, but the context here favors weakness as most of the translations translate it. Still, we may ask in what sense was Paul weak when he says, I was with you in weakness, in what sense was that? This too could be interpreted in two different ways. Either that Paul had an inner weakness, that is, he was very fearful himself. Fearful of people and what they might do to him, or that Paul just had a real sense of his inadequacy and he was completely trusting in God to do the work. Interestingly, a combination of these two things might be what is meant, is that Paul was not a perfect man. There's evidence for both of them. Remember that Paul came to Corinth after being beaten and imprisoned in Philippi. That's hard to go through. He was run out of Thessalica and he was scoffed at in Athens, and now he came to Corinth, and it was a wicked city. It would be easily easy to understand that a man would be intimidated in the face of that. Later in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 9-13, when he speaks about his weaknesses, though He relates that to the to the kinds of humbling experiences he'd been through, shipwrecks and hunger, and persecution and mistreatment. He has a whole list of things in chapter four. And he says that has to do with weakness And even during his stay in Corinth, there was a lot of hostility from the Jews. He was fearful of that, according to Acts 18, verses 5 and 6. Plus, when he arrived, he had to work with his own hands. He didn't even have anyone supporting him. He was a tent maker, and he was working with his hands, and that wasn't all that impressive in the eyes of people. Oh, he has to work for himself. Who's he But Paul also allowed others to think of him as weak. He did it purposely, so the power of God would be seen working in him. Yes, he depended on God for fruit, for success in ministry. That attitude of not trusting in his own strength, I think, is seen in the next two words where he says, in fear and much trembling. And those really go together. Fear and trembling go together. In fact, in the Septuagint, that's the Old Testament that the Apostles use, the Greek Old Testament that they use. It often puts fear and trembling together in verses such as Exodus chapter 15. and verse 16 or Isaiah chapter 19 and verse 16. Even in Paul's writings, fear and trembling go together. 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 15. In Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 5, which Paul also wrote, it refers to fear and trembling as an attitude, a reverent attitude that slaves should have to their masters. In Philippians 2. 12, many of you know this verse, Paul teaches us to work out our salvation with what? Fear and trembling. That's religious awe. That's awe of the divine being of God in his presence. So it's not that Paul was afraid of men. He lived far too boldly of a life to that just being description of him being a fearful man. It can't refer just to that. I think primarily it referred to the reverence he had for God This is a man who stood firmly when he was threatened with persecution and when he was persecuted. He was stoned in Galatian, he was dragged out of town and left for dead. He just got right back up and he just went on to the next town and he kept preaching. That's Paul. That's who this man was. He lived boldly, and he counseled others who were timid to be bold as well. He said in 2 Timothy chapter 1, don't be timid. You have not received the spirit of timidity, Timothy, but of boldness. Of love. In Titus, Titus 2. 15 he told Titus, these things, these doctrines, speak and exhort, reprove with all authority, let no one disregard you. Titus, you're going to have to be bold and courageous. Because people don't want to hear it. Acts 13, 46 tells us that Paul preached boldly along with Barnabas. Yet he may have had fears at some times too. In Acts 18, verses 9 and 10, it says, The Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid any longer. But go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I am with you, and no man will attack you to ha in order to harm you, for I have many people in this city, the city of Corinth. He had to encourage him, because there was so much that was against him. It was a dangerous and a wicked city. But what Paul writes here, I think, really speaks more to his fear and trembling before God and his word. Paul understood the overwhelming task of evangelizing other people, of penetrating areas that are controlled by the Dark One. The darkness, the kingdom of darkness. Evangelizing and establishing churches was such an important thing, and the weight of that fell on his shoulders. And Paul understood his personal inadequacy He even says in 2 Corinthians 2. 16, who is adequate for these things? No man can do these things. He also knew of his flesh and the possibility of sinning after preaching. And he s he wrote in First Corinthians nine twenty-seven, But I discipline my body and make it my slave so that after I preach to others I myself. will not be disqualified. There's a lot to be fearful and trembling before God about. And this is quite the opposite of those bold and arrogant windbags who would roll in the town. So confident in all the things they were saying, and no basis for what they were saying at all. Just convincing people because they said it confidently. No foundation of knowledge, just words. Paul acted more like a witness in a courtroom. He was there to proclaim. To give a testimony, the testimony of God. You don't make that up. You just you just say what the truth is. You know, God works through weakness and fear and trembling, brothers and sisters. We don't enjoy weakness. I don't. I'm not asking you to, but we know that when we are weak, as we even sung this morning, then we are strong. God purposely chooses to work through weak, fearful, and trembling instruments, particularly when they have belief and confidence in the power of God and tremble before Him. Dick Mayhew of the Master's Seminary in the book Rediscovering Expository Preaching writes this Above all the expositor must expound the word as Paul did in Corinth He did not come as a clever orator or a scholarly genius. He did not arrive with his own message. He did not preach with personal confidence in his own strength. Rather, Paul preached the testimony of God and Christ's death. And this with well-placed confidence in God's power to make the message life-changing. Unless this kind of wholesale dependence on God marks the modern expositor's preaching, his exposition will like Will lack the divine dimension that only God can provide. And that's why he says, in my message and my preaching, we're not in persuasive words of wisdom just to belabor the point. Neither what I said nor how I said it was using human wisdom or human persuasion. I would not move my audience that way. I would not have them admire me. Is there godly persuasion? This is not a passage saying we can't persuade. Is there a form of godly persuasion? Of course there is. Everything in the New Testament is godly persuasion. It's all designed for us to help to see the beauty of Christ and the beauty of obedience and the beauty of righteousness and for us to make up our mind that we don't want to end up in hell, we don't want to be judged by God and we respond to the things that He says. It's all persuasion. Godly persuasion. It dispels disbelief and destroys excuses for believing. And just lifts up the wisdom of God and says, Can you not see how wonderful this is? That's godly persuasion. But he wouldn't use the world's persuasion for that. Dr. Roscup in that same book says, this did not rule out his skillful use of effective techniques of communication. Just as Jesus adopted good methods such as parables, so did Paul. Paul, however, depended ultimately on the cross-centered content of God's Word and the power of God's Spirit for effectiveness in preaching. A dependence exhibited in prayer. That's why you see all over his letters he says, I'm praying for you, and I thank God for you. That's what he mentions next. He says, but my preaching, my example, was in the demonstration of the Spirit and of power. What that means is the Holy Spirit is the author of power. Power affects what God wants. It is the Spirit who brings about A powerful result. That's what he means. He depended on the Spirit of God to bring about something powerful among them. Listen, the Holy Spirit works powerfully in any church where Christ is preached. Remember what Jesus said in Acts 1. 18, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you will be my what? Witnesses. You witness for Christ, you preach Christ, the power of the Holy Spirit works along with that message. Romans 15, 13, Paul writes, May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you will abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. It is God's power at work through his word. Sometimes, yes, the Holy Spirit displayed miracles and wonders, and those were powerful things, but that is not the context. That's not what Paul is talking about here. The word spirit here does not mean spiritual gifts, but the Holy Spirit. And the power is to change lives of believers. The community that the Holy Spirit formed when the Corinthians accepted the gospel. That's the evidence. The evidence that Paul is pointing to is not some external sign of power. He would have used it in the plural if he meant that. He would have added in other words, but the reality of changed lives from people who listened to the preaching of the cross, that's where the power was demonstrated. That internal transforming power of the Holy Spirit The same power he wrote about to the Thessalonians. Listen, 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 5 and 6. He says, For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. Just as you know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. In 1 Thessalonians 2. 13, again he says, For this reason we also constantly thank God that when you receive the Word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but for what it really is the word of God, which also performs its work in you who believe He's talking about the power of the Holy Spirit using Scripture to change lives. That's what he means. Even these Corinthians have been delivered from sin and converted from idolatrous worship and turned to Christ. And this was all demonstrated to them, he says. Demonstration. That's an interesting word. It's used only here in the New Testament. Up a baksei. It has to do with proving something, something that's clear to them. Real proof. It was actually used in in a legal sense in a court of law for proof. In other words, Paul is saying my very stance of personal weakness and my trembling before God, and the fact that I didn't come with all that flowering speech, all of that ought to demonstrate to you the power of God was working at Corinth. You saw it yourself. That's all the proof that you need. It was demonstrated to you. I didn't prove the gospel with fancy speech. I just came and told it. And look what God did. Just like Jesus told Paul, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is perfected in weakness. And then Paul wrote these words, Most gladly therefore I will rather boast about my weaknesses so that the power of Christ may dwell in me. What an attitude. So, yes, his method appeared to be weak. He appeared to be weak. He wasn't all that impressive, but the power of God worked through this man. And brought about conversion. And it still works that way today. The Holy Spirit grants faith and he saves people and he changes their life. Gordon Fee writes, the polished oratory, sometimes heard in American pulpits, where the sermon itself seems to be the goal of what is said, makes one wonder whether the text has been heard at all. Paul's own point needs a fresh hearing, he writes. What he is rejecting is not preaching, not even persuasive preaching. Rather, it is the real danger in all preaching, self-reliance. The danger always lies in letting the form and content get in the way of what should be the single concern, the gospel proclaimed through human weakness, but accompanied by the powerful work of the Spirit so that lives are changed through a divine human encounter. That is hard to teach, he writes, in a course in homiletics, but it still stands as the true need in genuinely Christian preaching. He's so right. And he's a charismatic. He understands that. Third and last, and briefly, Paul's powerful motive. Verse 5. Paul's powerful motive. Oh, this is where it comes together. This is where you see his heart. This is where you understand why he's so emphatic on all of this. Look at verse 5. So that, there's your purpose, so that your faith, Corinthians, would not rest on the wisdom of men. But on the power of God. This is why. This is why I stuck to that message and I stuck to this method. Right here, this was my purpose, this was my aim, this was intentional, this was the goal. I wanted your faith to rest on the power of God. It was love for the people. That he exhibited here. I want your faith to rest on the power of God. You know, all people have faith. Yes, they do. Oh, they have faith in something. They have faith in themselves, faith in their parents and what they taught them, some philosopher, some theory and science, some church, some religious leader, some some something. They got faith in something Faith has to rest on something. Faith has to be in something. You really can't have faith in faith. You really can't. You can't just I don't know. You just can't just be optimistic because you just feel optimistic. Ultimately there has to be something that you're thinking about is true. Your faith has to be in something. There has to be a foundation. A foundation is very important The foundation of your faith, of anyone's faith, is very important. What is the foundation of your faith? What is it that you believe? And how certain and strong is that foundation? What if it's a weak foundation? What if it sounds so good, but maybe it looks so good, but it's not a firm foundation? Faith has to rest on something. And he says, I I didn't want your faith to rest on the wisdom of men. Imagine that. Leaving town. Throw your little backpack over your shoulder and move on. What did you leave behind you? Bunch of people that were wild in human philosophy. How long is that going to last? Until the next guy comes and wows them even more. Not too long. It's not going to help them. It's not going to help them. It's not going to help them now that much, and it's not going to help them cer Certainly before God. He said, I didn't want to leave you like that See, the goal of Paul's preaching was to disarm the proud and the wise so that people would learn not to trust in men, not to trust in that type stuff. But they would trust in God, in him alone, in his message, in his power, in what he says, in what his son did, God's power My faith resting in God's power. That's what I want. That's what he wanted for them. Divine persuasion must be at work in preaching, not human persuasion. Do we care about superficial decisions? Come on down the aisle, brother, make a decision for Christ. What do we care about that? They raise their hand, they respond to an altar call. Doesn't change their life. But we look good. Things happening in our church. Yeah. Preach a little louder, we get more converts next week. Who good is that? Who cares? Giant crusade, thousands of people coming down. Where are they a year from now? What are they doing a year from now? Who cares about that? Faith has to be not in how wonderful the music was, the nice testimony the athlete gave. It has to be because someone sees a wretched person. There's no chance that they have before God except by throwing themselves on the mercy of Jesus Christ because he died for them on the cross. That's it. And when they get convinced of that, they have all that they need. The band can go away. They have all the faith that they need. It's resting on the power of God. The music, the crowds, the big event, many times the enthusiasm at those things is just for those things rather than for God A faith based on human wisdom can easily be undone by a more clever argument. If your faith needed all that propping up to begin with, what happens when the props are removed? Well, we persuade with truth. We use clear truth, forceful truth, God's truth, honest truth. Yes, well presented, well studied, but God's truth, the main thing. And if your faith, and the faith of your children, by the way, parents, rest on the powerful word of God, you will never be overthrown. Never. The true mark of powerful preaching is the lasting power of conversions and the obedience that comes from genuine conversions. Fruit that sticks, fruit that remains, fruit that shows a group of people who live a changed life, who are holy and obedient and submissive and caring towards one another. That is where the power of God is shown and demonstrated. Those Corinthians have spent their whole lives going after false gods and false philosophies Paul had intentionally come there to make sure they would have a better foundation for life, the very power of God in the gospel. You know, and I see this effect in our church at Hope Bible Church. I see you're listening to the Word of God Sunday after Sunday in your Bible studies. as you become aware of how to handle the text of Scripture and what this book, how this book ought to be handled, and you're convinced of that, and you use it that way in your home and you sit under systematic teaching that we have, I see God at work in your lives. I really do. I see your hunger for the Word of God. I see the way you're caring for one another. I hear the testimonies. And I see that as a clear demonstration of the power of the Word of God. Not us. What did we have? When we started this church, we had nothing We didn't have any skilled speakers. We still don't. We didn't have any giant intellects. We didn't have any churches supporting us. We had nothing. We were just weak. That's really all we have now. And so anything that's happening here, it's all of God. Isn't that wonderful? It's of God. God is working. His Holy Spirit is working in your lives. He's transforming you. He's deepening your faith. He's strengthening your convictions. And that's God at work, and I can see it. I'm excited about that. I had resolved long before I came here that whenever I preached, I would preach the Word of God only. I would preach expositionally. I resolved that. And you need to resolve that as well. You say, what do you mean? You need to resolve in your heart that this is not to you just another way of preaching and teaching. This is not just another style. You need to have a conviction in your heart that only where God's word is brought out the way it ought to be brought out, would you yourself support that. Would you yourself be a part of that? That's a conviction you need to have. You need to understand that the Word of God is the Word of God and it must be spoken in all of its power. You need to have that conviction. Have you resolved about the message? That you will only support a scriptural message, that you'll shun the self-esteem message of the day, that's not from God. Keep out all the prosperity, perversion that we hear, refuse intellectual skepticism, which brings the Bible down That you will not trust in any sacramental form of approach to God, that you earn your salvation by performing rituals in church? Have you determined that? Have you resolved that? That you will instead support only biblical doctrine and preaching Have you resolved that the method that you're going to use or support is going to be direct biblical preaching and teaching That our music would remain reverent, our gospel would be clear, and all we do would be honoring the Christ. Have you resolved that in your heart? Is that your determination? Or are you here out of preference Are you here out of relationship? Have you determined this is what God wants and I need to support this? I need to get behind this, and I need to practice this wherever I get an opportunity to teach. Have you resolved that our motive ought to be the goal of seeing every person's faith built on God's power? And if you don't want to be a part of a ministry that ten, twenty years from now is going to crumble because it didn't have a solid foundation. Have you resolved that? That it's not going to be us? It's not going to be what we do. It's going to be God, and God's going to work. That we're going to preach boldly and passionately the Word of God. That we are going to preach and teach as if lives depend on it. Because brothers and sisters, they do.