About mothering. When someone's about to become a new mother, I'm sure they get an earful from all folks, all kinds of folks. Unfortunately, a lot of the advice that is shared to mothers is worldly advice. To put career before children and husband, or to put standard of living before Christian service and contentment Or to value a child's self-esteem before his humble development of character. The world, and sadly, even churches who advocate worldly principles Lead mothers astray. And we don't want that to happen. That's tragic. For motherhood is far too important for it to be led astray. So, mothers, and those of you who love mothers, discernment is desperately needed when gathering advice Discernment is the ability to distinguish between wisdom from God and that which is couched in very flowery terms, but devoid of biblical priorities. The scriptures declare, For the Lord gives wisdom, out of his mouth, or from his mouth, come knowledge and understanding. Proverbs 2. 6. So from the Lord's mouth, not from the world's mouth, we're going to glean a few pearls of wisdom for mothers today, and really for all women and for all of us to some degree. The Bible's wisdom literature often showcases divine wisdom by placing the wisdom of God side by side with the statements and wisdom of the world and showing that they really don't compare. One is greater than the other. So we're going to use that strategy this morning and a variety of selected verses and make five contrasts between God's wisdom and the world's wisdom, particularly with application for our mothers. The first contrast then is the fear of the Lord versus the fear of man. The fear of the Lord versus the fear of man. Christian mothers You are first and foremost Christians. Another way of calling someone a Christian is calling them a God fearer. And those who reverence God That's what our life is to be about, even as mothers, those who reverence God. You are called to follow the ways of God, not the ways of the world. From Psalm 1 to many of the Proverbs, the ways of God and the ways of the world are put in opposition towards one another. There are some people that believe they can follow both pathways at the same time, but you really can't You either are following the ways of God and learning to reverence God, or you're caving in and being conformed to the ways of men and the ways of the world, and you're following their ways and their patterns. It's so important for you to know what's going on in your own mind and heart and respond to God accordingly. Now I will admit that the fear of man can be intimidating. Indeed, you may have been confronted with very impressive and intelligent people who insist that you accept their wisdom and insist that you follow their way. But remember your God who says to you, I, even I, am He who comforts you. Who are you that you are afraid of man? who dies, and of the Son of Man who is made like grass. That's from Isaiah 51. Also, remember Christ's warning when he was dealing with this issue. He directly said, Do not fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul, but rather fear him Who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell? Many people think that the topic of judgment and hell and fearing God is an Old Testament topic. Nobody spoke more about Gehenna and Hell and the fires to come than Jesus Christ in the New Testament He spoke about it and he warned about it because it is true. We should fear God. So you have to make a choice in your heart. Somewhere along the way, you have to resolve inside of you, will I fear God Or will I fear man who dies? It seems when we're rational about it that the decision is pretty easy, doesn't it? There are, of course, a plethora of scriptures urging believers to live constantly in the fear of the Lord. Conversely, there are some scriptures that mourn against reverence of man. Scriptures like Proverbs 29, 25. The fear of man brings a snare, but he who trusts in the Lord will be exalted. If you turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter 1, verse 17, we'll look at the first verse that speaks about the fear of God. Now, you may not be able to keep up with all the verses we turn to today, but you may want to turn to some of the key verses. I don't have time to develop the context of chapter one, but if you look at verse seventeen He's just finished talking about the need to be obedient children and holy as God is holy, and then Peter wrote this in verse seventeen of chapter one. If you address as Father the one who impartially judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your stay on earth Isn't it interesting that he reminds us that we just have a little stay on Earth, as if we've gone on a vacation somewhere, this is our stay, and then it's going to quickly pass. That's kind of how life is. So we need to make the most of it. What do we do when we're down here in the world? How do we conduct ourselves? Well he said, conduct yourselves with fear. Conduct yourselves with fear during your time here on earth. The text explains really to all believers how it is we are to live the Christian life. What should our attitude be? And clearly it points to an attitude of reverence. And all of that, as I said, on the heels of be holy, for the Lord your God is holy. So the word fear here is an interesting word. It actually means fear. And so people wonder why is it that we talk about God and we talk about drawing near to God and he actually uses the normal and very common word, phobos, for fear. We get our word phobia from it and things like that Well, in Greek, as in English, the term fear can hold a number of connotations. It can refer to frightful terror. Surely that's not what he means here It can refer to nagging anxiety. I don't think that fits the context. What it means here, and what is taught throughout Scripture, is holy reverence. Holy reverence. Peter is urging a reverence and an awe for the Creator, the Father, who gave us all life. He is the eternal, unchanging judge We will have a short stay upon earth. We will do the deeds that we do. We will present them to him, and we will stand before him, and he will evaluate and judge everything that we do. For unbelievers, of course, they will be condemned because they had no one who forgave their sins. For those of us, we will be rewarded or not rewarded based upon how faithful we have been in our service to God. Either way, can you imagine what it will be like to stand before an all-holy, omnipotent God who no one can tell him, you know? You shouldn't do this or you shouldn't do that. We think about that day, we think about all that we do here in this world is going towards that day. That's quite sobering, I think, and it reminds us That's why we should conduct ourselves with reverence during our short stay on earth. There should be within us a settled and a strong reverence for God. So that when you're out there and tempted and people make comments that are irreverent towards God. You don't fall into that. You stay apart from that. You have to live before your children and give them a godly example Ladies, what is a godly example for your children? The answer is they need to see in your face and in your eyes a holy reverence for God. Your family must see and be moved by your undying reverence for that King of glory, the King we just sang to. When you pray, how do you pray? Is it a little too casual or is it reverent? As you work, are you mindful that the Lord has given you work? Or do complaints arise from your mouth in front of the children all the time? And you not realize those complaints actually detract from your reverence towards God As you talk, do you have reverence about God? As you come here and worship, do you put your all into it? Your children are watching. Even grown children learn lessons from parents and from mothers, right? And so they're watching you, and I think the very best kind of mothering is to have a mother who fears God, whose children can say, I know my mother fears God. It says so much. To live before the Lord in holiness and reverence. A glimpse of what it might be like to stand in the presence of God was what Moses and the Israelites at Mount Sinai experienced under the old covenant Hebrews chapter twelve and verse twenty-one sums it up and says that Moses himself was full of fear and trembling, his body trembled when he stood before God. He saw and heard a display of God's power and glory, and he was wondering what he was doing there. That's what God wants us to have in our hearts all the time. I know we don't, but we need to be thinking that way. The awareness of his awesome presence, does that ever result in your life during your time before him in holy quaking This is the way to set the right example before our children. The fear of the Lord increases as you receive preaching from the Word of God. See, when we're out there in the world, we don't hear about how awesome and great God is. We hear false ideas about God and His will. But when we come before a Bible study, exposition of the Word of God. We hear God for who He really is, and that produces more reverence in our own hearts Like Psalm 119, verse 38, that speaks of God, establish your word to your servant as that which produces reverence for thee. The fear of the Lord also deepens when we step outside and we actually take time to think about what we're looking at. Beholding the power, the beauty, the incredible intelligence and design of this being we call God, the mountains in their grandeur as you stand upon one or look upon them, a rapid flowing river and all the energy that is there Being right next to it and hearing the crashing waves of the ocean or a thundering waterfall or a relentless rainstorm. When you experience nature's overwhelming power and realize that's a puny part of the expression of God's power, that certainly produces reverence. Another way to grow in the fear of God is to contemplate your weaknesses and your pain and your inability to control things. And yes, your most certain death Only in a short time. Hebrews 9. 27 says it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes judgment. Wow. As I think about death, as I think about creation, as I think about Christ and His Word and all of that, that's to produce holy reverence in all of us. So, if you are thinking rightly, worldly wisdom will begin to appear foolish to you. You will read about unbelievers and you will shake your head You will hear statements like this about unbelievers. Romans 3. 18. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Well then if they don't fear a being like that, then they obviously are blind. But you should be like what Proverbs 1 7 says. Embrace that for yourself. The fear of the Lord is, do you remember what? The beginning of knowledge. It's fools who despise wisdom and instruction. These modern days, the church and society have made an exceedingly great error by holding to a very lopsided view of God and his love. They have forgotten the fear of God's power, the certainty of God's judgment, and the awesomeness of His holiness The scripture speaks unequivocally about this. Habakkuk chapter 2 and verse 20. The Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before him. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. Psalm 33, 8. Did you know that Scripture also ties the importance of the fear of the Lord to the woman of the house? Proverbs 31 and 30, and we'll be mentioning Proverbs 31 a few times here, ladies, today. Charm is deceitful, it says, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. You ever thought about how that verse would be written by someone who's worldly? It would probably say charm is to be sought after and beauty is coveted. But a woman who fears the Lord is ridiculous. The world says good looks are to be pursued and yearn for it. It pleases men, it gains favor, it gives you an advantage God says charm can be deceitful. Beauty is vain. Why? Because it doesn't last and it tends to puff a person up rather than bring them low before God. It is the woman who fears the Lord that will be praised. She is the one who accepts the teaching of chapter 3 and verse 7 of Proverbs. Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. Ladies, there is no stability in the fear of man. Yet the fear of the Lord is a shelter, even to your children. Proverbs 14:26 says, In the fear of the Lord there is strong confidence, and his children will have refuge. So if you are someone who fears the Lord, your children find refuge in learning that fear of the Lord. Your fear of God is like a strong fortress that protects the family from evil's onslaught. The confidence you have in the Lord as you face financial questions or sickness or uncertainty or whatever it may be, that provides stability and comfort for your children. It is the weak home that faces these things and dissipates and falls apart, not the home that lives in the fear of God. So take God's advice. Proverbs 23, 17. Do not let your heart envy sinners, but live in the fear of the Lord always. Sinners are going to get pounded by God on Judgment Day. Why would we be envious of them? Be holy, live in the fear of the Lord. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 29. Offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe, for our God is a, do you remember? Consuming fire. Is that your picture of God? Many people's picture of God is a fluffy teddy bear, a grandfather who doesn't care if you do right or wrong. He just winks at you and smiles, and that's the God of loving. Someone once, just recently actually, asked me, does God love unconditionally? It's kind of a trick question. Because the truth is that God loves even his enemies. So in that sense, yes, his love is unconditional. But that doesn't mean that God's acceptance is unconditional. To be accepted before God, you have to have a Savior, and that is Christ Jesus the Lord. Otherwise you'll be rejected by God. So if love means acceptance, but no, God does not love human beings unconditionally. He is a consuming fire for those who come in their own sin and stand before him. The shifting and arbitrary opinions of man do not matter. God's eternal judgment and his unchanging word that matters So keep that in your heart, ladies, as you serve as a mother in your home. Second contrast is seeking wisdom versus seeking riches. And here's a very simple application for life, but it's profound and has many applications. In most people's lives you can tell. You can look at them and look how they live if you watch them close enough and you can tell. Either they're pursuing advancement in some way in the world, and that is their heart throb. That is what they work for. Or they are wisely and simply living out their Christian life to bear fruit for eternity. It is not coincidental that the lion's share of the beginning chapters of the book of Proverbs describes pursuing God's wisdom as something we should do more than pursuing gold and silver and riches. For the pursuit of wealth and status and greater jobs and nicer belongings and higher degrees and all of that often is the main thing that gets in the way of us pursuing wisdom humbly before God. Jesus really was right, not that you need me to say that. You really do have to choose. Only one master can you serve. Either you will serve riches or you will serve the kingdom of God. You will either serve the temporal or the eternal. You can't have it both ways. Let's turn to Proverbs chapter 1, just to get a flavor for some of this. If you would, Proverbs chapter 1 and verses 20 and 21. You know, the Proverbs provide an explanation of living out the revelation of God and particularly the law of God. Since the law of God is a revealing of his righteousness, how do I and how do you live in light of that? Much of it is written for young people, but also for those who want wisdom and already have some. In the beginning verses describe all the people that would benefit from the Proverbs. But I want you to go to verses twenty and twenty-one of chapter one. There it's personifying wisdom, and it says wisdom shouts in the street in verse 20 there. She lifts her voice in the square. At the head of the noisy streets, she cries out at the entrance of the gates in the city. She utters her sayings. In other words, wisdom and God bringing his wisdom wants very much for us to listen to his wisdom. This is what we most need in life. This is what will help us in a thousand and one ways in life. When we don't Hear the exact application that we want in life from a sermon or from a Bible study, if we would fall back on understanding that the wisdom that God wants us to have in His Word when we have it, it itself will teach us a thousand applications. We will know how to live. And so So wisdom has to almost scream and yell above all the noise that is in the world and say, Listen to me, not to the other voice If you just go over to chapter 2 and verses 4 and 5, you'll see the contrast of seeking wisdom and riches. Proverbs two verses four and five. It says, If you seek her, still personifying wisdom as a woman As silver, and search for her as for hidden treasures, then you will discern the fear of the Lord, and discover the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth come knowledge and understanding What does the wisdom of God say about the riches in this life and the comparison of having wisdom from God versus having riches? And by the way If you could choose one right now, what would you choose? Would you choose the riches or would you choose the wisdom? And don't answer that question too quickly. Sit and think about it. Well, I want you to turn forward as we're staying in Proverbs to chapter 16 and verse 16. If you can't keep up with me, just listen, but I'll be moving through a number of these verses. Proverbs 16 and verse 16. Says, how much better it is to get wisdom than gold. Well, you have the answer of God's word there, right? If you had to choose one of the two. How much better it is to get wisdom than goal. Now wisdom doesn't mean education from the world. Wisdom means a proper understanding of truth and how to live the truth, how to apply the truth. Sometimes in churches like this, Bible knowledge is accumulated, but how to take that knowledge and make it work in your life, that's where real wisdom comes from. And so this person has tasted the fruit of wisdom and says, oh, oh, I would much rather have wisdom than have riches. Have you ever been stuck with a difficult decision? You don't know how to handle a person You don't know how to handle the children or the what or the husband or the family situation or maybe something even beyond the household and you just wish you had the wisdom and you call this person or call that person When you finally do have the wisdom, how much do you treasure that in your life? It's more precious than gold, right? To get understanding is to be chosen above silver. Here's some silver Here's some understanding. Which one are you going to choose? Put the silver away. Give me the understanding. That's what the Proverb is saying. Proverbs 23 and verse 4 adds a little more wisdom. Proverbs 23 and verse 4, it says, Do not weary yourself to gain wealth. Now, don't read into that that you're not supposed to work hard. Because there are plenty of proverbs that speak of the value of hard work. If we have time, we'll get to them. Do not weary yourself to gain wealth. Cease from your consideration of it. When you set your eyes on it, it is gone, for wealth certainly makes itself wings like an eagle that flies toward the heavens There comes a point in time where you have to say, we have enough, and my extra work that I'm doing is just simply so my standard of living can be raised. And it's wearing me out. And I cannot do a good job caring for my husband. I cannot do a good job caring for my children and their education, serving in church and using my spiritual gifts and all of that. And also pursue this. I don't know your situation. I'm not trying to speak to your particular situation. You need to have God and talk to God and The Spirit will give you guidance about this. But the point is sometimes people are wearying themselves and they're getting frustrated, and women are also in this category because they have put too much on their plate. and they need to think about that. Not wanting to lose vitality for the things that are far more important. You only have so much time, you only have so much energy. In the end, wisdom will say, I wanted To spend the time and the energy on the things that mattered more. By the way, it also says even when you make the riches and you think you've arrived, they fly off like a bird. So remember that also. It's when husband and wife sit down together, or if you're not married, you kind of pull up your little thing and you look at it alone and you're like, where did all the money go? And that's kind of the thought here. First John chapter two and verse sixteen. Don't turn there. I'll just say that it mentions the danger of the lust of the eyes. The lust of the eyes, that verse says, is from the evil world system. It's not from the Father above. The lust of the eyes is not the same thing as appreciation for beauty. Some people take this in the wrong direction. God Himself loves beauty. He created beautiful flowers, beautiful waterfalls, and starry nights. But the lust of the eyes is the attitude of the heart that says, I have to have those beautiful things for myself. It's the sin of, I see it, I delight in it, I'm going to get it. It is the love of beauty more than the love of God who gives the beauty Ladies, guard your eyes and be careful what you gaze upon. It will make you discontent. Remember Lot's wife. She had a chance to follow God's will, but she had to leave all of her worldly possessions behind She was told not to look back, and she couldn't help it. She loved her home and she looked back and she was destroyed. If you want a contented life, seek God's wisdom, not his riches All right, let's go on to a third contrast, and that is being an edifying wife versus being a contentious wife. Some of the ladies will probably be taking a bathroom break during this section here. Turn to Proverbs 31, if you would, verses 10 through 12. I'm not going to go through all of Proverbs 31. I've done that on other Mother's Days and I I uh don't want to do that in its entirety, but I do want to touch upon some of the truth that is here in the next couple of points. In Proverbs 31, this excellent woman, this excellent wife that a man is exhorted to find. Who is she? How do you find her? What is she like? Verse 10 says, Her worth is far above jewels. The heart of her husband trusts in her. And he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. Do you see that? A famous text What does it say? It says that this woman, this mother, she is a mother, brings blessing to her husband Clearly, the excellent woman is devoted to her family. It's one of the highest points in this chapter she has an incredible devotion to her family, particularly to her husband. Verse 11 says she is trusted by her husband. Her husband, in other words, can leave and go off and do what he needs to do at his employment, work hard at his profession. give the kind of attention that he needs to to that work and not have anxiety or concern about things at home falling apart Because he knows he has an excellent and capable wife at home. She possesses integrity, she possesses wisdom, and yes, she has a lot of strength. And she will competently care for the needs of the family. In fact, this whole chapter shows she's an incredibly competent, wise, business kind of a woman. Very capable with many, many gifts and skills. He knows that he can depend on her for many things. He puts, in other words, all of the possessions he's worked so hard to obtain in her hands, and she multiplies it and does more with it. She used her skill. She preserves and allocates the family's resources and uses them wisely. Verse 12 says, She does him good, not evil, all the days of her life. So she's taken her marriage vow seriously. She says, I'm here for my husband. She embraces her role as his helper. When she said, In sickness and in health, in riches and in poverty, in good times and bad times, in joy and in sorrow, all the days of her life she is seeking his best interest And encourages him in his vision and leadership. And builds up his reputation in society so that as you read later in the chapter, He stands or sits actually in the gates of the city, the prominent place among those that are well known. Because of her Not necessarily because of him and his wisdom. She's that good. Well, that's a high standard to attain to, but it's the Word of God. Not even the children take priority over his interests, and there's quite a lesson there for mothers. Ways to be a wise and an effective mother is to make sure your husband gets more of your attention, or at least more priority attention, than your children. That your children know that He is the priority in your life because when you do that, you bring stability to your home and you set the proper example for them and their future marriage if God so wills it. So, we could say of this woman that his concern is her concern. His will is her implementation. Her man is her occupation, and she is very skilled at it, and he knows it He knows it. Proverbs 12, 4 puts a punctuation on this and says, an excellent wife is the crown of her husband. Now who doesn't want to wear a crown? Isn't that wonderful? An excellent wife, ladies, do you want to be the crown of your husband? But she who shames him is as rottenness in his bones As imperfect as your husband is I was waiting for some amens. I didn't You're being wise today As imperfect as your husband is, if he has any godly dreams, any aspirations that lead and flow in the direction of God. Any gifts that need to be cultivated, goals that stunningly overwhelm you when you hear him say it, build that up Span that flame because that's what you're there for. And when he is foolish, and when his ideas make no sense whatsoever, Patiently, gently, in a feminine manner, help him think through wiser courses of action. Sweetie, maybe you should talk to Pastor Plumley about that idea. That kind of thing. Be wings for his arms, not weights around his ankles. Your godly example, I repeat, as a wife, is irreplaceable for your children If you work hard to push your children to succeed and you're disciplining them and teaching them and you're orderly, but you do not reverence your husband, you're not setting a good example as a mother. It's so important for your children's training to get that, to see that and sense that in the home. You know, there's a lot of gender confusion today. That's in the minds of men. In the minds of God, it's not really confused. He made male, and then he made female, and there's nothing in between There's not a third option. That's all fantasy. That's all, I'm gonna lie, and you must cooperate with me in my lie. Or else you're a prejudiced person. Hmm. Teach the boys to be men and teach the girls to be women. It starts with your example in how you act as a feminine woman. to your man, so that he can straighten up a little bit, put his head a little higher, and he can do what 1 Corinthians 16 says that we memorize on Friday mornings. Act like men, right? Amen. God's wisdom also warns against the woman who is an irritant in the home. Yes, we need to go there temporarily. Let's turn to Proverbs 27, 15, if we would. Proverbs 27, 15. A constant dripping on a day of steady rain. We talked about bad roofs and never had a leak in the roof. And a contentious woman are alike. I did not draw that comparison. The Lord God Almighty did. A constant dripping on a day of steady rain and a contentious woman are alike. It almost speaks for itself, doesn't it? Arguing, threading, nagging, badgering. Oh, it's not badgering, it's reminding. Complaining That's like a constant dripping of rain on a bald head Why do some husbands leave the home, or at least run out of the house? Because they are trying to get away from the dripping Turn to Proverbs 21, verse 9. Proverbs 21. We're just kind of going backwards here. Verse 9. It is better to live in a corner of a roof than in a house shared with a contentious woman. The problem with reading something like this is Often the contentious woman would argue she's not being contentious. So you need to ask your husband if you're being contentious. You might not like the answer. Some women pick fights as a lifestyle. They aren't usually satisfied They do quickly find fault. Maybe because they're perfectionists, they want things. Sometimes as I'm counseling women, I can see that what they're what they want is the right thing for their husband, what they want is the right thing for their home and their children But the way they're going about getting it is not very wise. They they see what needs to be done and what needs to be changed, but they they feel helpless and so they badger rather than relying on God patiently and relying on their gentle encouragement and realizing there has to sometimes be a lot of suffering before the changes will come about. We are committed to one another in marriage and in the home I like to call it long-range sanctification. You won't change them in a year. You won't change them in five years. Sue still hasn't changed me. She's working on me constantly, you know. But there's after 33 years, we're still rubbing off on one another to some degree. And that is what a Christian home is to be like. Proverbs 17 and verse 1. Proverbs seventeen and verse one Better is a dry morsel and quietness with it than a house full of feasting with strife. It's not saying he doesn't like the feasts on those special days when they would have feasts. He's just saying if I had to have a quiet home and a dry morsel dried up because of the Palestinian air and the food is not as tasty. I'll take that crunchy little dry meal and I'll take the quiet rather than the full feast, all the fatted calf, and all of this fighting. That might give you a little bit of insight into how important it is as a woman to pursue peace in the home. It's far better to have harmony in the home. And then we'll add, go back a little, Proverbs 19 and verse 13. It says, A foolish son is destruction to his father. This is Proverbs 19:13. And the contentions of a wife are a constant dripping The point is that it's bad enough when a man has a foolish son, if you have a foolish child who's not listening, not obeying. not making wise decisions, being bringing hurt and problem of various kinds to the home. That's hard enough. But to have constant Dripping of a contentious wife just adds to that man's weight. And so think about that. Don't be constantly annoying. It hurts the unity in the marriage. I want to say you mothers have a very hard job. And I don't know how hard it is. And I'm sure some of you are feeling I'm being insensitive right now. I've never been a mother I never plan on being a mother. I just have watched my mother and the problems I gave her. I've watched my children's mother and the problems, although we have great kids. um that they gave her. And I know there's never a day, not even Mother's Day, where mothers get a day off. And you're constantly working and often it's unfair. because you're caring for everyone at the same time and it becomes very, very hard. That's why it's so important for you to pursue wisdom. There's so much on your plate and it never ends. It's easy to make the excuses about your character and to fall into sourness and bitterness. It's so important. Do you understand the power and influence you mothers have? Sometimes you think, I haven't done anything in my life. I haven't affected anyone. You have more power and influence than the men Because your example is there more. They learn more from you than anyone. They are molded by your prayers more than anyone. It's powerful what you do. So it's very important you guard it and you care for it. It's a very important role that God gave you. I would urge you to quiet your heart so that you're not Bickering and complaining. Get your heart right before God. Because then you'll realize that it will quiet your mouth and you'll be able to deal with your situation more. Like the quietness that is spoken of in Psalm 131. Very short psalm, but it's a psalm of contentment. And David says, Surely I have composed and quieted my soul. He took responsibility for quieting his own soul. So you do that. He said, surely I have composed and quieted my soul. And then he says it's like this, like a weaned child rests against his mother. My soul is like a weaned child within me. And then it says, O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. I would say, O mothers, hope in the Lord from this time forth. and forevermore. And Psalm 46, cease striving and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our stronghold. We'll have time maybe for one more, a fourth contrast, and that is wise teaching versus foolish words. Back to Proverbs 31 for a minute and verse 26. It says in Proverbs 31, 26, She, that is this excellent wife and mother, she opens her mouth in wisdom. And the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. It's important to note that a mother is a teacher. Proverbs said that earlier. Hear my son your father's instruction and do not forsake your mother's teaching. So side note. All of you young ones out there, don't neglect listening to your mother's teaching. Honor her. Listen to the wisdom she's accumulated. You need it. You need it for life. It's not a punishment. Your mother's teaching is valuable for you. It'll save you from all kinds of problems. Okay? Mothers, you can pay me later for that one. That was The description of the excellent wife and the woman of the home is not complete without mentioning the impact of her words. on her children. Now, it's possible she was teaching the servants in her home as well, but I think the primary application here is to the children. We all have words that we wish we could take back. But we really can't take back words. Once spoken, the damage is done. Do you agree? Like water spilled on the earth, they can never really completely be recovered. Life presents mothers with a variety of situations where you constantly need to speak and teach and think about what you're going to say next. Surely saying the same old thing, the same old way. You need to rethink it. Or surely speaking too quickly is not going to help the situation. From the constant reminders that You've already given a hundred times to those quiet moments of your children where they're despondent and you need to say reassuring words to their hearts To the guidance when they come rushing in all excited about some idea that you can tell will not fly, and you need to give them guidance with that. To the strong words you need to speak when they are rebellious and foolish. A mother must ponder her words. A mother must control her tongue. There is much power in the tongue of a mother. A mother's tongue needs control. That would be Proverbs 10:19. When there are many words, transgression is unavoidable. Keep talking, you will transgress. But he who restrains his lips is wise. The Hebrew language uses parts of the body to indicate speech, so it speaks of lips and mouth and tongue, and it's referring to teaching and words That are pondered and all of that. This verse teaches that restraining the lips or holding the tongue is better in many situations, just to avoid the sin. When you don't know what to say, don't jump in with two feet and say something. The more we gab, the more likely unedifying words will come out. Your lips need to be like a good garden nozzle that only showers when water is needed, and then it shuts off. This is especially true when you are in the company of the family who you feel has neglected you, or children who have been rude to you, or others who have mistreated you, and you're put on the spot and you feel you have to say something. Say nothing. Go talk to your Heavenly Father instead. You are more likely to say something too critical, too emotional, too exaggerated, too judgmental, too harsh around those who have hurt you before. That is why David says, I said, I will guard my ways that I may not sin with my tongue. I will guard my mouth as with a muzzle. While the wicked are in my presence. Oh, you really want to unload when there's wickedness there. The fool talks forever about little. Many words, but little weight. A talent for talking is of no benefit if one does not have a talent for silence and listening, also. Another verse that expresses control of the lips is Proverbs 17, 27 and 28. He who restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Even a fool when he keeps silent is considered wise. When he closes his lips, he is considered prudent It says that if you would have a cool spirit on the inside, that will help you control the words on the outside. In other words, if you're wanting to know how to grab control of your tongue so that the words are beneficial to your children You have to work on your spirit within you, which means that's something every day you have to get before the Lord, confess your sin, quiet your soul. Ask God to give you trust. Ask God to work inwardly. I I threat. When I threat, I bring it to God. And you have even see in some of the psalms They're very genuine in their prayers, where they bring their concern and they're fretting, and by the end of the psalm they're glorying in the Lord, because they see his beauty. Do that with God He'll settle your soul as he settles and makes you cool of spirits on the inside. Your words will come out as a blessing for others. They will be those rare jewels that are needed in the lives of others. It's hard to master this. It's very hard. So we must work hard on it. A cool spirit is the opposite of a heated or hot-tempered person. A cool spirit is patient and calm. And so a cool spirit goes hand in hand with a controlled and a tamed tongue. Psalm 141, 3 says, Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth, keep watch over the door of my lips. Successfulness in communicating in your home is really a prerequisite for your counseling or teaching other people. That's why the younger ladies are encouraged. Work hard in your home, on your character. One day that's going to be needed for others. There are people that are younger than you, you can teach even now. But as you grow older, other women in the church are going to need your wisdom. And so you work hard on this with your own home. Just in closing, a couple of extra verses. A fool does not delight in understanding, but only in revealing his own mind. What does that mean? That means that sometimes when someone is talking to us, all we're thinking about is the next thing we want to tell them, revealing our own mind. Ladies, take to heart Proverbs 18, 21. Death and life. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Your little ones listening to you, you have the power of death and life. Even the older ones, you have the power of death and life in your tongue. Pray when it's impossible. I don't know what to say that I haven't already said. God, give me the wisdom that I might have the choice words for this one, this one who needs my wisdom now. Proverbs fifteen twenty-eight, the heart of the righteous ponders how to answer. May we ponder our effect. particularly mothers this day on the younger generation. Let's go to the Lord and pray. Father, thank you for these wisdom contrasts. How much we see that in the world they fight for rights, and so they have contentious homes. And yet your wisdom is gentleness and calm and peace. And how the world strives to get rich and to have advantage, and you tell us, pursue your wisdom and things that last for eternity. The world fears who's looking over their shoulder and evaluating how they do their parenting or what school choice that they have. And yet We are told to fear you and to make all of our choices about the home with our conscience bound not by the words of men, but by your word, the word of God. Please bless our mothers and challenge them and mold them and remind them what a precious and important position they have. For Christ's sake and the building up of His kingdom, we pray all of this. Amen.