Well, what a difference one week can make. On Sunday, our Lord rides into town, loud hosannas ring, shouts of triumph. Cleansing the temple, everyone's excited, the son of David is here, in the capital of the Jews. Yes, the Romans are going to be thrown off and everything's going to be great. By Friday, same week, Friday morning, same crowd crying for Jesus' crucifixion Asking for Braves to be released instead, disowning Jesus as King in front of the Roman procurator. Can you find a clearer example of how fickle people's supposed commitment to Jesus can be? And yet, through this enormous shift towards darkness. The Gospel of John shows us the amazing sovereign hand of God working through all the details, good and bad Jesus in control, controlling all the events, even the little details to make sure Scripture is fulfilled. Humans making decisions to carry out what God already decided has to happen While God's commanded will to believe and obey and submit to the Messiah was being spurned by the people, God's sovereign will was being carried out to perfection. In this reality, as we read the gospel text, our confidence in God just grows because we see that the crucifixion and disowning And destruction, so to say, of the Messiah only fit exactly what God wanted done. Wow The truth of Psalm 115, verse 3: Our God is in the heavens, he does whatever he pleases. And this is what pleased him, to crush his son on our behalf. Today, even in the burial account We're not gonna be doing a a Palm Sunday message today. We're in the burial now. Palm Sunday was like a year ago or something like that for us in terms of the gospel. Going like that. So we uh we're in the burial now and we see God's redemption plan being carried out to perfection. We're in John nineteen. Open your Bibles, look at it, follow along. That's how you Grow in faith. We're going to be in verses 31 to the end of the chapter. I'll read. Then the Jews, because it was the day of preparation So that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for the Sabbath was a high day, asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other who was crucified with him. But coming to Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. And he who has seen has testified. And his testimony is true. And he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you also may believe. For these things came to pass to fulfill the scripture, not a bone of him shall be broken And again another scripture says they shall look on him whom they pierced. After these things Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a secret one for fear of the Jews asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate granted permission. So he came and took away his body. Nicodemus, who had first come to him by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and alloys About a hundred pounds weight. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen wrappings with spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. Now, in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one had yet been laid. Therefore Because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there So this section of God's Word is a transition between the crucifixion and the bodily resurrection of Jesus. That's its purpose, is to set up the truth of the resurrection so that when you read of the resurrection you understand the evidence is pointing towards the truth of the resurrection. It's not hard to believe someone died. It's a little harder to believe he was risen from the dead. And so this section helps with that. It adds evidence that no other explanation about The body of Christ even makes sense. It confirms to us that Jesus truly died. It also confirms to us that he was immediately and securely buried. Without this section, many, even in the church, through the years might wonder, well, what happened to the body of Jesus? Maybe the body was not handled correctly, and that's how this legend of a resurrection got started. It was really stolen. All of that would lead to doubt of the resurrection. So this adds to our confidence that Jesus was truly raised from the dead. that are made here in this section for Jesus' resurrection. The first is just to state that Jesus truly died. That's what verses thirty-one to thirty-seven are mainly about The second evidence is that Jesus was buried securely, and that is what verses 38 through 42 are mostly about. Okay? He truly died, and he was buried and buried securely. Go back to verse 31 And to the first evidence, Jesus did truly die. Even within this section, we see that there are two evidences that Jesus died. And they're both provided. Evidence one is they did not break Jesus' legs. That's in verses thirty one through thirty three. Look at it. He says, Then the Jews, because it was a day of preparation So that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day, asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other who was crucified with him. But coming to Jesus, when they saw that he was what? Already dead, they did not break his legs. That's the point. So the day is given here first. It's noted carefully by John. He definitively writes, this was the day of preparation. This is when Christ died and was buried. And this is the day of preparation because it's the day before the Passover, the day before the Sabbath also So what does that mean with preparation? This is the day the lambs were being slaughtered right inside the city of Jerusalem. They were being slaughtered for the Passover meal. It's a very busy time, a very joyous time for the Judean Jews. The weekly Sabbath of Saturday fell on the same day as the Passover, and so this is an extra special day. It's called a High Day. Now, if you have been tracking through the Gospel of John, you know that all throughout this Gospel, John, as he writes about the life of Jesus, carefully weaves together the life of Jesus and these Passovers of the Jews. It starts in chapter 1 of the Gospel of John, where John the Baptist, the other John, states, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is the Passover Lamb. And then you see Jesus traveling to the Passover in chapter two and again throughout the Gospel of John. He visits Jerusalem and the Feasts that are there. Now, at the end of his life, he also is there in Jerusalem at the time of the Passover, and so it's all woven together. For the Jews, they had a little dilemma here, which is mentioned next, and that is that the Romans, when they crucified someone, really liked to make an example of them and leave their bodies on the cross for even days. So others would look at it and be intimidated. You know, they wanted the criminals dead, dead, and then even began to let the animals eat their carcasses on the on the tree And so they they liked that. It was a dire warning to anyone who would pass by in those well traveled roads. Look up there, see someone being crucified, don't cross Rome, or you could end up there too. Well the Jews did not want the crucified bodies Hanging out on the cross during their holy day. They wanted them down. They had some basis for this in Deuteronomy 21 Verses twenty two and twenty-three, it forbade leaving out victims hanging on a tree, for that would pollute the land and make the land unclean. The person you see who hung on a tree was cursed by God, and that curse would desecrate the land. They certainly did not want to be unclean or have unclean land for their Sabbath and their great Day of the Passover. So the victims needed to die quickly and be taken down off of that those crosses And be buried. So next we see the Jews request, they go to Pilate and they ask what? To get them killed quickly, they ask that their legs would be broken. Again, that lets us know who's in charge of the crucifixions. They had to go to Pilate. The Romans were in charge of the crucifixion, not the Jewish authorities. And with this request, by the way, these evil Jewish leaders that we've seen throughout this whole uh passion text. They kind of fade away. This is the last we we read of them in John's Gospel. God's plan continues to unfold and shine brighter, and these guys just fade out of the way and out of the picture. Thank God they're gone in that sense. But with our very last glimpse of these Jewish leaders, we see the last piece of extreme hypocrisy on their part They wanted their land to be clean while they were killing the very one who gave them that law of cleanliness and was their Messiah. What incredible hypocrisy on their part. You know those who live constantly in darkness cannot light the way for anybody else. This ongoing hypocrisy is woven in as irony in the gospel account, and we can even take it as a warning for ourselves. Religious people can be so concerned with minutiae and detail and miss the big and important things. Don't let that be you. Don't be someone who falls into religious hypocrisy. Because you're concerned with the minutiae and you judge other people about small things while you yourself are violating important things in your heart towards God. Don't fall into that trap. So they request to break the legs. That would bring about speedy death to crucifixion victims. They would take an iron mallet and they would crush the legs of those on the cross, smashing the bones. When the legs were broken there would be no way for them to keep pushing up on the cross over and over to try to get that breath that they were struggling to get The crushing blow itself would be an incredible shock to a body already traumatized. They'd cause even more loss of blood, and if they didn't die from those two things, they would die soon afterward because of suffocation and not being able to breathe And so that hastened death. By the way, that first century crucified man that archaeologists discovered, which was they dated to somewhere around 70 AD, he also had his legs crushed, so we know this was a regular practice on their part. So the soldiers go to work once the permission is granted, and they start, it looks like from the outside moving in, they broke the legs of the thief on one side of Christ. They broke the legs of the thief on the other side of Christ. Lastly, they came to Jesus, but they did not break his legs, right? They came and they saw him, they looked at him, and they said, He's already dead. And we're told explicitly this in the text. In verse 30, it says that Jesus died. If we went to the Gospel of Luke, it says that Jesus committed the Spirit to the Father. So the Spirit of Jesus has already Already left his body, the body is now dead. And now John adds his testimony here. They were so sure of it they didn't even bother breaking his legs, which was not hard at all for them. One or two good swings ought to do the job. And so it's a little detail, it seems unimportant, but it actually is quite important, and history tells us this from eyewitnesses: Jesus was dead on the cross. You know that. You've heard that so many times, but it's so important to understand it. He actually did die on the cross. Jesus did not slip into a coma, and those poor first-century people got fooled You know, and then later he revived in the tomb because it was so nice in the tomb. Jesus did not faint. He did not swoon. There's this whole swoon theory that's ridiculous. These are explanations of stubborn skeptics who have absolutely no evidence on their side at all. They doubt against the evidence. But if you go with the evidence, all good thinking people must agree Jesus died on that cross Those who want to write off Christianity is not true must first contend with the positive, objective, historical evidence for the reality of both Jesus' death and his resurrection. Even sources outside of the New Testament, which are not more accurate than the New Testament, but for the extreme skeptic, sources outside the New Testament confirm that Jesus died on the cross Flavius Josephus, the first century Jewish historian, notes that. Tacitus, a Roman historian, who was no friend of Christians at all, confirmed that Jesus was executed and even names who did it, Pontius Pilate The Jewish Talmud from the second century confirms Jesus was hung on a tree on the eve of Passover and that he was executed, they claim because he was a sorcerer. There were hundreds of eyewitnesses in the first century, if not thousands, who saw and heard Jesus, and some who wrote it down and recorded it, and it has been so faithfully preserved from the first century. Luke chapter 1 states this. It seems fitting for me as well, having investigated everything carefully from the beginning, to write it out for you in consecutive order. What could be clearer? Luke's claim to be accurate and to do first hand research is being confirmed to the modern world over and over by what the Archaeologist Spade uncovers with each little notation of geographical place and who is in charge. Luke has been proven to be a first-rate historian. Frankly, the more I hear people's reasons for not becoming Christians and not accepting the truth of Christianity, just listening to how uneducated they are in facts, it makes me believe even more. It develops my confidence that Jesus is the truth. And then there's a further evidence provided by the text of Jesus' death, and that's the piercing of his side. Notice in verse 34. But one of the soldiers, instead of crushing his legs, pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. And John adds this very important footnote. And he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth. Do you see the emphasis in that? So that you also may believe. That's his motive. He wants you believing So, what does one of the soldiers do? Doesn't break Christ's legs. He uses his spear and he runs it into the side of Jesus as Jesus still hangs on the cross. That word for spear, long K, means a lance, a javelin, or a long weapon of warfare like a spear. It would have a sharp iron tip on it. No problem to penetrate human flesh. This jab was not a little poke. It was a thrust into the side of Christ. Later in chapter 20, verse 20, when doubting Thomas finally catches up with the other ten. Jesus appears to him and says, It's me. See the marks in my hands and the mark in my side. It made quite a mark, quite a scar. And Jesus' resurrected body continued to bear testimony to it. Now we are not told why this soldier decided to do this It could be just to make completely sure that Christ was dead, or it could be that he just did it because he could do it and he wanted to do it, and so he did it. We don't really know. The motive is kind of irrelevant The important point is the outcome of that jab seen in the latter part of verse 34, right? What immediately came out? Blood and water. What came out of Jesus? Who was Jesus and what was he made of? Was he a real human being? There it is. Blood and water The spear goes in, and not a minute later, but immediately out comes the water and blood from Jesus' side. And John was there, he hadn't gone home, he hadn't taken Mary home, he was staying there till the end, and he says, I was there, I saw it, and my testimony is true. Now, I gotta tell you, I could fill up a lot of time with all the debates about what this flow of blood and water means. There's been a lot of debate both medically and theologically. What does all of this mean? Medically, some believe that the sphere punctured the heart area, the upper pericardial sac. Which resulted somehow in their theory of blood and water flowing out. Others believe that's not what happened, that the lungs were punctured or a portion of the lungs through the rib cage. And there are other theories about how this happened. There really is no medical consensus about this yet, so I won't waste time with that. Theologically They look for meaning in this. Some immediately, whenever they see blood and water, they think of the Lord's Supper and baptism, and indeed that's what some think that this is about, that connected with John 6. But John doesn't make that connection himself, and we know the Lord's Supper didn't just have wine, but had bread, so I'm not sure that's the right connection to make. Augustine of Hippo linked this to 1 John 5 and verse 6, where John writes, This is the one, Jesus, who came by water and blood. Not with the water only, but with the water and the blood, and he emphasizes this in his first letter. But here in John 19 it says the water and the blood came out of Jesus, and in 1 John 5 it says that Jesus came into the world through or by means. Means of or by the agency of water and blood, probably referring to his birth and his death. So it's not the same idea Others see the water and the blood as referring to the cleansing which comes from Jesus Christ. Jesus washes away all of our sins. That certainly is true. 1 John 1 7 says the Blood of Jesus, God's Son, cleanses us from all sin. And of course, in water in Jewish thought was usually about cleansing. Others connect this back to Exodus chapter 17 and verse 6, where Moses was commanded in the wilderness to strike the rock, and God poured forth miraculously water from the rock. for the thirsty Israelites who were going towards Mount Sinai, and of course Christ, uh the rock is a type of Christ in the wilderness. And so the idea is Christ would provide water and life for all of his people in the desert. Those last two connections are possible. The main point, however, doesn't seem to be any of that. The main point is simply that the flow of blood and water is proof that Jesus Christ was a true human being who truly died. In other words, when you cut Jesus open at his death, what came out? What was it like inside? Answer: the same thing came out that would come out of any one of us. He was a true human being and he truly died. That's the point. That's what is emphasized in apostolic preaching. That's what John emphasizes in his first letter, and that seems reasonable that that in this flow is of this flow thought is the main thought. Notice this testimony given so emphatically there in verse 35. John saying, I testified to this. I'm not passing on stories that other people had seen. I was there at the cross. I am giving this testimony. And not just about the blood and water flow, but about the whole death account, he's testifying. And he's saying, My testimony is true, I know I'm not lying, my conscience is clear. This is repeated with the addition of disciples also testifying that this apostle told the truth in John 21 Verse 24, where he says, This is the disciple who is testifying to these things and wrote these things, and we know that his testimony is true. John knew his testimony was true, and his disciples knew that his testimony was true. His conscience bore testimony to that truth. He passed it on accurately for all of us. It's unadulterated, it's not twisted, it wasn't his little theological truth that he wanted to get across. He wasn't manipulating the truth, he was giving us what happened. He's an accurate eyewitness testimony. And he did all of it so that you and I would believe, right? Do you believe is the question. You heard the testimony, you read the testimony, but do you believe? You must believe. Faith in God is based on evidence. So many people think that there's science and then there's faith. No. All of Christian faith is based on evidence, much evidence. You don't get to have all the evidence you want, but you get enough evidence that you are commanded to believe. Faith is not unreasonable, faith is factually based. And so we should be persuaded. If we're not persuaded, it's not because of the lack of evidence, it's because there's something wrong with our will. People don't believe, not because they're smarter, but because they're willful against truth. They don't want it to be true. They want to find the smallest little piece of evidence and elevate that as more significant than the eyewitness testimony. The media always throws something at us during Easter season and Christmas season. Oh, did you hear about the new this or the new that that was Discovered. And we say, what about all the eyewitness testimony from the first century that you're ignoring? The stuff that comes along two, three, four hundred years later is not credible. Why do you pay attention to that? Answer for ratings. We're all the doubters and skeptics that don't want to believe. You should trust in Jesus Christ. You should do it today. And if you do do it today, come and let me know. I want to pray with you and help you. You should believe today. John said, My testimony is true, believe it. Now, there were skeptics in John's day, just as there are today. There are always skeptics. All of this Gospel of John and this emphasis on the humanity of Christ and historic testimony has the heresy of Gnosticism as the backdrop to these words, and you should know a little bit about this. The Gnostics Had already, by the end of the first century and into the second century, begun to infiltrate the church. And they brought their beliefs into Christianity and syncretized them. They believed, as many Greeks did in their worldview, that the material universe was all evil. It was the work of a lesser God who messed up. On the other hand, the good and pure gods who did properly were all spirit and were disassociated with the material universe So when they came into Christianity and claimed to believe in Jesus, they syncretized what they believed, and that is that the eternal good, the Son of God who is spirit could not possibly be connected with the contamination of this material universe and take on human flesh. They believed that the Christ was divine but not human. Interesting, the opposite problem that people have today, right? One brand of this Gnosticism Docetism, Docetism believed that Christ only appeared to be a human being. It comes from the word to seem or to appear. Christ looked like he was a human being, but he wasn't actually A human being. They believe that the divine Christ came and adopted the body of this man Jesus during his earthly life, but then left him before his suffering and his death. That's one brand of this But all the testimony by the eyewitnesses proves that Jesus was the Christ. The Christ is the same as Jesus As Jesus hung on the cross, the Christ hung on the cross. As Jesus paid for sins, the Christ paid for sins. As Jesus bled, the Christ bled. Blood and water came out of Jesus Christ. So this is why when you turn to the first letter of John, 1 John 4:2, he says, By this you will know the Spirit of God. Here's a way to test it. Who's telling you the truth? Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come, and here it is, in the flesh is from God. No Gnostic heresy allowed It's not true. That's why John begins the gospel in the beginning with the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and verse 14, the Word became what? flesh and lived among us, and we beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. God became a man, and God died on the cross to save us. Notice next the fulfillment of Scripture in verses 36 and through 37. He says, For these things came to pass to fulfill the scripture. Not a bone of him shall be broken. Verse 37. And again, another scripture says, they shall look on him whom they fear. It is really extraordinary that both of these things happened to a crucifixion victim. No broken bone, but a pierced side, just as ancient scripture said would happen, but contrary to normal practice. Again, we note that we would have no idea at all if prophecy was fulfilled unless it was fulfilled literally. Old Testament Scripture was written for us to intend to see it literally fulfilled, and New Testament Scripture, as it looks back to Old Testament Scripture, shows its fulfillment as literal. That first scripture is probably not from only one quote in the Old Testament, but a combination of prophecies. The key one probably being Psalm thirty-four twenty, it says, He keeps all of his bones and not one of them is broken, but added into that Psalm twenty-two seventeen. Where David, as the type of the Messiah, says, I can count all my bone, implying that they were all in one piece, not broken. But really, Christ's bones not being broken is a detail that's also important. It's not incidental to the gospel, but coincides with the fact that Christ is on the cross dying as a Passover lamb, right? What was a lamb, a Passover lamb, supposed to be like? Could it have legs broken? Could it have spots and wrinkles? Did you choose the ugliest one of the herd and bring it in and slaughter it? No, it had to be a perfect spotless lamb, right? Exodus twelve five. Your lamb shall be an unblemished male a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats. That's why in 1 Peter 1, talking about that, Christ is called a lamb, unblemished and spotless. Even his body, in that sense, his bones intact. The second scripture about the piercing in verse 37 is from Zechariah 12 and verse 10 Where he says, I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and of supplication, so that they will look on me whom they have pierced And they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only son, and they will weep bitterly over him like the bitter weeping over a firstborn. That mourning and crying, severe mourning predicted of the Jewish people, will come about fully and completely when they convert in mass to Jesus Christ in the end times, as even the Apostle Paul in Romans eleven interpreted literally. They will realize they are guilty of killing and murdering their own Messiah, and can you imagine how that will hit the nation when God finally impresses this on the nation as a whole. Revelation 1 7 also testifies to this. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierce him, the Jewish people. So here you have these details, not made up, important details of a bystander that show Jesus truly died. And the evidence for that is irrefutable. And the evidence for that is crucial to understanding the resurrection. For there can be no resurrection from the dead unless there is a dead body, right? And that leads us now to the second evidence of the resurrection, and that is that Jesus' body was buried securely in verses 38 through 42. Why do we even talk about the burial? What a morbid subject. Talking about the burial of Jesus. Why do that? How could that be exciting? Well, it's not necessarily exciting, but it proves something. It proves Jesus' death again, and it proves, to a degree, his resurrection. Did you know that the burial of Jesus is part of the gospel we are to preach to the nations? In First Corinthians fifteen, verses one through three. Paul makes this explicit. He writes to the Corinthians, I make known to you the gospel. And then in verse three says that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. You say, I know that part of the gospel. But then next it says, and that he was buried. He was buried. The burial of Christ is part of the gospel according to the scripture. Paul makes this point when he says that as believers, we are buried with Christ and raised to newness of light. We have to be buried to be raised. The burial is crucial. Now, before burial could happen then. There is first the request for possession of the body. Notice verse 38. After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a secret one for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate granted permission, so he came and took away his body. What we see here again is God controlling the events of Jesus' burial. We've seen this before. Right after Jesus was thrust with a spear, while Jesus is still hanging dead on the cross. Joseph of Arimathea goes back into the city, probably to Herod's area where he was, his palace, and he finds Pontius Pilate and he asks for possession of Jesus' body. The other gospels tell us that Pilate made sure before releasing the body to Joseph that Jesus was dead. He ascertained this by asking the Roman centurion in charge of the crucifixion and He confirmed that. Yes, Jesus was dead, another evidence. And so Pilate granted Joseph's request. Now this is interesting because Joseph must have had a bit of clout in order to get Pilate to give him the body. I mean why would it be given to Joseph, right? Normally they would give the crucifixion victims' bodies to family members or next of kin. However, in the case of insurrectionists, the Romans did not like to give the body back. They would often just throw them in a mass grave of whatever was left of them after the animals had had eaten them. Jesus, of course, was accused of rebellion. The charge against him was, and he was hanging right over his head, the king of the Jews. But Pilate, as he looked at the whole situation, he knew that the charges that were against Jesus were all trumped up by the Jewish leaders because of envy. And so he decided in this case he would grant this man, Joseph, permission. Who is this man? Well, he has to be somebody of importance because he's important to the narrative And because our faith depends on the bodily and historic resurrection of Jesus from the dead, and everyone throughout all of church history would surely want to know what happened to Jesus' body between the time that it was on the cross and the time that it got into the grave. They would want to know. That. And the answer is connected with Joseph of Arimathea. He took possession of the body. So this is important. Did you know that all four of the Gospels mention this man at this juncture by name? He's that important. Now, there are other Josephs, and so he's designated Joseph of Arimathea to show his hometown. We don't know where Arimathea was. It probably was in Judea. We do know this about him. He was a rich man. Matthew 27, 57 says that. We also know he was a member of the ruling body of the Jews, the Sanhedrin. That we get from Mark 15, 43 And we know that though the Sanhedrin condemned Jesus to death, Joseph was not approving of that, for he was a good and a righteous man, so says Luke 23, verse 50. And we also know from John that he believed in Jesus, that he was a secret disciple out of fear of all the other very powerful Jewish leaders. Matthew 27, 57, and what we read here. But right now. Keep in mind, before the resurrection, before he's seen the resurrected Jesus or even knows that there's going to be a resurrection, he's not thinking of that at all. He musters up his courage, as the Gospel of Mark says. He steps forward with great courage, probably putting His life on the line, and he goes to Pilate and he asks for possession of the body to treat it well, and now he is publicly showing his devotion to Christ at his own laws. A wonderful act of devotion at this stage, and that's why he's spoken of so positively in all four gospels. So Joseph takes the body down from the cross. Maybe he used servants, he was a rich man, and he wraps the body. And then there's another man of consequence who comes in here as well. Look at verses 39 through 42. It says Nicodemus, who had first come to him by night, also came, bringing a mixture of myrrh and alloys About a hundred pounds weight. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen wrappings with spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. And then it says, Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid, and therefore because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus. There. That closes out the preparation. So Nicodemus comes. And he's another man of consequence also. We've already been introduced to this guy way back in chapter 3. He's the guy that came to Jesus by night. Remember him? He said, Rabbi, nobody can do these signs that you do in unless God is with him. And Jesus began a discussion with him about being born again. You need to be born again, Nicodemus, if you want to even get into the kingdom of God. Well Nicodemus was also now a secret disciple. He was also a member of the Sanhedrin. In chapter 7 and verse 50 of John's Gospel it says that Nicodemus was a just and a fair man, and he believed it was wrong. to try and condemn someone apart from proper trial and evidence being presented. Now he also steps forward and he shows his devotion to Christ by bringing a huge amount of spices for Jesus' burial. A ton of them. Not literally a ton, but a whole bunch. A hundred pounds in Roman poundage. A lot of spices for burial. This was a mixture of some kind that says that there was myrrh in it. Myrrh is a Spice that comes from a small thorn tree found in southern Arabia, also in eastern Africa, places like Ethiopia and Somalia. It was very fragrant. It was one of the gifts that the wise men had brought to Jesus in Matthew 2. 11 Myrrh was used by the Egyptians. It was a resin that they used in their embalming process. The Jews, however, made it into powder, and they used it also in burial, though not embalming. Mixture also we're told included alloys. This also was used by the Egyptians in their embalming. It also had a sweet uh fragrance to it. It was a powder It probably was derived from sandalwood that was found in the other direction in India through Malaysia to the east. The greatness of the fragrances that would be mixed together here is testified in other places of Scripture. This was an ancient uh mixture in Psalm 45. 8 it says, All your garments are fragrant with myrrh and alloys and kasha. Also Proverbs 7. 17 speaks of its great fragrance in that context where the adulterous woman uses it To her advantage. Well, this is an incredible amount of spices that Nicodemus brings for the burial of Jesus We already mentioned a hundred Roman pounds, litra pounds. For us that would be between 65 and 75 pounds. That is enough for a royal burial. And that might be the very point. He came with enough for a royal burial. Why? Because he believed Jesus was a king. This was an expression of faith on Nicodemus' part. It may also have been an expression of regret on his part. Jesus was labeled as a king at his death, it hung above his head. And now he was to be given a king's burial with a huge amount of spices. Another king who was buried with a great amount of spices in scripture was King Asa in 2 Chronicles 16, 14. Herod the Great also had an incredible amount of spices that were brought in for his burial. He wanted to make sure everything was done right and people would miss him when he was gone, tyrant that he was. So they take the body down, they have the spices, and right there they began wrapping the body. We're not even told that there was any washing in this case. It was done hastily, a hasty burial because it was getting late in the afternoon. The Passover and Sabbath was coming. They had to do their work quickly. They put the spices in these strips and they began to wind these strips around Jesus' body. Again, we see God in control of the details, even the speed with which they are wrapping the body, for according to Matthew 12, 40, Jesus' own words He was going to be in the belly, as as uh Jonah was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights, so the Son of Man must be in the earth for three days and three nights. Jesus had to be buried very quickly then, because he had to be put into the ground on Friday. The Jews counted any part of a day as a day, and so if he was in the ground on Friday, in the ground on Saturday, and for the very beginning of Sunday, for the Jews that counted as three days. Jesus had predicted it. It had to happen. So even the speed with which they wrapped the body and got him into the tomb before sunset was all designed by God and prophesied. He had to be put in the ground quickly. They had to bury him before sunset to keep the Sabbath. That's what they were working to do. God was working to make sure it was done to fulfill the prophecy of Jesus. So they would have put that mixture of spices, as I said, on the strips of cloth, and they would have wrapped Jesus' body with it, strip after strip. Spices would have been all around the body too, and over these, the whole idea was for it to smell good This is similar to how Lazarus was buried. You may remember from chapter 11 and verse 44. He had all these wrappings around him, and Jesus commanded he had to be unwrapped from all of these things and let go. This detail of Jesus' burial seems to contradict the synoptic gospels, who use a different word in the burial material. That has been translated as a linen sheet or even a tunic. That's a detail which fits the claims of those who believe in the shroud of Turin. But it is a term that it appears can also be used of the material and not mean a single sheet of linen, and that's one way to harmonize the accounts. Besides that, when we go into chapter 20 of John, there's another detail, and that is that Christ had a head wrapping, and so that again speaks of many of these pieces of cloth that would have been around Christ And so we believe Jesus was buried with strips of linen wrapping around him. All of this is said to be done according to the burial custom of the Jews who really did it either way. The Jews, however, did not practice embalming. The Egyptians did, but not the Jews. In embalming, they would remove the organs, they would stuff the body with spices, and the Jews did not do that. kept the body intact because they believed in the importance of the body. They cared for the body. In Jewish thinking and in Jewish theology, the care for the body was important. In this case, after finishing the wrapping as quickly as they could, they would then take the body into the rock tomb, those who were rich enough to have that, and they would lay the body on the rock slab inside of the tomb. And it would sit there on that slab, lay there on that slab until it had decayed. They would come back much, much later, and they would put whatever was left of the bones and everything into an ossuary, a little box, and they would put that into the back of the tomb that would clear the rock slab again, unfortunately, for the next family member who might die. And so the rich in particular would have that advantage in terms of burial. It's a sacred place for a family, a family tomb. The Jews did not practice cremation. And they did not practice uh uh embalming, in cremation, I know that's growing in popularity uh these days, but when you study scripture, cremation is not looked favorably upon in the Bible The Jews believed in proper care for the body. Their care for the body was an expression of their love for the deceased person. and their respect for the family and their respect for the body itself. The Jews were not like the Greeks. The Greeks believed the body and material Things were unimportant, even evil, but to the Jews, to the Hebrew mindset, the body was created by God, and the body was good, and the body was to be treated that way. For some of the Jews, taking care of the body and going to burial was even an expression of their belief in the resurrection to come They would lay the body in the ground respectfully as those who would sleep in the ground until when? The time that they would be awakened and they would come out of the ground, as the prophecies would give. You may remember Joseph in the Old Testament was buried he died and was buried in Egypt, but he commanded that his bones, his body, would be brought back into the land. As an expression of faith in the resurrection to come, because he wanted to be raised on the promised land as an expression of his belief. And so he said, Take me back. And indeed they did and buried him there. Genesis fifty Verses twenty four through twenty six and Hebrews eleven twenty two mentions that as an act of faith on his part. The body of Moses was important to God, important enough for God to send the chief angel, Michael the Archangel, to dispute with the devil about that very body in Jude nine. And Michael disputed with the devil and gained possession of Moses' body because the body is important to God. Jesus himself blessed Mary of Bethany for pouring out very costly perfume all over his body in preparation for his what? His burial, right? Matthew 26, 6 through 13. Indeed, way back in Genesis 3. 19, it declared that all the sons of Adam, because of the curse, would return to the ground, right? Which implied burial, not burning and scattering to the wind and to the water. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 15, verses 51 through 55, it speaks of death as sleep As sleep, which is the position of the body at rest in the ground, showing Christians are to be buried in anticipation of their future resurrection In contrast to that, when you study scripture, cremation in the Bible was always spoken of as a curse, not as a blessing In Joshua chapter 7, verses 24 through 26, Joshua commanded Achan's body and the others of his family to be completely burned because of his sin and bringing sin into the camp of Israel. Josiah also burned those who led Israel into idolatry in 1 Kings 13:1 and 2. And also you read of this in 2 Chronicles 34, 3-5 and Amos 2:1 also. Scripture presents cremation as a way to desecrate the human body. Cremation has its origins Not with the Jews and not with those who had scripture, but with those who did not believe in the resurrection, pagan nations and pagan religions who did not understand God's good plan for the body God has a plan for the body. Too often Christians get caught up in a less than full gospel. I have believed in Jesus who died on the cross for my sins, and when I die I get to go to be with Jesus in heaven. And there's no discussion in their minds of the resurrection of Jesus' body and the resurrection of their own body, which is the climax and the point. The body will be raised. The body is important to God. The body is part of the creation. The body is part of God's plan. And so the body was cared for in burial with this belief. Clearly, God wanted the Messiah buried and not burned It was to prepare for the resurrection. And beloved, we are his followers. And we will follow in his resurrection. The question is not whether God is able to raise bodies who are burned or lost at sea and consumed by giant fish or blown up with a nuclear bomb. Obviously God can God certainly can resurrect a bowl of ashes just as conveniently as he can resurrect a bowl of dust, right? Rather, the question is what better leaves a testimony to the world than our belief in the bodily resurrection? And what better honors the body which God values and will raise from the dead eternally? Jesus was so buried. And it is part of the gospel of Jesus that he was buried So they took them and they entombed the body. The place is clearly given to us, it's in the garden, a site very near the cross, please notice. It had to be close by because they were running out of time and they had to bury them quickly, right? That term garden, by the way, means something more substantial than a couple of flowers. It was more like an orchard and thus the need for a gardener in chapter 20 and verse 15. I like that our Lord Jesus was buried in a garden. I love gardening. And it was a private garden, not a public cemetery, which allowed the women to be able to come the next day very early and have permission to do that. The tomb itself is also described for us. It's not a used tomb. It's a new tomb. No one had ever laid in it, according to Luke 23, 53. And so it's prepared providentially for our Lord to be laid in. Mark 15, 46 says it was cut out of rock, as here it says that. In Matthew 27, 60, it says this tomb was Joseph's own tomb. It was his garden tomb for a space. And all of this fulfills Scripture too, right? Isaiah 53, 9, his grave was assigned with wicked men, yet he was with a rich man in his death. There it is. How can he be with the wicked and the rich? There it is. And it says, because he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. So Jesus was with a rich man in his death, but his tomb was borrowed. He didn't have a penny to his name. God made sure the right tomb for his act of resurrection was used. It was the right tomb. It was right near where he was crucified, so there'd be no thought about wizard's body lost in transportation to the No, they just took him from there to there. That's it. And it was a rock tomb. There was no way into that tomb except the front with a giant stone rolled in front of it, so it couldn't be tampered with. It was the right tomb All of that was preparation and setup for the truth of the resurrection, which is the bedrock of our faith, beloved. All of it is written, all of this detail is written, not just so you can enjoy a story, but so you can believe believe in the power of a bodily, truthful, historic resurrection. Everything was set. They didn't even realize it. They were doing all of this stuff, friend and foe and bystander just Just stuff that was going on. In their minds, some of their minds, bad stuff. But God was working through every decision and every little action to bring about the literal fulfillment of Old Testament scripture. God planned it all, even the evil choices of men to bring about something so holy, powerful, beautiful, and good, the world still marvels of it. All of this is laid out so that we would come to chapter 20 and we would anticipate the resurrection of our Lord. And that is where I am going to leave us until next week, anticipating The resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, whom we celebrate next week. And beloved, you better come ready to celebrate. And you better come ready to sing. I want it loud and jubilant in here, okay? Amen. Father, bless our hearts and move our spirits that this truth of the resurrection, that anybody with cancer or anyone who's afraid flying in an airplane, or anyone who's afraid or about drowns on some trip, or anyone who's had their life threatened in any way or thinks of their mortality or is aged and drawing close to death realizes that not one thing that they've done in this world, not one possession they have in this world is going to help them at death, only the resurrection from the dead Thank you for this truth. Thank you for the evidence. Thank you for telling us to believe, but giving us evidence so that we can understand. the magnificent nature of your plan that included little details and big decrees and everything in between. Lord, we love you and we believe in your resurrection. We pray that you would empower our hearts to believe more, that we might be excited and courageous, because whatever happens to us, you promised us you will raise us from the dead. Hey manus