Well, I would invite you to turn in your Bible to John chapter 12. John chapter 12. If you are using one of those blue Bibles, it's on page 898. 898. Our text for today is John 11, 55, through chapter 12, verse 11. But uh getting to John chapter 12 will get you where you need to be. The Gospel of John is like a courtroom drama. John set his pen to papyrus, if you will, to prove that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Why did he feel compelled to tell us and prove that to all people who would read his book it is so that we might believe and in believing have true eternal and everlasting life The star witnesses of his case have been the prophet John the Baptist, God the Father, and his Son Jesus Christ. Alongside these testimonies, John has set before us a series of evidences, seven. Key signs that reveal that Jesus is not just a prophet, not just a man, but in fact deity Because the signs show that Jesus not only had power, but specifically he has the power of God as manifested in the Old Testament. That case that John has been making ran from chapter 1 through chapter 11. That is effectively part one of John's Gospel And now John turns to part two. John directs his focus from here on out on the final week of the life of Jesus Christ. That week, of course, culminates in Jesus being lifted up on the cross, being buried, and then being raised from the dead This is the most consequential week in human history. The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world will be crucified And then from chapters 12 through chapter 19, John shines the spotlight on virtually every possible group of people. Involved and affected by what takes place. He works through the crowds of the Jews and their leaders. He mentions the Greeks and the Romans and the disciples Even you and me. He addresses their involvement and what this week means for all of them, and especially for those who believe. That's part two of John's gospel. And finally, in chapters 20 to 21, John centers his final arguments, his closing arguments, if you will, on the resurrection. Which leads to the inescapable conclusion that everything he has written before is trustworthy and of eternal significance. Now, most of the people living on the planet during the days of Jesus' final week were utterly oblivious to what was happening in this capital city of this tiny nation called Israel. But you can be certain that the entire host of heaven and the entire horde of devils fixed their gaze on this place and these people and this lamb. It's no wonder that Matthew, Mark, and Luke each in their Gospels give a quarter of their space to focusing on this final week. Nor is it a surprise that John gives an entire third of his gospel to focus on this final week. When we remember that each author is inspired by the Holy Spirit, which means that everything that is written down will last forever. Their intense focus on this final week of Jesus' life reveals the infinite importance of these things. And so I say again that this is the most significant week in human history. There are, of course, many days or weeks in history that are worth remembering. Independence Day, July 4th, 1776. D Day, december sixth, nineteen forty four, many days like that, which are of great significance But even days like that are of significance to some people in some places at certain periods of history What we're going to be studying now for perhaps the next 18 months or so is going to be of eternal significance for all people in all places at all times. This final week of Christ's life, which culminates in his death and resurrection, is of everlasting significance. Therefore, it is worth studying carefully in every detail that the Holy Spirit deems to be his eternal word. With that in mind, follow along as I read John 11, 55, through chapter 12, verse eleven. The scripture reads, Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. They were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know, so that they might arrest him. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, who was about to betray him, said, Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor? He said this not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief. And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. Jesus said, Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. There are three distinct sections in this passage, each focusing on the different groups of people entering into this final week with completely different intentions. As a divinely inspired storyteller, John, uh, before he gets into the final week itself, he sets the scene of this final week by depicting The the tension that's in the air as the nation gathers to celebrate its most important feast The first section, as you see in verses fifty-five to fifty-seven, convey the tension among the people at large The second section, verses one to eight, conveys the tension among Jesus' closest followers, which will result in Judas' betrayal And then the third section conveys the tension among the leaders as they see their fears coming to pass But all of that tension is really just the atmosphere within which people are preparing to celebrate the Passover The title of this message is Preparations for the Lamb, because each group is preparing in different ways. In verses 55 to 57, the people are preparing to eat the Passover lamb. In verses 1 to 8, Mary prepares the lamb of God for burial. And in verses nine to eleven the chief priests are preparing to kill the Lamb of God. These are the three preparations. Preparations to eat the lamb, preparations to bury the lamb, and preparations to kill the lamb. Let's consider the first preparation here. Look again at chapter eleven, verse fifty-five. It says, now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country of Jerusalem, or rather to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. Passover was one of the three feasts required for every male Jew to attend. The Lord established Passover to commemorate forever for his people the recollection of his defeat of Egypt bringing the people out of slavery. The Passover was on the 14th day of the month of Nisan, which is the first month of the Jewish lunar calendar Four days before that, on the tenth day of the month, the people were to select the land that they would ultimately sacrifice and eat. It's not really a sacrifice, but they would kill and eat. This would give them four days to ensure that the lamb was spotless, without blemish, that it didn't have any defects. And then on the 14th day, they were to, at twilight, kill the lamb. Cook the lamb and eat the lamb with unleavened bread and bitter herbs, leaving none left over. That's really the feast of Passover as it's explained in the Mosaic Law Unlike the Feast of Booths and some of the other feasts of Israel that were really public celebrations, the Feast of Passover was a solemn celebration within the home. And again, it was meant to keep afresh in the minds of the Jews what had happened by this point 1,500 years prior. That God had delivered his people in a way that no human explanation could provide from slavery in Egypt. And part of that recollection was to ensure that the people stayed true to the Lord. In fact, many times throughout the Old Testament, the Lord reminds the people of who he is, that he is the one who redeemed them out of Egypt in order to motivate their obedience to his commands. The first time he did this is with the first, or rather with the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments don't begin with a commandment. They begin this way in Exodus 20, verses 2 and 3. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. And then comes the commandment: you shall have no other gods before me. Because of what the Lord had done, they were to only have him and no other gods. And many other such commands did he give on the basis of the fact that he was their redeemer. Well, it's not the cause of their rebellion. It's interesting to note that the ongoing cycles of Israel's disobedience to the Lord coincided with their lack of practicing or or faithfully celebrating the Passover after the first Passover that the people had in the Promised Land itself The Passover is not mentioned until about 700 years later when Hezekiah, the king of Judah, had to command the people to celebrate the Passover Now that doesn't mean it wasn't celebrated uh since that first year, but there's an interesting statement made in 2 Chronicles by uh the the chronicler regarding the Passover celebrated by Josiah, which was Hezekiah's great grandson 2 Chronicles 35, 18 says, of that particular Passover, no Passover like it had been kept in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet None of the kings of Israel had kept such a Passover as was kept by Josiah, and the priests and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. In other words, if the Passover celebrations took place during any of the kings of Judah, they were always muted and limited in the and who participated in those celebrations. And that includes the reigns of David and Solomon Now, after the Babylonian exile, when the people returned to the land, Ezra tells us that the people celebrated the Passover once again. And from there, we don't know how consistently they celebrated the Passover, except that by the time of Jesus' life, the Passover was a consistent annual feast that the people celebrated. Now this stage in their history since Israel had been occupied first by the Greeks and then by the Romans for the last several hundred years Though Passover itself was entirely looking to the past of God's redemptive work, what Passover does is it reminds you of how God is able to redeem his people. And so perhaps in their minds as they're experiencing this occupation of the land now by the Romans, They're thinking, Lord, do again what you did before, not by taking us out of this land, but by expelling the Romans from our land So the Passover was a reminder, not just of what God had done, but who God was and what he could do. So Passover was instituted by God. It memorialized the past. It reminded them of God's power. It motivated obedience. This was not a feast to miss. Now to participate in this most important feast, a person had to be ceremonially clean, according to the law of Moses. Why was that? Well, because various forms of uncleanness required that a person would temporarily live outside the home. And since Passover was something you celebrated inside the home If you were required to be outside the home as an unclean individual, you could not celebrate the Passover In fact, in Numbers chapter 9, on the very first Passover after God delivered Israel out of Egypt, there's a situation where there were some men who became unclean because they had touched a dead body, likely bearing Somebody who had died. And so they go to Moses and they say, Moses, we're unclean. We're not able to celebrate the Passover. Is there any way that we can celebrate the Passover? Well, Moses went to the Lord, and the Lord ultimately permitted that anyone who is unclean at Passover can celebrate it one month later, on the 14th day of the following month. Now that was an act of grace by the Lord. But if you think about it, it's kind of like having to cancel a party because of sickness, and then having a party a month later without any guests. Not exactly the party you were hoping for, and certainly the kind of situation you would try to avoid. In the Mosaic Law, many of the things that would render a person unclean required a seven day cleansing period. And so given all the dynamics of travel that took place in the ancient times, people would come early to Jerusalem to ensure they had enough time to purify themselves from anything that might have made them unclean along the way. That is what verse fifty five tells us. The Passover was at hand, and so many were coming to purify themselves. Now just a note on that purification. The act of purification was as simple as submersing oneself in water as a symbol of This was a ritual cleansing, not a bath. There was no soap involved. It literally involved going completely underwater and coming out. And so that could be done in a river, it could be done in a pool. By the second century BC, there were mikvas that were becoming increasingly common, and the mikveh was Basically a small bath either hewn out of rock or made and then walled with stone that was for the singular purpose of ritual cleansing, just going in, dipping, and coming out. A mikvahva would old hold around two hundred gallons of water, it would have a water inlet and a water outlet, so that the water was always pure and fresh and never stale. Some homes would have them, but m public mikvas were made available primarily in synagogues, so that all the effort needed to channel water like that would have the benefit uh would serve the benefit of many people In fact, there have been at least 50 mikvas found just outside the wall of what was the main entrance to the temple. And that would allow a great many people to purify themselves right before they entered into the temple for the various purposes that they would. Now, the population of Jerusalem at this time is generally estimated to be anywhere from twenty-five to eighty thousand people. That's a wide estimate, but that's about as As good as we can get. At Passover, when you have Israelites coming from not only all over the nation, but outside the nation coming for this feast, that population would at least triple, if not quadruple You might have heard the number two million, perhaps. That comes originally from Josephus, the Jewish historian. But modern scholars seemed confident that ancient historians were notoriously inaccurate when it came to estimating mass population sizes. And in fact, the population of Jerusalem today recently crossed the one million mark, and that's with the city having been significantly expanded since its first century size. And so it's more likely that with the influx of Jews from afar, the city and its surrounding areas would be bloated with anywhere from 200,000 to 300,000 people. A lot of mikvas would be needed to service that many people over the course of several days. Well, all of these people were coming to Jerusalem really for one primary purpose, and that is to eat the Passover lamb. They came and they came early to prepare to eat the Passover lamb, to remember the redemption and celebrate the salvation that the Lord had wrought. This is now the third Passover recorded since Jesus began his ministry, which means that his ministry was either a three-year ministry or perhaps two years spanned on or kept on either side by the Passover. The first Passover began, Jesus began with anonymity. Nobody really knew who he was. But it ended with notoriety. That tends to happen when you go into the temple and you clear it all out. In the days following that first Passover, John 2. 23 says that people began to believe in him when they saw the signs he performed So that first Passover really got the ministry of Jesus going. The second Passover was right after he had done a lot of ministry throughout Galilee, including feeding the about 15,000 people who were on their way to Jerusalem for Passover. So by then he must have been a household name. And now, this third Passover, no Jew would be ignorant of who Jesus was. In fact, a great many of them would have had some experience of Seeing him teach or hearing him teach and seeing him perform signs over the last two or three years. Not only that, the leadership's hostility against him would have been spread and well known by the people. In fact, this was so much the case that the people doubted that he would even show up to the Passover. That's what we see in verse 56. Look there. It says they were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Those who lived far away, whenever they came to Jerusalem, they would spend a lot of time in the temple, not only because of its special significance to them, but because that was just a good place to congregate. There's a lot of space for people to be It's also where Jesus would teach each Passover and at all the feasts. And so they were used to seeing Jesus around the temple. And so they were looking for him there, and no doubt outside the temple. as well. It's been several months since Jesus has been outside of Judea, and so all of those who had not seen him for those several months would be interested to see him, and especially those who had come from outside of Jerusalem, who hadn't seen him since the last Passover. So they're looking for Jesus, but they're not sure that he is there to be found. In fact, the fact that they couldn't find him gave them the suspicion that perhaps he wouldn't come In fact, the Greek here expresses a strong doubt in their question. They're talking to one another. Everybody is saying to each other, what do you think? He's not going to come, is he? Well, why wouldn't he come? Well the obvious reason that to do so would be to put his life in danger. Verse 57. Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know, so that they might arrest him. That was not new news. That had been Going on for months at least, as we saw as we studied chapter 11. As we'll see next week, the people hoped that Jesus would be their Messiah. Not their Messiah according to God's word, but their messiah according to their political expectations. They hoped that he would defeat the R Romans and cast them out of the land and that he would establish once again the Davidic throne. But for now, at least for this weekend, or this particular moment, knowing that the Jewish leaders had were hostile to Jesus tempered their expectations of anything happening soon. Remember that back in chapter 7 and chapter 10 of John's Gospel, the Jewish leaders made repeated attempts to arrest Jesus. And they failed each time. And so now they've put out a bolo, if you will, to get the community's help to find their suspect. They've enlisted the community to capture their most wanted man. But this is not like the appeals that law enforcement might make today. This is a command. This is an order. They have used their authority to bind the people to expose Jesus. And yet, as we'll see throughout this chapter, nobody cares. Jesus does nothing to hide himself, and the people don't listen to the authorities In fact, none of the Gospels convey that the authorities even tried to arrest Jesus until that fateful day a week later. Why would they not try? Because they realized very quickly that the people would not allow it. He was too popular. So this is the atmosphere of Jerusalem. The city is starting to swell with Jews coming from all over the world who come to prepare to eat the Passover lamb. And when they're not performing their purity, purification rituals, they were talking. And everyone is talking about Jesus. Most people were eager to see Jesus. The chief priests and the Pharisees were eager to arrest Jesus. The tension in the air was thick with everyone's mind on Jesus for good or ill. That's the preparations to eat the lamb. Let's move to the preparations to bury the lamb. Let's start by looking at chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table. Now this account is also recorded in Mark chapter 26, or rather, uh Matthew chapter 26 and Mark chapter 14. And so as needed to fill in certain gaps, we'll draw details from those accounts. Jesus and his disciples will eat the Passover lamb the following Thursday. Six days before that is Friday. And so this dinner could either have been the night that they arrived into Bethany that Friday night, or perhaps the next day, which would be the Sabbath. It says here that Martha is serving, and you want you might assume that this would be at their house, but that's not the case. Matthew and Mark tell us that the dinner is hosted at the home of Simon the leper, they call him That's why John says that Lazarus was in attendance. That's a detail unnecessary to give if it was in his own house. Now this is the only time that Simon is spoken of in the Gospels, but it would only be right to assume that he was called Simon the leper because He had leprosy until Jesus healed him at some point in the past. Remember, the city of Bethany, the town of Bethany, was a smaller community. Martha and Mary and Lazarus were well known, and so whenever Jesus went there, it's not just them that Loved on Jesus, but the community itself. And so Simon on this occasion hosted this dinner where Martha served, Lazarus was in attendance, and so was Mary. Remember that it's been weeks since Jesus and the disciples were last there when they had raised Lazarus from the dead. In the intervening weeks, Lazarus had become something of a celebrity of the Jews. Whatever his former occupation was, his life was now occupied by testifying to the resurrection power of Christ. And no doubt he and Jesus had a lot to talk about at this dinner together. Along with the rest of the Jews, Jesus and his disciples had come to prepare for the Passover. Like the rest of the Jews, Jesus and his disciples would eat the Passover lamb. In fact, Luke records that when they do, on that following Thursday night, Jesus says to his disciples I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer, for I tell you I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. The words earnestly desire there translate a word that means a strong, compelling desire. I think we can rightly say that no one in Israel had a greater desire to eat the Passover lamb than Jesus. Even still, that's not what occupied his thoughts. Those around him were mostly oblivious to what was going on and what was about to take place And that's heartbreaking because Jesus had been saying to his disciples repeatedly, even as they were walking from Ephraim, where they had spent the last few weeks, to Bethany, he was telling them these words. See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him over to the Gentiles, and they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him, and after three days he will rise. But for reasons known only to the Lord, the disciples were kept from fully understanding this statement by Jesus and So they enter into this coming week having no idea what is actually going to happen. But that is what is foremost in Jesus' mind Passion Week is called the Passion Week because of the passion with which Jesus went into that week to fulfill the purposes of God of dying and rising from the dead. Now, whether Mary understood all of that is not entirely clear. We're not told. What she does to Jesus here It's certainly interpreted by Jesus as her preparing him for burial. But whether she understood that's what she was doing We don't know. Perhaps, like Caiaphas in chapter 11, she was acting beyond her understanding. At the very least, what she does is an act of honor and love For the one who loved her and raised her brother from the dead. Well, let's look at what she does here. Look at verse 3. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair The house was filled with a fragrance of the perfume. According to the Baker Encyclopedia of the Bible, Nard is a perennial herb with strong, pleasant scented roots It is native to high altitudes in the Himalayas, and its range extends from there into Western Asia. The roots and the spike-like woolly young stems are dried before the leaves unfold and are used for making perfume. It is still used in India, it says, as a perfume for the hair. And there is every reason to believe that the Spike nard of Scripture came originally from India Spike nard is just a synonym for nard is refers to spike because of the appearance of the plant, even though there aren't actual spikes. That description from the encyclopedia corresponds with what Pliny, who was an ancient philosopher, said. He said it gives off a sweet smell. And coming from so far away, coming from India, it would have been very expensive to obtain. And so to make it more affordable, Pliny tells us that nard would often be mixed with what he called pseudo-nard so that it would be easier for people to afford. And pseudonard, he said, grew everywhere. But but the nard that Mary uses here, we're told, is pure It's pure nard, which would make it particularly valuable to preserve the quality of ointment like this. It would be placed in an alabaster box or jar and sealed. And since they didn't have resealable lids Once the seal was broken, you had to use it all. It couldn't be resealed. It was all or nothing, and that ensured that it was only kept for the most important occasions. Now you see here that Mary anointed the feet of Jesus. Matthew and Mark tell us that she anointed the head of Jesus. That's not a contradiction. It's simply that she anointed multiple parts of Jesus. In fact, they record Jesus saying, In pouring pouring this ointment on my body, she has prepared me for burial. He wouldn't have said body if he if if she only uh anointed his head or if she only anointed his feet So putting those together, she anointed at least his feet and his head, if not more. Now there are three shocking things about this moment. First, it was socially improper for a woman to let her hair down in the presence of men. This doesn't mean that Mary was being scandalous, it just means that the men would have been shocked. Second, cleaning the feet and anointing a guest with oil would be the work of the lowest slave And if that wasn't self-abasing enough, rather than using a towel, she used her own hair, which was another level of self-abasement. And then third, she didn't use just regular cheap oil as would typically be used. She used the most expensive oil. For these reasons, the disciples, the hosts, and all of those who were guests in that home must have stared in unbelief at Mary. This moment would have been seared into their minds, especially with the scent moving throughout the house. They would never be able to smell nard again without remembering this moment. Well, one of the men at the table was not just in disbelief, he was enraged. Look at verse 4 and 5 But Judas, one of his disciples, who was about to betray him, said, why was this ointment not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor? Interestingly, Matthew and Mark don't refer to Judas specifically. They say it was the disciples who said this. Which when you put the accounts together indicates that Judas was the one who spoke up, and then the rest of the disciples are like, Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's right. Notice that in verse 4, John does what the gospel writers o always do, and that is they refer to Judas both as a disciple and as the one who would betray Jesus. His betrayal cut them so deep that whenever they wrote about him, they could not mention his name without acknowledging he was the one who betrayed Jesus. Here again, Judas is introduced as Judas Iscariot. You might recall back in chapter 6, Judas was named Judas the son of Simon Iscariot Iscariot is not his last name, it's a reference to his hometown. He is Judas from the city of Cyriot. And that's a vital detail the authors give us because there were two Judas among Jesus' disciples. There's Judas Iscariot, and then there's Judas, Judas the son of James, as he is called in Luke, or Mark actually calls him Thaddeus. You can understand that someone would try to avoid using their name Judas after the events of Christ's death. Well, Judas Iscariot sees and he smells this act of honor and love for Jesus, and he cannot contain his anger. But he manages to direct his anger by lying and expressing it as compassion for the poor. Again, notice verse 5 that he says, Why was this not sold for 300 dinari? You know that a genera is one day's wage for a laborer, so this is a year's worth of work for a laborer. Or put it another way, before Jesus fed the nearly 5,000 people In John chapter 6, Philip had said to Jesus, 200 dinari is not enough to feed these 5,000 men, plus women and children. So imagine this, 300 denarii might be enough to feed about 15,000 people. Or let's say it would be a month's supply of food for 500 poor people. That is a substantial amount of money. Now from one perspective, his reasoning seems sound. Yeah. This was a waste of money Again, Matthew and Mark indicate that the disciples backed him up on this. Yes, we know Jesus is worthy of love and adoration and honor and worship, but at what cost? Wouldn't it be better to show him love in a way that wasn't detrimental to the poor? After all, God makes clear in the Old Testament that He is the God of the downcasts, that He lifts up those who are poor, He feeds the hungry. He doesn't need our riches. You could say that's his stated argument. He's trying to express his anger as righteous indignation But as John writes this account, looking back on that moment, he reveals that this indignation is anything but righteous. We begin at verse 6. John comments, he said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. This is a detail not only, or rather, only mentioned here in the four gospels. It's only after the death and resurrection of Christ, perhaps with the aid of the Holy Spirit, that they even knew that this was taking place. And that's an amazing thing because, as we'll see when we get to John chapter 13, Jesus knew all along that Judas was the one who was going to betray him. We learned that back in John chapter 6. He must have known about Judas's thievery. And yet he never treated Judas differently than the rest. He knew the role Judas had to play, and so he chose not to confront him. More than that, Jesus never gave a hint to any of the rest of the disciples that there was something off with Judas, whether in this moment or in the past. Now we know that J Judah sorry Jesus knows the heart of man. And so he knew that Judas has no concern for the poor. He knows what Judas is really concerned about. And yet, in the way that only Jesus can do, he speaks to Judas in a way that addresses the external concern and the heart of the matter. Look at verse seven. Jesus says, Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial And Jesus says here first, leave her alone. Leave her alone If you think about it, Mary has put herself in a very vulnerable position. She's let her hair down in a room full of men She's humbled herself to the position of the lowest slave, and perhaps even lower than that, by using her hair to wipe Jesus' feet, the dirtiest part of the body. The degree to which she has humbled herself has exposed herself to the potential of incredible shame. But you can imagine that Mary would have been startled and disturbed by Jesus' closest friends and companions and ministry partners rebuking her. Here she is thinking that she's done something to honor Jesus. And those who have taught alongside Jesus, those who have performed miracles with Jesus, have rebuked her, saying, You have dishonored Jesus by wasting your wealth. Jesus stops their protest and defends her. They tried to rebuke her and they find themselves in that all too familiar position of being rebuked by Jesus The language here of verse 7 is a little bit tricky. You see that it says in the ESV, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. That's a faithful translation of the Greek, but the trouble is she's just used the ointment. There's nothing left to keep. So it doesn't really make sense that Jesus would be telling her or telling them to leave her alone so that she can keep it for the day of his burial. The ESV has a footnote with an alternative translation, which is that she intended to keep it. That's a looser translation, though it's possible. And if you think about the day of my burial, not as the particular calendar day, but as the time, really the end of my life as represented by burial, that might make sense. What's helpful to us is that though Matthew and Mark don't quote Jesus saying this, they have other words in Jesus' mouth where he says, She has done this to prepare me for burial. And that's where I get the language of my point. She has done this to prepare me for burial. And so it seems that what Jesus is saying is that Mary's faith is so profound that she has reserved this priceless ointment to honor Jesus as he comes to the end of his life. Because Nard was so expensive, it was not used to anoint corpses as they were being prepared for burial. It's a fragrance to be enjoyed in life, not to suppress foul odors of death Now, I don't know if this is what was in Mary's heart, but perhaps she knew that this was going to be a very bitter week for Jesus. The smell of this ointment, the sweet smell, would not go away quickly. In fact, it would stay with Jesus for several days, if not the entire week So she blessed him with this ointment so that he would have some sweetness in the midst of the bitter walk toward death. More than the smell, knowing that there were those who had set themselves up to kill Jesus, she wanted to worship Jesus by giving him the extravagant honor that he deserves as her Lord. Again, we don't know for certain, but she may have been acting beyond her own understanding, giving honor to the one whose death and burial would result in her salvation. Well then Jesus goes on to say in verse 8, For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me. The error in Judas's feigned calculation is that there are endless opportunities to bless the poor, but the opportunities to bless and honor and worship Jesus in this particular way was coming to an end. In light of the significance of his life and death, what treasure is not worth giving up to prepare him for what was to come? Jesus confronts Judas's heart by telling him that worshiping God, who he is, is more important than improving the lives of others. Judas thought himself poor, at least poor enough to steal. His covetous heart wanted more. He thought he deserved more, but Jesus points to the greater value of loving him. Mary prepared to bury the lamb by pouring this sweet smelling oil. Jesus' defense of her act It was the final straw for Judas. John doesn't tell us this, but it's clear that this is when Judas realizes that his hopes for riches In following Christ will not come to fruition. And so his heart turns against Jesus. Since he can't get money from Jesus, He'll soon meet with the Jewish leaders to see if he can get money for Jesus. In his own sinister way, though he doesn't know the full implications, he too is preparing to bury the Lamb of God. Now there's one statement Jesus makes in this moment that John doesn't record, but it is helpful to understand even why John records it. The account. Matthew concludes his account in chapter 26, verse 13, with Jesus saying, Truly I say to you, Wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her. This is not the gospel, but Jesus wanted what Mary did to be told alongside the gospel wherever it went Mary's extravagant love and honor of Jesus, not only in terms of its monetary value, but in her humbling herself in the process, was so precious to Jesus. that he wanted everyone who heard the gospel to hear about this. Really, she models the attitude of sacrificial giving up everything in in worship and service to Jesus. There is no treasure you can give up that he is not worthy to receive Well that brings us to the preparation to kill the lamb. Look at verses 9 to 11 When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well Because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. With Jesus arriving on Friday, this likely takes us to the next day, the Sabbath, and into the first day of the week. We'll pick up next week with the latter part of that first day of the week, the so-called triumphal entry. But here there's a parade of people who are Hearing about Lazarus, likely those who are outside the community, those who have traveled to Jerusalem and have learned about this man that Jesus raised from the dead, and oh yeah, you can go down to Bethany and see him and talk to him And so these people are flowing to Bethany to see Jesus and to see Lazarus. And as verse 11 says, they were going away and believing in Jesus. That is to say, they were transferring their allegiance to the religious leaders, the Pharisees and Sadducees, and placing their allegiance on Jesus. They weren't leaving Judaism behind. They were believing that Jesus was the Jewish Messiah Obviously, that's not what the authorities wanted. They wanted the people to give up Jesus, to tell them his location, to report Jesus. But the people ignored the order and sided with Jesus. The chief priests could feel their influence just slipping away. And their fear was coming to pass. Remember, again, just weeks prior, after they learned about the resurrection of Lazarus, they said in chapter 11, verses 47 and 48. What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him. They're starting to feel the the flow and the tide turn toward Jesus At that time Caiaphas the high priest made the proposal of it it would be better for one man to die for the nation, so they determined at that moment to kill Jesus, what they didn't account for in that moment was that as long as Lazarus was alive, he was a living testimony of the power of Christ. And so you can't just kill Jesus and leave Lazarus alive. You have to kill Lazarus too. And so the statement at the end of verse 10 that they were to put Lazarus to death as well means that they were adding to their uh initial plan to kill Jesus. The plan to kill Lazarus. John the Baptist, at the beginning of Jesus' ministry, had declared that Jesus is the Lamb of God. And so they were planning to kill this lamb. There were many priests in Jerusalem who were preparing for the mass slaughter that would take place in the next few days. They were ensuring that they themselves maintained ritual purity so that they could perform their duties. But the chief priests, their leaders, had a different slaughter they were preparing for. There's a tragic irony in the contrast of all of these preparations. The people and Jesus and his followers were preparing to eat. The Lamb is a reminder of God's deliverance. The spiritual leaders of Israel who should have welcomed the Messiah were planning and preparing to kill the Lamb of God The people were purifying themselves so that they would sell be able to celebrate God's salvation. The leaders were preparing to soil their garments with the violence of innocent blood. Those who ought to have led the path of purity were making themselves unclean and unworthy of redemption, and yet in his mercy God was using their very sin to open the door to everlasting purification and life. So the tensions are high, the preparations are being made, and everyone is thinking about Jesus Some are interested, some are believing, some are worshiping, some are frustrated, some are hating Each group had their own part to play in moving Jesus closer to the cross I want to close by considering what it is that really separates these groups of people. Why were they preparing the way they were preparing? I would submit to you that We could say it comes down to one issue, and that is what did they each want from Jesus? What did they each want from Jesus? Well, we know here that Judas wanted money. The religious leaders wanted Jesus to die. The crowds wanted a political messiah. Going back to Judas, he didn't get what he wanted. And so over the next few days, he simmered in his anger and frustration and found an opportunity to make money by betraying Jesus. And so it is with all of those who want something from Jesus that is other than Jesus People want all kinds of things from Jesus. Maybe you want uh Jesus to provide you a spouse. You want Jesus to provide you with wealth or riches or resources. Maybe you want Jesus to give you health or success. There's all kinds of things that that we might want from Jesus. When we realize that Jesus doesn't meet our desires or expectations, then it's just easy to say, I'm done with Jesus, I'm going to find it my own way. But friends, the end result of that is always the same as what happened to Judas. It always leads to destruction. What did Mary want from Jesus? Nothing. She knew that he was the greatest treasure one can have. So she needed nothing and she wanted nothing from Jesus other than himself. She really exemplified that truth. We saw in Psalm 73 last summer that when Jesus is your portion, when Jesus is everything you want, when Jesus becomes your all-in-all. He is your protector and your joy and your hope and your satisfaction. And that will sustain you in your life because he is your life. And he is everlasting Now, this is the last time that we hear about Mary and Martha and Lazarus in the Gospels. But I think it's safe to say that their love for Jesus sustained them through what would happen in the subsequent week. I have no doubt that Lazarus comforted Mary and Martha after the death of Jesus with his experience in paradise. This family loved Jesus, and Jesus loved this family, and they continued to worship him, undoubtedly, and testifying about him until they entered his presence at the end of their lives. But friends, it comes down to us this critical way to evaluate our relationship with Jesus. Are we wanting Him? Or are we wanting something from him? Is he our treasure? Or is he the means to our treasure One will lead to everlasting life, the other to everlasting destruction. Let's pray. Lord, as we see this beautiful example of Mary, a sweet sister, along with Martha and Lazarus, who loved you. We could say they would have loved you even if you didn't raise Lazarus from the dead. They were affirming their faith and confidence in you even before you raised him. And their experience of that resurrection only strengthened and solidified what was already true in their heart, their commitment and love for you. Lord, I don't know what it is for each one of us that we would be unwilling to give as an act of worship. I don't know what it is for us that we would hold back and say, no, this is not, this is too important to me to give to Jesus, to give up in service and worship of Him. Lord help us to honestly reflect on our life and consider whether you are in fact our portion, whether you are our treasure, whether you are all we need or want. Whether we can have the same heart of, whether we do have the same heart of Mary, or whether we have more the heart of Judas or others who Prioritize earthly things. Lord, help us to be sensitive to the leading of your spirit. Help us to be eager to give all of who we are. Because you are worthy of it. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen