Today we're going to talk about one of your favorite subjects, money. Or is it? Money is not evil. Deuteronomy 8:18 says, But you shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who is giving you power to make wealth. But the love of money is evil. 1 Timothy 6. 10 says so, for the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil. And some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith. Wandered away from the faith. So the surest way to prove you do not love money More than you love the Lord is to do what? Is to give your money to the work of the Lord 1 Timothy 6, instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches. But on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy. Instruct them to be good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share. Storing up for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is life indeed. Dr. John MacArthur summarizes these truths this way. How people view money is an effective barometer of their spirituality. Money is neither good nor bad, he writes. Corrupt people can put it to evil uses while good people can put it to righteous uses. Though it is morally neutral, what people do with their money reflects their internal morality. In the words of Jesus, where your treasure is. there your heart will be also. Luke 12, 34. I am especially aware that this subject, though a favorite in some ways of people, is also a It's a touchy subject. It's a hard subject to talk about, especially to talk about it right here in church. After the persecution of Christianity, which was so devastating during the first three centuries of its existence, many churches and bishops Became stinking rich, frankly, after the time of Constantine. And the church since that time has often been accused of loving money more than the poor that is around them. From the look of the pomp of the current buildings and landownings of many religious institutions and churches, I think that the problem still continues to today. Churches still are quite rich Right now, as I speak, health and wealth gospel proponents are on the airwaves and preaching in their churches, guaranteeing if you give money, your business will be rich. And so the deception continues on. We all know that when religion and money come together, the potential for abuse is great And the manipulation of undiscerning people of faith who just love God and want to give to God, well, it's easy to man to manipulate them. I know in your situation too as you work hard all week long to earn your money, you've earned that money, you've worked hard And you also know the demands on that money on your paycheck are great. You have many bills to pay, many people vying for your money. In our region that problem is compounded, is it not? The cost of living in the DC area, I think, is one of the top three in the nation. And many of you do not have salaries which are equivalent to that cost of living right here. And that makes it even tougher. And I know And I want you to know, before I even begin teaching on this subject, that I understand those pressures for my family has had to deal with those kinds of pressures ourselves. And I think a lot of you are newer to our church. You don't know our history, so I'd like to share a little bit about my family's personal history so you can understand who it is who's preaching at you this morning. Sue and I have um I guess you could say through the vast majority of our adult lives had to live on a very, very tight budget. When we were married, I worked part-time. Sue worked full-time in a Christian school, and she worked that way to put me through my first time in seminary. Her salary was less than $10,000 a year, and we didn't make too much more than that for the first couple years. After I received my first master's degree, I worked as a Christian school teacher. Some people say that the pastorate is the worst paid profession in America. I had to say no, the worst paid profession in America are Christian school teachers. They labor hard, they really do, and they're not paid much. My starting full-time salary was fourteen thousand four hundred dollars at that time For the next eight years with young children at home, our average salary for a whole household was around $19,000. And we lived in this area, and we we understand how hard that is to do When you have a family of four like we did grew that grew into five, it's not easy. Then I went back to seminary for two years. Uh in Los Angeles, which is a comparable area in terms of cost of living to what we have here, uh by God's grace we were supported by the generosity of our families, both of our families, and many of our friends, some of whom are here in this room as well. But we had no money to buy a home. We we rented a an apartment. We had virtually no furniture, whatever savings we were able to have by that point in time and our lives were swallowed up in paying the bills out there. Then we decided that all was not challenging enough So we came back to this area to plant this church from scratch without any substantial church help from any other church. We had five families originally, and then in the first year a total of eight faithful families, and really not much more than that for the next couple of years. And though our original families gave consistently and they gave generously, they understood it would take that in order to launch a church. The financial reality still resulted in tough times for myself and my family. For the first six years of this church, we had to accept less pay. It's the only way it could be done. And now we have uh children getting ready for college, and that's something that a parent thinks about and isn't easy. So we know what pressures are. Really, for the first twenty years of our marriage, we we owned a home one year out of those twenty years. We rented for 19 years, and we know what the pressures are. We know what it's like to go without health insurance for a period of time, not being able to purchase your own furniture, depending on grandparents heavily to provide the fun things for the children that you know you can't provide Having to do all your studies and your work on an extremely frustrating and slow computer and and realizing everyone is depending on the product of that and and being frustrated about that. Hearing offers like the Valentine's Day dinner and seeing other Christians able to afford that, knowing you can't take your sweetheart to that. Constantly having to tell your kids, no, we can't do that yet. Maybe next year. That was really our first 20 years of marriage, and we put ministry first, we put church first, and so that's just the way that we live. As I said, we rented a home 19 of those twenty years, but we were never in debt, and we always paid 10% of our income. We don't regret those sacrifices for the Lord We know the Lord always repays his servants in a greater way than we can ever make sacrifices to him, and I frankly am very humbled when I listen to the plight of other workers for the Lord and realizes realize whatever sacrifices that my family have has given is a really small thing compared to other Christians throughout the world, many of whom give their lives to serve the Lord Jesus Christ So I'm saying that to you this morning, not to brag. I know that it is all the result of God's grace in my life. By myself, I know I would be a very selfish man. I just know myself and that's the way I would be. I'd be a selfish guy. And so it's the grace of God at work in me. But it's very important to me as I approach this sensitive subject over the next three weeks that you understand me and my motives, that you understand what we as leaders are trying to communicate to you that we're not misunderstood on the subject In the 11 and a half years that I have been a pastor, I have never preached a series on giving to my congregation, ever. And the main reason I have never done that is that I didn't really have to Because particularly at the beginning of this church plant, the families who joined it understood they had to give where there was going to be no church And they were faithful. If there was one mark, I think, one characteristic of our church early on, it is that those families who knew almost nothing at all about planning a church understood that we have to give, we have to sacrifice for the ministry. And they did. And they were faithful in that regard. And I thank God for them I would also say that we have a very frugal and trustworthy finance committee. Now we haven't paraded them and put them before you for you to understand who they are, but they do an excellent job under Allen's leadership in all of the decisions about money. which are for the most part out of my hands. They're all in writing and they're all open and they're all available to any of you to read to understand what is going on in this church. Nevertheless, as we stand here today, we face a new challenge We face another big step for our church. And again, it is time to make that step clear to everyone and the challenge clear to everyone. So that all of you here, and those of you who miss this Sunday and are listening to me on CD, understand that this is the reality of where we are as Hope Bible Church. We need to rise to that challenge by sacrifice and by faith. We have a need for a full-time facility. Not to have a full-time facility, but to advance our ministry here at Hope. If we want to increase our outreach, we want to be able to help the poor, to disciple God's people, to develop solid ministries for our children, for our youth, our singles, our families. We want Christ's glorious name to resound throughout our community. All of that requires a facility. And it also requires our prayers, our volunteer time. And our giving. Beloved, that is just how God and His wisdom has designed His ministry to advance, by the sweat and by the sacrifice of His own people. That is why now I believe it is a very appropriate time to learn biblical principles about giving. Our text is not 1 Corinthians. Move one book to the right, 2 Corinthians chapter 8, if you'd open there. And we're going to study three, well, two chapters in three weeks. And we're going to do this Rather quickly, we're going to sweep through this passage and pull out principles from it. I'm going to start by reading it and then talk a little bit about the context, and then we'll jump into these principles. 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and chapter 9. I want to read the whole thing to you this first week. Paul writes: Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia. That in a great ordeal of affliction their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality. For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability they gave of their own accord begging us with much urging for the favor of participation in the support of the saints. And this, not as we had expected But they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. So we urge Titus that as he had previously made a beginning, so he would also complete in you this gracious work as well. But just as you abound in everything, in faith, and utterance and knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in the love we inspire in you, see that you abound in this gracious work also. I'm not speaking this as a command, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity of your love also. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. I give my opinion in this matter, for this is to your advantage, who were the first who began a year ago not only to do this, but also to desire to do it. But now finish doing it also, so that just as there was the readiness to desire it, so there may be also the completion of it by your ability. For if the readiness is present, it is accepted acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have. For this is not for the ease of others and for your affliction, but by way of equality. At this present time your abundance being a supply for their need, so that their abundance also may become a supply for your need, that there may be equality As it is written, he who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack. But thanks be to God, who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus. For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest, he has gone to you of his own accord. We have sent him we have sent along with him the brother whose fame and the things of the gospel has spread through all the churches And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this gracious work which is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our readiness, taking precaution. So that no one will discredit us in our administration of this generous gift. For we have regard for what is honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. We have sent with them our brother, whom we have often tested and found diligent in many things, but now even more diligent because of his great confidence in you. As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you. As for our brethren, they are messengers of the churches of glory to Christ. Therefore, openly before the churches, show them the proof of your love and of our reason. for boasting about you. For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the Macedonians, namely that Achaea has been prepared since last year, and your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I have sent the brethren in order that our boasting about you may not be made empty in this case, so that as I was saying, you may be prepared. Otherwise, if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, will be put to shame by this confidence. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that they would go on ahead to you and arrange beforehand your previously promised bountiful gift. so that the same would be ready as a bountiful gift and not affected by covetousness. Now this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. He who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that always having all sufficiency in everything you may have an abundance for every good deed. As it is written, He scattered abroad, he gave to the poor, His righteousness endures forever. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in everything for all liberality which through us is producing thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only fully supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing through many thanksgivings to God. Because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all While they also, by prayer on your behalf, yearn for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. That's a huge chunk, is it not? Did you notice there's a lot of godly and friendly persuasion going on in that passage, and we're going to get into that. Paul really, really was laying out strongly the case here for why the Corinthians should complete the giving of a gift that they had made, a promise. for two whole chapters, I think, which brilliantly articulate God's desire for Christian giving. Now the Bible has a lot to say about money, and we're not going to be able to cover many of those things in this series. How to earn money properly, how to invest it wisely, how to keep your heart from trusting in money, how money unfortunately is used for evil. Some have counted, and I didn't, that there are some 2,350 verses in the Bible that speak about money. That's a lot. Randy Alcorn has a little book called The Treasure Principle, and he says this. 15% of everything Christ said relates to this topic, money. More than his teachings on heaven and hell combined. Why did Jesus put such an emphasis on money and possessions? Because there's a fundamental connection between our spiritual lives and how we think about and handle money We may try to divorce our faith and our finances, but God sees them as inseparable. So you might have some questions. Your questions may be in the area of investing or about charging interest. Is it right or biblical or budgeting and how to do that? The focus of our study, however, is just going to be on principles of giving. And without really giving a prolonged introduction to the letter of 2 Corinthians, suffice it to say for our purposes here that this Second epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, at least as it is named in Scripture, was indeed written by the Apostle Paul to the same Corinthian church as 1 Corinthians. Towards the end of A. D. 55 or into A. D. 56. And Paul wrote it when he was at Macedonia after he had left Ephesus. Here in chapter 8 and 9, towards the latter half of the letter, after dealing with many personal issues between himself and the Corinthians earlier in the letter, Paul is now obviously trying to motivate the Corinthians to finish taking up a monetary collection to aid the poor Christians living in Jerusalem and the surrounding region of Judea. These poor Jewish Christians formed the mother church from which every other local church in the entire world, not only then, but now, has come from. It was the mother church. And yet this original church, this first church in Jerusalem and the churches surrounding it, were struggling financially. Why? Due to heavy taxation, due to persecution. Also due to drought and famine in the land which had occurred years before this. And since Paul had always taught that salvation is something that came to the rest of the world from the Jews, from Israel. He now says that all of the Gentile churches throughout the world that have received the gospel He's trying to get them to recognize that they owe a debt of gratitude not only to the Lord Jesus Christ, but also back to these people, to this church in particular, to give them a contribution that shows their thankfulness and their love to them. A debt of love, a debt of gratitude. He wanted also the bond between the Jewish church and the predominantly Gentile church in the Greek world to be strengthened together. And so he was taking up a collection predominantly from the Gentile churches and bringing them to the Jews in Judea And he actually began the instruction about this collection in the letter of 1 Corinthians. If you just would flip back a moment to 1 Corinthians chapter 16, at the very end of the letter, you'll see his beginning instructions about this. 1 Corinthians 16, 1 to 3, he says, Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatia, now that's another region he was also taking this collection from. So do you also. On the first day of every week, each one of you is to put aside and save, as he may prosper, so that no collections be made when I come. When I arise, whomever you may approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gift where? To Jerusalem And if it is fitting for me to go also, they will go with me. And so he'd given this instruction, and it actually had been years in collecting before it was all collected, but we know it was successfully collected in the end, because just listen to this In Romans fifteen verses twenty-five to twenty-six, Paul writes, Now I am going to Jerusalem serving the saints, for Macedonia And Achaia, that's where the Corinthians were, the region of the Corinthians, have been pleased to make a contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem. So they succeeded. Paul's persuasion worked And even the Corinthians were rallied to finish their giving, and he did actually bring it to Jerusalem. In fact, in Acts chapter 20 and verse 4 It lists some of the men who were entrusted by these churches in different regions to go along with the gift and make sure that it was handled properly. They had to make sure not only in God's sight, but in the sight of men that it was handled in an honorable way But in order to make the collection successful for the Corinthians, Paul still felt he had to urge here in 2 Corinthians the people to give. Now, if anyone ever tells you the church ought not to talk about money, and the church ought not to be asking for money, you just take them to 2 Corinthians chapter 8 And 2 Corinthians chapter 9, and you read the inspired words by the Apostle Paul, he not only asks, he urges and he persuades. Liberty New Testament commentary says this. Paul is commonly credited with being a great theologian and missionary. But what is often not known of him is that he was also a great financial genius of the early church. So from this collection here, we're going to learn of a multitude of godly principles about giving, over 20 of them. And by the way, I I hardly ever borrow some other preacher's outline, but Dr. MacArthur's is so detailed and so good here, I just couldn't improve on it. So for the most part, what you're going to hear is his outline. And these are going to come at you quickly, so just write them down. We're going to go much quicker through them. We usually do. Just uh I think we'll try to get through nine of them today. We'll see if that happens or not. Giving principle number one from this text, and go back to verse one of chapter eight. Principle number one: giving is motivated by the grace of God shown to us. Giving is motivated by the grace of God shown to us. That's verse 1. Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia. The grace of God, well, that means God moving upon the hearts of his people in Macedonia to give money to the brethren in Jerusalem. And so these are brethren, by the grace of God, giving to other brethren. The churches in Macedonia, which were Philippi, Thessalica, Berea, maybe others giving money to the poor Jewish Christian brethren in Judea. But the credit notice for the giving it goes all the way back, not to them, but to God's grace. It is the grace of God which is motivating and driving the giving of these Macedonians, which the Apostle Paul is boasting about in this text. In other words, the financial giving explained in this passage is all predicated on the Macedonians receiving and having experienced the grace of God working in their lives. And so Paul saw this financial contribution not just as an example of human generosity. No, it was much more than that He saw the generous financial gift as sure evidence of the grace of God energizing those giving churches. And that is a very important principle for every one of us to understand. These Macedonian believers were touched by the wonderful grace of God. They treasured the grace of God in their own lives so much. In response to the preaching of the Word of God, they thought about the poverty of their own spirit, the sin, the debt that they owed to God. And then they learned of the sacrificial death of the Lord Jesus Christ, the riches that they had gained because of Christ's poverty on their behalf, the forgiveness of all their debts simply by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. all that grace that had been shown to them, and it eclipsed all of their worldly aspirations and achievements, and they wanted to give. They were moved by grace. So when we speak of principles of giving in the local church, mark it down, we're talking about giving by those who are saved, by those who have tasted the grace of God. Saved not by good religious works. Good religious works can never be good enough to be received by God. We're saved by grace alone through faith alone. Giving is for those who have already been reconciled to God. They have a personal relationship with God through the Savior Jesus Christ. If you are going to be moved to give to the work of this church or any other church or any other Christian work, it ought never to be about emotion or guilt trips or anything else that people put on you. No false promises about you becoming rich. It ought to be about knowing that you've turned away from a life of sin, you've received forgiveness, and because of the grace of God in your life, you feel a debt to give to God. And it's not about feeling sorry for poor Hope Bible church that never graduated from elementary school. It needs to get its own facility. It is about, hey, this is God's work in our life, and we need to give. If you would repent of your sins, receive Christ, believe in Him, turn away from a sinful life, you taste the grace of God, you'd want to give. The grace of God would be at work in you. Alright, principle number two. I told you we'd be fast. Giving should joyfully arise even in the midst of trials. Giving should joyfully arise even in the midst of trials. Notice verse 2. That in a great ordeal of affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty, and I want you to stop right there because that's the point. Paul's saying that the Macedonian Christians were giving not because they were rich, not because they had money in storage, not because the economy was on the upswing. They gave in the midst of a great ordeal of affliction and deep poverty. Great is the word polis, it means much, much affliction, phlipsis, suffering, affliction, oppression. In fact, one of the churches in Macedonia, the Thessalonian church, Paul writes this in 1 Thessalonians 1 and verse 6. He says, You also became imitators of us? And of the Lord having received the word in much tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit. Wow, they had tribulation from the beginning when they received the Word of God, and yet they also had joy In 2 Thessalonians it hadn't changed, he writes there in chapter 1, verse 4, Therefore we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. Great church. A great example of a church, the Thessalonian church. Their circumstances, as bad as they were, never squelched their joy. Enjoy, in fact, even in the Philippian church, which is another church in Macedonia, is one of the great themes of that letter. Paul writes, Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I say what? Rejoice. They did not have a lot of money. In fact, they had deep poverty Dr. MacArthur writes, high taxes, slavery, low economic status, and persecution have all reduced the Macedonian believers to abject poverty. They had confidence, however, that God would meet their needs. You know, often the poor look at their circumstances and say, I can't give anything. Man, I can't afford a home. I can't afford this for my kids. I can't even do that Beloved, your income has absolutely nothing to do with whether or not you should be giving. You could be making $200,000 a year or less than $20,000 a year. It doesn't affect the fact that you're giving. God wants you To give. And God promises to bless you, not with BMWs and jaguars, but with joy. And with eternal reward. And to meet your needs, your physical needs. I mean, um there are lots of rich people that um don't have joy. You know that, don't you? Lots of them. What was the Beatles song, Money Can't Buy You Love? Money can't buy you joy either. People get all excited after they get a little bit of money. That wanes pretty quickly. They realize it was a thrill, but it was a temporary thrill, and now it's gone. What really fills their soul day by day with joy, not money. See, I think the poor members of our church might think, hey, it's up to the rich here to carry the load. I mean we don't have anything, why should we give? And so the poor sometimes hold back from giving. I just want to say gently to you, because I know you're in deep in in difficult circumstances, some of you in very difficult circumstances That is the wrong understanding of giving. It is just the wrong understanding. There is a great joy in participating in the work of the Lord through giving that all of us should be experiencing. All right, number three. The joy of giving results in generosity. Principle number three: the joy of giving results in generosity. That's the end of verse 2. It says, overflowed over In the wealth of their liberality. Notice all the words used there. Overflowed. That's the word parasuo, to abound, implying to give with abundance. Overflowed with wealth. Plutos riches, financial riches, of liberality or sincerity and simplicity in giving, actually, showing there were no strings attached. They they didn't give in the wrong motives. They gave Clearly and directly. Really, verse two paints an incredible contrast, doesn't it? They have had much affliction and deep Poverty. Oh, so uh what was their financial giving like? What what did they do? I mean they didn't have hardly any money at all. They were practically beggars, right? Paul must have had to squeeze those guys to get a Roman penny out of them No. Those Macedonians were the guys who overflowed in the wealth of their liberality. Unbelievable. It's unbelievable. They pulled out whatever they had and they presented it to the ministry. Because of joy, their poverty overflowed into the wealth of giving. That really shows how much these people felt a debt of gratitude to their Lord Jesus Christ, and yes, to those brethren in Judea. You know, Christian joy should motivate our giving. Christian joy should motivate our giving. See when you're complaining about life And you leave a place like this and you go through your week and you look at all the commercials and you look at your neighbors and you think about all the things that you want to have and don't have And your life becomes sour, and you're griping and sighing and complaining. In that kind of a spirit, you can't be a giver, because givers are joyful and they're thankful for what God has given. I think that it's instructive to find someone who loves giving, who who constantly is giving things away and then they they don't have money to do some other things they'd like to do, but they're always giving it away. Find them. Imitate them, learn from them. It's one of the things, if I can brag a moment, that I love about my mom. Because all throughout her life she has given and given and given, and and I'm probably the one she's given to the most. And you find people who love giving, who just it makes them happy to give it away. And they don't want anything back, just give it away. Give it away to the work of the Lord. Now you found someone that you can really learn. Your heart learns from their example, and it's wonderful. I can't help but think of the uh the poor widow that Jesus spotted. Remember? Mark twelve, a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins which amounted to a cent. Whoopie. That's Nothing. Get out of there. You're just taking up space. Get that woman out of there. The line's longer because of it. She's not dropping anything in. Is that how the Lord responded? Calling his disciples to him, he said, Truly I say to you, this poor widow put in more than all the contributions to the treasury. For they all put in out of their surplus, but she out of her poverty put in all she owned. All she had to live on. See, it's not that when Paul rolled around in Macedonia, they all had a treasure buried somewhere in the Okay, okay, okay, here's our treasures. It's not like that. The wealth of their liberality was they were giving up really what people today would say they shouldn't give up. You better hang on to that. Tough times. I think people today would call them irresponsible. What are you crazy, Paul? Go on to the next church. That's ridiculous But you see, neither Jesus nor Paul nor the Bible ever calls faith giving irresponsible. Do you understand that? It was so important that you see that out of giving out of their deep poverty, and yes they had children, that God holds them up as an example of faith, not irresponsible people. Well that woman, oh man, she's gonna now be a she's gonna be now be a pain on someone else because she's given her money away and now someone else is gonna have to help her out. She's being irresponsible, she's being a freeloader. That's not what Christ said Christ looked at the gift and the faith and said it was given more than others. That's important. That's really important. All right, number four. Giving is both proportionate and sacrificial. Say, what should I do, Pastor? Should I give proportionately to how much money I make, or should I give sacrificially till it hurts? Well the answer is um both. Let me explain. Look at verse 3. For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability, and he's going to say they gave. Okay? So we have according to their ability, and we have beyond their ability, right? According to their ability, what does that mean? Well it means that if you if you If your ability is to give X amount, then you have X amount. If your ability is to give X X amount, then you give that also. Whatever your ability is, You give. That's according to your ability. It's proportionate in giving. It's a story from a book called Developing a Giving Church. And yes, I am reading that book right now. And it says this, it's it's uh I think challenging. John Allen Lavender tells the story of a pastor who after making an appeal at his church for faith promise A certain woman, a member of the church, came to him and handed him a check for fifty dollars, asking at the same time if her gift was satisfactory. The pastor immediately replied, if it represents you. There was a moment of soul-searching thought, and she asked to have the check returned to her. She left with it, and a day or two later she returned, handing the pastor a check for $5,000, and again asked the same question, is my gift satisfactory? Pastor gave the same answer as before. If it represents you, as before, the truth seemed to be driving deeply After a few moments of hesitation, she took back the check and left. Later in the week, she came back with a check. That time it was for $50,000. As she placed it in the pastor's hand, she said After earnest prayerful thought, I've come to the conclusion that this gift does represent me, and I am happy to give it. But she was a rich lady. She had $50,000 to give. But that illustrates what proportional giving is all about. Something that represents how the Lord has blessed you. That same truth was given in First Corinthians sixteen, verse two. Don't turn back there or read it again, where he said, On the first day of every week, each of you is to put aside and save as he may prosper. How's your business going? You see? What's the salary like? How's it going? You put aside as you prosper. There's no law there. There's no amount there, but it's proportionate. But these Macedonians, not to be outdone by any church anywhere in the world, these guys were sold out for Jesus, part of the part. They did not want to just give according to their ability, but they wanted to give what? Beyond their ability. Beyond their ability to give. You say, what? How can anybody give beyond their ability? What does that mean? That means it hurt. That means their giving hurt them. That means it was sacrificial. That means there were things close to necessities that they had to give up. And it was very, very, very hard for them. And Paul understood that This took faith, but they did it anyway. And again, I say people would say that's irresponsible money management. Paul holds it up as a commendable example. to be followed by believers where the faith is present to believe God to do that. Jesus never called loving, sacrificial faith giving irresponsible. You know why not? Because if there's anything that pleases God the most, it is when his people believe him and his promises. He doesn't promise to make you rich. He promises to take care of you and make you rich ultimately with the treasures that he has stored for you in the kingdom. Well I think it's a m a wonderful and a challenging example for all of us. I'm by no means there, but it what a what an amazing example these Macedonian believers were. Number five. And this just goes with the other. Giving should be voluntary. Giving should be voluntary. Look at the end of verse 3. It says, they gave of their own Accord. Do you see that? Own accord means affaretas, one who chooses his own course of action, one's own free will. Acting spontaneously or voluntarily. Later, if you want to look ahead to chapter 9, verse 7, it says they're not to give grudgingly or under compulsion. Same idea. So the point is that Paul wanted them to give, but he wanted them to give freely, voluntarily, no coercion. Now that's why we don't require a tithe at Old Bible Church. I know there are plenty of churches that do. Bless their heart, they require a tithe. Our church does not. People become members, we don't say, are you tithed? We don't even check to see if you are tithed. I don't know which one of you are tithing, which one of you are not. I don't know what you're giving. I have no idea what you're giving. We don't have our ushers strong arm you in the back as you're going out, put the plate in front of you again. We don't want any coercion. We want you moved in your mind by truth and reality, looking at your situation prayerfully after you leave the worship service and after you get home, you go ahead and pray and think about it, and then you resolve and desire to give. Then it's really voluntary. You see? There's no persuasion on you. No one should be peeking at the size of your check in the offering plate, wondering about that. It's not going on here. Okay? The point is it should be voluntary. Now people ask about the Tata. What is tithing? Tithing is giving 10% of your gross income to the work of the Lord, usually starting with the local church and then beyond to other needs as well. It's really simple. You make $12,000 a year, let's say Divided by twelve months, that's a thousand bucks a month. What's ten percent of that? Oh man, you guys slow. Hundred dollars. Hundred dollars. $100 a month. Every month. That's what tithing is. Not the months where you feel like it would be easier for you to do it, but you give it every single month. In fact, that's the first bill that you pay. It's considered a debt to God and you give to it. That's tithing. You make forty-eight thousand dollars, it breaks down to four hundred dollars per month, and so on. You do the math. Tithing, of course, is a regular theme throughout the Old Testament. Just some samples. Leviticus 27 and verse 30. Thus, all the tithe of the land Of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree is the Lord's. It is holy to the Lord. God said, under the old covenant, Everything that comes out of the ground, 10% of it belongs to mine, to tithe, bring it. Deuteronomy 14, 22, you shall surely tithe all the produce from what you sow. Which comes out of the field every year. Malachi 3. 10, Doug read this. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house, and test me now in this says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you a blessing until it overflows. That is a promise for the nation of Israel, physical blessings to be in abundance because they were in that covenant on the land at that time. Prior to the nation of Israel, Genesis chapter 14, verse 20, Melchizedek told Abram, Blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And then Abraham gave Melchizedek a tenth of all, paying a tithe, paying a tenth even before the law of Moses. So tithing is a is a good thing to do. Tithing is a wonderful thing to do. When we say we don't require a tithe helped Bible church, don't translate that to mean I shouldn't be given ten percent. We're not saying that I don't know how you hear it. Tithing is a wonderful thing to do. It's just not a requirement for God's people in the New Testament. You say what is? What is a requirement is that you evaluate how God has worked in your life and you give generously and voluntarily. That's what God expects from you. You know, it's not a law, but it's a great indicator of where your heart is. If you're not giving 10% and have not been giving 10% in church and that has not been your practice, just ask yourself a question. Why am I not doing that? Where is my heart? Where is my faith? What is the real reason I'm withholding from the Lord that amount? There are many preachers that would say that 10% is the starting point. Since the old covenant required the ten percent of many different things, and actually worked out to more than ten percent, because their giving to the Lord also worked as a tax in their land as well, and it was probably somewhere between twenty and thirty percent that they gave from all the different tithes put together. But since that was the starting point for the Israelites, the church age, which has experienced grace upon grace, should that not be the s the starting point for us, I mean That was the ending point for them, the starting point for us. Maybe we ought to start there, and we ought to trust God there and learn to give more beyond that. And there are many preachers who say that. And I think that's biblical. It may not be required, but the Lord does expect us to give. Principle number six. This is going to shock you. Giving is a privilege. Giving is a privilege. That's verse four. Begging us, these are the Macedonian fellas again, these guys were crazy, these guys were nuts for the Lord. Begging us. With much urging for the favor of participation in the support of the saints. Oh, you're leaving. You haven't, you didn't get our money yet. No, no, please stay. We have more we want to give. Huh? Yeah, that's what he's saying. Paul was not begging them. They were begging Paul to give. That's what it says. That's what it says. It's amazing. See when you give, you're extending blessing to others and setting yourself up for reward with God. When you really believe that, you want to give. You don't want to opt out. You don't start looking at what you've given to the Lord with covetous eyes saying, uh, I kept twenty percent of that back to myself. I'd be able to get this and this this month Now you realize this is the best investment you want to make every single month. This is the best investment you can do. There's nothing you can do better with your money than this. I remember when I was asking for support to go to Los Angeles to study for the pastorate ministry, there was an African man. Who came up to me and and he he said he wanted to support our family with X amount of money. And then he wrote me a card and said, Thank you for letting me support you. And then he went beyond that and he said, And the work of the Lord to bear fruit through you And I remember when I got that card, I was like, this man is thanking me and he's given me the money. And and and of course then it really began to set settle in. This is not about you, buddy. This is not about you at all. He's investing you. You better not mess this up. You go to seminary, you better bear some fruit because this guy wants to bear fruit through you. That was his mentality. It was very instructive to me. It really was. Very instructive. Well, right now, I'd say giving is a privilege. Giving to this church at a time where we need a full-time facility, all the ministries that will grow out of that is a privilege for you. Can you imagine one day seeing children in an Iwana Club, some of the children memorizing verses, being saved, bringing the gospel home to their parents, and seeing the fruit, and all of that happens because we have a facility because You gained. Can you imagine a youth rally where people are the youth are being taught not to love the world, to to turn away from the world and live a life for Christ so they don't waste their life in the ways of the world. And and you know that that that rally is there because of the facility and that facility is there because you were faithful to giving and that fruit is yours. And it's your privilege. This is your time to shine. This is your time to give in such a way that God has put you at this time so that you can see it as an investment. It's not about me. It's not about Alan. It's about ministry. It's about fruit for eternity. It's about what you believe the ministry to be and your contribution in it. This is not a prestige thing. I don't think having a rental facility, by the way, is a prestigious thing anyway. Think of our facility as a base of operations, and without a base, beloved, there are no operations. The operations are limited. That's why it's a no-brainer for most churches. They understand they need a facility. Even back in the first century, they sought out the best buildings they could possibly use for ministry. In the early Jerusalem church, when they couldn't all meet in the house, they met daily in the temple. You see the same thing going in other in other cities as well, trying to get the largest place they could to meet to do what they needed to do. I just submit to you to think about this. It is a privilege to be involved in the Giving Project that Hope Bible Church is presenting to you at this time. It is a privilege for you. I know some of you already know that because you've already been dedicated in giving, but I want you to think and pray about that. It is indeed a privilege. One day we may even, Lord willing, see, a Bible institute here, and you can think about how that will multiply blessing. Well, I'm not going to get to nine. Let me do one more, right? Here's number seven. Giving is part of worship. Giving is part of worship. And that's verse 5. He writes, and this not as we had expected, but they first gave themselves To the Lord. Do you understand what that means? Before they gave the gift to Paul to take the Jerusalem saints. They gave their lives to the Lord Jesus. You know what that is? That's worship You lay your life on God's altar and say, God, here I am. My life is yours. I come to you not just with words singing on Sunday morning. I come giving all of my life to you. Take me. I don't belong to myself. You bought me with a price, the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. I lay myself on the altar. Obviously, if your heart has done that, and you call Jesus Christ your master in that way, and you're sold out for the Lord Jesus Christ, Then giving 10% or a certain amount of your money is no big deal. You already understand that you're nothing. You're just a steward of all of God's resources. That's all you are. And in your worship, you say, I want to give. You know, a lot of churches are pulling the passing of the plate out of the worship services these days. Have you noticed that? Have you heard about that? It's too offensive. Some people may come in here and go, ah, there's the church again talking about money. Not coming back here and look we don't want to we don't want to offend any Any first-time visitors, please understand, you know, we we don't want your money. And they go out of their way to say. We don't want to offend you. Look, I don't want to offend anybody either. Do you? Uh but there's one I particularly don't want to offend. You know who he is? I don't want to offend God. I don't want to call this a worship service to say, God, you're not worthy enough for us to present our money to you. Because that's exactly what we'd be saying. Giving is a part of worship. We studied before when the wise men came to worship King Jesus. They came and they brought what? Gifts. You worship in part through your giving. And a heart that's not giving to the Lord is holding back in the area of worship. Think about your heart, think about your commitment to Christ. Think about yourself. Think about what giving represents you and your faith. And stick around for the congregational meeting because we have more to talk about as well. Let's close in prayer. Lord God, we thank you so much for the privilege of being able to give to your work that you didn't just wipe our slate clean, rescue us from the burning fires of eternal hell because of our disobedience. You did so much more. You called us your own children and employed us in your work and promised reward for our service. Amazing. Amazing grace. Give us the faith to respond to your word, Lord, we pray in Christ's name.