Well, today we come to the last of our three messages on biblical principles of giving. For your continued learning and edification on this topic, I recommend you a little but well-written book by Randy Alcorn entitled The Treasure Principle. The subtitle of that book explains the book's intent, Discovering the Secret of Joyful Giving. That is so true. In the Treasure Principle, Al Corn tells this brief incident of a famous American He writes, to everyone's amazement, Sam Houston, the colorful soldier and politician, came to Christ After his baptism, Houston said he wanted to pay half the local minister's salary. When someone asked him why, he responded, because my pocketbook was baptized too. Sam Houston was not raised in the church. In fact, he was a drunkard and a womanizer. For a while he adopted American Indian religion. He had a lifetime of sin behind him by the time he was baptized. In fact, it is reported that when he was baptized, coming up out of the river, a friend said to him, Sam, now all your sins are washed away. And he responded, God help the fish downstream. That's the kind of life that he lived. Upon his conversion, he, like many others though, understood that coming to the Lord Jesus involved generous giving to the Lord's cause. Another man also that lived a sinful life, a covetous life, was a little man named Zacchaeus. Remember him? Luke 19, verses 8 and 9 says this. Zacchaeus stopped and said to the Lord, the Lord Jesus, Behold, Lord, half of my possessions I will give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I will give back four times as much. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because he too is a son of Abraham. Zacchaeus' giving did not earn him a spot in heaven, but it did prove to Christ that he now was a true believer. See, giving is what the Lord expected from saved people. In Luke 14, 13, Jesus shockingly said these words. So then none of you can be my disciple who does not give up all his own possession. To his disciples in another location in Luke 12, 15, he teaches Beware and be on your guard against every form of greed. For not even when one has an abundance does his life consist of his possessions. To this teaching, the epistles are in agreement. In Ephesians 5. 3, we're told, But immorality or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. Hebrews 11, 24 through 26 says, by faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to endure ill treatment with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin, considering the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. Christians by faith lay hold of greater riches that God has promised to us. Riches He says that will last forever. Riches which make the fleeting possessions in this world that we own lose their luster. In Ephesians 1:7, we're told, In Christ we have redemption through his blood the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. In Ephesians 3. 8, Paul says to me, the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ. So I ask you this morning, do you seek the riches of Christ? Was your wallet or pocketbook baptized when you were baptized? Because if it wasn't, Jesus says you're not yet one of his disciples. You haven't learned that what you own belongs to him. To call Jesus Lord means he's truly Lord over every part of your life, not the parts of your choosing. That includes your money. That's why we must learn Christ's will concerning giving. Open your Bibles again to 2 Corinthians chapter. We're going to be in chapter 9 now. We've been doing 8 and 9. We'll be doing all of chapter 9 today, a survey of this great chapter. Before I read this chapter, the Liberty New Testament commentary says of this that Paul provides here the church with the clearest and most comprehensive treatment of the subject of giving to be found in the New Testament, chapter 9 of 2 Corinthians. With that thought, let's read it together. For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness of which I boast about you to the Macedonians, namely that Acha it has been prepared since last year, and your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I have sent the brethren in order that our boasting about you may not be made empty in this case, so that As I was saying, you may be prepared. Otherwise, if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we not to speak of you will be put to shame by this confidence. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that they would go on ahead to you and arrange beforehand your previously promised bountiful gift, so that the same would be ready as a bountiful gift and not affected by covetousness. Now this I say He who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. And he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. As it is written, He scattered abroad, He gave to the poor, His righteousness endures forever Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in everything for all liberality which through us is producing thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of the service is not only fully supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing through many thanksgivings to God. Because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all. While they also, by prayer on your behalf, yearn for you Because of the surpassing grace of God in you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. We start today with principle number 16. That's right. If you're starting with us today, you missed the first 15. You can get the copies of the CDs that will cover all that we've talked about up to this point in time. Principle number 16 is this. Giving sets an example Your giving, our giving, sets an example to other people. That's verses one and two. Look at it again. He says, For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the Macedonians, namely that Achaea has been prepared since last year, and your zeal, he writes to these Corinthians, has stirred up most of them By the way, here we see more of Paul's unashamed persuasion to urge Christians to give money. Ever see someone begging and pleading for money to be given? The Apostle Paul was an example of that. To understand Paul's motivation, however, please notice that he again calls their giving a what? A ministry in verse 1. Do you see it? It is a ministry to give in order to meet needs. And in persuading them to minister, he writes that he knows of the Corinthians' readiness to give. In fact, he mentioned that readiness before all the way back in chapter 8, verse 11, you may remember. So here he begins by pointing out it's superfluous for him to write to them about this ministry, meaning that they had already embraced the importance of the ministry of the collection, of the need to give to the saints He even tells of his boasting about the Corinthians to the Macedonians. He was telling the Macedonian Christians the people over there in Achaia, that's where Corinth is, were ahead of the Macedonians in the giving project He told the Macedonians that the Corinthians were ready a year before. And he even states here that the Corinthian example motivated with zeal some of the Macedonians. This is the master persuasion, master persuader at work. Boasting of the Macedonians to the Corinthians earlier and now of the Corinthians to the Macedonians everywhere he goes, do you know about those guys? Hey, do you know about those guys And he's having them look at each other's example, and he's actually creating some competition as to who would give more and using one and their zeal to give more to them and saying, but what about them to them? It's really amazing Did you ever think that that kind of boasting and competition was really allowed in church and in the Christian life? Here it is, friends. Right there. That's what Paul's doing. Macedonians had started after the Corinthians, but they were finishing strong. The Corinthians had started first, but they needed a little motivation to break through the finish line. Did Paul's competitive persuasion work? Yes it did. Yes it did. He says the zeal to give by the Corinthians had stirred up most of the Macedonians and We know from Romans 15. 26 that the Corinthians did indeed finish their giving project. What's to learn from this? Well, our godly example rubs off on others. You see someone else giving, that helps you. When you give, your giving, your faithfulness to give, your generosity, your example of meeting the needs of other people, being faithful to church giving, whatever it may be. Others are watching you and they're learning from you. See, it's very easy when we look around and say, Well, he's not doing that. He's not doing that See, people who are weak of heart don't really want to obey Christ, they look around, they try to find everyone that's not doing what the Bible says. Seems pretty normal not to do what the Bible says. And then they feel okay and comfortable, and they sit down and say, This church is okay with me because I don't really have to do anything But when you look over and you see other people, wow, they're actually doing what the scripture says. What does that do to you? It'll convict you a little bit. And then what does it do? It motivates you, right? You're like, well that's that's what it says. I guess that's what Christ Christians are supposed to do. And it begins to warm your heart and motivate your heart and you see this is this is real. This is what it's about Jesus meant these word. Let me boast a little bit about some people. We have some givers in this church. Now I won't name them by name There are quite a number of families in here that are given their ten percent. They're given faithfully. No one's checking on them. No one's reading their name off. No one's giving them a a little uh label on the pew or anything like that. Remember that cue? Congregational meeting? They're just giving. And they're right here. They might be sitting right next to you. They might be behind you in front of you. They're right here in this room. Many of the faithful are giving. What about you? Are you pulling your way? Are you giving as you ought to be giving? Many people here are. If you're a member of the church, I would remind you of a membership covenant which says, and I will quote, to give generously and cheerfully. Let me tell you, it's hard to define generous giving as less than 10%. Really is. So I urge you, give. Give like members are already giving. They are your friends, they are your brothers and sisters in Christ. They are also examples that Christ wants you to follow. You know, I said I don't keep track of people's giving in this church, and that actually is true, but there are some I do keep track of. Yes, I do. There are people who are about to become leaders in our church, who are aspiring to be elders or deacons. I do ask How's their giving going? I want to know. Are they giving faithfully? Because I'll tell you, if they're not giving in that area, if they're not setting an example in that area, how can they possibly be a spiritual example to the rest of us, right? Words are easy, right? Praise the Lord. Live for Christ. Where's the proof of it? Right there in the checkbook. Right there in the checkbook. The spiritual leader gives. He sets an example. Okay? Principle number 17. Giving can be affected by covetousness. Giving can be affected by covetousness. That's verses 3 through 5 But I have sent the brethren, this is precious really, in order that our boasting about you may not be made empty in this case, so that as I was saying you may be prepared. I wonder how he wrote this, what he was thinking about Otherwise, if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, will be put to shame by this conference. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that they would go on ahead To you and arrange beforehand your previously promised bountiful gift so that the same would be ready as a bountiful gift and not affected by Covetousness. That last statement expresses Paul's concern. They're ready to give. They'd wanted to give. They'd committed to give. They understood the project. They'd been an example earlier to the Macedonians. There was still that possibility, and Paul knew a little something about these Corinthians, they could be a worldly lot at times, that maybe they just wouldn't finish it. Maybe they would start to think, you know, we've given enough It's not worth it. Or these guys in Judea anyways, and the giving project would fizzle. So in verse five, he mentions that he sent the three men that he mentioned back in chapter eight we talked about last time They were going ahead of Paul before Paul would get at Corinth to arrange the gift, get their financial house in order, so to say, help them to keep that good reputation that was resounding throughout the world, or at least in Macedonia See, I think this was motivated out of love for the Corinthians. Paul wanted to spare them shame and so that they would participate in the joy that he already spoke of in chapter 8. Before Paul got there with a group of Macedonians, he wanted there to be this bountiful gift that they had promised. Paul had boasted about the Macedonians. Hey, you boast about the Macedonians, uh about the Corinthians, and you show up with the Macedonians and all and they're not giving and what's what's the scene? Ooh And you look over at the other guys like, well, I guess it wasn't true after all. It'd be a total letdown for everyone's faith. Paul did have a confidence that they would give, and Paul spoke of this confidence, yet he knew That they needed to be urged to finish. See, it's a shame to Christians that they don't give It's a shame to Christians that they speak as if they're giving and don't give. It's a shame to Christians that they begin to give and don't finish giving. It's a shame. I'd asked the question back in our July congregational meeting, why do we ask God to provide for our church a full-time facility? Why are we asking God to provide for that? Hasn't he already? Hasn't he already provided the funds for a full-time facility? Aren't we really asking, not God, you provide a full-time facility? Aren't we really asking May your people open up their hearts and give by faith cheerfully. Because the money's already here. It's been here now for a while. We have the money for a full-time facility. It's right here in this room. We have the ability to do it. God's waiting for us to respond. Why should we ask God for something He's already provided? He's already prospered us enough. We have more than enough here. Any objective evaluation of the numbers that we have would conclude that Any examination would come to that conclusion. Really, we're praying for you. We're praying for your hearts. We're praying for your understanding of ministry. We're praying for your faith to rise up and do what God wants you to do. Paul knew if the Corinthians did not give, it would not be given because it would be affected by what Covetousness. Covetousness. Oh, it might be called many other things, but the failure to give when the need was clearly there is affected By the enemy of giving, a sinful, selfish attitude we all have at sometimes, and that is covetousness. So bad thou shalt not covet is put into the Ten Commandments. What is covetousness? Well the word here is pleonexia, greed, or covetousness. Covetousness in this case would prevent them from providing the bounteous gift mentioned in verse 5. So it would be keeping for oneself what could be given in ministry because self was more important. That's covetousness. I think if we're honest, We would recognize that the good life here in America has grabbed a hold of us a little bit too much. I think if we do some honest evaluation about ourselves, And I think this is true for most churches here in America. We're affected by materialistic life. We're bombarded with commercials. We look around at our neighbors and what they have. A lot of what we talk about is congratulating each other on the new thing that we own at home. And this is in our thinking. It's been in our thinking since we were little boys and girls. We grew up with comforts and with certain things that we expect to have in life and it affects the way we think. From the book Developing that Giving Church comes a cute story I'll share with you that illustrates our problem. There was a young boy, as the story goes, who lived with his elderly grandmother in a small town. Every Sunday the grandmother would take the boy to church and after they would go downtown and get an ice cream cone, which was a special treat. On one particular Sunday, grandmother was not feeling well. She told the boy that he would have to go to church by himself today. And she gave him two nickels. One for the offering plate, one for an ice cream after church. Now as it happened, the boy needed to cross an old wooden bridge in order to get to church. As he was crossing the bridge that Sunday, as boys will do, he was watching the river below, skipping, hopping, generally not paying attention. All of a sudden he dropped one of the nickels The nickel fell to the bridge, and as chance would have it, it found a small crack through which it fell into the river below. The boy dropped down, put his eye to the crack. He watched helplessly as the nickel fell into the river below As the boy got up and put the other nickel in his pocket, he said to no one in particular, oh well, there goes God's nickel. But forced to choose, many of us are like that boy. Oh well, I can't give to God this month. That's how we are. Here's another. At a church meeting, a very wealthy man rose to tell the rest of those present about his Christian faith. I'm a millionaire, he said. And I attribute it all to the rich blessings of God in my life. I remember that turning point in my faith. I had just earned my first dollar. And I went to a church meeting that night. The speaker was a missionary who told about his work. I knew that I only had a dollar bill, and I had to either give it all to God's work or nothing at all. So at that moment, I decided to give my whole dollar to God. And I believe that God blessed that decision, and that is why I am a rich man today. He finished and there was an awed silence at his testimony as he moved toward his seat. As he sat down, a little old lady sitting in the same pew leaned over and said to him, I dare you to do it again. The more you own, the more it owns you. Yes? Covetousness, brothers and sisters, is the enemy of giving. Because it slowly, almost imperceptibly, takes over our hearts. Jesus warned in Mark 7, 21 to 22, for from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the evil thoughts. Fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries. Those are wicked, aren't they? The next thing he has in the list is this: deeds of covenant And wickedness, as well as deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness. Get the point? Those are the kinds of things covenant is life. The heart generates many, many defenses when we're asked to give. We have a lot of armor against giving, those hypocrites in church. They have enough money anyways. Look at the tie the pastor's wearing. Whatever it is. Those people have more than me. Why should I give to this? We make our excuses. I'll start giving once I'm out of debt, but why in debt in the first place? Was it covetousness that led there? Maybe not, but it might have been. Others make more money. That's true, but isn't Christ your Lord too? Yeah, I have to first take care of my kids, though. That's true. But don't you think if you give to the Lord, he'll take care of your children? And what kind of an example are you setting to your children? Are they going to give if you're not a giver? Really, at the root of covetousness is our selfishness and our unbelief. John MacArthur has a great quote, it's extended, I'd like to read it to you. To the three American unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence, our society would add a fourth The right to the pursuit of prosperity. The headlong pursuit of wealth is the consuming passion of the age. Self-styled self-styled financial gurus turn out a bewildering plethora of books, infomercials, and other TV programs, websites, newsletters, and magazines. Some offer sound advice, most promote dubious get-rich, quick schemes. But they all claimed to have the roadmap to the modern day El Dorado, the mythical city of gold the Spanish conquistadors so eagerly sought People today pursue their own Eldorados with the ruthless single-mindedness that characterized the conquistadors, and often just as unsuccessfully. Sadly, the church has fallen prey to the world's relentless pursuit of materialism. Some Christians view wealth as a sign of God's blessing and thus consider financial success to be an essential qualification for church leaders. The most outrageous example of materialism in the name of Christianity is unquestionably the heretical word-faith movement, or health and wealth gospel. Its proponents unabashedly proclaim that God's will is for all believers to be rich. If they claim riches by faith and speak positively of them, that verbal confession itself creates the wealth. Word, faith teachers insist that God is obligated to deliver the goods believers request. They are so bold as to replace the sovereign God of Scripture with the sovereignty of the believer. who wields creative power to make himself healthy and wealthy by his own faith. God becomes a utilitarian genie who grants believers every desire. People twist so many things when it comes to money, thinking they're serving God when their heart is breaking one of the Ten Commandments. Deuteronomy 5, you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey. Or anything that belongs to your neighbor. You can make that modern if you want. 1 Corinthians 5. 11. We'll be getting to this in a few weeks. But actually, I wrote to you not to associate with any so-called brother if he is an immoral person or covetous. Colossians 3:5, therefore consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry, the worship of money. So I don't know which Bible those health and wealth teachers were reading. We think we own our possessions, but the reverse is often the case. Covetous people have to reorient their entire way of thinking. I'd like to give you some verses to meditate on. You can write them down now and think about them later. Proverbs 1124. There is one who scatters and yet increases all the more. There's one who withholds what is justly due, and yet it results only in want. Proverbs 19:17 One who is gracious to a poor man lends to the Lord, and he will repay him for his good deed. Ecclesiastes eleven one, cast your bread on the surface of the waters, for you will find it after many days. Luke 6. 38, a great promise. Give and it will be given to you It will pour into your lap a good measure pressed down, shaken together, and running over. For by your standard of measure will be measured to you in return Deuteronomy fifteen, seven and eight. If there is a poor man with you, one of your brothers in any of your towns in your land which the Lord your God has given you, you shall not harden your heart, nor close your hand from your poor brother But you shall freely open your hand to him and shall generously lend him sufficient for his need in whatever he lacks. Do you get the point? Be generous, don't be affected by covetous. Principle 18. Giving is investing Giving really is investing, and that's verse six. Now this I say: he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Really, there's a a change in theme here from verse six to the end down to verse fifteen where the outcome of giving is what comes into Paul's mind and the forefront of what he's thinking about here. First, the the giver is blessed himself in verses 6 through 10. And then second, the receivers have their real needs met in verses 11 and 12. And then last, most importantly, though, in verses 13 through 15, God is blessed. Here, in verse 6, the image of the harvest shows that you can plant as much seed as you want to. How much of a harvest would you like to have? Well, that's up to you. It depends on how much you sow. See, farmers know that. They know, you know, if I'm just going to do this one field and plant just this one field, and I'm too lazy to plant over in that field, well then at harvest time that's all I'm going to get But if I realize what can come from my hard work, my giving and my sacrifice, and I sow bountifully, and I sow all of my fields, at least the ones that should be, that are not at rest. The harvest will be much greater. That's what giving is about, Paul's saying. If you're content with a little spiritual harvest, then I guess you'll sow little. You'll have a small vision and a small heart. And you'll say, I've done enough. I've done enough. And that that's how you'll think. Paul is saying, you need to open your heart. You need to open your mind. Your God is bigger. Your mission is bigger. What the church is in this world for is bigger. We don't want a small vision. The Bible knowledge commentary comments here. Charity reaps an eternal reward. Practical righteousness endures forever, not only through the deeds, but in the through the deeds, but in the doer, as he is progressively transformed into Christ's likeness. You even reap in your own life. You know that bumper sticker, he who dies with the most toys wins. Have you seen it? I always wanted to jump out of my car and scratch off that last word and put in there losers. That'd be vandalism. I can't do that. But that's how I feel. You die with the most toys, you lose. Colonel Sanders, the founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken, said there's no good reason to be the richest man in the cemetery. Funny way of putting it. From that book The Treasure principle again comes this store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Why? He writes, because it's right, not just that, but because it's smart, because such treasures will last. Jesus argues from the bottom line, it's not an emotional appeal, it's a logical one. Invest in what has lasting value. You'll never see a hearse pulling a U-Haul, he writes, because you can't take it with you. You remember Jim Elliott's famous quote, he is no fool, he gives up what he cannot keep to what? gain what he cannot lose. What can you not lose? An eternal inheritance. That's what you can't lose. What can you not keep all the stuff we have right now? Ecclesiastes 5, verses 10 through 15. Listen to this. He who loves money will not be satisfied with money. Nor he who loves abundance with its income. This too is vanity. When good things increase, those who consume them increase. So what is the advantage to their owners except to look on? The sleep of the working man is pleasant, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach of the rich man does not allow him to sleep. There is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun, riches being hoarded by their owner, to his hurt. When those riches were lost through a bad investment and he had fathered a son, then there was nothing to support him. As he had come naked from his mother's womb, so will he return as he came. He will take nothing from the fruit of his labor that he can carry in his hand. That's an earth-bound perspective, and he's right about that. That's how it is. Money's for now, okay, then money's for now, when now's over, then it's over. There's nothing else you get. But money's not just for now, it's for eternity as well when it's invested in the right way. The more you possess, Ecclesiastes says, the more you're going to want. You'll never be satisfied. The more you have, the more others are going to want from you. And the more you have, the more you have to worry about protecting. More actually becomes less. Less joy. Less time for God's service. Less focus on others. Less investment in heaven. Paul just put it this way in 1 Timothy 6, 7 through 8, and I think he had that Ecclesiastes passage in mind. He said, For we brought nothing into the world. So we cannot take anything out of it either. If we have food and covering with these we shall be content. Again the treasure principle. Giving is the only antidote to materialism. The act of giving is a vivid reminder that it's all about God, not about us. It's saying, I am not the point, he is the point. He does not exist for me, I exist for him. God's money has a higher purpose than my affluence, giving us a joyful surrender to a greater person and a greater agenda Giving affirms Christ's lordship. It dethrones me and exalts him. It breaks the chains of mammon that would enslave me. Beautiful quote Here's the lesson from the Looney Art Collector. Suppose someone passes empty-handed through the turnstiles at a big city art museum and begins to take the pictures off the wall and carry them importantly under his arm. You come up to him and say, What are you doing? He answers, I'm becoming an art collector. But they're not really yours, you say. And besides, they won't let you out with those. You'll have to go out just like you came in. But he answers again, sure they're mine. I've got them right here on the bar. People look at me as an important dealer here in the hallways. I don't bother myself with thoughts about leaving. Don't be a killjoy. We would call such a man a fool, he writes, out of touch with reality. So is the person who spends himself to get rich in this life. We will go out just the way we came in. So invest in stock you can take with you. It's the best investment program we have ever heard about on the market. 10 million percent interest. Does that sound good? Guaranteed by HMC Banking, Bank of Heaven and Christ. It's all gonna be ours. All of the world we will inherit. Christ has told us that. Principle number 19. Giving is to be done cheerfully. Giving is to be done cheerfully, verse 7. Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. This is the best known verse in these two chapters, I think, along with the previous one. What's not known maybe as well is that Paul likely added this statement about the cheerful giver. So that when those men arrived from Paul to Corinth, it would not look like Paul was pressuring them or extorting them He really wanted them to give out of their heart. He truly wanted the gift to come from the Corinthians because they wanted to give. Have you ever gotten a gift? And you found out later the person that gave it was sort of talked into giving it, forced to giving it by a parent or something like that, and you're holding the gift in your hand, you're going, what? They didn't really want to give it. It's really from this other person that said to give it, you know. Thank that person, not not the person. What's the value in something like that? You see, that's how it ought to be in church. We're giving because we want to, because Christ is to be exalted. We're cheerful about the giving. And then God receives it. It blesses God's heart, you see. God loves a cheerful giver. Threats would lead to compulsory giving. That's why we don't require the tithe. That's why we don't read off names. We don't do any of that. What's that going to achieve except giving so you look good in church? Instead, what are they to do? Two things here. Purpose in their own hearts what to give, and then give, not grudgingly, but cheerfully. Purposing in your own heart. You see again, it's not emotional, it's not under pressure. There is persuasion, but there's no pressure It just says you need to predetermine, purpose in your heart, predetermine what you're going to do. Sit down somewhere and prayerfully think about your situation, your faith in God, what Christ has done for you. Read the word, let it impact your heart. Think about the needs of the church in your situation, purpose in your heart, this is what I'm going to do. And then don't let lack of faith later or covetousness get in the way. Don't do it grudgingly, don't do it under compulsion. That speaks of giving with pain, giving with sorrow. You said you're going to give it, but then when it's time to put it in the offering plate, you're like You you don't it hurts to drop that thing in there. Don't give that way. You roll your eyes at your spouse that says, you know, honey, we have to give you like Yeah, I guess so. You just feel obligated. There's no happiness in it. Cheerful giving is happy giving. It's joyous giving. It's faith-filled giving. It's a joyful experience. You can see here that God is very concerned not just with the gift, not just with the one who's giving, but with, not just the one who's getting, excuse me, but with the one who is giving the gift. That his heart is right, that he knows there's a greater blessing for him than even the one that is getting the gift. Isn't that what Jesus said? It is more blessed than what? To give than to receive. That's Acts 20, verse 35. And then it says God loves a cheerful giver. This is amazing. I think this is one of the most endearing statements in all of Scripture, frankly. God loves a cheerful given. You see, I thought he loves everybody, for God so loved the world. God has a general love for every human being and part of his creation. He has a pity for the lost that are headed to destruction, but he has a special relational and joyful kind of a love for a cheerful giver. In this context, someone who's giving to the work of Christ, you see. Not just giving anywhere, but giving for the work of Christ. He loves cheerful givers. God loves them. He's close to them. He has a special relationship with them. You say, why? Because someone who's giving cheerfully They're genuinely giving out of joy. They understand something that God knows, and God knows that they understand that. And there's a a a joint partnership and fellowship in that giving This person trusts God with his future, and God is pleased to be trusted. This person has a heart for those who need, and God has a heart for those who need. This person sees what God and Christ sees and is doing what the Spirit of God is trying to prompt the believers in this life to do. God loves it. See, faith always pleases God. You want God to love this church in a special way. Let's all be cheerful givers. Let's give in such a way. People like, why are you giving the church? Because I like doing it. And because God loves me when I do it. Cheerfully. God loves a cheerful giver. Be a cheerful giver. Number twenty, givers must give by faith. That just goes with the previous one, I think. Givers must give by faith. Verses 8 through 11. And God is able to make all grace abound to you. So that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. As it is written, he scatters abroad, he gave to the poor, his righteousness endures forever. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in everything for all liberality. Well, first of all, I have to say, before I even enter into this, that the promises in this passage are frankly immense. It doesn't do it justice to not have a whole sermon on these verses. These are incredible verses. You might think that he's exaggerating. Paul doesn't exaggerate. Not when he's teaching seriously like this Look what he says there. Look what he writes in verse 8. He mentions all grace to abound to you, always, having all sufficiency in everything, every good work. It just heaps on and on. You look down at verse 11. Enriched in everything, for all liberality. I mean, wow, this passage is just spilling over and pouring over with blessings here. God promises to provide for givers. God promises to provide For givers. That's what it's about. As you give to others, he wants to give to you. Why? So you can keep on giving The more you give, the more he's pleased to give to you so you can sow it again and increase your harvest of what? Righteousness. This is the exact opposite of the word faith movement. They say if you have faith, God will make you rich. Let's use God and use religion to become rich. And by the way, they're the richest of all. You think the people would figure that out, by the way. Those guys are pretty rich. I mean something's not right here. But they still want to get rich themselves. They can't see that. The giver's abundance here, notice at the end of verse 8, is given to him for every good deed. So he'll pour out his resources, his monies, his treasures to accomplish every good deed. He's giving it away. But it's all generated by faith, beloved. Faith in the generosity of God, his ability to provide, his work in your life, his work in the present economy, whether it's up or down. The one who doubts what will happen to him if he gives his money to the work of the Lord, to that person Paul writes at the beginning of verse 8: God is able. To the one who wonders, who's going to take care of my family if I give like that? God answers, God is able to make all grace abound to you. Do you think that was only written for the Corinthians? To the one who wonders, what home will I be able to afford if I give? Paul writes, so that always having all sufficiency and everything, it's not about your home. It's about your sufficiency to minister. So, the one who wonders if I give it away, how will I be able to help others when they come for needs? He promises that you may be able to abound in every good deed. See if I give money away, I'm going to be better set up to help more people when they need my money. That's what he says. Kind of works opposite the way we think, isn't it? But that takes faith. Don't have faith. It's not really going to work for you. Not using God to get rich. Faith. Faith that God will lead, faith that God will supply, faith that God will keep on supplying no matter what. So we can be a channel that's just gushing out blessings to other people. You know, even in the natural realm we have an illustration of this. You take one seed, you plant it, it grows up. Does it produce just one more seed, two more seeds, three more seeds? I guess there's some kinds of plants that do. In some cases, hundreds and thousands of seeds from one plant, right? It just multiplies. You give a little, what does God do with it? He makes it much. Notice the end of verse 10. We'll supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. A harvest of righteousness. Then that's what we ought to desire. We ought to desire other people to come in obedience to the gospel. Don't you want that? How do we get that God actually uses our money? No money cannot convert a soul No money cannot make anybody believe. But God chooses to take our money and to multiply the harvest of righteousness. It's amazing Frankly, the weakness of faith in the presence of such great and broad and magnificent promises as we read in these verses is inexcusable. Believers must believe. Why do you think he gives us promises like this? Just like a little lamb. Hey you guys feed the five thousand. Lord, we don't have anything to feed five thousand with. Little boy says, I've got these two fish, these five loaves, five thousand men around, not counting women and children. Jesus takes the little. Everyone eats baskets left over, multiplies it. That's how God is. But we have to be obedient. We have to offer our resources for Him to use. You know, frankly, weakness of faith paralyzes the Christian life. Acting on faith, no guarantees from the bank or the workplace, but on faith. That's what energizes it. Do you know that phrase by faith is used some twenty times in Hebrews chapter 10 and 11 By faith, so-and-so did such and such. By faith, so-and-so did such and such. By faith, by faith, by faith, it's all throughout there. It has to be by faith. How are they going to move forward? By faith. How are they going to increase their harvest? By faith. How are we going to have a facility and increase our harvest of righteousness? It is by faith. It has to be by faith. You have to trust God in your circumstances, right where you are, right now God demands it. But more than that, you'll find God to be true. He'll test your faith. You'll see how much you still have covetousness in your heart. He'll provide for you. He will, in time, Increase your harvest of righteousness. We have to be like Abraham, Romans 4. 21. Fully assured that what God had promised, he was able also to perform. And God tested that man's faith a long time. Alright, our last principle, number 21, giving produces thanksgiving to God from 12 to the end. Really, from the end of 11 to 15, it says, which through us is producing thanksgiving to God for the ministry of this service is not only fully supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing through many thanksgivings to God Because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience, your confession of the gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all While they also, by prayer on your behalf, yearn for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. This end of the passage here, chapter nine, completes the cycle of giving. Out of the riches of God's grace, He provides for us and challenges us, and then we give. And it benefits other people. And those people being benefited lift up thanks and praise to God, and they return prayers to the ones who gave, and there's further thanksgiving to God. And so the cycle goes on and on, the giver and the receiver, and the giver and the receiver. Verse 14 Emphasizes that they, when they get this gift, you get a gift from someone, aren't you? Thankful to God. You're also thankful for that person that turns your mind towards them and you're more likely to pray for them as well. You see You know there's a commercial out there, you might have seen it. I forget actually what they're advertising, it must not have been too effective. But it's where one person does a really nice thing for someone else and a third person sees that happening and then he goes on through his work day and the busy city and and then he does something nice for someone else and then another person spots that and then they go and do something nice and then it goes on and on and on. It's one of those warm your heart kind of commercials There's one thing missing from it. Where's the thanksgiving back to God? Where's the thanksgiving back to Christ? He's the source of every good thing that we have. It's incomplete if we don't go back to God and give praise, glory, and thanksgiving to the one who's the source of every good and perfect gift from above, as James 1 said. To give and to not result in thanksgiving to God is not good. For any of the giving to please God, it has to end where verse 15 ends. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. That's salvation in Christ. You've been given a gift. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, if you're not, you're invited to have that gift. God invites all. Repent of your sin, turn to Christ. You've been given a gift. Full pardon for all of your sins. Privilege of being a child of God, eternal inheritance, chance to serve Him, a free gift. And God says, thanks, Paul says, thanks be to God for this indescribable gift. A gift that keeps giving. An indescribable gift, indeed. It just gives and gives and gives. You know, after the Israelites were delivered out of bondage in the land of Egypt. After they'd gone through the Red Sea and through the wilderness to Mount Sinai, there the Lord told them to take up an offering. God had already provided for them. They had plundered the Egyptians, who were glad to get rid of all their riches, to get rid of all the Israelites. to get rid of all the plagues. And now the Lord called on them to donate precious possessions that He had given to them. Back to the Lord for the construction of a tabernacle, it says in Exodus thirty-five, twenty-two through twenty-four. Then all whose hearts moved them, both men and women, came and brought brooches and earrings and signet rings and bracelets, all articles of gold. So did every man who presented an offering of gold to the Lord. Every man who had in his possession blue and purple and scarlet material and fine linen and goat's hair and ram skins, dyed red, and purpose porpoise skins, brought them. Everyone who could make a contribution of silver and bronze brought the Lord's contribution, and every man who had in his possession acacia would for any work of the service. They took all of that and they made the tabernacle a place of worship for God where he came down and he dwelled among us. Now we are his church. We are the temple. We're going to get into that soon in 1 Corinthians. But here we're looking for a place that we can proclaim the name of God, worship his name, advance the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe God wants Christians to give for that purpose. That's our challenge now, to give Anyone whose heart would move them. May God move your heart to see the needs around you and to give. Because you want to give, because you want to increase this church's harvest of righteousness. Amen?