An account in the Old Testament tells us of King David, who wanted to build an altar unto the Lord so he could make an offering and worship the Lord his God. Arana the Jebusite met him and offered to donate free land to David so he could build his altar there. A generous offer. But David's response in 2 Samuel 24-24 was no, but I will surely buy it from you for a price. For I will not offer burnt offerings to the Lord my God, which cost me nothing. David did not want to worship God without paying a price. He understood that worship involves giving to the Lord. So he couldn't just agree to cheapen his worship of the Almighty. He desired for it to cost him something. He wanted it to be true worship. That is where we left off last Lord's Day at the end of principle number seven about biblical giving in the church. And that is that giving is part of our worship. As has already been prayed and said in a very real sense, everything that we own and all of ourselves belongs to God. And all of ourselves should be offered to God in submissive worship. Real worship is not tested by how well we sing, although I thought the singing this morning was beautiful and heartfelt. It's not tested by how heartily we say Amen, though that is certainly welcome here. It is tested more by what we bring to God of ourselves, what we give to the Lord, out of our earnings, out of our precious time. out of our vibrant energy, of the skills he has given to us, the gifts he has imparted to us in Christ. All of that to advance the cause of Christ in this world, giving for that end to the glory of Christ. In fact, the only value anything we own in this world really has is what how it is used to advance the kingdom of Christ. David Livingston, the English missionary and explorer of Africa in the nineteenth century, said I will place no value on anything I have or possess, except in relation to the kingdom of Christ. If anything I have will advance that kingdom, it shall be given or kept, whichever will best promote the glory of him to whom I owe all my hopes both for time and for eternity. That is the spirit of biblical giving. And that hopefully is the spirit with which we approach. Now for a second time more principles on biblical giving from 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and chapter 9, if you would open there once again. Today in chapter 8 we're going to focus on verses 6 through 24 Second Corinthians verses six through twenty-four. We are well aware of the um nature of this topic and how difficult it is for many to hear and to talk about in church. We just want to encourage you if Today is your first Sunday here to realize that we don't talk about this all the time in our church. We would like you to get last week's copy and explain the spirit with which we approach this subject. 2 Corinthians 8, 6 through 24. Please follow along as I read. So we urged Titus that as he had previously made a beginning, so he would also complete in you this gracious work as well. Referring to the collection. The Corinthians were to give. But just as you abound in everything, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in the love we inspired in you, see that you abound in this gracious work also. I am not speaking this as a command, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity of your love also. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. I give my opinion in this matter, for this is to your advantage, who were the first to begin a year ago, not only to do this, but also to desire to do it. But now finish doing it also, so that just as there was the readiness to desire it, so there may be also the completion of it by your ability. For if the readiness is present, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have. For this is not for the ease of others and for your affliction, but by way of equality At this present time, your abundance being a supply for their need, so that their abundance also may become a supply for your need, that there may be a quality. As it is written, He who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack. But thanks be to God, who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest, he has gone to you of his own accord. We have sent along with him the brother whose fame and the things of the gospel has spread through all the churches. And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this gracious work, which is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself, and to show our readiness. Taking precaution So that no one will discredit us in our administration of this generous gift. For we have regard for what is honorable not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. We have sent with them our brother, whom we have often tested and found diligent in many things, but now even more diligent because of his great confidence in us. As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you. As for our brethren, they are messengers of the churches, a glory to Christ. Therefore, openly before the churches, show them the proof of your love and of your reason of our reason for boasting about you. It's a great passage. You know it is Let's just be honest about it. It is hard for selfish and covetous people, particularly materialistic Americans, of which we are a part, and it does affect us affect us To let go of our money. It's a hard thing to to part from our money. It just is. I'm the same way as you. I'm the same nature as you. I've grown up in the same culture as you have, and it is a difficult thing And people are always trying to get our money in one way or another, and it's difficult for us to do that. I mean even when there's a law and we have to give money, tax law, we have a hard time doing that. An honest letter was sent to the Internal Revenue Service that stated, Dear Sirs, Last year when I filed my income tax return, I deliberately misrepresented my income. Now I cannot sleep. Enclosed is a check for $150 for taxes. If I still cannot sleep, I will send you the rest. For many, it is painful to say goodbye to their cherished money. Even we believers, though we know the scripture says don't trust in riches, they're fleeting, they pass away, we still tend to base our security on what we have. We look at what we have, then we look to the future, and then we measure whether or not we're saved by that, by what we've been able to tuck away. And we do that. Jesus said, Don't be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. But we seem to find peace about tomorrow only in how we can account for it in our checking account. The promises of God, beloved, are still true for you and me in this century. When we place our future, our security in the hands of God, He has promises for us, and we need to believe those promises, live by those promises, act on those promises. To the giving church in Philippi, Paul once wrote Philippians 4. 19, My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. He doesn't have any problem supplying needs, he's rich. What's the message for us? Be living a giving life and don't worry about security. To the Israelites in the Old Testament, out in the wilderness, Nehemiah recounts in a prayer in Nehemiah 9. 15, Lord, you provided bread from heaven for them. for their hunger. You brought forth water from a rock for them for their thirst. And you told them to enter in order to possess the land which you swore to give them A land that was not theirs, he gave it to them. No water, he burst open a rock, and they drank. David, whose life had some real ups and downs, exclaimed in Psalm 23, 1, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not what? What? The wisdom of Proverbs of Solomon the king declared how to be financially secure in Proverbs 3, 9 and 10. Honor the Lord from your wealth. And from the first of all your produce, so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. Proverbs 11, 25. The generous man will be prosperous, and he who waters will himself be watered. So hopefully with this trust in God's promises, we'll continue to learn the principles of giving, and those principles and promises will pull us out of ourselves and allow us to live the Christian life more vibrantly. And that brings us to principle number eight this morning. And that is this. Giving expresses submission to pastors. Giving expresses submission to pastors. This is number eight, number one through seven was in part one. Look there at actually the very end of verse 5 and in the verse 6 where he says that they gave themselves to us. By the will of God, and now into verse 6, so we urge Titus that as he had previously made a beginning, so he would also complete in you this gracious work as well. I want you to remember the setting. The Macedonian Christians, whom Paul continues to use as examples in their giving to try to stir up the Corinthians in their giving, they gave themselves not only to the work to the Lord in worship, which is what Principle number seven was, but they also gave themselves to Paul and to Titus and to Paul's companions. These are the men who were initiating this ministry of giving to the saints in Jerusalem. The initiative, in other words, of this giving project to the saints in Jerusalem, in Judea, the Jewish saints who were in need, came from a spiritual leader, the Apostle Paul. And so the Macedonians' giving was an acknowledgement, not just of God's work in their life, but of Paul's wise leadership. And Paul, in turn, put Titus in charge to make sure the collection on the part of the Corinthians was completed. So this collection was also connected to how the Corinthians viewed Paul and Titus and the other companions as their spiritual leader. Indeed, many criticize the church for this, I realize, but one of the roles of spiritual leaders is to urge people to give of themselves to the Lord and also to give of their resources to God. A spiritual leader, a pastor or a teacher is not doing his job if he is not urging commitment and sacrifice and giving. It may be much popular to use God these days to get rich for ourselves, but the truth is from Scripture that God wants to use us to advance his ministry. And that means we yield to Him and we sacrifice to Him. That's true worship. That's true Christianity. It's just a part of discipleship to make sure every believer, everyone who comes to church knows that their stewardship is important to God. That to follow Jesus Christ involves giving, often giving money. So when you see an overseer standing in front of you and telling you that we've been praying as a church The elders of the church have been praying and we've been thinking about the needs of the congregation and we tell you we need a facility to advance the ministry or in a future where talking to you about some outreach that we want to initiate, a missionary we want to support, some ministry we think that will be successful. We've outlined all the reasons for that. We've answered your questions. You know the why and the why now, the why this Part of your submission then to us as spiritual leaders, your response is to listen to the guidance. It's not a blind submission by any means. It's not giving out of guilt. But it is necessary to show that you're following our lead in bringing honor to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I have to say as a testimony, as I stand here, that this church I think it's really demonstrated that they respond to appeals like this. I just remember two years ago when we were faced with the need of overwhelming administration that was taking the elders away from the work they're supposed to do, and we came to this congregation and We told you all about it, answered your questions, and you responded greatly so we could hire a church administrator, Ross. And that was your response as you listened. That showed your good heart in following us. Even last July, when we say, hey We need a facility. We brought that before you and many of you increased your giving. You understood this is true, and you responded to the Lord, yes, but also to us. And now some of you just haven't yet, and you're still holding back, and you need to think, what do I need to do here? What is it that I need to do to show that I'm dedicated to this ministry here and that I'm following their lead up there. The facility is our challenge today. It is our giving challenge that is. We I think have shown great patience in this church. I'm so appreciative of people that come here week after week and set up and take down We have been uh without a full-time facility for the first ten years of our existence. I think that shows patience. This is the challenge before us to have a facility to move forward because it's a real need And with your trust in God, your generous hearts, I think the Lord is going to meet that need this very year. Beloved, the local church is the first place and the primary place you are to be giving to the Lord. There's a book that we pass out to all of our new members, those that come to the membership class. It's called Spiritual Disciplines Within the Church, and it explains why giving to the local church is so important. Here's a quote The church is the only organization Jesus said he would build. Matthew 16:18. So when you give to the church you attend, you are giving to what Jesus owns and building what he builds. It can be a good thing to give to ministries other than the church, but only one organization is the church, the Bride of Christ. for whom he died. Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her. Ephesians five, twenty five All other ministries exist or should exist to support the church. That's why the term parachurch ministry is applied to such Christian organizations. The prefect para means by the side of But if our primary giving is to any other ministry than the local church, we are actually helping to displace the church. And he goes on and he writes, if you love Jesus, you will want to give to support what he is doing in the world. And what is he doing? He is doing what he said he would do. I will build my church. Principle number nine. Giving is an important part of the Christian life. That's verse 7. Giving is an important part of the Christian life. But just as you abound in everything, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all earnestness, and in the love we inspire in you, see that you abound in this gracious work also. So here was a church, Paul says. They were abounding. What were they abounding in? In faith, in utterance, and knowledge, earnestness, and love. Those are good things to abound in, wouldn't you say? Well please notice that financial giving was also considered every bit as much a part of the Christian life as those other things. Do you see that in that verse? Does that surprise some of you? See, the church preaches about a lot of things. We say, abound in faith. And all the faithful, they say, That's right, preach it. Amen. And we would say, grow in the knowledge of the Lord, and all of you that love sound doctrine would be out there, amen, brother. Witness to the lost, all you evangelists out there get excited. It's right, tell them that, tell them that Give your money and you're like, what? What are you talking about now, preacher? But that's what the verse is saying. That's what the scripture says. Giving is part of the Christian life. Giving In this context is a spiritual act. We are to abound, as Paul says, in this gracious work also. Did you ever notice that the gift here is never called money in the whole passage? It is money, but it's never called money. It's called grace, it's called generosity, it's called blessing, it's called partnership, it's called a gracious work. Why? Because it's spiritual. That's really what it is. It's partnership with other believers. It's advancing the cause of Christ. It's getting ready to proclaim the Word of God. It has spiritual dimensions. Yeah, the truth is many balk at that message. Give, give money. The joke has been said when it comes to giving, people will stop at nothing. Yeah. Why? Because they want to divorce the issue of money from their spirituality. I'm a spiritual guy. Doesn't matter How I get. There's a divorce in their thinking on this issue. I can be a strong, mature Christian. I can even be a leader. I can even be a preacher. And not give. But you know God is in tune with our money. Hebrews six ten. For God is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward his name in having ministered and in still ministered. To the saints. They were giving, they were ministering. God was aware of that. He knew what was going on, and it was important to him. Loving ministry to the saints takes contributions. And God is aware of that. And that leads to our next point. Point number 10. Giving is proof of love. Giving is proof of love. That's verse 8, and then I'm going to skip a giant section and I'm going to join in here, verse 24. Verses 8 and 24. Paul says in verse 8, I am not speaking this as a command, but as proving through the earnestness of others the here it is, sincerity of your love also. Then jump down to verse 24. Therefore, openly before the churches, show them the proof of your love and of our reason for boasting about you. Paul's boasting about their giving. Now he's saying, prove it, show it, demonstrate it. See, so giving the money was the proof, it was the evidence of the sincerity of their love for the brethren. Remember, all of the giving here is is not commanded. None of this giving was required. They wouldn't be kicked out of church membership if they didn't get. Paul was not using a heavy-handed approach counting every copper coin. We already learned last time giving is voluntary. However, giving was also a proof of sincere love for other brethren. See when you give to other people they learn something. They learn something about you. You know what they learn? You care. It's easy to pat someone on the back, you know, oh pray for your brother. Really concerned about your brother. How you doing? Oh man. It's another thing to show up at the doorstep one day ready to help him. Ready some money to give. There's the proof of it People hear words, they go back home, they're just like you, they scratch their head. I wonder who really cares. Someone shows up. Now they know. They know who cares. That's what James was talking about in James 2. He says, if a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed, and be filled, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what use is that? No giving, no love. And James really takes it further. He says, no love, no saving faith. You claim that faith in Christ demonstrate it. Demonstrated by love. And love involves giving and meeting tangible needs. Now, this giving that is talked about here in 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 seems to conflict with another passage of Scripture, so I want to flip over there for a moment to Matthew 6 and look at that with you. Turn to Matthew 6. See Matthew 6, Jesus says in verses 3 and 4, when you give to the poor Do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. Personifying hands. It's so secret, your hands don't even know what the other one is doing. But when you give to the poor, I'm sorry, so that your giving will be in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Hmm Well back in 1 Corinthians the giving was public. The collection was done. It was very clear who it was coming from. The Macedonians are giving. He was even giving their name to encourage the Corinthians. Oh and the Corinthians are giving, trying to stir up the other. Roman provinces to give more. And then we're going to take all that money and with your name and we're going to bring that to the poor in Jerusalem, and they're going to know that you have given to them. Seems like it conflicts. Full knowledge of who the giver. was and who the recipient was. So is it right to give publicly or is it wrong? Well, as I always teach, context and interpretation always clarifies seeming discrepancies in Scripture, because Scripture represents the mind of God and it can never contradict. Jesus was not in Matthew 6 prohibiting any public gift of any kind at any time. For he obviously praised even the widow for giving in the public temple treasury. His teaching here in Matthew 6, if you'll notice, looking around here, was aimed only at attacking the proud attitude of boasting in giving. The showing off of religiosity, which certainly characterizes the religious leaders of Christ's day. Matthew 6 and verse 1 really explains his teaching. It heads it off there. Beware of practicing your righteousness before who? Before men, to be noticed by them. Otherwise, you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. Hey, you want to have reward with God, do it in secret. You want to have reward with men? Well then let them praise you. But then you're not going to have any reward from God It was really about the motive. There it was a motive to gain prestige within the religious community by how much they gave. You say, does that happen? It most certainly does. But the truth is, sometimes knowing who the gift is from is not only allowed, but is necessary Okay? In fact, in 1 Corinthians, it is part of Paul's strategy for building unity among the churches. He wanted the Jewish believers to know this came from the Gentile churches. Why? Build unity. Build partnership. So it is not sinful to give openly or publicly if the motive is right. It's about motive It's about design. I mean if you were sitting there and you pull a watt of hundreds out of your uh wallet, you're rich, you shake it around a little bit, flunk it down there in the old offering plate, pass it on, chances are you're not worshiping God. On the other hand, you're got a gift for your honey at Valentine's Day, you're not going to put it in a nice little box or little ring or something like that. Put that on a person. Oh, honey, I wonder who gave that to you You're not going to do that. You want her to know it's your love. You care about her. It's not some other guy. It's you. Sometimes we have to tell who the love is from, and that happens in church. You stop by someone's home, as I already mentioned, you fix something that's broken, you drop off some food. Maybe your giving is just some time because they're lonely or they they just need someone to talk to. Now they know it's you. And you're loving them And that builds partnership and fellowship and relationships, and there's nothing wrong with that. In fact, there's a lot right with it. You're proving by your actions you care. You know, I hope and pray that our richer members of this church always look after those brothers and sisters of humble circumstances. It's healthy to do that. Speaking of care ministry, Tony is looking for care coordinators. Why is he looking for care coordinators? He's looking for coordinators so we can care, so we can look after one another It is such a blessing to see people bring the pizza and the donuts and the juice and descend on someone's home with the paint and with the hammers and and with rakes and just go to work on someone's home and meet their needs and and neighbors look around and say, what is up with this church? Well they're caring for one another. Someone needs to coordinate that for that to happen. Someone needs to step forward and say that is a vital part of our ministry at Hope Bible Church, and I want to help coordinate it. Maybe that would be you. Galatians 6. 10 says, while we have opportunity, let us good do good to all people, and especially to those Who what? Are of the household of faith. We are supposed to be excelling in our love one to another, and that means giving in tangible ways. We ought to have five of you lined up wanting to be coordinator here. And our moving ministry as well I hope as we develop our ministries to the poor, we will be known in our community as those who have love for those who are less fortunate. Amy Carmichael, a missionary to India, said, You can give without loving, but you cannot love without giving. There's a saying that goes, a bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses. Let's be an aromatic church. Church that's known for giving. The smell of love and giving is always here in this church. We look after others Principle number eleven of giving. Giving follows the example of Christ. Oh, that sh that should be so obvious. Shouldn't even have to say it. Giving follows the example of Christ. That's verse nine. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become Rich. This verse is deep. And there's no way we can fathom its depths in a survey like we're doing. But here's the heart of what he's saying. Christ was rich. It starts there. Christ is the eternal God. Contrary to the Islamic faith, that is not good enough to declare that Jesus is a prophet, he is the eternal God and he must be worshiped. Living and dwelling in the highest place of holy heaven was he, the second person of the Holy Trinity, having no beginning and no end as to his deity. having no needs, totally sufficient in himself, absolute sovereign sway over the entire universe from one end to the other. Adored by great angelic beings in the heavenly places, worshipped by all of creation, magnificent in glory, brilliant in light. As Hebrews 1:3 says, he is the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation of God's nature and upholds all things by the word of his power. It's Christ. Surrounded by riches immeasurable, gold just the common ground under his feet. And then it says, For our sake he became poor. He left the glories of heaven. He left them aside, the full outward display of his deity, in the radiance of his excellence And he entered into his time of humility, his incarnation, and he descended in this world, and he appeared not even as a significant man, nor even as a rich man, but just a common man, a worker, at times homeless Wandering around, hated and despised by people, ending up suffering and dying as a criminal on a cross. Philippians 2, 6 and 8. Although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be held on to But emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross A wretched, beaten, bleeding, dying corpse on a cross. That's what they saw. No outward glory at all. Rejected, hanging outside the city, mocked, despised, spat upon. Why would he ever choose to do that? No, the verse says he did that for our sakes, that we might become rich through his poverty. Poverty. We were the ones poor. We were the ones spiritually destitute before God. No righteousness to bring to God. Do you know that God is completely unimpressed with our righteous deeds? People think they'll get into heaven because they've been good. God is completely unimpressed with that. Nothing in our hands to bring simply to the cross we cling, the Him says. We're sinners by nature, sinners by practice, sinners by divine declaration. But now in Christ, because of grace, because of undeserved favor, we possess untold riches, you and I do. First Peter 1. 4, we have an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled, and will not fade away, reserved in heaven. Ephesians 1 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. That is the grace of God that we have been taught. Man, if that doesn't motivate you to want to give of yourself and your resources for the cause of Christmas John MacArthur writes, some may view Paul's inclusion of this verse with its profound theological truth in the context of giving as incongruous But that loses sight of the fact that theological truth does not exist in isolation from everyday life. The seeming mundane issue of the offering was in reality connected to the central truth of Christianity, namely that Christ's voluntary poverty makes the spiritually destitute rich. And that's us. We are rich, not in things of this world, but in things that really matter. In giving, we are following the incredibly generous example of Jesus 1 John 3:16 and 17, we know love by this, that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against them, how does the love of God abide in him? Many people don't give. They don't give because they haven't caught what grace is about for their life. They're too busy trying to improve themselves in life They're all about a better career and better education to get a better career. And they pass the same set of values on to their children, all their monies and the lessons and the education and all of that stuff, but they don't give They throw a little religion into their lives, seeking second the kingdom of God, because that's where it's comfortable. Well, seeking first a name for themselves, for prosperity in this world, security They expend themselves in education and career and work and make idols out of self and work and home. And they're giving to the kingdom, frankly, as misery. Beloved, that is not how Christ treated us. Should that be how we treat his kingdom? We need a refresher course on grace of what we've received. So give. Give as you were given to. Then you'll be like Christ. Number twelve. Giving should be completed Giving should be completed. Verses ten and eleven back in First Corinthians. I give my opinion in this matter. Paul writes, for this is to your advantage, who were the first to begin a year ago, not only to do this, but also to desire to do it. But now finish doing it also. So that just as there was the readiness to desire it, so there may be also the completion of it. You know, sometimes people have good intentions, right? They mean well. They started out well. They made a good beginning, but they hadn't really thought about it. They haven't really checked their heart. They wanted to quickly respond and look like, oh, uh, I'm ready to give. But then they get distracted, they lose motivation along the way. That's what happened to the Corinthian believers. They had been giving. It says they were the first to give They started the whole thing. You remember back in First Corinthians chapter sixteen, even says there gave directions for how to collect it on the first day of the week. Paul had been using them as an example to the Macedonians. They were hesitating. They hadn't finished the completion. Now the reasons for that hesitation on the part of the Corinthians are quite complex. It was caught up with their attitude towards Paul and Communication with them, false apostles who had arrived at Corinth, accusations made against Paul. That's too much for us to get into right now. But Paul tells them here they need to complete the gift Half giving when whole giving is needed doesn't do it. Best wishes are nothing without deeds. And that's a lesson we need to learn. Sometimes people make a pledge. They say they're gonna do something. They pledge a certain amount to the Lord, but then times get tough. You know how it goes? Oh you you weren't expecting that appliance to break. Oh the the car's acting up again. Other things are needed. You forget about a bill that came in the mail and you're like, I gotta pay that bill. And then you start to hedge on your pledge. And you start to say, well, the the Lord the Lord knows I love him. And maybe he wouldn't mind if I just keep back a little bit of this to help pay for that. You know, giving should not be based upon the ups and downs of life, but upon principle and upon faith I like this story. W. A. Criswell tells the story of an ambitious young man who told his pastor he'd promised God a tithe of his income. They prayed for God to bless his career. At that time, he was making $40 per week and tithing $4. In a few years, his income increased, and he was tithing $500 per week. He called on the pastor to see if he could be released from his tithing promise. It was too costly now. The pastor replied, I don't see how you can be released from your promise. But we can't ask God to reduce your income again to $40 a week. Then you'll have no problem problem tithing the $4. You make a promise to God in your heart, a pledge to Him, you keep it. Giving is a long-term project. It's a really a lifetime practice. We're never to wane. Principle number 13. Giving should normally be proportionate to what you own. Giving should normally be proportionate to what you own. That's the end of verse 11 and in the verse 12. He talks about your ability at the end of verse 11. And then in verse 12, for if the readiness is present, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not. Now you remember last time we are we read about those those crazy Macedonian Christians. Those Macedonian Christians they were out of their minds They were such special givers, you remember them? Because they gave and they decided they didn't want to give proportionately, but they gave what Beyond their ability till it hurt them. They were poor and they really shouldn't have been giving as much as they did, but they they were begging Paul to participate in that, and they gave beyond their ability. That's a tremendous example But the normal giving, your normal giving, if you're wondering what should be happening, week after week, month after month, should be according to what you have, what you own, what yearn. As Paul puts it here, not according to what you don't have. Normally we should not be giving so that it hurts. Of course, when it comes to giving until it hurts, some people have a low threshold of pain. What does hurt really mean? There's so much that we can live without. That's why, again, taking something like the 10%, which Scripture talks about so often, is a good principle to give by. Rather than just saying everyone in the church needs to give a certain amount and just pull a number out and say $500, that might be a perfect number for some. $500 a month For some people that might really, really hurt, and for others it might not test their their giving at all. Ten percent deals with proportionate giving much better. But even then it doesn't deal with it completely because for some people 10% really doesn't do it. They could easily afford to give 20 or 30% as God has blessed them. And it would not change the way they live at all. It's not so much the size of the gift that matters to God that the size of the gift proportion to what one has. God knows not just what we give, but what we have after we game. And that's really important to him as well. So we need to give proportionally. Number fourteen Giving should balance resources in the body of Christ. Giving should balance resources in the body of Christ. Verses 13 through 15. For this is not for the ease of others and for your affliction, but by way of equality. At this present time, your abundance being a supply for their needs, so that their abundance also may become a supply for your need that there may be equality. As it is written, he who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack. Now this is about giving which results in more balance in what groups within the body of Christ have. The equality Paul mentions here is not about each person in the church giving the same amount of money. It's not what he means. But rather the rich giving to the poor to make things more balanced, more equal. The rich are not called upon to give everything away so that now they become poor, because then that would just extend poverty in the church They don't have to do what Christ did for them, who was subject to abject poverty to give to others. Christ indeed did that, the greatest example of love and giving. But all we are asked to be a part of here is to carry the load for others, share others' burdens. This doesn't mean that we are to eliminate every single inequality. This is not strict economic parity in every way, but it's teaching the rich to be generous in giving and to be ready to share, as 1 Timothy 6 says. Those who have more should look out for those who have less. Just common sense. We should not be accumulating wealth, but disseminating it where it is needed. By the way, the gathering mentioned there in verse 15 is a quote from the Old Testament. It's from the account of the Israelites gathering manna in the wilderness. That's from Exodus chapter 16. Verses thirteen through thirty-six in Exodus sixteen say that some gathered more than others, but the needs of all of them were met, and no hoarding of the manor was allowed. In fact, if any was kept to the next day, it would ruin The manna from heaven met everybody's need. So it should be that way in the body of Christ as well. This doesn't mean everybody must have the exact same kind of car, go on exactly the same kind of vacations. The context is about real need No one with true needs should go overlooked in the body of Christ. Unfortunately, that does happen. It does happen that people here at Hope Bible Church have true needs, and either they they get overlooked Or we're slow in meeting those needs. And you know something? When that happens, that really saddens my heart. And it does happen. It shouldn't happen. We should be looking after one another. We should have the kind of love that genuinely says, I am asking how you're doing, and I do have an intent in my heart to help out in any way that we can't do that. This doesn't mean, by the way, that those who have not lived wisely in the past should be given a free pass, keep feeding people's bad habits. There are lessons to learn about saving money, not spending money too freely. Most often debt is quite avoidable But even those who've made poor financial decisions in the past and their heart is now teachable and they're ready to learn, they need help. They need counseling help. They need to learn how to handle their budget, to save money, put money away, to learn to control spending. And that's also a way of caring. And also is part of our care ministry here, to be able to teach people how to do that. But sometimes, beloved, we have people in here that don't have a ride somewhere where they need to go. They don't even have a car. They can't get a job. They can't get a break on a bill. And they need help. And we need to be there for them. First Corinthians twelve says, God has so composed the body, giving more abundant honor to that member which lacked, so that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care. for one another. Simply put, we need to look after each other, the body of Christ. Last for today, principle number fifteen is this. Giving should be accompanied With accountability. Giving, particularly in the Lord's work, should be accompanied with accountability. This is a large section. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna read it and mention a few things Verses 16 down through 23. But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus. For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest, he has gone to you of his own accord. We have sent along with him the brother whose fame and the things of the gospel have spread through all the churches. And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this gracious work which is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our readiness. Taking precaution So that no one will discredit us in our administration of this generous gift. For we have regard for what is honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. We have sent with them our brother, whom we have often tested and found diligent in many things, but now even more diligent because of his great confidence in you. Ask for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you. Ask for our brethren, they are messengers of the churches. A glory to Christ. All this really is talking about is accountability in handling the Lord's money properly. If people are giving voluntarily and they're giving generously, and some people are giving when it hurts, they've made pledges to the Lord and they're giving, then it is incumbent upon the church leadership to make sure that money is handled very, very carefully. Frankly, it's very sad when unbelievers have to be the ones to put a check on the church. We ought to be the ones with the most integrity in the use of money. And that's what he's saying. Paul said we're sending three men there to Corinth. Titus And then another brother that's not named, so we don't know who he is, mentioned in verse 18. And then a third in verse 22, probably one of the Macedonians that was going to be sent along with the gift. These were quality men. These were tested men. These were men of character, with integrity. They had already served and worked in the church. They had already proven their value to the church. They were men that could be trusted, Christ-like men, men of the kingdom of God, not of their own selves trying to make a buck off of religion. Verses 22 to 23 really spell out the credentials of these men. They had been tested, they had been watched, they were now being sent, they were approved by the churches. And I think these men being along with the collection showed that this was not just about Paul. This was not Paul's collection. You know, he was planning all the churches and then coming back like many of the false prophets and teachers and hitting the churches up for money. And it was just him, you know, you owe me everything here. Put the money in the box, intimidating the people. No, there were other men that were involved, men that the churches knew about, and they came to do the collection And it shows also that no one was being coerced in giving. Titus really wanted to come. He was eager about this ministry. Paul was not twisting Titus'arm, you know, you you owe me a favor, buddy. But he was going because he wanted to. He was concerned about the Corinthians and their giving. He was concerned about the Judeans and their need. I think verses 20 and 21, if you focus on that, is the heart of the concern of this passage. Paul didn't want anyone to discredit them or the church in the way the gift was handled, in the administration of the gift. Beloved, administration is not an unspiritual thing. It is part of spiritual ministry within the body of Christ. It has to be done in a certain way. Paul says they had concern not only for what was honorable in the sight of God. God, you know what's going on down here. But what is done in the sight of men, wait a minute, now they don't know our hearts. There are lots of people that are skeptical about the church. Lots of people that don't know who we are or our background and think this is all just about getting rich. So we have to do it's honorable, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of men So that they can check where every penny goes. They know how it's counted in their checks and balances. Who handles it, who transports it Was it counted? Did it arrive with the same amount? Who was watching over it? And everything in between. Why? Because we distrust each other? No. But because people might not trust the ministry of the church. There are many enemies of the church, and they'd like to bring false accusation against the church. And even if it's not true that the church has mishandled funds, if they cannot account for them, people will believe it. And so with God's money. God's money. Really all money is God's. This is particularly God's money because it has been presented to Him in offering. Extra precautions must be taken. Everyone, both inside the church and outside the church, Church has to have confidence in who is handling the money, who they are. That there's accountability from one man to another. The money is It's collected properly, it's counted properly, it's accounted for, different people are accounting for it, it's put in the bank properly, the checks are written properly. You might even have in your heart to become part of our finance committee. And that's open to you as well. You can talk to Alan because he leads that. This is the Lord's money. Beloved, it is the Lord's ministry, it is the Lord's money, it is the Lord's name at stake. Everything that must be done with the Lord's money brings praise, honor, and glory to the Lord. He is the God of truth. We his people ought to be truthful. He's a God who loves. We ought not to be using the money for ourselves, but for the Lord's word. We're going to pick up right there next time, continuing with part three and around seven more principles of giving. Now