Um my prayer as we uh approach this topic that we're going to be talking about this morning is that it will not only be an encouragement to you, but it will also be a challenge. Um I I really appreciate the songs that we say. because um those songs really reflect the heart of a of a servant of Jesus who is submissive to the Lord of glory and it is so wonderful to um just take a moment, be still, know that God is good God but also to know that every burden, every care of our life can be cast toward Christ and we can find rest, peace, and true contentment in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so part of what I want to show with you kind of is in the atmosphere or the um or the theme of that aspect of our life as we share Christ with others. Um this morning I would like to draw your attention though to Colossians chapter one and verses 28 and 29. However, let me say this. If I can narrow the focus even further for you, I want to focus our attention on really the first three words of verse 28, which is If there is ever a comprehensive way of defining our ministry, our Christian life as believers in Christ, this would be it. The reason Being is because everything that we do and ultimately what we proclaim with our life should be centered on the person and the work of Jesus Christ alone Christ is not only our Savior and our Lord, He is our life, He is our motivation, He's our ambition, He's our passion, and most assuredly, He is the message that we have. that we proclaim to a lost and a dying world. Indeed, he is what we proclaim in the gospel of God and who we proclaim with our lives. And so the reason for this is because Because what I believe and what I I believe the bu Bible makes absolutely clear is that He is sufficient in every season and every circumstance of a life. Not only do we learn how to live the Christian life as we follow in the footsteps of Christ, as you learned last month from Pastor Allen, but Jesus Christ is also the message that we proclaim with our works and our words. And this morning I want us to learn why proclaiming Christ is enough for every season of life. Now, if you've got your Bible with you, I'd like to invite you, if you haven't already, to turn their to Colossians chapter 1, verses 28 and 29. And just to give you a a few mild markers as we are um going to be working through this these two verses here this morning. I want to talk to you basically about three aspects of our ministry that Paul summarizes here at the end of chapter one. Now all of what I have to say to you this morning really falls under the umbrella of the subject of Christ, the subject of Christ, which is articulated in the first three words of verse twenty-eight. However, given the fact that we are to proclaim Christ, what I want to emphasize to you this morning is not only is Christ the subject of our ministry, but he is also the substance, the significance, and the strength of our ministry. And that is what Paul outlined. Here for us in Colossians chapter 1, verses 28 and 29. This is precisely the message that Paul conveyed to the church there at Colossae. And so Christ is the substance, he is the significance, and most assuredly, he is our strength. The strength to do what we need to do to proclaim Christ to our life, through our words, to a lost and a dying. world and to those who know Jesus Christ. Now no matter the circumstances, no matter the struggle, no matter the challenge, the relationship or the problem, Christ is sufficient, is he not? Christ is sufficient to satisfy every season of life. And what a joy it is to be able to point people to the one who is sovereign over every detail, every aspect of your life and theirs. Now again, if there was one singular theme that marked Paul's life, it was that Christ was the focus of his ministry to others. Not only did Paul live for Christ, he proclaimed Christ. And truly, Christ was at the heart of everything that he did and everything that he said. Now I want to just give you a brief example of this through some of Paul's writings. For example, in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 22 through 24, Paul writes this. He says, For indeed the Jews asked for signs. And the Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block. To the Gentiles, foolishness. But to those who are the called Both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God Paul says, if there is anything I would want to communicate to you, it is this. Jesus Christ, his life, his death, his resurrection, his ascension, his intercession for us. All of that is wrapped up in the person of Jesus Christ. Christ and I proclaim that to you because that's where the power and the wisdom of God belongs and is. Paul goes on to say in First Corinthians chapter two verse two, for I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. Christ and Him crucified. He writes in Second Corinthians chapter four, verse five, for we do not preach ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord and ourselves as your slaves for the Lord. the sake of Christ. And then in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 8, he says, To me, the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to proclaim to the Gentiles the good news. And get this, the unfathomable riches of Christ. That is what I want you to know. Well now in Colossians chapter 1, verse 28, he says this, Him we proclaim, admonishing every man. Teaching every man with all wisdom. Why? So that we may present every man complete in Christ. That is our goal. That's the goal of why we talk about Christ. That is the goal, why we preach Christ. That is the goal. Why we live Christ so that we can preach and proclaim sufficiency, completeness, maturity in Christ Jesus our Lord. I think if someone were to press the Apostle Paul For the motivation of his ministry it would be that in the greatest joy, and certainly in the most intense struggle, his desire was to proclaim the sufficiency of Jesus Christ to those who needed him most. We all need him. He also proclaimed Christ so that in whatever opportunities we have or seasons of life that God affords us, God's people would know. And here, using Peter's words, that his divine power has granted us everything we need pertaining to life and godliness through the full knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and excellence. In other words, just to put it very simply, I I want you to know Christ. I want you to know everything about Him. I want you to know how He is sufficient for your life. And why was this? Because Christ is not only sufficient for our salvation. He is sufficient for our sanctification. He is more than sufficient for our glorification. In him we have the unfathomable riches of heaven. And Christ in you, as Paul puts it in verse 27, is the hope of glory. It's the hope of glory. Again, not only is Christ the substance and the significance. significance of your ministry and mine. But what strength we have to fulfill that ministry is from him and through him and to him and so to him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. Then Paul says at the end of Romans 11. Well, knowing that proclaiming the sufficiency of Christ is at the heart of Paul's ministry, the only question that we need to ask is why? Why? Why is proclaiming Christ sufficient enough for every season of life? And that's the question that Paul addresses here in verses 28 and 29. Paul lays it all out for us in a very simple but comprehensive and definitive explanation. So let's look at the first principle. Of why proclaiming Christ is sufficient. It is because Christ is the substance of our ministry. It is because everything about the message of Christ is sufficient to satisfy every season of life. life. Now I want you to notice first what Paul says in the first part of verse 28. As I mentioned, this is the subject of our ministry. But Paul Paul says, Him we proclaim. And literally, this is how the original Greek is rendered. The relative pronoun at the beginning of verse 28 points us directly back to verse 27 where Paul says, which is Christ in you. Paul says, here is why we proclaim Christ. It is because our responsibility as ambassadors to is to admonish and to teach each other or one another with all the wisdom that comes in Christ. And again, this is our reason for proclaiming him. What is the substance of our ministry, Paul says? It is to admonish and to teach with all wisdom. All wisdom. And all wisdom is found in Jesus Christ. Think about the wisdom of God. That in every season of life, whether it be life or death, seasons of struggle physically, mentally, emotionally, the waywardness of a child, the disability of a spouse, the despair of a neighbor or co worker. Do you believe the wisdom of God can speak directly to life and joy and contentment and peace in the midst of those circumstances. Indeed, he can, and we do. God does this through the message of Jesus Christ. Because of Christ, we are rich beyond imagination. And this is because the wisdom of Christ penetrates the sinfulness of the human heart to forgive, to rest, to find contentment. And to glorify God even when life seems like it's falling apart and seems unbearable. Consider this thought. Christ is the knowledge of God, Christ is the wisdom of God. Christ is the mercy. Of God. Christ is the grace of God. Christ is the love of God. And God has deposited all of that wisdom in you and me. if we are truly born again and born from above. Sadly, many Christians live like paupers, not realizing that everything that we need for life and godliness has already been given to us in Christ Jesus. Our Lord. And yet, how do we proclaim that message to others? This again is the substance of our ministry. It is to admonish, it is to teach, and to do it in all the wisdom. Wisdom of God. Admonish here is a fairly common word in the New Testament. It is a word that literally means to warn It's the same word from which we get newetic for nephetic counseling. We warn believers, we warn people. And to say to someone, if you keep going in this direction, making unwise choices and And selfish decisions, then you need to be warned that you're headed for trouble and maybe even disaster It is to give encouraging counsel in view of sin and divine punishment and to do so with gentle strength. It is literally to warn someone. so as to stop them from going in a direction that is opposite the wisdom of God. Likewise teaching is the positive side of admonishment. It's imparting God's instructions so that we can know which direction to go. And to what choices that we need to make. And so Paul says the substance of our proclaiming Christ really needs to include warning and instruction. And it's warning and instruction to both believers and unbelievers. Why? Because every one of us needs the wisdom of God in order to navigate every season of life. You cannot hope to have all of your questions answered apart from the wisdom of God. And that is why we need to be warned. That is why we need to be instructed, Paul says, because both of these aspects point us ultimately to the sufficient that we have in Jesus Christ our Lord. If the substance of our ministry is to proclaim him by warning and instructing in all wisdom, then this then leads to the significance of a min our ministry and basically the question why? Look at the end of verse 28. So that we may present every man complete, mature, perfect in Christ. Paul says, here's our goal. The supreme opportunity. objective of proclaiming Christ. It is so that every person who is truly saved is brought then to maturity in Christ. And let me tell you, looking at this text in the context of Colossians, the This has eschatological overtones to it, meaning that our ministry is literally to prepare people to be ready to face Jesus Christ directly. To again stand in the presence of presence of Christ and to give it account for our life. The question is, are you ready to face Christ today? Are you ready for that? Because this is how significant our ministry is. The goal of our ministry is to bring people to maturity in Christ, for ourselves to be brought to maturity in Christ. I keep telling people That if we keep our eyes focused on Christ, then we're going to be ready to give an account and an answer for the hope that is within us with gentleness and with respect. And we'll be able to do that up until the time, the moment that we step into heaven, to step into the presence of God and face Jesus directly. And let me just tell you, if you are living with that kind of last times, last um thought in mind. Now let me tell you, when you step into the presence of Christ, it's not going to be a surprise to you. You're not going to stand there and have a lack of something to say. You will know exactly who Christ Christ is. And let me tell you, the moment you step into his presence, if you have this kind of maturity, you'll be running to Christ as He runs to you. That's the kind of goal we're looking for in being filled to the sufficient and And again, the completeness of Jesus Christ. It'll be like coming home. Well, this is how significant our proclamation must be. Every season of life is an opportunity to prepare us. someone to meet God face to face. And that's what it means to present every man complete in Christ. That should be our mindset when we counsel, when we warn, when we instruct, when we encourage, when we exhort When we reprove and when we correct. Why? Because that's how we bring someone to maturity in Jesus Christ. And let me just say on that note, if you're not putting yourself into a relationship relationship where you can receive that kind of counsel, then you are missing out on what it means to grow in the grace and knowledge of Jesus Christ. If you're sitting here today, this morning and you do not have some sort of small group, uh an accountability group, a time other than the more the women's breakfast, to meet with ladies face to face to grow in the grace and knowledge of Jesus Christ, you're missing out. You're missing out. out on growth. You're missing out on mature maturity. You're missing out on getting prepared to meet Christ face to face. And let me say that if you're not involved in those kinds of relationships, then you're to find yourself moving f moving farther from God than rather than close communion with Him. And that's ultimately what our desire for you is, that you would move to that place where you have sweet communion with the Lord. Lord of glory. Well Paul says in verse 29, For this purpose I also labor, striving according to his working, which he works in me in power. This brings us to the strength of our ministry. Not just the substance, not just the significance, but now the strength. Paul uses words like labor, striving, work, and power to describe the effort. That permeates Christian ministry, that really permeates the Christian life. These words are so very significant. However, they remind us of this one bottom-line principle. Through the ministry, though the ministry is not for the faint of heart, they remind us that in the midst of all the difficulty, all the heartache, all the troubles, all the challenges in ministering to others, God is still at work. He is working. He is our strength. He is the power behind our ministry. And if God is for us, Paul says, What? Who can be against us? Again, if God is for us, who is against us? It's interesting at the end of Romans 8, Paul says, But in all these things, what things, Paul, are you talking about? I'm talking about affliction, turmoil, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, or the sword. He says, if all of this is coming against us, here's what you need to know as a believer in Christ Jesus. We are overwhelmingly more than conquerors through him who loved us. Let's remember that, in addition to all the hard work that we put into the ministry that God has given us. Greater is He who is in you than what? He who is in the world. Again, this is something that we need to have in mind as we're thinking about what our ministry is to proclaim Christ. Think about this the next time that you're asked to counsel someone, to help minister to the needs of someone who has lost a loved one. To cry and to weep with those who weep, and to come alongside someone for reassurance, encouragement, and just the simplicity of prayer. Think about the challenge that it takes to walk with someone through a very difficult. Difficult season of life as a faithful sister in Christ and what it takes to bear the burden along with them. Remember this, because the reason that you do this is because you know that God God is already at work in their lives as well as yours. Ultimately, it's the power of God that brings us to maturity in Christ. And it brings the person that we're ministering to to maturity. As well. That's not from us. Again, that is through Christ. As you think about what it means to proclaim Christ in every season of life, remember that not only must we proclaim the truth about Christ. More than anything else, Christ must be the substance of our proclamation. He is both the warning, he is both the instruction. And likewise, the significance of our ministry must be focused on the goal of Christianity. Maturity, godly maturity. And in everything that we do and say, we must remember that it is the power of His Holy Spirit that is that is at work within us to fulfill that ministry to another. Why is Christ? Proclaiming Christ so essential for the s for every season of life? Because without Christ there is no hope for eternity. When Paul wrote his letter to the church at Colossae, bear this in mind. He was a prisoner. In Rome. He was nearing the end of his life and his ministry. He wrote to the church to encourage them not to give in to the corrupt and deceitful thinking that has infested this world. To remember the absolute sufficiency, the primacy of Jesus Christ and Him alone. At the end of his letter in chapter 4, just before making mention of his friends and his co-workers, Paul concludes. his letter with these words in verses four and five. He says, Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, redeeming the time. Let your words always be with grace. seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should answer each person. Let me tell you, if you know Jesus Christ, you will have the answer. You will know how To answer those who come to you seeking to know why you have such contentment, joy, and exhilaration concerning ministry. This is how we should live our Christian life. Life, walking in wisdom, letting our words be with grace, seasoned with salt, to always be ready to speak of Christ in every season of life. And so my challenge to you. This morning is how will you do this as a minister of the substance, the significance, and the strength of Christ for his glory alone? Let me tell you what a joy it is to be used of God to proclaim Christ's sufficiency in every season of life. I pray that you will be ready for every opportunity that is before you, because you will have. Many opportunities. Amen? Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for the joy of knowing Christ. We thank you for the joy of being able to proclaim Christ. We thank you for what it means to be in relationship with Christ. We thank you for the warnings. We thank you for the instructions. We thank you for the maturity. We thank you for the means. the strength and the power. The Father, we are so grateful for the opportunities that we have to be able to proclaim Christ with our life and with our lips. I pray that as we contemplating things continue to work through this issue of seeing Christ expressed in every season of life, that you'd fill us with such exhilaration, joy, peace, contentment. That when the opportunities come before us, we are ready in a moment's notice to speak about Christ. Father, we thank you for Jesus, our Savior. We thank you for the life that we have in him. And if there is someone here this morning Who does not know you? I pray that they would put their faith in Jesus Christ alone for their salvation, to truly experience the life of Jesus Christ in them. The forgiveness of all their sins. The promise and expectation of eternal life. Because only to him, through him, do we find all things. Father, we thank you again. We pray these things in our Saviour's name, Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you. You talked about uh the opportunities coming to help people. What do you do when you're trying to minister to let's say a mature Christian, but they're going through a terrible Job like experience? I mean maybe suffering physical affliction for the first time. And it's like, yeah, I know that, but you know, or I don't you know, and maybe for the road to recovery there's a few X XYZ steps they ne they need to take but they don't feel like it. And you want to hold the accountable like you said, account with all admonition and teaching. But they say, I just want sympathy right now. I don't want the other stuff. But sometimes they need the other stuff. Um how do you how do ya So how do you deal with a situation like that? That is a great question. The first thought that comes to my mind is you need to be walking alongside them. Because someday you're going to have to go through those kinds of experiences as well. I think walking along alongside them, asking many questions through the process of of processing the hurt, the challenge, the difficulty, will give you an avenue through which you can speak to them in strength. uh through Christ. And I think that oftentimes we rush to want to say something when we should take a step back and just ask questions. Let them express the difficulty that they're going through because maybe it is something that you just need to Take a moment and pray with them. Don't say anything, just pray with them. And as you walk alongside them, as you're asking them how they're doing, check in with them often. But then when it comes time for you to hear something that maybe they're thinking in a skew or they're not thinking right on it, you can then bring the word of God to bear on that moment. But you can speak the truth in love. So but it's a it's a great question. I think sometimes we're a person that's going through a difficulty often times doesn't know how to even process the difficulty. And so oftentimes it's just a way for them to express their emotions or what they're going through, what they're dealing with, and for you to just listen. And then in time you'll know how to answer. And they'll be receptive to it. But great great question. Thank you. Yes, right here. We here at Hope have a great program with Grief Share, which addresses many things that you talk about having somebody to come alongside of you and Linda here and Jeff lead that and I would say if there's anyone here that is going through a grief of a loss of it can be your husband, wife father, daughter, anyone and it's a tremendous program to have healing and to be able to talk with someone who understands yeah, what you're going through. Uh I also wanted to ask what was your training, religious training or what did your parents what what was your religion before you became a Christian? That is a great question. Um I came to faith in Christ at the age of sixteen. Uh June between the summer between junior and or my junior high years and my high school years. Um I came to faith in Christ through a parachurch ministry uh that was on campus at our high school. And from then I got introduced to a youth ministry in a church and started attending first Attending a church, and then ultimately that led me into a desire to want to do something ministerially. Um, I thought I just wanted to help people, so I started off uh uh kind of going after a sociology degree or a psychology. psychology degree and quickly when I found out there were Bible colleges I immediately went to a Bible college and that cemented my calling to go into the ministry. But prior to my faith in my coming to faith in Christ, my dad was a Methodist My mom was like a nominal Catholic. I believed in God. I my assumption was that if I was a good kid that good would outweigh my bad. And I found out that even my ba my even my good was so bad. And uh And that really opened my heart up to the gospel and so when I heard that Christ was everything, that he was totally sufficient to cover all my sin, I immediately gave my heart to Christ. And here's the interesting point about It. My older brother, who is not a believer, had been involved in the para-church ministry and he started talking to people about Christ. And when I started hearing the message of the gospel, I went to my brother to ask him to explain to me what the gospel is. Who Christ is, who God is, and he said, Just read your Bible. And uh it was his way of an older brother saying, I don't really want my brother tagging along with me, so I'll just redirect you to the Bible and you just read the Bible. And I remember the first Bible that I picked up was a very old old I think it was before the actual King James Bible. It was so it was so archaic in the language and I started to read I didn't know where to read so I figured you read a book from the beginning so I started reading it from in the beginning and by the gu time I got to chapter five with all the the generations or the begats um it became very boring to me. So I went to him and I said, This is boring. Can you explain this to me? And he says, Well where are you reading? And I said, I'm reading at the beginning beginning. He says, Well that's the Old Testament. You need to read the New Testament and I thought, Old Testament, New Testament, what in the world is that? And he directed me to the New Testament and I got a hold of a a more modern English version and I just ate it up. I just read it so fast, I underlined I think every passage, every word, circled every word in multiple colors, so by the time I was done that Bible was just was just you know, well eaten. So but Yeah, thank you. That's a great question. You know, let me say something about grief share. We have ministries in the church and oftentimes when people are going through troubles and difficulties, they want to pull away. Please don't do that. Don't pull away. You have sisters in Christ that love you dearly. They want to speak truth into your life. They want to be there for you to walk through it with you. And the grief share ministry is tremendous for that. So please don't keep your problems And your difficulties to yourself. Yes, I have a question. Um so sometimes there are hurts that are in the past as well, and sometimes in our minds we revisit them. So how do you really know whether you're healing from it if you, you know, still feel like a pain about it or um I mean, how are you how do you know you're really not to say you're not past it because you can move forward, but there are pain and hurts and sometimes um it kind of can I guess um yeah, I'm just gonna leave it there. As far as how do you know you're really healing, you know? Um, if you're not you know, fully getting like I guess a f a full counseling Yeah. Like where your pastor or someone says, you know, I think you're doing better in this or you know, like so yeah. Yeah, that's a great question. I think at the heart of every problem, every challenge, every difficulty is our understanding of God, our understanding of theology. And there may be issues in the past that are unresolved. There may be issues that haven't quite been worked through to understand how that fits into a an accurate understanding of who God is. And so ultimately what we are trying to do in helping people with their problems is to bring them to a place where they understand the sufficiency of Christ for that. And that may take a while to do it. It may take going back and to look at that issue and to see if there are any any unresolved issues that need to take place. And uh but again I think it really comes down to an understanding of who God is, who Christ is. Um Christ is able to forgive all our sins, past, present and future. He's able to be sufficient in the past, in the present. And in the future. And when we have an accurate understanding of who God is, we often have the tools then to be able to deal with those issues, maybe even if they've taken years, they've been years ago. But ultimately Ultimately, it's our understanding of who God is. Beyond that, great question, and that's one of the issues that our counseling ministry deals with. So I would strongly encourage to inquire of those who are involved in that ministry. Just to maybe pinpoint more specifically. What the issue may be. Let me tell you, let me, if you don't mind me taking a moment here. My wife and I have gone through in the 35 years of marriage several seasons of very difficult life. I remember I remember one time we went through one very difficult season together and it wasn't until several years later that we could look back on that issue and say, now we know how God worked. the midst of it, we couldn't see it. We couldn't make sense of it. We didn't know his plan, his purpose for it. And in fact we had to just pray and and cry out, God, you have a purpose in this, we know that. We just can't sort it out. And it was years later that we could look back and to see how God was working in that and to work in it such perfection in the situation but in our life that it brought us to greater maturity in him because of it. Sometimes it just takes waiting. Wait on the Lord. Yeah. Yeah.