Well good morning. It's a joy of being in the Lord's house, amen. We are God's redeemed people that He gathers together, uh calls us out of the world, and gives us the great joy of living life together. And it has been a joy for me to be with you this weekend. I want to say thank you to your pastor, Tom. Thank you very much for sharing your pulpit with me. and to the elders and the missions committee for extending an invitation to join you this weekend. I have to confess, like in most occasions of ministry Uh when you minister, you find out you're the one that is the most blessed. And that's certainly been my experience this weekend. The encouragement that I've received from your Commitment to Christ, your love for one another, and your heart to see the gospel advance. So thank you for your ministry in my life. I also have really enjoyed the opportunity to be with Stephen and Lisa to stay in their home. I just want to say to both of you, I'm very, very proud of you and excited about what God's doing in your life. And to be here this weekend and to experience again how this church uh loves you and has surrounded you and is caring for your family uh gives me great, great joy. So We'll continue our prayers on your behalf as the Lord leads you to Togo. And we expect not great things from you, but great things from God. And we'll intercede on your behalf and know that He will use you to accomplish many wonderful and great things. Well, our focus this weekend is missions. And it's my joy to direct our attention to God's Word. I'm going to invite you to open up to the book of Titus this morning. But as you do that, I have to confess, I love a great story of God demonstrating his power and his victory over this world. And with regard to the story of redemption You know, if you trace that throughout the Old Testament and throughout the New Testament, you understand that, first of all, we are benefactors of God's grace. Amen? But then he expects us to be participants with him in the extension of that great message of hope and grace to others. And this is a a noble enterprise, but but it's a a great privilege, isn't it? A great privilege. And if you study the scriptures, you read the accounts of God doing a great work of redeeming men unto himself, frankly, in some very hopeless situations. Your church is entitled Hope, and you've emphasized that theme this morning, and we carry a message of hope. God is the only one who can accomplish the great work of the gospel in hopeless situations. One of my favorite stories comes from the Old Testament. We talk about a cross-cultural missions experience. It was the story of Daniel and his buddies who were taken captive into the land of Babylon and taken into the courts of Nebuchadnezzar Now these were a fearsome people that ruled the planet at this time. And Nebuchadnezzar himself was the most powerful man on the planet. And what does Daniel's buddies do as soon as they get into the courts of the king? They decide that they're going to stand with God. And I said, let's take a little test here. We'll just eat vegetables and drink water. We won't partake of the king's wine and his meat. And we'll see who's stronger at the end of that encounter. And God prevails, doesn't he? And he demonstrates that those who put their faith in him will be strengthened to take a stance in very sometimes even hostile circumstances. Do you think that was an easy choice for Daniel and his friends to make? Absolutely not. But they were courageous. And they stood for him. But if you read the account of Daniel and and and these young boys' faithfulness as they grow into men, We come to an account in the book of Daniel, chapter 4, where Daniel has a vision. I'm sorry, Nebuchadnezzar has a vision. And that vision predicts that he's going to crawl on his belly and lose all capacity to care for himself. Utter humiliation. So he goes from the heights of power to utter humiliation. And it says as he was walking uh on the tops of his palace, which were one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, and it says, Look at all that I have done. And in that moment, the the vision, the dream, was realized and he was humbled and he crawled on his belly. His hair grew, his nails grew, he could not care for himself. But at the end of that season, God intervened again, and he spoke to Nebuchadnezzar, and he restored him to his position of power. Nebuchadnezzar understood because of the faithful testimony of Daniel and his friends to the one true God. that God is the one who reigns above. And Nebuchadnezzar, this Gentile king Stands before the entire nation and proclaims that I worship the one true God. You want to talk about a powerful story of redemption and revival? A cross-cultural missionary experience of these young Jewish boys who get taken to a foreign land. And God works through the king, and I'm sure many followed after him and his testimony to come to faith in the one true God. Stephen mentioned earlier this morning about the story of Jonah. That's a great story of revival. Now we know Jonah didn't obey, right? He ran the opposite direction. But eventually he got aimed in the right direction and he went to the end of it. And it says that he walked into the city and it was a three days walk. How far can you walk, or how far can a man walk in one day? It's estimated about 20 miles. So this city was 60 miles across. As Jonah began to walk, he began to preach and proclaim that God was going to judge these people and they needed to repent. If you read the account of Jonah, it's an amazing story of God's power to accomplish, again in another cross-cultural setting. His missionary purpose to redeem men from every tribe, tongue, and nation. And we see that from the king to the lowest of the lowest of classes in Nineveh came to faith in Jesus Christ. This is a great story of revival. Listen, we face human circumstances, and even as we go forward to proclaim the gospel, and we're tempted to look at the hopelessness and begin to even doubt what God can do. But that's where God reveals himself to be as powerful as he is in the most hopeless of circumstances. To bring a message of hope and redemption. And this morning I want us to look at an occasion in the New Testament that tells a similar story. As your pastor read, uh the account of Luke, there with the giving of the Great Commission, the ascension, and then going into Christ's command for his disciples to stay in the city of Jerusalem until the Holy Spirit came. And then they were to be what his witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, and to Samaria to the uttermost parts of the world. Christ in Acts. A global missionary movement of the church. And we see in Acts chapter 2 the Holy Spirit comes, and there were even those from around the world who heard the gospel message in their own language. What was occurring at Pentecost if God was making a statement that this gospel is for all people And then the church understood the commission of Christ as then to go out and to proclaim the good news to all peoples, to all nations. And the unfolding of the New Testament is the work of the church to extend the gospel to the Gentile nations. Every New Testament epistle that you read, authored by the Apostle Paul, is a missionary letter, giving testimony to God redeeming A group of Gentiles and establishing a church among them. And we find that account here in the book of Titus. This brief epistle provides for us an insight into how God accomplishes hope in a hopeless situation. By extending the gospel and transforming lives and establishing his church. I want to begin by reading to you actually Paul's benediction. And we're going to take the time to unpack Paul's benediction by looking back at the text of Titus and discovering all it is that God can do when he's ready to work among people in realizing the gospel message. Well go with me first of all in chapter three, beginning in verse twelve. It says, When I send Artemis or Tychus to you, make every effort to come to me at Nicopolis, for I've decided to spend the winter there diligently help Zenus the lawyer and Apollos on their way so that nothing is lacking for them. What are we seeing here? We're seeing God's moving his people as missionaries coming and going and the work of the church in supporting and sending them to do that. But we come to verse 14. This will be the focus of our study this morning. It says, Our people must also learn to engage in good deeds to meet pressing needs so that they will not be unfruitful. And all who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. The title of my sermon this morning is Professing Truth and Love, Adorning the Gospel. And we're going to look this morning at five professions of a godly life that God accomplished here on the small island of Crete. Verse 14 begins by saying, Our people must also learn to meet pressing, I'm sorry, our people must also learn to engage in good deeds. Well The first profession that we have to recognize in this text is the profession of wisdom. The profession of wisdom. Who are these people Paul's writing of? Our people. What a dramatic change in tone from what he stated in chapter one. Go back and look with me at chapter one. We understand that Paul sent Titus to the small island of Crete so that he could establish a church there. And part of establishing a church is equipping and training leaders who will love and lead and shepherd that church. And so we see here in verse 5, for this reason I left you in Crete, that you would set in order what remains, and appoint elders in every city as I directed you And he goes on to provide for us a list of qualifications of godly leadership for the church. It's a text that we're very familiar with. But he goes down to verse 10, and this is the context in which Titus is called to raise up church leaders. He says, for there are many rebellious men, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision, who must be silenced because they are upsetting whole families. teaching things that they should not teach for the sake of sordid gain. One of themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons This testimony is true, and for this reason reprove them severely so that they may be sound in the faith, not paying attention to Jewish myths and commandments of men who turn away from the truth. Verse 16 says this, they profess to know God, but by their deeds they deny him, being detestable and disobedient and worthless for any good deed. You want to talk about a hopeless situation? Think about the context that Titus was sent in to to establish a church. This is a group of people who were notorious in the ancient world. As a matter of fact, they're described here. You can see in verse 12 that they were recognized even by one of their own and described this way as being liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. Now when you think about an invitation to go and share the gospel with a group of people. You want to talk about a hopeless situation. A group of people who are characterized in this fashion, they are liars, meaning they are treacherous, they are deceivers, they are deceptive. They are characterized and find great pride in being known this way as those who are dishonest. Not the kind of people you want to pick for your best friends, are they? He goes on to say that they are evil beasts. These are brutes, these are barbarians, these are people who are violent, they're vulgar They do not abide by the the common and and acceptable practices of civilized society. These are dangerous people. And going on, they're slaves to their flesh mean that they are lazy gluttons. Their form of entertainment is to feast. On food and wine, leading to their own drunkenness. This is the group of people who are totally given over to fleshly desires and fleshly lusts When I think about the ancient world and being sent to an island like this and a group of people like this, there's only one way I can describe this group of people. It might help you picture who Titus was sent to minister to. This is this is a group of pirates is what they were. When you think of people who were treacherous, violent, vulgar This is what the Cretan people were known for. How do you like to be sent to evangelize a group of pirates? Might be a little anxious, a little bit nervous, right? But not Titus. Titus as a disciple of Paul understands The power of the gospel to transform any life, to transform every life. And he accepts his commission from Paul seriously, and he goes and imparts his life. Now here's the contrast We know that there are two kinds of people. The scriptures are very clear. There are those who are the redeemed and those who are the unredeemed. And these Cretans were behaving in a manner that was consistent with their unredeemed state. You know, sometimes as Christians, we get offended by unbelievers. My friends, they're just behaving in a manner that's consistent with who they are It should elicit on our part not anger, not hostility, but compassion and candidly empathy, because so were we. before Christ reached into our life and saved us. We are no better than them. We are just the benefactor of God's mercy and his grace. And so when we go into hopeless situations for the gospel, We need to be people who are characterized not by fear, but by compassion. Not by anger, but empathy. And remind that apart from the grace of God, we find ourselves in the same exact loss of conditions. But God opened up our eyes. He gave us his Holy Spirit. He regenerated us. He brought us to faith. He gave us faith. And then the great privilege to move into those hopeless situations and to proclaim that great message to others. and to see them come to faith in Jesus Christ. What a privilege it is for us to endeavor in this kind of work. But we know that there are two kinds of people, and we're going to encounter them in our life, and particularly those who are unredeemed. Psalm 1 gives us a clear explanation of these two kinds of people, right? It talks about the man who is blessed, who does not what? Walk in the counsel of the ungodly, or walk in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scorners. And what you see there is a picture of someone who is resigned to a sinful pattern. A sinful lifestyle. Absolutely resigned. To the point that they are identified as a scorner, someone who scoffs and mocks at God. Paul says in Romans chapter one that we without God are fools. We no longer worship the Creator, we reject him, we worship some form of the creation, and we have become fools. If this doesn't elicit compassion, empathy on our parts, And very little will. And it causes us to check our own hearts and preach the gospel to ourselves once again so that we might recall what God has done on our behalf. Now we know that in this text, if you go back and look at Titus chapter 1, verse 1, it says that Paul understands what God is going to do in accomplishing godliness among the godless. He writes in his opening statements here that he, Paul, a bondservant, a slave of Christ and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the faith of those chosen of God and the knowledge of the truth which is in accordance to what To godliness. And in such is the hope of eternal life, which God who cannot lie promised long ages ago That the proper time manifested even his word in the proclamation with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God, our Savior. Paul sums up in here this great message of hope. God who can accomplish godliness among the godless. He's the only one who can do this And so he reminds Titus, as he recognizes sending him into this very difficult situation, excuse me, that God can do this. God can do this. And so that was Titus's confidence of going into such a situation, of those who were resigned to become scoffers, those who were committed In opposing God. We see the same contrast provided for us in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 5, verse chapter 7. And we see there that Christ is talking first of all in the beatitudes of those who are characterized by godliness. These are true disciples. And he says that those disciples who are characterized by peacemaking and a hunger for for righteousness and and and a commitment to demonstrate meekness and and concern for others, following the example of Christ, will shine as a bright light and they'll serve as salt in the midst of a a crooked and perverse world And this is God's purpose for his disciples to be a light to those who are godless. And then Christ goes on to demonstrate that the work of the kingdom is really done in the hearts of men. And he begins to confront the Pharisees by saying, listen, you obey the law externally, and it's not enough that you just don't commit adultery with a woman. But the condition of your heart is you looked upon a woman and sinned against her in your heart. See, Christ always looks past the external behavior and drills right down to the heart in the condition where people really need And then he goes on to talk about those who appear religious, and he points to those who pray publicly in contrast to the The poor publican who prays where? In private, on his knees, begging God to forgive him. Or the Pharisee who gives alms to the poor so that others can see His self-righteousness. But the publican whose right hand doesn't even know what the left hand gives, meaning that he gives discreetly and quietly and privately, not for self-promotion. And so Christ contrasts this, he comes later into that sermon and illustrates that there are two paths. There's a broad path and a narrow path. And so my friends, we're reminded that there are two kinds of people. And we who have been redeemed by God. Have been put on a path of godliness, rescued and redeemed from our godlessness. This is our great hope, isn't it? And a life that is converted from a path of godlessness to a path of godliness is a path that is professing wisdom. Studies of Scripture reveal to us that the emphasis on wisdom is taking the knowledge that has been entrusted to us and practicing it in obedience. This is the wise life that we're instructed to lead. And this is the emphasis in our text here on godly behavior. On godly behavior. The second profession that we see here in this text is not only that these people are now redeemed people of God, that's why Paul says there are people. These are a group of people that were called out from among the pirates, and now they're part of the body of Christ. And now they walk in wisdom. This is an amazing testimony of God's work of redemption and revival. But he goes on to say that they not only profess wisdom, but they profess worship. And he says that they must learn to devote themselves to engage in good deeds. And this idea of learning or devoting ourselves to a lifestyle of worship is what characterizes God's people. These are those now who've been redeemed here on the island of Crete who are no longer characterized by worshiping themselves, worshiping the creation, but they actually are learning, they're growing in their devotion to Christ. And so the second profession here is a profession of worship, a lifestyle of worship. It's exactly what we see in Romans chapter twelve. Turn there with me, so we can see Paul's emphasis In Romans chapter 12, we read this. Having earlier said in chapter 1, you know, to present our bodies, a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God, this is a spiritual act of worship. But look down with me at verse 9. It says this lifestyle of worship is a lifestyle that's characterized this way. Let love be without what? Hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil. Cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love and give preference to one another in honor. Not lagging behind in diligence, but fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, persevering in tribulation, devoted to prayer, contributing to the needs of the saints, and practicing hospitality. It's amazing, isn't it? This is the transforming work that God does. And you and I who are members of the body of Christ now live a life where we profess worship to God And it's a life that we put on display his characters and his attributes because we've learned from him. Think about how powerful this transformation is. This Cretan audience, these barbarians, have now come to be characterized by what Paul's saying here in Romans chapter 12. They're characterized by love. And now they abhor what is evil. They cling to what is good. They're devoted to one another in brotherly love No man or no woman can live that way in their own power and their own strength. This is a picture of repentance. And that's what Paul is getting at here, is they are learning to devote themselves to glorify God. This is the progress and progression of a godly life, a life of worship. So they profess wisdom, they're professing worship. You know, when I think about uh the reality of celebrating Easter next weekend. And our focus on the resurrection, we can't help but place our hope in the promise that we too will participate in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. One day, we're going to get a new body. And we're going to live forever. Amen. Unhindered, unaffected by sin and the temptations of this world. We long for that, don't we? Matter of fact, if you look at the real issue and emphasis of hope in the New Testament for the believer, it's in the resurrection that awaits us. You know, the longer we walk on this planet, we realize there's not much hope here. Right? There's despair all around us. Our hope is not going to be found in somehow solving our financial problems here, or overcoming our health issues here, or figuring out our family problems here, or getting a better job, or whatever it may be. That's not where our hope is found. Our hope is found in the perfect world that awaits us through the resurrection that has been promised to us through the first Example of the resurrection is Christ who prevailed over death. He promises that we too will prevail. Several years ago, I read a book that brought these truths home for me. It was entitled Heaven is a World of Love. It was a sermon actually authored by Jonathan Edwards. And Stephen Nichols took this sermon and he began to unpack for us in a very approachable way an understanding of what the resurrected life is to mean for us. And he said this. He said, Jonathan Edwards articulates in his sermon a vision for living in between. His vision of the church consisted of a redeemed community living in this life according to the principles and dictates of the life to come. Living in between meant living the vision of heaven on earth. His is the truly good this is the truly good life, the only life worth living. What's Jonathan Everest trying to say to us here? He's trying to say at the point that we were saved and we died to ourselves and we were buried with Christ and raised in newness of life. The great teaching in Romans chapter 6. That the point of conversion, we actually are beginning to live the resurrected life. We're beginning to live heaven on earth. This is what the godly life affords us here. I don't know about you, but sometimes we we have such an extended view of our own sanctification and we are in such despair. about the temptations and battles with sin that we fail to remember that we're already living the resurrected victorious life. And Christ has given us the power, through his Spirit, to overcome sin and death. This is the great confidence that we have as we go into our daily life, no matter what we face. And this was Jonathan Edwards' point was to say to his church, look up, look up, and realize that today is not a day of defeat, today is a day of victory. Yes, we await the future resurrection where we don't want to contend with the temptations of sin any longer, but we can have victory today. The resurrection is ours today, in the sense of our spiritual condition and the kingdom of God established in our hearts. This is what God accomplished among a group of barbarians And this is what Paul is pointing to here. Praise God for this story of redemption and revival unfolding on the pages of this epistle. Well, he goes on to say they not only demonstrate a profession of wisdom, a profession of worship, but a profession of good works. And he says that they have learned To engage in good deeds. Now this is interesting to me because in this small epistle, the phrase good deeds is used eight times That tells you, if you study the epistle, this is the emphasis of the book. This is the key point. And the key point here of good deeds is not that we have gone out and earned or merited God's favor. Because we've done what we think he requires of us. It's because he has saved us that now we have been enabled to practice good deeds. In love and service towards others. Look with me quickly. You'll see where these references are made in chapter 2, in verse 7. Talking about young men who are to be sensible in all things show yourself to be what? An example of good deeds. We see in chapter 2, verse 14. Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, what? Zealous for good deeds. Chapter 3, verse 1. Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed. In verse 8 of chapter 3, this is a trustworthy statement. And concerning these things, I want you to speak confidently, so that those who have believed God will be careful to engage in good deeds. This is the theme that we see running through this text of a transformed life, what a godly life looks like, someone who adorns the gospel. In 1 Peter chapter 1, turn there with me. You'll see that this is not an emphasis limited to Paul. Peter laying out for us beautifully in chapter one Our Lord Jesus Christ and His work of salvation, the extension of great mercy. It's just a beautiful text that runs from verse 3 all the way down to verse 12. And then he says this, therefore, if you are recipients of this great work of the gospel, prepare your minds for action. Keep sober in spirit, fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the former lusts which were yours in your ignorance, but like the Holy One who called you Be holy yourselves, also in all your behavior. Because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. What's Peter saying? He's arguing that if you've been a recipient of the gospel, God's going to transform your life to live a life of good deeds Yours will be a life professing good works. If you look down further in chapter 2 of 1 Peter, he goes on to remind us. How it is that we're to walk in this world. Chapter 2, verse 11, he says, Beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers to abstain from fleshly lusts which wage war against the soul. Keep your behavior excellent among the Gentiles, so that in the thing in which they slander you as evildoers, they may because of what? Your good deeds, as they observe them, glorify God in the day of visitation. See, Peter understands that a person who has encountered Christ and has submitted himself to Christ as Lord is going to live a life of good deeds. And those good deeds are imitation of Christ Himself, following His example. And that's why this contrast that we talked about earlier between the redeemed and unredeemed is always characterized in Scripture uh by good deeds or evil deeds. Think about Galatians chapter five. A long, long, laundry list of evil behavior. Lying, deception, murders, envy, all these kinds of divisive, disunifying kinds of behaviors that people experience in their relationship. And then he goes on to say what? But the fruit of the Spirit. is love, is joy, and it's peace, and it's patience, it's kindness, it's goodness and gentleness and self-control. You've got to believe it was a joy for Titus to look at some of those barbarians that came to his Bible study and to observe them demonstrating the fruit of the Spirit. That's the testimony of God at work in a life. That kind of transformation. And that's what Paul's acknowledging here at the end of Titus is now these folks who've been redeemed by God. We thought it was hopeless from a human perspective, whatever change their behavior. God does the impossible. And he transforms their lives. We also understand here, as we looked at 1 Peter chapter 2, that there's a testimony that goes forward with that transformation. Peter says as people watch the church live out their good deeds in imitating Christ, what happens? Unbelievers look at that. And they will actually come to seek and to know the one true God. Who is the God who accomplishes such a transformation in a life of a barbarian? John says it so clearly for us in the book of 1 John. Turn there with me. I want you to look at 1 John chapter 4. Verse 7, beloved, let us love one another. For love is from God. Excuse me. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. By this the love of God was manifested in us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him. In this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. What a beautiful testimony of the gospel. And then John writes this, Beloved, if God so loved us this way, we also ought to love one another. Talk about imitating Christ? This is the clear teaching of the New Testament. This is what it means to be a disciple and follower of Christ to imitate him. And here John says it very clearly. If God so loved us We also ought to love one another. Now watch this, verse 12. No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. And by this, we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. We have seen and testified that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. This is very important. See, as we practice our good works and demonstrate the love of Christ towards others We have the opportunity to reveal Christ to the lost. That's what John's saying here. He says, no one has seen God at any time. But he says, if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected or demonstrated in us. Do you understand what John's saying? We have the opportunity, living a transformed life before lost people, to put God on display. Go with me to John chapter 1. The same author, the beloved disciple of Christ, makes a very similar but interesting statement in John chapter 1. It says this in verse 14. And the word became flesh, referring to Christ and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. John testified about him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. For of his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. Listen, verse 18. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has revealed him or explained him to us. What's John saying here? No man has ever seen God. No man can look upon God. We think of the occasion in the Old Testament of Moses wanting to see God, and God tells him to go into the cleft of the rock and he passes by him. Okay, and so Moses had got a glimpse of his glory, but could not look fully on God. No man can do that. And so John is saying here in John chapter 1: no man has ever seen God but God took on the form of flesh, and in the life of Christ, the way that he lived, he demonstrated and revealed the character of God to us. Christ revealed the Father to us. What's John saying in First John chapter four? Verse 12, no one has seen God at any time. But if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected or demonstrated through us. See, our good works are not about living a better Christian life so we can check off the list or find the affirmation of God. We had the affirmation of God. He lavished that on us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. We can't do anything to earn or merit more of his affection or his love. But as we live lives of obedience and sanctification and demonstrate a transformed life, what we are doing is we're revealing the Father. Just as Christ revealed the Father to us, we have the opportunity to reveal the Father to those who are lost. We don't do it perfectly. Okay? And that's why we need to tell them about the gospel. We'll model the character of God in our actions, but they need to hear the message of the gospel. You know, I may try to show mercy to you and compassion to you, but I don't do it perfectly. Okay? But let me tell you about my God who is perfect. And he'll demonstrate perfect mercy and compassion to you. This is the work that God does among his people. It's what he was doing there on the island of Crete. Well let's go back to our text. So we profess wisdom, we profess worship, we profess our works, our good works. And an unredeemed or a redeemed people also profess welfare, or what came to be known by the Puritans as Christian charities. What's the direction of these good deeds? It's so that we might meet the pressing needs or the urgent needs of others. And the Greek word here is the same word that aligns in the English language of welfare. And you divide the word there, well means to complete or to provide fully or amply. Okay? And fare itself means for the provision of food or basic human needs. And so the idea here is to provide and meet needs in a full and complete way. Needs that are common to all human beings. Now think it's about these people. These were the people who deceived and robbed and stole and plundered. And now these are people who are what? They're engaged in good needs of not stealing and robbing, but giving to meet others' needs. It's very awesome, isn't it? The total transformation that happens when God redeems a life. That's exactly what was occurring here. And ministry towards the poor, particular people who have needs, are also an opportunity to point to the greater spiritual truth of what God does to us. We are referred to in Scripture as those who are slaves to sin. We're impoverished. But God lavishes on us the riches of His mercy and grace. So when we reach into our pocket and take what God's given to us and share it with somebody else, it's just a simple expression or illustration of a greater exchange that God's willing to do on their behalf to meet their spiritual poverty with the abundance of his riches. This is how Christians live in the world. That's why we practice generosity. It's not that we can pat ourselves on the back, or it's not that we can just end world hunger and the needs that people face, as noble as that might be. It's because we understand what's been given to us, and now we're free to give to others. And we do that with gladness, don't we? Scriptures testify of the generous giver who's characterized by gladness and happiness. It's because we understand that we are the recipients of what we don't deserve, what a blessing it is to share with others. And when they can't reciprocate, then it's the clearest picture of our own spiritual condition when we had nothing to offer Christ. Nothing. And he laid down his life for us. John 15 says, Greater love hath no man than he was, lay down his life for his friends. The greatest demonstration of love was towards us when we had nothing to give back. And you and I, as people who understand that, are freed up to just simply meet needs, practical needs, in a free way that points to that greater truth. These are needs that meet the immediate and necessary needs that we find in the body of Christ and to those around us. Look with me over 1 Thessalonians 4. We see this in verse nine of chapter four. Now as to the love of the brethren, you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. For indeed you do practice it toward all the brethren who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brethren, to excel still more, and to make it your ambition to lead a quiet life, and attend to your own business, and work with your hands, just as we commanded you So that you will behave properly toward outsiders and not be in any need. What's Paul saying here to the Thessalonians? He's saying to them, Listen, I know you're anticipating the day of the Lord. You've stopped working, but you need to stop. Okay? Be faithful to work hard. And what you earn will not only meet your needs, but the needs of others. Okay, we're commanded to be diligent and faithful and to take our proceeds and our resources and to share. We see this in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, if you look over with me It says here for even when we were with you, we used to give you this order. If anyone is not willing to work, then he is not to eat either. For we hear that some among you are leading an undisciplined life, doing no work at all, but acting like busybodies. Now such persons we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ to work in quiet fashion and eat their own bread. But as for you, brethren, do not grow weary of doing Good. Okay. These men here on the island of Crete who formerly stole and cheated and robbed and took from others now are learning to what? To work hard, to provide for their own needs and then for the needs of their family and for others. Okay? Again, this is a testimony of a transformation and And so the Christian is one who professes welfare, a concern for others, a care for others. The last profession that we see in this text is the profession of a gospel witness. A profession of a gospel witness. He goes on to say, our people must also learn to engage in good deeds to meet pressing needs so that they will not be unfruitful. Not be unfruitful All throughout the New Testament, we see an emphasis on fruit-bearing. This is what Christ said in John chapter 15. That we've, if we abide in him, we will bear much fruit. We've already cited Galatians chapter 5, verse 13. And I want to point this back to their witness and their testimony by looking at particular statements made in chapter two. We go to this text often to talk about discipleship. It's about the older women discipling the younger women, the older men discipling the younger men. So let's read the text. It says in verse 10, verse 2, chapter 2, old men are to be temperate, dignified, sensible, sound in faith and love and perseverance. Older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips, nor enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good, so that they may encourage the young women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be sensible, pure, workers at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands. Why? So that the Word of God will not be dishonorable. See, these are those who now profess Christ, and they're coming out of this ungodly lifestyle and they need to learn how to live a godly life. But what's at stake is their testimony and their witness Keep reading with me. Verse 6. Likewise, urge the young men to be sensible. In all things show yourself to be an example of good deeds, with purity in doctrine, dignified, sound in speech, which is beyond reproach. Why? So that the opponent will be put to shame, having nothing bad to say about us. Verse 9 Urge bonds slaves to be subject to their own masters in everything, to be well pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering, not showing all good faith. Why? so that they will adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in every respect. What a privilege it is to live a transformed life that bears testimony to Christ as Savior and Lord I love this phrase that we find here in verse 10. That we would adorn the doctrine of God. Does your life adorn The person of God and the gospel. Do people see a transformation in your life? See, the whole point of discipleship here was not just so that these Cretans overcome their own barbaric behavior and live a better civilized life. It was that as you live this life of obedience, you give testimony to what God can do through the gospel. This is true for you and I as well. Paul throughout Scripture, we can look at Philippians chapter 1, verse 27, Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 3, Colossians 1:10. Paul repeatedly uses the phrase that we would walk in a manner that is worthy of what? Worthy of God or worthy of the gospel See, a transformed life does shine as a bright light. And that's exactly what it is that he accomplished here among the Cretans. So that they would not be unfruitful, but they would bear witness to all that God has done. This is the ultimate purpose of fruit-bearing in our lives, to the glory and praise of God. Paul says it this way in Philippians chapter 2, verse 15, that we would be blameless and innocent, that we would be children of God without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation. Among whom you shine as bright lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life. Amazing. Let me close this morning as we think about the power of God to transform a life, and particularly with regard to its application to godly behavior and our testimony. David Peterson in a book, Possessed by God, says this. With regard to God's people, holiness means being set apart for a relationship with the Holy One. in order that we might display His character in every sphere of life. Beginning with the heart and reaching out to touch the life and witness of God's people at every level. God's word and God's Spirit bring change and transformation. In us and through us, something of God's holiness is revealed to the world. Francis Schaeffer, a great critic of Western civilization. The call of the church said this. The world has a right to look upon us and make a judgment. We are told by Jesus that as we love one another, the world will judge not only whether we are his disciples, but whether the Father sent the Son. The final apologetic, along with the rational, logical defense and presentation of the gospel, is what the world sees in the individual Christian and in our corporate relationships together. This is our testimony that is essential for advancing God's mission And finally, Jim Peterson in his book Living Proof says that the very existence of a group of Christians with unique relationships to one another is in itself a witness. We have seen that from the beginning. One of God's primary means of revealing himself to the world has been through his people. And then how does Paul close the book of Titus? He says this, all who are with me greet you. And greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. If you go back and actually look at chapter 1, it's how Paul introduces this little thing. He says, Grace be to you. And this brief little illustration of what God could do among a barbaric people is a testimony of what God's been doing throughout redemptive history. calling people enslaved to godlessness, to obedience and faith in Jesus Christ, and transforming their lives so that in their generation they can live a bold witness before those who are lost. And the progress we make in our own sanctification is a testimony to the power of God to change lives. And this is the power and impact of a life, whether you're going to work tomorrow, Before your colleagues, or you're going to board a plane and go to West Africa to serve as a missionary. We have the opportunity. To live transformed lives in hopeless situations, so that God would do what only God could do, to draw and bring others to seek and to follow Him, that they too may join us in His faith. I'm so grateful for what God's doing in your church. And pray that He would continue to strengthen you to this end. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father, we're humble as we meditate on the gospel because it reminds us of who we were before meeting you. Broken, lost, hostile, proud, slaves to our own lustful desires But you loved us and you sent your son. And now you apply his atoning work on our behalf. We are unworthy. And yet we praise you and we thank you. We rest in your grace. It defines life for us. And I pray that it would solicit on our part a greater compassion and empathy for the loss that we encounter tomorrow. And I pray God that we would live a life before them that would illustrate you and reveal you so that they might become curious and respond to uh uh the conviction of your spirit would seek to know the truth and give us courage to proclaim that truth that they might know you. Lord, we pray that this would be a church who accomplishes your mission this week and the weeks to come, the days ahead. I thank you for its faithfulness. It's testimony, its love for Christ. And I thank you for the privilege it's been to be with them this weekend. Bless them richly, I pray, in the name of Christ. Amen.