Now we all know how important identification is to our society. Try, for example, to get into some restricted area without proper ID, the proper badge, and well you find out pretty quickly that you're Not allowed. As you go through life, it's interesting how you get pinned with certain identities. People think of you in a certain way, they pin these identities on you, for good or for ill. And you get assigned identities by other people. And you begin to think of yourself through these identifications. You start to think of you the way others think of you. Many these days are interested in studying their roots, their genealogy. My brother recently did some research on the leak family, tracing our roots back to England He claims to the court of Henry VIII. That would be interesting if it's true. My mother's mother's family was from Russia. To many people, when they think about their origins, particularly here in America, where'd you come from, what was your nationality, background, that gives you and me identity, and people think of us that way Where you live also now gives us an identity. When people meet each other, they may ask if they don't know where they're from. Are you from the North? Are you a Southerner? Are you a Californian? A New Yorker Or whatever it is, a Floridian or a Texan, and they want to know where you are. Even around here, we say, well, what county are you from? Are you from Northern Virginia, from Baltimore? And so your location gives you an identity Ethnic background probably more than anything else is used by society to identify us, white, black, Asian, African, Hispanic Your education, your social class come into play too as people identify you, middle or lower or upper class, a high school graduate or dropout. College grad, maybe postgraduate some kind. Then there's the Democrat, Republican, independent labels that many carry proudly. Well, one way investigators might know who we are, if we were found laying somewhere unconscious and they wanted to know who we are, would be take the purse, our purse or wallet. pocketbook and go through that and um see who you are. I decided that I would do that this past week and pull out my wallet and find out what was in it and what would identify me. What is the stuff that people would find in there. Well, just like you, I have my driver's license and credit cards and bank cards, but I also have various membership cards and they're Things that I have associated with and people might think of me this way. I have my triple A coverage, which I like. Got the Geico car insurance Found a grocery card in there I don't use enough. Probably missing out on some of those deals. A medical coverage plan that's useful when I go to the doctors. And I went into one of those inner compartments and it was stuffed full of things and I yanked a few more things out and Found my Sears card. I like to get a good deal there. Dick Sporting Goods, that's nice. Tells something about me. Staples rewards platinum. US Tennis Association, not because I play, but courtesy of my daughters. Howard County Library. I don't know when I visited their last. Home Depot, that's a valuable identification for me. My blood type card, a picture of my family, homeschool legal defense card, smart trip metro card. That tells you I hate to drive in DC My interval international vacation card. Then I had my IFCA International membership for our church and Master's Seminary Alumni card in there. I like to pull that out and look at that sometimes. Shepherd's Fellowship discount card for all of the books I would like to buy. That's important. And then of course a stack of Hope Bible Church business cards. Well, all of that would give someone a pretty good idea of who I am, what I'm about, what I like, what I do, what my associations are, but not really who I am. Not really who I am. Who am I? Who are you? That question can only be answered in a transcendental way A way that begins with someone who understands ultimate reality and where you fit into that reality in this universe. It has to be answered by our Creator. He's the one who gives us identity. Many people may pin an identity on me, but I want to know that the one that God pins on me. What are the badges or the identifications He places on me? What does He think of me? Because that really is my identity. Our society is much into self-image these days, and really our image of ourself should be what's true of ourselves. It's very simple. What should our self-image be? Our self-image should be an image that is real, an image that is true. If I think of myself in a way that I'm not, then my self-image is wrong How do I know when my self-image is correct? Well, I know it by having an image of myself that God has of me. He is my Maker. and my creator and he knows. Well last week we saw, as we got into the subject, this is part two, that God wants to fill our minds with a true Identification, true identification markers, if you would have it, correct labels. We need to think of ourselves that way, the way he thinks of us. Why? So we don't lose our way as other people think of us in incorrect ways. There are many opinions and many perspectives out there. We need God's opinion and perspective of ourselves. That keeps our thinking straight. Well, God used the Apostle Paul to help the Corinthian believers to understand who they were. Part of the letter you'd have to humble them because they thought too highly of themselves But here at the beginning of the letter, he's telling them who they are in Christ by God's grace, so they would rise up and fulfill their calling. This first few verses in 1 Corinthians, far from being just a mere introduction to an ancient letter, here in chapter 1 of 1 Corinthians, we are flooded with the repeated truth that our identification, the identification of these Corinthian believers, is wrapped up entirely with Jesus Christ. Seventeen times in chapter 1, and maybe more remarkably, 10 times in the first ten verses of chapter 1, the name Christ is used in reference to them and their identity. They are tied up with Christ. They belong to Christ. They're in Christ. Their Lord is Jesus Christ. Grace was given to them in Christ. Who they are, their identity is wrapped up with Christ. And their identity, these Corinthians and what they are or who they were, is identical to us. As we're reading about them, we are also reading about us. Because we are like them. No, we're not first century Greeks or Jews. They're not like us. They wouldn't have many of the things we have in our wallet. They wouldn't know anything about those associations. Distant nationality, a distant century from us, but they are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that transcends centuries, and it also transcends nationality. We share through all these centuries a common lord, we have a common life, we have a common destiny. Now, last time we covered three identifying truths. You may remember them about us. We saw in verses four through nine that we were given grace in Christ. That was identification number one, that we were enriched in Christ, and that we were also confirmed as in Christ. Three identifying marks for us as believers that were true of them as well. Today we're going to take on four more, look at four more identifying truths for a total of seven So let's go back and read verses 4 through 9. I'll tell you where we pick up. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 4 through 9. Paul writes, I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus. That in everything you were enriched in Him, in all speech and all knowledge. Even as the testimony concerning Christ was confirmed in you, so that you are not lacking in any gift, awaiting eagerly the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who will also confirm you to the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, through whom you were called into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ. Now today we pick up with verse 7 because we covered verses 4 through 6 last time. And we pick up with identifying truth number 4, and that is that we were given sufficiency We as Christians were given sufficiency. Look at the first part of verse 7 again. It says, so that you And he's addressing the Christians in Corinth so that you are not lacking in any gift. And we'll stop there. In other words, we're given sufficiency. Look back and see the connection with what we talked about last week. Notice that the verse 7 begins with the little phrase, so that. How does that tie in with what came before it? Well here's the connection The result of the gifting and the confirmation of that gifting by God is that now the Corinthians do not lack any gift. In other words, they were enriched, and because they were enriched, they don't lack. They're not in want. The word lacking is set in contrast to the word enriched. So this church was Provided for by God in a sufficient manner. They lacked no gift, they were sufficient. Now Please understand it's not just that they felt confident or that they felt that they were very gifted kinds of people. This is not about their view of themselves or their feeling about themselves. Really, that's a minor issue It's more what is true and what God said about them that was true. The fact that they were gifted and that they did not lack any gift. God had indeed richly supplied, and he's revealing that truth through revelation right here. Now in what sense were they gifted? Well the word gift here, charismata, it's used to mean a variety of gifts that God gives. In 1 Peter 4 and verse 10, and in Romans 12 and verse 6, this very word is used to refer to spiritual gifts given Inside the church. We talk about spiritual gifts, spiritual abilities within the church to serve the body of Christ. This word is used of that In 1 Corinthians 7 and verse 7, it is used for the gift of singleness, being content in one's calling in life, whether married or single in that context. In 2 Corinthians 1 and verse 11, it refers to the gift of God's protection and deliverance, particularly in an eternal fashion. In Romans chapter eleven and twenty-nine, verse twenty-nine, the gift refers to the gospel itself, which saves. In Romans chapter five and verse fifteen, again, Paul wrote And in Romans 6. 23, the gift charismata refers to eternal life, to salvation itself. So Paul has a very broad understanding here. He's talking about the total giftedness of a church in every way and how that makes them sufficient. He's not referring just to spiritual gifts. He's certainly not referring just to the sign gifts. as some would want the text to say, but to every gift that God gives to make his people adequate, from eternal life to spiritual gifts to his divine favor and protection in life. What Paul is telling the Corinthians right here in this introduction, and this is still the introduction, is that there is fullness and there is adequacy And there is sufficiency in their position and status as believers in Jesus Christ. They don't lack. They're not left in want in the world. They're not left in weakness or inability. Now, Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 3 came to mind this week because it's a verse which teaches something very similar to this verse that we read. And I'd like you to turn to Ephesians chapter 1 for just a moment. It's interesting that in the beginning of this letter also, Paul emphasizes the fullness of what God provides for believers. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 3. Here, the Apostle Paul writing also says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Notice this is also in the context of a blessing or thanksgiving. Who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, and there's the locale again, in Christ. So when Paul says that God has blessed us, he's referring to something that is past tense there, and he's blessed us with every spiritual blessing he writes. That means that we have been blessed with all that is possible to be dispensed to us by God's grace through the agency of God's Holy Spirit. So these Ephesian believers, as all believers, were given grace blessings, God's blessings, spirit-associated kind of blessings. If you understand, even this one verse here in Ephesians is a fabulous truth about us as Christians. We're just overflowing with blessings. We're overloaded with blessings. God is constantly blessing us, but in the past He has completely and sufficiently provided for us You know, and I think it's important for us, when we understand these truths, to not, in our prayer lives, be constantly asking God for something that He has already provided for us. How out of place and ungrateful we would consider a child who was given a shiny new bicycle by his father and then after using it, forgetting about that, coming and running to his dad and saying, Dad Would you get me a new bicycle and forgetting about that? How silly, but how ungrateful we would also think that is. And many believers are like that, asking God to provide things that God has already told us He has given us a long time ago. To the church a long time ago and when we were saved. He has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Do I need to call the Holy Spirit down from heaven to give me more? No, I do not. Do I need to call the Holy Spirit down upon my city so that there will be a revival? No, I do not. God has already richly provided much for us. We just need to believe what he says. We need to humble ourselves, ask to grow in faith, and learn to use and enjoy all the bounty that God has provided for us in Christ. Our problem is weakness of faith. We don't need to ask for more, we need to use the more he has already given to us. Well, just as God had fully equipped the Ephesian Church and the Corinthian church, and you could turn back to 1 Corinthians So he does for every true church. Every church that believes the gospel has been endowed with all of these blessings, and so they are sufficiently provided for. And we may think of ourselves as not having too many resources. We might think of ourselves as weak. And even if we are weak, it doesn't matter because he's strong for us and he's given us himself Now please don't misunderstand. This doesn't mean that every single Christian has every single gift of the Spirit, and they by themselves are all sufficient, and so they can say goodbye to the body of Christ go off and do their own thing somewhere out there because I am sufficient in myself as a Christian. That's not what he's saying. He's writing to a local church, he's writing to the body of Christ, how they were gifted collectively and how that collective gifting made them sufficient for all that God wanted to do through them. In fact in chapter 12 of 1 Corinthians, Paul's going to make a big deal about this, right? No one can say they're not a part of the body or that they're not needed in the body. Every single member in the body is needed. Together by God's undeserved grace and being connected to our head in heaven, Jesus Christ, we just being the body, we are stuffed full with all kinds of spiritual equipment and blessing to use for God's glory in this world. We don't lack anything. We have fullness of the forgiveness of our sins. We have the abiding presence of God's Holy Spirit actually living and dwelling inside of us. We have love in our hearts for other people. That allows us to do so much. We have joy and peace to sustain us and give us strength. We have eternal life for now and eternity. We have the knowledge of God's will. We understand his plan of the ages, the mystery of the ages, as he calls it in Ephesians 1. We have equipment to serve the body of Christ and build them up to reach the lost. We have empowerment of speech so that we can speak the word of God and God takes that and uses that to benefit other people We're fully equipped to do whatever it is that God wants to do through us as a congregation. Again, another verse that comes to mind. I'll just read it to you, 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse 3, seeing that his divine power, notice how it starts. seeing that his God's divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness Through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. We have all the spiritual gifts and all the spiritual equipment and power we need to do what God wants us to do. Lord, increase our faith. And that is one reason why I keep urging you, and I will continue to do this as long as I get to preach. to commit yourself to the things of God by urging commitment from people. I'm not worried if some people run because I know that if you respond in commitment, you're going to have joy in your life and you're going to bring joy to other people in this church. And you're going to bring joy to the heart of God. And we're going to see other people blessed who are in darkness now and need to be transferred into the kingdom of light. That's an identifying mark of us. We're sufficiently provided for. Number five, a fifth identifying mark is that we all, as Christians, await Jesus We all await Jesus. That's the second half of verse 7. So that you're not lacking in any gift. Here it is, awaiting eagerly the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Now that verb awaiting is in the present tense, which in Koine Greek always means a continuous state of some kind. We're continuously, therefore, awaiting Christ. Also, it's a participle. That means it's connected back to a main verb. The main verb is enriched, and that shows that the giving of grace to enrich us inspires our waiting for Christ. Say, how does that work? Well he gave us so many wonderful gifts of the present. He's so stocked us full of grace and blessing, we're aware of that, and being aware of that, we can't wait to see him and to say thank you to him. See now, those who do not understand the grace of God, they don't teach or preach or stress heavily the grace of God in their churches. They're not going to be the kind of churches that wait eagerly for The second coming of Jesus Christ and his revealing. Yet on the other hand, if you are the kind of Christian who understands and has been taught the grace of God, you perceive That you have received this grace, and that is important to you, that creates in you both a thankfulness and a longing to see the one who gave that to you. Does that make sense He has so blessed us, we become aware of that blessing, and now we are waiting eagerly to see him. That's the idea here. We're doused in the teaching of God's grace. And so we perceive God's incredible goodness. And we can't wait. Now that participle, again, going back to that word of wait, it has a double preposition in front of it, and it just stresses the fact that it's not just any kind of waiting, but it is an earnestness of waiting, an eagerness of waiting. It means we're waiting, yes, but we're doing more than waiting. We're not just passively watching the clock. We're waiting with anticipation. As the NASBY has it, we're waiting eagerly Like Philippians 3. 20, where Paul says, our citizenship is where? In heaven, from which, from heaven, also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. If you are a Christian, then you're saved, and as a saved person, you should anticipate full salvation Which will be brought to you when Christ appears, that is, even the redemption of your own body, that your body will be raised from the dead, and the fullness of salvation is brought to you. In Galatians 5. 5 it says, For we through the Spirit, by faith, are waiting for the hope of righteousness. Now, an unsaved person Only has wrath to look forward to. What a terrible thing. He only has wrath In his future. He can't look forward to, oh, when we die, we go to a better place. That's not true for him He can only look forward to wrath, and that's not much to look forward to. 1 Thessalonians 110 says, We wait for God's Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus, who rescues us. From the wrath to come. Now we are rescued from the wrath to come, but they are not rescued. They're not delivered. And so with the approach of Christ comes the approach of judgment. Nothing to look forward to. 1 Corinthians 16, 22. Listen to this. Anyone who does not love the Lord, he is to be accursed. And then Paul ends with Maranatha. That means come, Lord Jesus. He's looking forward. But anyone who doesn't love the Lord Jesus Christ, when Christ comes, only a curse they can expect. In fact, it is not an exaggeration to say that the entire New Testament anticipates the second coming of Jesus Christ, even while it tells us all about his first coming and its significance. And this is really a blessing. Keep your finger in 1 Corinthians and turn to the very last verses of the Bible in the New Testament, Revelation 22. This is such a blessing, just thinking about that this week. Revelation 22, verses 20 and 21, the last two verses of Revelation of the New Testament, of the whole Bible. And it says this: He who testifies to these things says, Yes, I am coming quickly. There's Christ's words. Yes, I am coming quickly. And then John adds in his Maranatha, you know, Amen, he says, Tom Lord Jesus. What was John anticipating? I mean he has many reasons to anticipate the Lord Jesus, just in his Christian faith alone, but he's stuck on the island of Potmos, he's been banished there. And he's an old guy, probably in his eighties or even nineties by now. And as an old guy, I mean he's he's gonna be dying soon. Anyways, all he could think of is, Amen, come, Lord Jesus. But this is what Jesus said Yes, I am coming quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. And then verse 21 brings us back to the present to the sufficiency provided for us. The grace of the Lord Jesus be With all. Amen. And there you have it. You have our present state. The grace of the Lord has enriched us now. As the grace of the Lord is with us, we call out, come, Lord Jesus. In response to his promise that he will. The two last breaths of the New Testament cry out for the coming of Jesus and rest in the sufficient provision of his grace until he does. You see, the church must never become so enamored in its gifts and its mission and its successes that it forgets that it would be very fine. for all of our plans to be interrupted and Jesus Christ to come back now. But we are sometimes so enamored with ourselves and our successes and our programs and what we're accomplishing and our plans and everything that I think we would almost be disappointed if he interrupted that. The focus is on Christ. He's our life. The goal is not the ongoing church. This is all temporary. But the coming of Christ, that's permanent. You know, there are many things we wait for in life and we get excited about them. Got a vacation coming up this week. You've got a vacation drawing near. Particularly If in your situation work is not going all that well, you counting the days, you've got eight days left, and you're just anticipating when that is going to happen. Arrival of a new baby. You know, just can't wait for that baby to come. Maybe sometimes the coming of a birthday or some other special event. And we just can't wait for it. We anticipate it. We long for it. Most of you all have seen our little Dachshorn Oscar, right? You've been over to our home. Oscar, he loves to chase squirrels and rabbits in the backyard. This is what this dog lives for. And if he spots one, he will run up to the glass sliding door and just put his paws hard against it, just kind of bounce off the glass door. And then he doesn't know what to do with himself because it doesn't open. He just comes and he circles around again and hits it again and circles around and hits it again and circles around and hits it again and he's whining and he And I tell ya, you might think, Pastor, that's not really how we are to be in thinking about the second coming of the Lord Jesus. Is it? I mean, like a silly dog that doesn't know how to contain his emotions. You know, I look at that and I ask myself, how much do I really want to see Christ? This says I'm waiting for him. Am I? Waiting eagerly for Christ. Brothers and sisters, are you Man, there's a day that is coming. Here he calls it the revealing of Jesus Christ. That means Jesus is unveiled. He is revealed to the world. There is nothing that Fox News or CNN has ever seen that is going to be like this. Christ in glory will be revealed. Now I don't know about you, but I'm just projecting and I'm trying to think about this and I'm thinking when that happens I think I'm gonna be a lot like Oscar I think I'm gonna be freaking out that Christ is amazing with all of his glory. He said so himself. He tried to describe this And he does so with just a short phrase here in Matthew twenty-four thirty. We looked at this a while ago. Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, Jesus taught his disciples. in the Olivet discourse, then all the tribes of the earth will mourn their mourning because they realize that they blew it concerning him. And they will see the sign of the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky. And then he just adds this phrase, with power and great glory. How do you get into that? How do you see that? Great glory. We just know everything's going to be put right then. The imperfect is going to be made perfect. Longings are going to be fulfilled. Peter encourages believers this way. In 1 Peter 4:13, he says, to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ Keep on rejoicing. How does that make any sense? So that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. You suffered for Christ. You're going to have a joy with exaltation because you suffered for Christ. Just keep thinking about that day. That's the point. How much joy there's going to be in the presence of Christ. He loves us so much. He's gifted us so completely. His grace abides on us. There will be exaltation. That's great joy, jubilant joy. Bubbling over kind of joy. Shouts of delight, kind of joy. That's what it's talking about. See, if you haven't expressed your emotions like that, you're going to on that day. You're going to find out all that is in your heart. And if that is where your hope is, present problems only make you yearn for that all the more. All of the hopes in this life are at best uncertain. This is one hope, people, and hope Bible Church ought to know this more than anyone else, right? This is one hope. That is certain, the coming of Jesus Christ. Christians with Christ get the last laugh. The joy and happiness will be ours forever in the end. We should therefore be looking for Most intensely this day. Another verse, 1 Peter 1. 13. Therefore prepare your minds for action. Keep sober in spirit. Fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Titus 2 eleven through thirteen. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires, and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus. He's called God in that verse, by the way. Man, our hope of seeing Christ is splattered all over the New Testament. It's everywhere. Hebrews 9, 28. So Christ also having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time for salvation without reference to sin to those who eagerly await him. That day is going to be so glorious All the sufferings of this present world, Paul says, are not even worthy to be compared to the glory that will be revealed to us. Again, I want to say that this is an identifying truth of every believer. This waiting for Christ is the stamp or the mark of a true believer, someone longing to see him. People are known by what they look forward to, what is in their heart, what they wait for. A true believer awaits Christ. He looks forward. And you know you can't eagerly wait for something that you're not very confident is gonna happen. Do you understand that? And that's why the doctrine of the literal and bodily return of Christ to earth is one of those fundamentals of the Christian faith. You deny it, that's heresy. Every believer is identified by an event. That event is the coming of Christ. If that event isn't true, what does that do to the Christian faith? Christ is going to return, not spiritually He's going to return visibly. He's going to be seen by all. He said so himself. And anyone who doesn't teach that has left the realm of Christianity. Some even say these days it's already happened because they spiritualize it in some kind of way. That is just denying a fundamental truth of the Christian faith. The scripture says right here they are believers waiting for Christ. To come again. All right, a sixth identifying badge for believers. Verse 8: We are preserved to the end. Preservation to the very end is another mark, identifying mark of a Christian. Look at verse 8. Who will also confirm you To the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now the who could refer to Christ there because he's mentioned last at the end of the verse, but It probably refers to God the Father, since God the Father here is the dominant subject in the entire passage. God is the one who is described as doing all of these things for us and doing them for us in Christ. By his grace. So God is the one who will confirm us to the end. That passive voice again points to God doing it That verb confirm may look familiar to you because it is the same word we encountered back in verse 6 from last week. Notice the passage speaks of two confirmations One in verse six and one in verse eight. One is a confirmation done in the past, the other one is a confirmation that will be done in the future. The Corinthians' confirmation in the gospel already will be further confirmed by God in the future. God confirmed their reception of the gospel in history. by the establishment of the church, changed lives of the believers, spiritual gifts active among the Corinthians. And God will also confirm them, establish them all the way unto the end. And what do you think the end refers to in this context? That temporal meaning to it, the end Clearly has reference to the revealing of Christ and the day of the Lord, as the context reveals. Believers will be confirmed unto the end. What does this teach? This teaches the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints. Remembering that all Christians are saints All Christians then will persevere in their faith until the very end. Those who truly believe in the Lord Jesus and are saved will continue in that faith and never depart from it. Why? Because that kind of faith God always sustains until the end. That doesn't mean that believers don't have struggles of faith. We do. It doesn't mean our voice will always be loud and clear for the Lord we are supposed to witness for, because it's not. What it means is that that faith in Christ, that genuine faith in Christ, God will preserve in you. Remember Peter who struggled And Jesus had to tell Peter, I prayed for you that your faith may not fail. Romans 8. 34 also says that Jesus intercedes for every believer's faith, and so Christ is interceding for me, and that is one reason why my faith in him will not fail. Sometimes my faith will be strong. At other times, sadly, my faith will be weak. But in all cases, God will sustain my faith through whatever struggles and trials I go through. But true believers always maintain their faith in Christ. In fact, they overcome the world by their faith in Christ. They never stumble so as to fall completely away from their walk with Christ. In Matthew 24, 13, in reference to the end times, Jesus said, the one who endures And there's a similar concept, perseveres, endures to the end, he shall be saved, Jesus said. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 2, it teaches the gospel that saves us will save us if You hold fast the word which I preach to you unless you believe in vain. Some people have a superficial kind of a faith. It doesn't mean they're going to persevere, but those who have believed genuinely in Christ will hold fast to the gospel. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 38 says, if a person who had started out seemingly following Christ shrinks back, my soul, God says, has no pleasure in him. But then the writer to the Hebrews concludes in that same chapter in verse 39, but we are not of those who shrink back to destruction. but of those who have faith to the preserving of the soul. Faith is preserved and faith preserves the soul. Jesus made a promise to believers who persevere in their faith through persecution. He said in Revelation chapter 3 and verse 21, he who overcomes, how do you overcome through your faith? I will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat down with my father on his throne. Well, how is it exactly that believers are able to persevere to the end? We already saw that Christ intercedes for saints. Jesus prayed in John 17 and verse 11, and this is part of his intercession. He said, Holy Father. Keep them, he's referring to his disciples, his true disciples, keep them in your name. He also prayed in John 17. The high priestly prayer in verse fifteen, he said, I do not ask thee to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. Do you hear the preservation? The evil one wants to attack them. The evil one wants to destroy them. Heavenly Father, Holy Father, I'm asking you to keep them, preserve them that way. We can't be rescued out of the world just yet, God has a purpose force down here, but he preserves us and keeps us Peter also refers to God's mighty protection. In 1 Peter 1 5, he says, You are protected by the power of God. For a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. You're being preserved, and your fullness of salvation will be revealed in the last time. In the present, you are protected by God's power. Little epistle of Jude also says in verse 24, God is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory. Notice, keep you from stumbling and make you to stand. He is able to do that. He will confirm us all the way to the end, just as he told the Corinthians. God's power will take us all the way to the end until we actually stand in his presence. That's how secure we are. And we will stand in his presence blameless. Vincent writes of the word blameless here. The word here points to the appearance at God's bar, referring to a legal standing, as in Acts 23, verses 28 and 29. Now, of course, no man or woman is without his faults or sins. But it is the plan and the determination of God Almighty that he will keep those who are his own and sanctify them, as we saw in Christ's prayer in John 17. We will be preserved by God so that we can stand before God on this future date. Charles Hodge in his commentary writes: When we remember on the one hand how great is our guilt And on the other hand, how great is our danger from without and from within, we feel that nothing but the righteousness of Christ And the power of God can secure our being preserved and presented blameless in the day of the Lord Jesus. 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, verses 11 through 13 says, Now may our God and Father Himself and Jesus our Lord direct our way to you, and may the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love for one another and for all people, just as we also do for you. so that he may establish your hearts without blame and holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all of his saints. Gordon Fee writes about 1 Corinthians, what is remarkable is that Paul should express such confidence about a community whose current behavior is anything but blameless. And on whom several occasions he must exhort with the strongest kinds of warning. Yet he tells them, you will be preserved to the end, blameless. Remarkable words. Why? Because God's doing it. God's the one doing it for us. We're not doing it for ourselves. God's preserving us. God gave us the faith in the first place. He's doused us with grace. He's preserving us so we can stand there. Now you might not yet feel how important that is, but when you realize the ultimate accountability for all of life Is not standing before your boss or your pastor or any other person in your life. The ultimate accountability for your entire life will be when an all-knowing God with his X-ray vision looks into your life and you stand before him and he says, This is who you are. At that point in time you're going to understand, wow, I am so, so grateful that God Has made me to be able to stand blameless, and as Jude puts it, with great joy in the presence of Jesus Christ. The day of our Lord Jesus Christ is coming. That day, as I've preached on before, is a day that ought to be just a fixed North Star for our lives It ought to be an anchor of our hope. It ought to be the thing that controls all of our decisions and thoughts no matter what we do. The day of the Lord Jesus Christ is coming. What does it mean that it's the day of the Lord? It means it's not Satan's day. It means it's not man's day. It means it's not our day or anyone else's day. It's the Lord's day. The Lord's day that he will be revealed in glory. The day in which he will crush his enemies. The day in which he will bring the kingdom of his father to earth. That's what it's referring to. Sometimes it refers to the tribulation period. sometimes to the second coming, sometimes to the whole thing, but it is the day of the Lord Jesus. His day Amos 5 describes it as a day in which God's enemies will be crushed. Listen to this. Very strong words. Amos 5, 18 to 20. Alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord. And this would be to those that are not true believers. Alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord, for what purpose will the day of the Lord be to you? It will be darkness and not light, as when a man flees from a lion and a bear meets him. Or goes home, that is, to rest, because he thinks he's safe, leans his hand against the wall, and a snake bites him. Will not the day of the Lord be darkness instead of light, even bloom with no brightness in it? As for the religious hypocrites in Israel. First Thessalonians 5 says, Now as for the times and the epics, brethren You have no need of anything to be written to you, for you yourselves know full well that the day of the Lord will come. Just like a what A thief in the night while they are saying peace and safety. I could just hear the UN talking about that. Then destruction will come upon them suddenly like labor pains upon a woman with child, and they will not escape This will be the Lord's day, the day of the Lord. It will be a day of justice and righteousness. Romans 2, verse 5, because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart You are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation, listen, of the righteous judgment of God. What else will be revealed on that day? His righteous judgments will be revealed. The cry of all the oppressed will be heard, and the proud will be thrust down. But we will be preserved, blameless. Well, one last identifying mark here, number seven, in verse nine. We have fellowship with Jesus. Almost goes without saying, doesn't it? We believers have fellowship with Jesus. Look at verse 9. God is faithful, through whom you were called into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. A reminder once again, this entire section is a wonderful thanksgiving from the Apostle Paul to God the Father. And one of the great reasons he's so thankful is stated right there, God is faithful. In fact The order is reversed in the Greek. It literally says, faithful is God, to stress that quality of his. Faithfulness Faithfulness is that attribute of God whereby He is certain to do all He has said, He will do. That is why God often in the scriptures referred to as our rock. Immable, always dependable. True and constant, a great presence in our lives, our rock. Why did Paul write about God's faithfulness right at this point in the letter? Again, Gordon Fee comments in his commentary: how can Paul be sure that they of all people will be found guiltless on that day? Because God is faithful. Dr. MacArthur says we are saved because God wanted us saved. And we stay saved because God does not change his mind about that desire. We had no part in God's original desire to call us, and we can do nothing to change it. If he called us when we were lost and wretched, he surely will not cease to be faithful to that call now that we have come into fellowship. With his son. And the Baker commentary puts it succinctly: the time of waiting is placed under the shield of God's faithfulness. You know, people break their marriage covenants all the time these days. We hear people talk about how committed Loving, faithful and true they are. So many songs sing about that. And yet you look at what actually happens, whether it's in marriage or other places, and covenants and promises are broken all the time, aren't they? People aren't faithful. The Proverbs says, many a man proclaims his loyalty, but who can find a trustworthy man? Someone who really does all that he says he will do. It's hard. When we understand that, we understand how precious it is that God is faithful. In Deuteronomy 7:9, it says these blessed words: Know therefore that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God. who keeps his covenant and his loving kindness to a thousandth generation with those who love him and keep his command. He doesn't move. He doesn't budge in his promises. He is the rock, a rock of ages. 2 Timothy chapter two verses twelve and thirteen. If we endure, we will also reign with Christ. If we deny Christ, he also will deny us. If we are faithless He remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. There's something God can't do. He can't deny who he is. And who he is is faithful. He's so good. God cannot break his promises. God cannot lie. This is not a constraint on God from the outside. This is a choice of God on his own. He has chosen In his omnipotence to be faithful. And thus he is. His faithfulness is consistent with who he is. 1 Thessalonians 5. 24, Faithful is he who calls you, and he also will bring it to pass. Romans 3. 3, let God be found true, though every man be found a what? A liar. And so Paul did not give up at his counseling of the Corinthians because he knew God was faithful. God would complete the job he began in us. Through God and his faithfulness, this text says we were called into fellowship with his son. What does that mean to you? That you as a believer were called by God into fellowship with his Son. The calling has to do with that internal call where God persuades us and draws us to himself. We don't hear anything with our ears. He's called us so that we would have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ and be in fellowship with him. Is that a precious truth to you? I hope that it is. He's called here God's Son. He's called our Lord. He's called Jesus Christ. It's with him we have fellowship. What is fellowship? Well, I enjoy donuts a lot. But fellowship does exist outside of eating donuts. Fellowship is the whole common life we share with Christ. In our scripture reading, we read what we have seen and heard That's Christ. We, the apostles, that is, proclaim to you, everyone else, so that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father. and with his Son Jesus Christ. We have a commonality. We have a partnership. We are joined together with, united to Christ and united to God the Father and even to the Spirit of God. 2 Corinthians, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. We have communion, even with the Spirit of God dwelling within our hearts. When we say we have fellowship with one another and fellowship with Christ, it's more than just hanging around each other. It is everything that we do together, when we pray together and witness together and worship together and serve together and teach together and receive the word together. That's our fellowship because it's all in Christ. And of course, when we're joined to Christ and have fellowship with Christ, we automatically have fellowship with one another. That was Acts 242, where they devoted themselves to the apostles' doctrine and to the fellowship. That's why we ought to be involved in the local church, committed to the local church, because we should be committed To those that God has declared we are in fellowship with, and they and us together in fellowship with God's Son In Galatians two nine, Paul wrote this, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we might go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised, the Jews We should have a common witness and cooperation with one another in the spreading and the advancing of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the building up of the church to the honor of God. Some have this ministry, others have that ministry. We work in harmony. We have fellowship with one another. One group of people you and I cannot have fellowship with, even if we are enjoying our time around them, God says we don't have fellowship with them. So it goes beyond how we feel about people. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 14 and 15 Paul commands: do not be bound together with unbelievers. For what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? Or what harmony has Christ with Belial? Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? Every one of those questions has the answer nothing. Simply put, since unbelievers do not have the life of Christ, they don't have a personal relationship with God through Christ. They don't have the Spirit of God in them. They're not living to promote the gospel. They're not devoted to the body of Christ. We cannot, cannot have fellowship with them. But we are called into fellowship with God's Son. That is an identifying mark of a believer. Well, these seven identifying marks are there to keep us going the right way through life There are many other scriptures that provide many other marks of a believer, but these seven, I pray and hope, are a blessing and a help to you. They are what properly tag you. And you want to know Who am I? But when you're out there and you're sitting at a bus stop or you're carpooling with somebody You're on the highway, you're listening to WTOP radio or whatever you listen to. You're in the grocery store, you're out at a social, and you're just sitting in class next to a bunch of pagans. You remember right there. You remember who you are, who God says you are. Keep these seven truths pinned. Like badges on you. So anytime you forget, you just kind of look down and go, like, oh yeah, I remember who I am. I'm one to whom the grace of God has been given. I am sufficient in Christ. I am enriched in the Lord Jesus Christ. I am one who waits for the glory of Jesus Christ to be revealed. I am one that God will preserve to all of eternity. And unlike unbelievers, I have been called into fellowship with God's very own Son. This is who I am. And this should affect now how we live. That's what Paul's going to get into, starting in the next verses, which we'll get into when I come back from vacation. We're going to get into how he takes our identity and he launches us into, okay now, what is going on in your church? And in your lives, because if this is who you are, now how ought we to be living? Doctrine informs Christian practice. And that's what he's doing in this Would you bow with me as we take these truths back to the Lord and thank him for them? Almighty God, we ask through the Holy Spirit that you would cement these truths into our conscience and our mind. That we would not be rattled, though others may assail us with their words, yet we would understand your word is true. And we would be dedicated to believing it, to meditating on it, to putting it in our mouths and chewing on it, thinking upon it, pondering it all day long. This is who you have called us to be. This is who we are. May we be true in the way we live to this calling. We ask it in Christ's blessed name. Amen.