Even if you don't yet have a copy of the notes today, it's not going to be too hard for you to follow. Today we're going to just introduce Proverbs. And kind of orient us to the quarter ahead. So when you study a book of the Bible, one of the first questions you ask is who wrote it? Uh questions of authorship. Obviously God ultimately is is the author of all of Scripture, but He inspired certain humans to uh uh to record his revelation to us. And in this case it's it's almost Easy because very specifically for the first twenty-nine Proverbs, it says specifically that they were written by Solomon. For example, Proverbs 1 1, the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, King of Israel And that's what follows. And then in Proverbs 10, 1, it says for us for the next unit of Proverbs. The Proverbs of Solomon, a wise son makes a father glad, but a foolish son is grief to his mother. So Um then in Proverbs twenty five through twenty nine, twenty five one says These also are Proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, transcribed. So There's very specific reference to Solomon as the author for at least the first twenty-nine chapters. Proverbs thirty begins by saying the words of Agar, the son of Jacka. J A K E H uh The Oracle. The man declares to Ithio, to Ithio, and Ukol. So Here's one there it very specifically says this this chapter, chapter thirty, is a collection of pr of um proverbs from someone else. I don't know how you pronounce that. Ager, A-G-U-R. But then you get to the next, the final chapter of Proverbs, Proverbs 31. Where it begins by saying the words of King Lemuel, the oracle which his mother taught him. Now, uh Lemuel is not referred to anywhere else in Scripture other than this. Chapter. And um it means belonging to God. Uh so that may have significance. Many believe and have believed since days of old that this was a nickname for Solomon by his mother. And uh that may well be, since he's referred to as a king here, and obviously the list of kings in Israel was was short, uh shorter than the possibility of all the prophets and everybody else, right? So um of all the kings of Israel, it makes the most sense that this would have been Solomon. And so there's some evidence outside the book of of uh Proverbs. For example, in 1 Kings 4, it says, starting in verse 29, now God gave Solomon wisdom and very great discernment. And breadth of mind, like the sand that is on the seashore. Solomon's wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the sons of the east and all the wisdom of Egypt For he was wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezrahite, Haman, Kalkoh, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. And his fame was known in all the surrounding nations. And verse 32 of 1 Kings 4 continues, he also spoke 3,000 proverbs. And his songs were 1005. He spoke of trees and uh it continues to talk about the kinds of things that were subjects in his Proverbs and presumably also his songs. So with three thousand Proverbs There's likely to be, in fact, undoubtedly, a whole lot more that were not recorded here in in the book of Proverbs. And In Ecclesiastes, for example, also written by Solomon, chapter twelve, verse nine says, In addition to being a wise man, the preacher also taught the people knowledge. And he pondered, searched out, and arranged many proverbs. So that presumably includes the ones that are included here in the in the text of Proverbs as we know it today, but probably also others as well. This may seem Very basic and and we all instinctively know what a proverb is, but I don't think we've ever heard a definition for a proverb What is a proverb? That should be my first question here, right? Um a proverb I guess it's been characterized as a wise saying. Another way to think maybe a synonym would be a truism. So as a truism and as a wise saying, it has a lot to teach us about life, how we should approach life and this kind of thing. But it doesn't necessarily mean that everything that's a truism is a guarantee. And so, for example, when Proverbs say Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he's old he will not depart from it? Is that a guarantee? No. But it is a truism. It's a general truism that That's the way things normally progress if we're faithful in in um training up a child with the way he should go the right way. God delights in that and he'll but it's it's not a guarantee. There are exceptions to that. So it's a general truism, a a wise saying. That helped Yeah. Okay. Good question. Well, there is also the question of uh uh the canonicity of the book. Uh how do w why is it in the collection of books? How do we know it's actually inspired by God and should be in the Bible? Um well it it helps these days, I guess. to know that Proverbs is included in all the Jewish lists of the books of the canon. It's never really been in any controversy whatsoever about its authorship or God's divine revelation In it. Another good indication is it's quoted directly or alluded to indirectly. Many times in the New Testament. So for example, Romans 3:15, where it's speaking of those who are lost and blind and uh sinful. It says, their feet are swift to shed blood. And that's directly quoting from Proverbs 1. 16. Another direct quote is in Romans 12 20. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. I love that analogy. The good that we do them will be sort of a conviction. God can use that to convict them. And so that's quoting directly from Proverbs 25, 21 to 22. And there are others as well. Another of my favorite passages is Hebrews 12. And verses 5 through 6 it says, And have you forgotten the exhortation which is addressed to you as sons? Quote, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when you are reproved by him, for those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines, and he scourges every son whom he receives. So that's Hebrews 12, 5 through 6, quoting directly from Proverbs 3, 11 and 12. So as the inspired writers of the New Testament make direct quote and application from the book of Proverbs, they're they're citing that as authority. God's already revealed this truth, and here's the way it applies to us now. And that's encouraging. James four six, for example. God gives a greater grace. Therefore it says, that is the scripture says God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble. James 4. 6. That's quoting directly from Proverbs 3, verse 34. And there are some others here that are either direct quotes or allusions to well-known proverbs and applying them. uh to our lives. So um you know as as you study some books of of the Bible and you explore this question of of Is there any doubt about whether it should be in the scripture? Um there are some that uh people have asked questions about. Uh Proverbs not so much. It's pretty obvious that God God um inspired Uh Solomon gave him the wisdom that then generated a lot of these proverbs, if not all of them I guess. Um And by God's grace they were uh recorded, or at least these were recorded, and we have them for our benefit today. So uh the next section I have here I'm on page six if you have the notes. Um is there anybody still who needs the notes? Um Text Diane and she'll send you a PDF. Uh uh Diane, are you all out of hard copies? I have three more copies that can be just borrowed. Okay. So because Solomon is the author of most of the Proverbs here anyway. I thought it was helpful to learn a little bit more about Solomon. And It turns out if you were here a couple of weeks ago, I gave a sermon on what I'm about to cover here now. Lessons from Solomon's Life. Where Uh he started out really well, but then he got mixed up with with some wrong ideas, even in spite of all the wisdom God had given him. And um So it's kind of a mixed bag. And so we see his father's counsel in 1 Kings 2, his father of course being who? King David, right? As David's time to die drew near, he charged Solomon his son, saying I'm going the way of all the earth. Be strong therefore and show yourself a man. Keep the charge of the Lord your God to walk in his ways. To keep his statutes, his commandments, and his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to what is written in the law of Moses. That you may succeed in all that you do, wherever you turn, so that the Lord may carry out his promise, which he spoke concerning me, saying, If your sons are careful of their way, To walk before me in the truth with all their heart, with all their soul, you shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel. And then of course when Solomon did become king and he started out doing that for the most part It says in 1 Kings 3, now Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statues of his father David Except he sacrificed and burn uh uh burned incense on the high places. Now that was not a good thing. This is sort of a a a pagan sort of practice that crept into the nation of Israel and And Solomon uh participated in that. Wasn't that must be because of his wives? I'm not sure Um I think a lot of this happened even before that. It happened even before he asked for wisdom. And it it we don't really have all the chronology of how all the wives crept in, but they certainly um Um contributed. Um his his going after false gods and this kind of thing, for sure. Is it because they didn't have the time Um I'm not sure it's all that clear. I think the thing that is clear is Um they weren't heeding David's example and advice of seeking the Lord only. Right? Or following his prescription for worship. I mean if they had the tabernacle, it was right there. And so To the extent that they didn't obey God, didn't honor Him as God alone, these other things kind of crept in. And it's it's sort of like you see throughout history Um the the the uh man-centered thinking and uh experimenting with different kinds of theology and worship It it just unfortunately um happens all the time if we're not vigil vigilant. And I think that's a lot of what was going on in in Israel But what's interesting is that in spite of that, uh we're back in First Kings three. It says Solomon offered a thousand burnt offerings on that altar. In Gibeon, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream at night, and God said, Ask me what you wish to give you. It's sort of like, you know, you you you find this this bottle, right, and you you rub on it and the genie comes out. Give me, you you've got three wishes, right? Well, um it was even better than that. This was God Himself. And ask me what you wish to give you. Then Solomon said You have shown great loving kindness to your servant David, my father, according as he walked before you in truth and righteousness and uprightness of heart toward you. And you have reserved for him this great loving kindness that you've given him a son to sit on his throne as it is to this day. Now what's so remarkable about that? What's that? Because the way it mapped it's just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of Yeah. But in general in general what what was the practice among um the oldest peoples? Well that was the intent, but what often happened? Wars, um insurrections, rebellions, and to have a line of kings without any interruption was actually rare. That was what they intended, but it was actually pretty rare And God was promising that they would have sufficient peace, both internal and external, that there would be this succession of kings. And that was very much on David's heart, and he was pleased that God promised that that would happen. And it was also not lost to Solomon And so Solomon says, Now, O Lord my God, you have made your servant king in place of my father David, yet I am but a little child. He was somewhat humble there. He wasn't really a child, but he wasn't very old either. Um I do not know how to go out or to come in. I'm clueless. Your servant is in the midst of your people, which you have chosen, a great people who are too many to be numbered or counted. So, give your servant, that is me, Give your servant an understanding heart to judge your people, to discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this great people of yours? And was that a good prayer or a bad prayer? That was a good prayer, right? It wasn't selfish other than he wanted to be God's chosen instrument to be uh helpful uh in this position God had put him in and um it was humble and uh asking for the right kinds of things. And so God answered as we continue in 1 Kings 3. I'm on top of page 7 if you have the notes. It was pleasing in the sight of the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. God said to him, Because you have asked this thing, and have not asked for yourself a long life. nor have asked for riches for yourself, nor have asked for the life of your enemies. That is, kill off my enemies, Lord, so that I can I can uh prevail But rather you have asked for yourself discernment to understand justice. Behold, I have done. Notice he says past tense. I have done. It's done According to your words. Behold, I have given you a wise and discerning heart, so there has been no one like you you before you, nor shall one like you arise after you. I also have given you what you have not asked for, both riches and honor So that there will not be any among the kings like you all your days. But then he says God says to him, If you walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and commandments, as your father David walked, then I will prolong your days. And the next chapter, it says, Now God gave Solomon wisdom and very great discernment and breadth of mind, like the sand that is on the seashore, meaning Measureless. Right. Solomon's wisdom surpassed all the wisdoms of the sons of the East and all the wisdom of Egypt. He was wiser than all men. And I quoted from that earlier. And in uh verse um well I don't have it toward the end, I guess it's thirty-four. Men came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom. So the wisdom that God had given him Uh and by the way, uh the the reference here to wisdom was not just wise sayings, but also knowledge. He had a lot of detailed knowledge about It it says specifically um he spoke of trees and the cedar that is in Lebanon, even from the hyssop that grows on the wall. He spoke of animals and birds and creeping things. So he's basically giving them science lessons um um botany and biology and all those things that he had greater insight than anybody who had ever lived, so he had he had the ability to um just amaze people. Um it wasn't just for the purpose of amazing people, but for the purpose of what Ruling them wisely? Ruling the people wisely. But obviously he he has a reputation that's going well beyond Israel here. Why would God want that? Yeah, yeah, it's putting God's wisdom on display, right, for the world to see. And it worked. Right? Wisdom is really more applying the knowledge to s a situations than I think in the scriptures Somewhere around this time, it gave the example of the two women and the one baby was killed and you know, cut the baby in half. Right. That was totally part of that. That's that's applying knowledge. That's wisdom. Yeah, yeah, I think for the most part it's it's it's good to think of wisdom as um Sound applications in real life of um God's truth, right? Um But I think we'll see here that scripture has actually a broader understanding of it, often using words of knowledge and wisdom interchangeably. Um and other words as well like um understanding. And um uh so discernment, you know, all those kind of related uh terms are often used in the same verse interchangeably. And so it it's not like you can Yeah, you may draw re fine lines between these different categories. You know, when we think of knowledge or when we think of um Yeah, knowledge. We think of facts, right? You're just learning facts and and um Um and so this information about biology and botany and all this sort of stuff, it's just the facts of how God created them and and and understanding of how it's how they live and and and so on. That's observable um science. And so that's sort of facts we can observe, we think of that as knowledge. Uh and we we draw a fine line between or a bright line between that and say wisdom, which is how to make use of knowledge, right? But um I think in God's mind they're all interconnected. Yeah. Even those facts about the things we can observe in creation ought to prompt us to write thinking and therefore write living. So um okay. So God gave um Solomon abundant wisdom, knowledge, all those things. uh more than he even asked for and he did in fact then have the ability to lead his people uh wisely and to put God's God's wisdom and and fame um on display for the world to see Uh but he did that even though y you notice when he God gave him this this choice and um you know, one wish. Um it was in the context of him worshiping in high places too. God didn't exactly call him out on that. Um Yeah, I I I tend to wonder why he didn't do that. Seems like that would be a good preparation, yeah. So are you assuming I I think it wouldn't it say it's the high places, that is to false gods, or could he be worshiping the one true god only at a high place instead of No, in the designated area. Um I'm not exactly sure in Solomon's case, but I know in general um both are true. So it's both a a not following God's specific commands about worship and the the use in this case in this time period of the tabernacle and so on. Um and that a king wasn't the one to make any sacrifices. It was the priests, right? So he wasn't following the law of God. quite regardless of where he was doing it. Other people, particularly later in Israel's life, um clearly did it for the wrong reasons. Yeah. Yeah it it's not entirely clear in in uh Solomon's life w where his heart was at that point, but it does say accept. Except he sacrificed burnt incenses on the high places, which is clearly a wrong thing. What his heart was, doesn't really say. Okay, so God did all that for Solomon, and you'd think that um Everybody lived happily ever after. Right? That uh that this fame that he had uh would draw the nations to come to the Lord God as being the only true God. that it would bring Israel to a greater dependence on and obedience to the true God. And that it would Bring Solomon to the point where he was even more humbled by the goodness and grace of God. None of those things happen, unfortunately. And so um I won't delve too well I'll just highlight here because I spent a lot of time on it in a sermon just two weeks ago. But Solomon's disobedience can be summarized in four categories And I'm taking the wording of these from a book called Practicing Proverbs, Wise Living for Foolish Times. Of course, all times have been pretty foolish. And so the first category is misdirected wisdom. And so Solomon writes in the beginning of the book of Ecclesiastes. I, the preacher, having been king over Israel in Jerusalem, uh, have been, and I set my mind to seek and explore by wisdom concerning all that has been done under heaven So that's not a bad thing. Basically he's saying, I have an inquiring mind. God's given me an ability to process things and understand and have knowledge and wisdom. To seek and explore by wisdom concerning all that has been done under heaven. And then he says, it is a grievous task which God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with. I have seen all the works which have been done under the sun, that is, by everybody, and behold, all is vanity and striving after wind. What is crooked cannot be straightened, and what is lacking cannot be counted. I said to myself, behold. I have magnified and increased wisdom more than all who were over Jerusalem before me, and my mind has observed a wealth of wisdom and knowledge. And I set my mind to know wisdom and to know madness and folly, and I realized that this also is a striving after wind, which means Meaningless, uh unfruitful. Because, he says, in much wisdom there is much grief. And increasing knowledge results in an increasing pain. Now, there there's an extent to which Uh that was very much his experience. Um but you can see he was he was Very wise and becoming even wiser and more knowledgeable and so on. But um what else is needed? an ability to use that wisdom wisely. Right? But he continues in chapter 2. So I turn to consider wisdom, madness, and folly. For what will the man do who will come after the king and accept what has already been done? And I saw that wisdom excels folly as light excels darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. And yet, I know that one fate befalls them both. Now what was he missing there? Yeah, so uh i uh um the role of God here is not really addressed. And so if the person is walking with God and and obeying God, that's a whole lot different from rebelling against God, right? But he almost everybody in the same category. It's all it's all temporary, it's all nothing's new under the sun, kind of the thing, right? And I said to myself, as is the fate of the fool, it will also befall me. Well, it would if he continues to think foolishly. Why then have I been extremely wise? So I said to myself, This too is vanity. For there is no lasting remembrance of the wise man as with the fool. Inasmuch as in the coming days all will be forgotten. And how the wise man and the fool alike die So his focus is on the here and now, not on the eternal, and it's on our existence and so on rather than God's design, God's glory, and all that, unfortunately. He picks up, he says, Thus I hated all the fruit of my labor for which I labored under the sun, for I must leave it to the man who will come after me, and who knows whether he will be a wise man or a fool. Yet he will have control over all the fruit of my labor for which I have labored by acting wisely under the sun. This, too, is vanity. Therefore I completely despaired of all the fruit of my labor for which I had labored under the sun. So he was uh Given much wisdom, but he misdirected it. He misapplied much of that. He missed maybe some of the major points. that would have helped him to interpret the things he was seeing. And these aren't in any particular order, but another category here is misused wealth. And so in Ecclesiastes 2, his testimony is, I said to myself, come now, I will test you with pleasure. So enjoy yourself. And behold, it too was futility. I said of laughter, it is madness, and of pleasure, what does it accomplish? I explored with my mind how to stimulate my body with wine while my mind was guiding me wisely. and how to take hold of folly. So just like a scientist would seek to understand God's creation, the way things are ordered. He's experimenting, if you will, with even folly, foolishness. Where does that lead, right? He's treating it so something like an experiment But he says he did that until I could see what good there is for the sons of men to do under the sun under the few years of their lives. I enlarged my works. I built houses for myself. I built vineyards for myself. I made gardens and parks for myself. I planted in them all kinds of fruit trees. I made ponds of water for myself. Do you see the myself, myself, myself here? And I also possessed flocks and herds larger than all who preceded me in Jerusalem. I collected for myself silver and gold and treasure of kings and provinces. I provided for myself male and female singers and the pleasures of men, many concubines. Then I became great. And increased more than all who preceded me in Jerusalem. My wisdom also stood by me. All that my eyes desired I did not refuse them. That's not actually very wise, is it? I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure, for my heart was pleased because of all my labor, and this was my reward for all my labor. So um it's kinda sad. But um you know th there's a lot of what I would call dirty laundry in the Bible. A lot of the examples of sin and its consequences and and so on. Why are those there? A warning. Right? There's wisdom in seeing the the folly of of sin and the consequences of sin And um it's a warning to us. And I think God allowed Solomon to be put on display. Initially it was a it was a good thing. People would see this is the work of God. But I think it's even his folly is recorded for us in Scripture t as a warning. And if if Solomon, the wisest man who ever lives, can be so foolish, how do we kid ourselves? Right? We need to be careful as well. People saw that or saw him as foolish? Do you think they saw that that way too or do you think they saw it all of the difference? Um Can I get back to that in just about five minutes? Because we're gonna give an example of that. Well you said why are these sorted stories inscription? As a warning. That's true. But I think they're also there as an encouragement because even after King David did like what we would call the ultimate sins, adultery, murder and all like that. Yes, he could repent and turn to God and God would forgive him, not only forgive, but use him. And that's a very great encouragement to us, right? Right. If only Solomon could have followed his example. The third category here, and you can kind of see the double alliteration here: misdirected wisdom, misused wealth, and multiplied women is the third one. Um in uh 1 Kings 3 says Solomon formed a marriage alliance with Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Why would he want a marriage alliance? What would a marriage alliance Do war like a piece with permission. So it's basically a treaty. Right? Egypt won't come after me. They're the big power to the south. They won't come after me if Pharaoh's daughter is my wife, right? And I'm not going to go after him because I'm married to his daughter. So there is a peace treaty there. No, that uh he should have he should have known a lot better than this. This is the way of the world right? And that was not God's plan whatsoever, right? In fact it was completely contradictory to God's plan. But that was the thinking. That's the the the the human thinking that he conformed to. Yeah. Um Then Second Chronicles twelve refers to Solomon's son Rehoboam. And refers to Raybone's mother as Naama the Ammonitis. She was an Ammonite, which means that one of Solomon's wives, the mother of Rehoboam, was an Ammonites. What do we know about the Ammon Ammonites? Pagan pagan worshiping false gods, right? Um And then it says of Rehoboam, he did evil because he did not set his heart to seek the Lord. Oh, no wonder. But then in 1 Kings eleven Now King Solomon loved many foreign women, along with the daughter of Pharaoh And so they included Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women from the nations concerning which the Lord had said to the sons of Israel, You shall not associate with them, nor shall they associate with you, for they will surely turn your heart away after their gods So this is not news. God had been clear about this. Solomon held fast to these in love. He had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines. Um I'm not sure really what the difference here is between a concubine and a and a wife practically speaking when you've got that many. Anyway. I think it wasn't necessarily godly wisdom. Um I think it was misapplied wisdom. Because it certainly doesn't seem like Exactly. And his and his wives turned his heart away, that's the problem. Right? Um And it it gives specific examples here and so on. And this says, thus he did for all his foreign wives who burned incense and sacrificed to their gods. Um and it's it's not at all a pretty picture. And then in Ecclesiastes He wrote, And I discovered more bitter than death, the women whose heart is snares and nets, whose hands are chains. So he maybe learned his lesson the hard way. And very late in life. One who is pleasing to God will escape from her, he says. A sinner will be captured by her. He was speaking from experience. But then, and getting back to Colleen's question, Nehemiah 13. Now this is this is um Uh much later. It's after the Babylonian captivity, they're coming back into the land. And Nehemiah tells the people when They were also practicing this marriage and had been for years, marrying uh pagans and and not marrying from within God-fearing Israel. Nehemiah told them, scolded them, did not Solomon, king of Israel, sin regarding these things? Yet among the many nations there was no king like him, and he was loved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, the foreign wisdom women caused even him to sin. And so there needs to be a lesson learned here, is what he was saying, right? So I'm not sure the extent to which in answer to Colleen's question, the extent to which contemporaries of Solomon understood that he was going off the track, I'm kinda guessing it would have been obvious, but we know for certain that by the time of Nehemiah it was well known. Right? So Okay, so the fourth thing, in keeping with this MW alliteration, is mixed worship And so we've alluded to this a little bit before, and it's caused uh by a lot of um the um the foreign wives. And here we're in first Kings eleven again. Now King Solomon loved many foreign women, along with daughter of Pharaoh, and so on. Um From the nations concerning which the Lord had said to the sons of Israel, You shall not associate with them, nor shall they associate with you, for they will surely turn your heart away after their gods. Solomon held fast to those in love. And his wives turned his heart away. When Solomon was old, his wives had turned his heart away after other gods. And his heart was not wholly devoted to the Lord his God, as the heart of his father David had been. For Solomon went after Ashtareth. the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom, the detestable idol of the Ammonites, Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and did not follow the Lord fully as David his father had done. Then Solomon built a high place for Kimosh, the detestable idol of Moab, on the mountain which is east of Jerusalem, probably the Mount of Olives. And for Molech, and the detestable idol of the sons of Ammon, thus he did for all his foreign wives who burned incense and sacrifice to their gods. Now the Lord was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned away from the Lord, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, and had commanded him concerning this thing that he should not go after other gods. But he did not observe what the Lord had commanded. Well, for what it's worth, uh maybe a little bit of of uh hopeful note here is at the very end of Ecclesiastes. Solomon writes after experiencing all the good and all the bad, he says the conclusion when all has been heard is fear God and keep his commandments. Because this applies to every person, for God will bring every act to judgment, everything which is hidden, whether it is good or evil. So Solomon appears to have learned his lesson, but he learned it the hard way, with a lot of wreckage in his wake. But it's there for us as a warning. Um and um His words are true. When all has been said and heard, fear God and keep his commandments. So what are the implications for us? We've got that warning. You've got this this um connection between wisdom and obedience. Having wisdom is not a guarantee that you're going to live it outright. Right. So it it's it's necessarily needs to be coupled with obedience. We need to know the right thing to do, but we also need to do it. Right? That's a good implication for us. There's reference here, certainly in Ecclesiastes and elsewhere, to the importance of fearing the Lord. And we're going to talk more extensively about that in a few weeks, but even today's sermon is going to be about that. And so we need to learn from Solomon's example. Well you might be wondering, um, with all that baggage, what should be our approach to Proverbs? Or approach to Proverbs needs to be God gave wisdom, godly wisdom, to Solomon, and he He wrote down much of it and refers to 3,000 Proverbs. And much of that we actually have recorded for us in this book of Proverbs. This is from God. It's part of God's word. It's wisdom from God. And um Even the New Testament applies it to our lives. The fact that the deliverer of these wise sayings uh was not perfect. In fact he fell far short. Um is not a whole lot different from His father, David, whose Psalms we study and apply and so on. In fact, all the prophets were mere humans like us. But God miraculously inspired what He wanted to be revealed through them for our benefit. And so one of the ways we can apply the lessons from Solomon's life is to understand and apply the wisdom God revealed through him. in the book of Proverbs. And so that's what we're going to do during the next this quarter. So there's some basic questions that you typically want to answer when you study a book of the Bible. We already talked about some. um uh who wrote it and um uh how it got into the bible and so on. But The next one here is the audience. Who was Proverbs written to or four? Well, it actually gives us evidence that Proverbs one four through five says, for example, to give prudence to the naive. Who are the naive? Okay. Dana's raising her hand. Anyone else? Yeah, naive means um uh The opposite of wise. Easily easily misled, uh confused, or scullible is a good okay. Um Proverbs and elsewhere in Scripture often uses the word simple, simple-minded as a synonym. Anyway, to give prudence, what's prudence? What's that? Good judgment? Discretion. Discretion. Wise living, doing the right thing, sure. To give prudence to the naive To the youth, knowledge and discretion. And a wise man will hear an increase in learning. And a man of understanding will acquire wise counsel. So who's it written for? Those who are naive, foolish, simple Those who are young and inexperienced, and those who are already wise who need to be wiser So what's that mean? It's for everybody, right? Take your picks. Maybe you fill into fall into m more than one of those categories. Don't we all kind of as we grow older get into that mindset anyway and kind of want to impart the experience of our life to those that are younger than us, like our kids, and to uh you know, to other people to help them grow and and mature. And so we all kind of have that drive. Solomon should formalize that with the expanded wisdom that God gave us. Yeah, for sure. And that's a good segue to our next point here. In addition to those sort of general um uh audiences for these proverbs, Solomon addresses many of these to his own sons. Right? He says my son uh or well he says my son twenty-three times. in Proverbs. And my son's plural he uses twice. And so for example, Proverbs 23, 15, my son, if your heart is wise, my own heart also will be glad. And so that's a lot of what Sean was was talking about, just passing on this wisdom and and exhortation to the next generation. Not only to uh his sons, but to parents in general. Proverbs thirteen twenty-two A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, and the wealth of the sinner is stored up for the righteous. Um Proverbs twenty two fifteen. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, the rod of discipline will remove it far from him. A lot of uh very helpful principles, truisms uh for parents who need all the help they can get. And then not only to parents in general, but to children in general. Proverbs ten, one, for example. Uh the Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a father glad, but a foolish son is grief to his mother. And then Proverbs fifteen twenty A wise son makes a father glad, but a foolish man despises his mother. So general truisms here that are for all to um understand and apply. Not to sons, but what about daughters? Proverbs 12, 4. An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who shames him is like rottenness in his bones. Proverbs 19, 13. A foolish son is destruction to his father, and the contentions of a wife are a constant dripping. And then of course Proverbs 31, 10. An excellent wife who can find, for her worth is far above jewels. So there's lessons specifically here, not just for the men, but also for the women. And for children generally, Proverbs 30, verse 17. The eye that mocks a father and scorns a mother, the ravens of the valley will pick it out. And the own eagles will eat it. Not a pretty sight, but it's a warning, right? To honor your father and mother as God has commanded. Okay, so those are some sort of specific audiences, but much of the proverbs are given just to everybody to be uh set of principles and and wisdom to live life by. And so for example, in Proverbs 10, 24 through the first several verses of Proverbs 11 We read, What the wicked fears will come upon him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted Some of these you have to sit down and think. I see what's going on there. Yep. That makes sense. When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more. But the righteous has an everlasting foundation. Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the lazy one on those to those who send him. The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be shortened. The hope of the righteous is gladness, but the expectation of the wicked perishes. The way of the Lord is a stronghold to the upright, but ruin to the workers of iniquity. The righteous will never be shaken, but the wicked will not dwell in the land. The mouth of the righteous flows with wisdom. But the perverted tongue will be cut out. The lips of the righteous bring forth what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked what is perverted. A false balance is an abomination to the Lord, but a just weight is his delight. When pride comes, then comes dishonor. But with the humble is wisdom. The integrity of the upright will guide them, but the crookedness of the treacherous will destroy them. Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death So that's just an extended section that's obviously just written to everybody as general guidance, wisdom for life, things to be aware of and warned of and to seek. And what we're going to cover here in most weeks is going through the book of Proverbs topically. And so it'll be a helpful resource for you as you're dealing with a particular area of life. Say, well, okay, what did we cover in Proverbs? And you have a long list of Proverbs and we'll we'll talk about those and how they apply and so on. Okay, the last question about the any book of the Bible is when was it written Well, Solomon reigned from around 970 to 930 BC. So presumably Uh the ones attributed to him were written around that time, although it says later of them were were compiled and added to the list by uh others. And those others, the men of Hezekiah's reign, who were um mentioned in Proverbs 25, they lived around 250 years after Solomon. So th the the things he had written down were still around and they compiled them and and made the the book of Proverbs uh more complete because of it. Okay. Um I wanted to very quickly, if if you have the notes and you can go to the table of contents on page three. Next week, we're going to do a more detailed overview of the book of Proverbs itself. And then we're going to look at these topics: general teaching, first of all, on wisdom. Then on foolishness, then how uh wise and foolish responses can be made to external influences. That'll take a couple of weeks to get through. Wisdom in the family. Finances and government. Uh personal character and and there this is categorized several ways. Um what we say what we do, how we think, and how we exercise loving self-control. Proverbs has a lot to help us just in everyday things. So I would encourage you this week just read through the book of Proverbs. Just read through it and let God minister to you and it'd be a great table setting, if you will, for our time together. Okay? Is there a quick question? Good. Because I don't have any quick answers. Let's pray.