I would give them a track and I would put a generous amount of money in it and I'd say, look, I'd help you if you would read this, and the next time I come by, I ask you a question about what you've read And I say that because if you really believe that the way to get people who are, you know Um I think she's got the baby at least of the next day or today. I guess one of the disadvantages is is if there is an attitude of not getting out of it, you can be supporting that negative behavior. So I have a question for you Pat this moment. of the cause of that poverty and in enabling them to remain there to we then, as believers since as in God's word, oppose those government Jesus, they will change. And look down to sixteen eleven. There's so many parents I cannot even count. Man, what you said was he said, Oh well then I don't need to work. So God can give us. Uh technically I think it would. Yeah. I see a lot of them on the street and I try to talk to them and I want to believe what they say and I get a lot of them money who you know, who ask because I don't I don't question them. It's hard to decipher what's real and what's not real. backbone of so many of these different things. Some person cool workers say they don't like to give money, but they want to give them food, like if they have um you know, cracker or cookies or or snack or even part of their lunch, they'll give that trying to find out where they were with God. uh helping them and us to understand the causes and then working with them to overcome those causes, right? What should we do? Baltimore and bring a bus floor of kids to our BBS if we want to do it that way. Teachers are prepared for the lessons and everything. I don't think we have called I I don't know that's true because um I I started a ministry at a transient hotel And you get to know them. in for a meal, home cooked meal. You know, there's a lot of mothers out there and and you have to just understand the situation. You know, they can't get an apartment because of their credit. Now with our children, maybe we do have a relationship where we know them, we know their situation, and what's the other end? interest free loan and they must pay it back and they knew that they would and they both did. In chapter 10, verse 3, the Lord will not allow the righteous to hunger, but he will thrust aside the craving of the wicked. Well that's so let's look at the second part here. and without anxiety, but knowing that over it all, God is sovereign and is good and takes care of us. Someone who is a fool just ignores all that in his pride and doesn't benefit from that that input. It does give in the movie go to the money to wait and you can see that there's even more so in today's uh context of paper to that side where people the people employed this and have They want to take their time, find out, then respond. And we kind of were prepared for this before going, is that we in our culture tend to be more goal-oriented, outcome-oriented Okay, so where were we? Let's skip down just for a second. We're taking advantage of them to gain off of their misfortune. will also cry himself and not be answered. for money, it you don't have time to get to know them and get to know. Because you talk to them and they're like, I like it here. There's so much more volume. But but that was my my my motivation was hopefully to kinda get to the bottom because typically most of the time the the the the the reason is kinda kinda comes around sin. Or it's like we have mission field among ourselves, you know. get our education is to get out too. At least overall, not necessarily in every interaction, but we need to have that balance between meeting the physical need and meeting the spiritual need. about okay, this positive transition seems to line up more with what the scriptures teach as opposed to this other one. mode, if you believe it it will lead to the opposite of getting people out of the program. uh should your position then be to oppose that that that policy and and if so how stridently should you view that They want to, they're on drugs, they're on um, you know, uh alcohol and you know, you're not gonna be able to to save everybody, right? situation. pouring to somebody and you share the gospel and when you're is you know people are transient, they move on. you know, come along come alongside them. Uh we've talked about most of those. Cease from your consideration of it. If you have been snared by the words of your mouth and have been caught by the words of your mouth, do this then, my son. Your kids get done with college or whatever, you know, you co-sign, they get a lower rate, you're saving them money. I can put it. Which they parlayed into single family homes later on. brother, but for their grandchildren, they gave each a substantial I'm talking hundreds of thousands of dollars of an interest free loan so they could buy their first house uh lessons, but hopefully this will kind of help to crystallize things for us. And your poverty will come in like a vagabond, and your need like an armed man He is caring and he promises to take care of us. Um resourceful, thrifty, and all those things, but when it really comes down to it, God is sovereign And so on. Just do what you've been called to do and God will take care of you. Better is he who is lightly esteemed and has a servant than he who honors himself and lacks bread. Someone who is intentionally rebelling against God can't expect God's favor. they're uh wealthy, powerful, wise and all those kinds of things, but in reality often they are um lacking very basic things. Food and and that kind of thing. and become more wise because of all the helpful input they're getting from other people. the bare minimum or less to kind of get through it and get by and hope that everything works out. What we want to do. Different, right? in many cases were just different. Whereas the culture we were in was much more people oriented. uh new information as it comes along and not just plowing ahead anyway, right? It's what's going on in reality to um make the best use of our time, our resources, and so on. alternatives and so on. How do we respond to that? Now, we're beginning to see that there are multiple reasons for poverty. Those are all examples of oppression. But you need to recognize that's not necessarily going to be the solution. And so there could be a fair amount of of um education, even evangelism there. you know, I'm not gonna question that part because if I do that then I get down the slippery slope of is it true or not? more people out of poverty if they're in poverty or are are the positions that say okay let's do this and then let's I don't know, I I would like if we could touch on that as well Remember what Jesus said, Yeah, I suppose the goal is to be a good thing. Someone who's giving to the poor, someone who is helping the poor to to um get out of his poverty and so on. He who waters will himself be watered. a promise of uh material rich riches and wealth and so on, but it's it's nonetheless a blessing To be able to meet the needs of someone else, the true need of someone else. But not just handulum money, whether it's us or a government check, that they get regularly and they become dependent on, that dependence itself can be a form of oppression. through our taxes, what's really needed is for us to put our money and our time into an alternative. But um we can team up with other churches and maybe some parachurch organizations that are doing it right and be fairly effective Even though money is being drained from us for that other system, we should be prepared to put money also into a better solution. That can come along people, come alongside people, get to know them, get to know the situation, uh help them in the meantime, graciously and mercifully, but challenging them with their responsibility before God to come alongside. perpetuating any kind of unj injustice and so on, um that's gonna end up affecting us typically. Casino and you'll be incredible. So what's the picture here? So that if they're in balance, then you know that one equals the other, right? uh produce or something like that. But in the long term, it's going to backfire. That is, to get out of this arrangement. But to be interest free was so different if you think about it. Um that's not the only cause, but it is a common cause, and this is a warning against that, right? in the right, or they're all you know, perfect. Um it doesn't take us away f it doesn't take away from us the responsibility to do our part, to work hard, to plan and be of the wicked. Now there's an interesting contrast. drive them to do, to look good in someone else's eyes. Um wisdom versus foolishness and wisdom, people who are wise accept reproof, correction or often anyway, uh leads to poverty on the part of the person who is being prevented from Or it could be lots of examples. the uh let's say laziness of the person. physical needs, right? Because you squandered the opportunities you've been given. uh act simply, consistently, most diligence. And talk about a difference in culture. Even stepping out in faith sometimes to do it, but out of out of obedience, out of honor to the Lord for um his uh design of how things actually work We're going to go over some other causes of poverty here and hunger, and sort of categories, but Uh and we saw earlier the example of um well what caused him to be in this situation, uh, where his heart is in terms of his desire to be diligent and and and uh what opportunities does does he have, what opportunities has he been uh shut out of unfairly, you know, all these things that take time to understand the situation. Well when you're in your car and you stop at a stoplight you see the guy with the side, you know I'm hungry, I I need whatever, you're homeless or it says a lot of things, but you know they're just standing and like And one of the reasons we probably don't is because it's a lot easier just to throw money at it and let the government take care of it. Well I'm I can I can predict very clearly. policies that keep those people we just say, well guess what? uh initiative and and and work and cooperation by a number of people who can think through this these things and marshall Maybe what we should do in the near future is just have a brainstorming session where we can think things through. Uh well it's it's injust unjust, it's it's selfish, and uh the various these verses indicate that if if our motives are wrong, if if we're could well be our own poverty because we're trusting in in um an ungodly The section on surety. which in both cases was a town house, which they parlayed into a bigger house. Today, we're going to begin by looking at poverty and the related topic of hunger. Someone who is not diligent in their work and responsibilities and so on, that One potential and perhaps even likely outcome of that would be um And we need to be careful not to um indulge so that we neglect our responsibility to do our part, the work and and everything, to So that's a good balance, right? All that great, he's lightly esteemed, but he has a servant. To have good standing in other people's eyes rather than in God's eyes, how long is that going to last? Now the discipline that's referred to here is not just self-discipline, although that I think is a part of it. But in the context, it's talking about this is the contrast with reproof, right? would be, I suppose, by definition, social injustice. baby like underpay people where business doesn't have the skills or potential where employees doesn't have underpaying doesn't have papers or they are new psychology or things like that and Yeah, there there are lots of examples I'm sure we can think of where people are being taken advantage of because they've got no options. So it's talking about someone who would prefer to sleep rather than to fulfill his responsibilities to meet his own Cut corners. Some of those were right, some of them were wrong, some of them were just different. Is it wrong or is it just different? uh uh being diligent and hardworking on the one hand versus being um thoughtful, uh not hasty Ought to include being thoughtful, not reckless, right? doesn't mean being hasty if it's done right. Being hasty is being lazy. Right? So I hope that helps. down in DC or Baltimore or whatever and we're approached by someone or we see someone who is uh homeless or poor or whatever, maybe they're asking for a donation Right? Exactly, it may come around to haunt you. And so that's a form of oppression, really. That's not fair. the um the cause for a particular person's poverty uh would be very important to know if you're going to try to help that person, right? And maybe the problem is that he has lost all hope. Read and write, computer, you know. Hopefully it kind of gets through and I don't mind paying for an opportunity to have some kind of look at. But he also told the rich young ruler, sell everything you have and give it to the poor. helping, quote unquote, the poor by sending money to the government who sends the money to the poor. And the church is not only well positioned, but actually challenged in Scripture to do that. to um uh be diligent, take advantage of opportunities that maybe we can make available to them, those kinds of things. Right? And so I've seen it all. with that, to bring them out here and and do that and then take them back. somebody, right? So, I don't know. A false balance is an abomination to the Lord, but a just weight is his delight And then down to 22. afford it but you don't want them to pay much the high rates of interest because they just got done with college or for whatever reason um if they can afford it and also if you can afford it Biblical order. Uh 22, 26, and 27 don't qualify it at all. Not to protect my money, but why? Um but go ahead and read through the verses there and if you've got any questions, uh ask Anne. We've gotten to one, right? Well, hunger is is the example here. poverty and shame will come to him because he's not taking the advice, the good advice that he's being given. So unjust rules, uh people taking advantage of uh the poor. Um so we found ourselves by the time we were done seeing kind of a blend. Um instead you want to get out of that. I'm an engineer at heart. Yeah, my original training is in engineering. Um maybe making laws or restrictions and so on that are really unfair. Um more practical and thinking deeper practical help, I I always like had this desire to just help out children, especially Right? government bureaucracy level and it works. you know, it involves the whole person. Um and to vote accordingly. Um through our our actions, what is a more godly approach to the problem Um and I think to do the alternative without voting consistently with that is wrong. And I think so bottom we should get a bus and go down to the inner city in Boston Right? Yeah, one two. Um favor a quid pro quo kind of a thing. make myself to look better than other people with all pride that's all gonna burn up. uh measured by, right? So the idea is if you cosign um and the person who's originally taking the loan can't pay, who is the lender going to come to? You and why should they take your bed out from under you when he's the one who defaults on the loan? standing and credit record and and whatever so that if he needs a loan he can do it on his own two feet and not have to depend on somebody else. Last week we introduced that with a variety of subjects. So that's clearly a warning, right? then those needs are going to be coming back to haunt us. Help meet our own needs. uh passing needs and so on. Yeah, so if someone has the wrong priorities they could do make decisions so that they're not only I mean w what would their pride Let's look at 1318. What does it mean that abundant food is in the fallow ground of the poor? from uh making use of resources he's already got, like in this case, he's got property and he's not allowed to cultivate it to make a living and so on. What's that mean? Well what's the saying? is when we're in a different culture, things are very different. That was good. Um those are definitely not contrasts. Right? Eventually it it's just gonna become a mess, right? And we throw money at the problem, but it's not really the problem. In this case, uh oppression of a poor person means just taking advantage of him. being unfair because they don't have any options, you know. The advantage of that would be you'd be able to get to the core problem and come closer to a solution for that actual person. And the few times that I had uh uh uh asked one question because they were gone and didn't frequent that corner or or you know I gave it and it just never saw them again. God is as interested in the giver as he is the recipient. That were strong enough in our country and there was a network of churches doing that really well. To minister to them and challenge them, to train them and help them. But nothing very comprehensive and and so on. And it the reality is it's not. Yeah. Look at the top of the next page, 2822. um knowingly makes that w what appears to be a ten pound weight, only a nine pound weight Um and if they've they're buying ten pounds, then you give them as much as it brings it into level, right? Then he's going to be selling nine pounds of goods for the price of ten pounds. At least it appears that way for the short term. on behalf of someone else, among whom among those who become sureties for debt, if you have nothing with which to pay, why should he take your bed from under you If I were going to co-sign a loan for any of my kids, I would be harder on them than the bank would. Uh well, among believers, even family members, um, for sure. Uh this is our second of two lessons on finances and government. So it doesn't mean that God does everything He's called us to do. humility there. Um some of you um have experienced that or are already currently experiencing it. the uh the right approach would be to understand the problem so that we could be a part of the solution, right? Right? And not only will the government, but more and more people will see, yeah, that's the right way to do it. 20 verse 10. And uh God w what are these verses saying? And so in chapter 6 it says, My son, if you have become surety for your neighbor, have given pledge for a stranger. to justify having money lent to him, uh you might rather help him to get that that Right. It turns out Proverbs has a lot to say about that. a time of need. Right? But because of his pride and lack of obedience, he lacks bread. So um this is a question of priorities. And so uh he who regard um he who neglects that Okay, so it could be injustice from other people. Any person or a person in authority perhaps who um basically Um takes advantage of people who have um Open your eyes and you will be satisfied with food. So it's a warning. And why would someone be hasty? Being in a global context, one of the values is work with audience. going on in the heart of the person who who behaves that way. What would be the most loving thing to do in a case like that? Right. Mm-hmm. We have in our country a a uh in many countries a an arrangement where we are People would notice. person, an ungodly arrangement or whatever it is, and that's where we're putting our money thinking it's going to help us Uh greed. Why would you want to encourage someone who can't doesn't have enough standing, enough financial track record? is a potential cause of poverty. that um we need to seek first his kingdom and his righteousness and all these things, all what things. And see what will happen if you um love that sleep more than you should. So I thought a background where you take time to ponder, ask around, gather, they respond. The the general the question came up earlier some weeks ago about well so what do we do? Prior to those things happening, thinking through in your own mind what is the biblical what are the biblical principles involved here? Um before coding, um I reproached it also. And um and and I said I'll I'll continue to help you as long as you can as long as we can in the little bit of time that we have talk about you know what you've read through love and prayer to overcome their addictions and so on. poor um in this system where they they're poor and and and just throwing money money at them instead of helping them get up a group I don't know how quickly or even how effective that would be in and of itself, but I think it's important for us to do. Um I think to to vote one way and to protest and whatever and not do the alternative is wrong. How long will you lie down, O sluggard? So maybe I should mention here that this is one example of some of the things that Proverbs notes. So we've talked before about the righteous. Um lightly esteemed, he's in terms of his own perspective, he's humble. Be diligent and avoid the consequences of that haste. Now, like I said, it there there's a lot of value to thoughtful planning and uh thinking long term and working out And um I haven't had an opportunity to do it as often lately because of everything, but I I used to do that. So if our heart is on getting, getting getting getting, because of me, and that's my security, that's how I So those bribes may appear to accomplish something in the short term for our own selfishness. Uh God will not allow such a person to hunger, but to take care of us. expensive house that's a mortgage so much that you know like practically speaking that that's so What kind of injustice would sweep that away? There's lots of potential there. Get out of work early, right. Very good. But one of the things that I used to do, I don't do it as much, I don't do it, I haven't done it for a while. What's going to meet the needs of the poor the best? Everything vanishing. And it's it's unfair to them. And I think we may have mentioned this already, but um um haste or um never had a right perspective on his need to be diligent before the Lord. Can we speak a little bit to that in your looking at those scenarios? And who are the givers in that case? And people have come off drugs that way, people coming alongside them. Do two things. the the involvement of other people. So you have to understand that you're not going to be able to give everybody money, right? 1323. Do not love sleep. Teach them Bible also. evaluate candidates for public office at the local and national levels with this sort of thing in mind, not necessarily the only issue, but with this sort of thing in mind. They didn't ask for money, they asked for prayer. Okay. And he says that that haste, if that's what you characterize and it's it's evident in all these different aspects of your life, uh don't be surprised if that leads to poverty. If you try to solve a problem and that's not really the problem, it's something else, what's gonna happen? Yeah. Okay. So that's a question. Food, clothing, shelter, shelter, you know, all the basic needs. No resources, no options. The next one here, 21 verse 5. I mean if they don't get out of this pattern th th nothing's gonna happen. And and you're not gonna save everybody. I was looking for another one. 1115, he who is surety for a stranger will surely suffer for it. They do what is right. You know, it's it's very helpful to be immersed for some period of time in a very different culture. The next one we have here, 2113. That when we lend to someone who is poor and we charge exorbitant interest, what are we doing? So we'll just focus on this additional concept. After my parents became quite wealthy in their older years, and they did not do this for their children for me or my aunt So God is sovereign over all that, but we have our part to play. He he's got he's got some resources here that many people don't. Oh the question. So again, this is another example of injustice. So I have to make a decision which one do I do I believe is right and which one should I support because ultimately it does affect the poor and I'm called to not ignore them. Page ninety-five. You should never sleep? The one who procrastinates looks like he's lazy. We could probably connect him with resources or opportunities that would actually meet those actual needs, right? That's right. Yeah, well um excellent segue, Henry, to what I want to cover anyway. And you don't know, just like Pastor Alan said, what they're going through. And I've seen people that you know you would think wouldn't want prayer. Uh the first ones have to do with cosigning for your neighbor. Craving for what? Yeah. I think that's a challenge to us. Yes. Haste makes what? And that takes time and it may look like you're procrastinating when in fact you're laying the groundwork for a successful campaign. That's not good. Um so that there's potential for more and more people to see They will change. I I I just it's just so great to think that we've got to think this big thing and how are we gonna help it we you know, and we forget that sometimes we just Our attitude should not be one of anxiety. Um uh well that that's that's a pretty broad term. I mean any injustice that's brought about by um more than one person Uh so the speed with which we do something or the elapsed time isn't really the best indicator. 2216. A just balance and scales belong to the Lord. Yeah, so if you notice in these verses, it starts with well, in chronological order of It's clearly worse if you don't know the person all that well and you don't have any kind of relationship with him that will help to make him responsible. Now, it would be tempting to say, well the Lord's going to take care of me, therefore I don't need to do any work. Cut corners for those reasons. So here's a problem. Twenty two um sixteen, the later part of it. But we just saw that that's there's a warning against that kind of thing. However, the verse we just looked at earlier, 2113, he who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor You don't know. Right. Right. Um the problem is that we're already putting a lot of money into that system Yeah. In the meantime, can you have to think what church what we can do anyway Like food and whatever. Differing weights and differing measures, both of them are abominable to the Lord. Isn't it like a house poor people who just like put so much Well, yeah. So how do you compare with you know what we're talking about whereby uh Well, uh there are a number of these that have an indication in the notes here about the different causes. When you set your eyes on it, it's gone. You're in a business and you're selling uh something or rather that's that's sold by weight, right? Look at the opportunities not just to meet physical needs, but uh to evangelize and to show the love of Christ and the example of Christ. What should we do? So we can start small, even as Hope Bible Church. I do want on page ninety-four to highlight several types of verses here, starting at 111 Now that word may not mean much to you, but it basically means cosine on a loan. 6. Right? Another question. So if we're not doing what we need to do to uh uh meet our own needs He's not showing it off, exactly. Okay, so abundant food is in the fallow ground of the poor means if it was cultivated it would be a They weren't right or wrong, just different. And then we would pray with them. So it's just doing what you can do in your circumstances. Any single church may be somewhat limited in the extent to which they can do something comprehensive and broad How many of you love sleep? There we have a early bird gets the worm. Um as long as it was the blend of the the the the positive things here and the positive things there, right? Very good. Oh. Ultimately it comes down to personal involvement. May as well get it while we're there. I I I'm not finding it right now. Basically that's what that means. Um so what is the right balance, right, between So if you believe that a certain um policy that the government is advocating are seeking to promote So uh clearly um the that's cheating, it's actually stealing. But about about this haste being hasty as we've kind of suggested, but didn't say explicitly And so this person is poor, but and it doesn't really say how he became poor, but he's being taken advantage of and it keeps him in poverty Have the next week another BBS for only those kids in the inner cities. And so if if a proprietor will uh in in um Yeah. So it's not just the the uh character or the It involves meeting their physical needs, education, training, evangelism, st uh grounding them in scripture. Um but that's what I tried to do. Yeah we we we need to It wouldn't be easy. And the idea is if if you've got a a scale that works like this is probably the simplest. Do not give sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids. Um I tend to want to solve problems by understanding the problem first. So there is a place for giving to poor people just out of grace and mercy, regardless of the need or the cause. And Pastor Allen, you have the exact right thing. Yeah. In fact I think I asked that question here, B. Because it's all about them. There's lots of potential. Yeah. I I feel safe here. Um the next section on laziness and haste, I think we've also uh Well, um I would recommend, you know They would notice that there's a change. One would be it would be correct for us to um So they're stuck there, right? But even even if they've got food and they've got enough money actually to to pay for that, what is it they typically lack? And if they're doing it only to be um Why? He who oppresses the poor to make much for himself, or who gives to the rich, will only come to poverty. Frequently you also don't get the truth. Yeah, I I agree with it um as well. But it's good. So we as as uh citizens have to make decisions a lot of times which one we support, which ones we would Well I would recommend that we um I'm going to skip over the greed, envy, jealousy. Actually the interest free loan concept is very biblical. Right. Exactly. That's not our job, right? Um you you you can't fight back, you know, those kind of things. Okay, so let's flip the page to chapter twenty, verse thirteen. Waste. And and so my heart's not really in it. So I've I've written in there what's what's what's um Well the context here is about food, something fairly basic, right? Um So on the one hand uh maybe this would be a good place to mention All right, so we are on lesson nine today, kind of down the home stretch. They're they're over their head in depth and whatever. Okay. Right? Look at twenty-nine verse four. But he will thrust aside the craving Abundant food is in the fallow ground of the poor, but it is swept away by injustice. Because you're lazy. Right? Do not be among those who give pledges, that is, this kind of pledge. They are like poverty stricken because they co sign with their children. Yes. Open your eyes, meaning look around you, look at the circumstances, look ahead Why is that? But so to kind of get to the the the the real cause is you know find I think we need to do that. What should our what should our mindset be? But just like he says here, the Lord will not allow the righteous to hunger. Okay. A warning that if we are a sluggard, a a uh Right? That's what makes it unjust. I hope not. I mean this is a very practical way to um help them so that they can Typically. And it would be surprising at the people that really needed prayer. For their sake, so they develop the disciplines and the responsibility to meet their obligations. So if you have the money and you can do it, I think it's better to make the kids pay back than to just give them It's hard to find her, you know, who's running gate. So I always like wanted to just see like churches get around during the summertime, have a camp for city kids or whatever we have. And that that isn't so much in this case a um Um but yeah. And yes, there are people that you have to learn to say, you know, not give them money because that's all they're really there for, right? And because the priority is I'd rather be doing something else. That's a symptom of the problem. And we've already seen some of those verses in our earlier Poverty and shame will come to him who neglects discipline, but he who regards reproof will be honored. Just throwing money at it or or helping the When will you arise from your sleep? But someone who's characterized by not only doing what is right, but ideally doing it for the right reason What's fallow? Here's a case where he's he really is um at disadvantaged because of the sin of others The plans of the diligent lead surely to advantage, but everyone who is hasty comes surely to poverty. So one of the causes of poverty may be shedding your ear to the cry of the poor. But in global context, they always talk about urgency, urgency But um take a fine for somebody for American context you like Right? It's a merciful thing, but it doesn't necessarily help bring this person out of poverty So why why can't we do that? You think a transient hotel and you know these people were lazy and why are they living there? A man with an evil eye hastens after wealth and does not know that want will come upon him. And in this case it's what? To do what is right. So, someone who is lightly esteemed but has a servant. And so uh comparing themselves with others, trying to make it look like And how do we judge whether it's right or wrong? Because you're not willing to be diligent to do the hard work necessary Um so in order to solve a problem you need to know what the problem is. God takes that very seriously. And then another set here, look at 178. What does it mean for someone to be righteous? But uh I think the example here is more um And we learned a lot about ourselves and our American values and customs and so on that It means doing what we're supposed to do. All the weights of the bag are his concern. They got full ownership of that townhouse very quickly Uh we're gonna have to stop there. Or if it's um But there's a lot of potential. Oh, is that a hand? He who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor will also cry himself and not be answered. Or it's just not gonna work at the very best. Uh running out of time. Right. Are deposited positions that advocate for, you know, just throwing money at decisions, is that more helpful? He doesn't realize then he's no longer right. Um I was a friend from so we can Asia they don't believe in boom boom boom boom Early, early. They are all go together. Even though you're like that makes the most sense. That's a good example I suppose. Clearly it takes a lot of work, a lot of effort to get to the root causes. But a lot of them have a knowledge of God and it's just going there and and just pouring into them that you know, and being there for them Maybe um give to the Brits. For wealth certainly makes itself wings like an eagle that flies toward the heavens. Yeah. Right? Right. The benefit of that, if if we're thinking rightly Right? Um so anyway, understanding Whatever was left over on Friday, I would be home. But they're both lazy. It's stinginess, which is selfishness, right? Oh yeah. Therefore, as we enter into um our our work Um I don't do it I don't do it any of the tests. The next one, and as we go through here, we'll see several different causes. Open your eyes and you will be satisfied with food. Right? But um uh You say that you walk us alongside one individual with a family, right? And not all of them are they want to be safe. It doesn't mean that you won't have problems, it doesn't mean that you won't have um That there's there's um it it it's happening at the the person level, not at a I mean that's the only way is to reach the hearts of the kids and and once they become believers and It helps us to be objective about, okay, that's different. Uh even though it doesn't look like laziness when it's it's so fast. He's lost all um Yeah. You don't know what seeds you're putting inside of a person and what they're gonna do with that. Um it could be bribes to give to the rich. Um in life that comes to poverty. What is that? But what this is saying is that no, no, you need to um Um Under what conditions do you think it would be acceptable for parents to co sign on a loan for their child? And um the contrast is he who honors himself, a very proud person And that's that's not right. We've covered some of those elsewhere. And my father's broker said to him, Well why would you just give him the money? Someone saying you can't plant in this land? Abundant food is in the fallow ground of the poor, but it is swept away by injustice. Even if you think you don't get the truth. Yeah. Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hunter's hand and like a bird from the hand of the fowler And that's what Matthew 6 is getting at, right? Um so being diligent The government is trying to help them, there are ways wrong, but there are other ways that we know right We used to walk door to door and invite people So it's just a warning. So one of the things I used to do is if I see someone on a corner a lot, I The same thing could be true with um addressing poverty. That's the main thing we have the opportunity to do as citizens And so you put in a known weight of ten pounds over here Well here you go. Um uh we saw earlier and we may see again here, I think somewhere today later. Not been planted. Now is one of those better than the other? Yeah, so it does take work. Apple, orange, you know, orange white, you know. I mean, yeah, it's wonderful to send mission to all this different We are. Um and and it may not If we seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, then all these things will be added to you. And um maybe his humility and his hard work have been a part of making those resources Um but they lack the peace and contentment that You don't do a good job, you have to kind of do it over again, or you lose an opportunity because it's it's all gone, whatever. Come alongside the person, understand the situation, what Uh we can start small and brainstorm and and we've we've done a few things Yeah, so that's a warning to us. Therefore I want to just do I mean w we're we're And um Or who gives to the rich will only come to poverty, but the They're all their savings and retirement all gone because they sign for their kids. The next one is for a stranger, a couple of them there. And if we think the reason for poverty is the lack of money Some excellent ideas here. Right? Yeah. Well, um lots of good ideas here. The king gives stability to the land by justice, but a man who takes bribes overthrows it. Deliver yourselves, since you have come into the hand of your neighbor. Thinking ahead, and persevering, and also being sensitive to He who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor will cry himself and not be answered. So the poor person, in this case, is being oppressed And that was good. So you're having to make a decision on the term the launches without We can do BBS for the you know They can they they can substantially pay. We can pick up with a gun yet. But they're not taking care of it. Um It's coming alongside Twenty-three verse four. Because you're taking advantage of someone for your own your own um It just says don't be among those who give pledges to anybody. It's gonna take um Does that mean they're perfect? Um that means they're characterized by doing what was right. Okay, I'm sorry. Others don't especially think that he's So we looked earlier at Uh now look at I don't want to have to make that decision. But just providing them a home cooked meal, praying with them, sharing the gospel What would be a a useful way to start and see what God does Early bird gets the worm. What's the motivation? Being uh diligent In this case, who would be the giver We need to do both. Cheating. Laziness. Yeah. Maybe it's maybe it's because We're not going to solve the problem. Even in their lifetime it's probably going to result in in um And so what's that depend on? I would have it in writing, what the terms are, and I would hold them accountable. And Right? But even worse than that, what what are they characterized by typically? And it typically In fact, it's one of the property values, audience, you have to One of the things I think that was very right that we were learning that was so different for us Or we could have after BBS, I'm not against that at all. And other aspects of of the culture we were in Uh in the case of uh government I think I'm going to skip over the laziness and haste. They paid monthly payments You can always always depend on Ann for a good good encouraging word there. Imagine they were two or four hundred So much like Jesus cautioned in um Matthew six Right He's no longer righteous. Um I think I may have mentioned before uh that Which suggests what? Do not love sleep lest you become poor. I was thinking uh regarding case audience the other cultures And 2023. Among A little sleep, a little s uh slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest And we may not always know, right? Cheating. He will thrust aside the craving of the wicked He who honors himself and lacks bread doesn't have his priorities quite right. I um um But God is as concerned about the giver as he is the recipient. It's pretty straightforward. Um It's it's Yeah, yeah, real good creative ideas, another And then they'll vote accordingly. Um Right, that's the warning. Well in in in in in most cases you really So let's begin with that first passage there from Proverbs 6. Let's go down to twelve nine. Okay, so it's um uncultivated. Often it would be a government kind of thing, I think. So the Um but it it just Right. I think what would be in the long run more effective would be for us to show the right way to do it. Give to the Laziness, right. I mean this is some of the basic basic um Easy. Is it consistent with scripture, what I'm called to do, or whatever? Um Um That's like the butcher today that puts the gum on the scale. Right? But he who hates going surety is safe. Okay. Yeah, not very long, right? And those people today still I talked to a lot of them that w I work in Baltimore City and uh But um Right. So on the way to the left app, if I think Right? Right? Uh my wife and I were missionaries in Africa for five years Right, right. What I still do is I do still have a track and if I do give any money it's always in the track. But we need more than one bus. That's right. And uh maybe even laziness not wanting to get involved Um Do not weary yourself to gain wealth Don't be anxious for all these things We need to do our part in obedience and in faith It's easier. Both are necessary, right? Very bad we'll be We've seen several verses about that and we'll probably see several more today. You know? The accuracy of that weight that it's that it's being um Um, and that's some great examples. Uh the possibilities are endless. And But I'm sure we have it here Um I do want to hit on the top of page 96 Um Well circumstances put them there Differing weights are an abomination to the Lord, and a false scale is not good. A bribe is a charm in the sight of its owner. Well Well yeah, we're gonna get behind her behind her and behind her Go, humble yourself, and importune your neighbor And that's what you should understand is my kid the type of person who can Right? That takes effort. And um I like the It could be uh wanting some other And um Right. But a lot of them don't want to come off the street I think we covered those kind of concepts. More importantly We can hold their feet to the fire. Let's see if we can call them out here. Exactly. That's the problem. Yeah. It may come around to That some things we bring on ourselves That takes work. What's the disadvantage of that? That doesn't mean that they're always Okay. And there are several. Exactly But God always places somebody in your life. Somebody else may And I'm pretty sure that if It was a wonderful thing. Um So you've got the scales that's Okay. And um Um but if we could do that But in a lot of cases also I mean they kind of learn to take advantage of For for my country And my father said, No, it shall be in Um, or if it's just I mean sin sin is a is a is a bad You know, Proverbs says um It may take money Does that get Wherever he turns, he prospers. So haste makes waste. All the decorations are up and the But um Why? Um So I I Um