Well, uh welcome to our study of Proverbs So does everybody have a copy of the notes? So we're on lesson 12 today, down the home stretch, on page 138. If you remember, two weeks ago We focused well we're in this this section where we're talking about the teaching from Proverbs about our personal character. And so a couple of weeks ago we focused on what we say. Proverbs has a lot to say about that. Last week we looked at what we do. But you know, both what we say and what we do come from where? The heart, right? And so today we're going to look about uh what what Proverbs instructs us about what's going on in our heart, how we think, uh what our motives are, and um How that then gives rise to what we say and what we do. So uh our heart, our thoughts, our mind All those are kind of intertwined here. But look at that that first section from chapter two. And It says, My son, if you will receive my sayings and treasure my commandments within you, you see, he's focusing on the heart here, make your ear attentive to wisdom, incline your heart to understand. If you cry for discernment Lift your voice for understanding and seek her as silver, search for her as hidden treasures, then you will discern the fear of the Lord and discover the knowledge of God So lots of different ways here, he's saying, strive in your inner being, right, to uh gain God's wisdom. the the basis for your making good decisions and so on. Later in that chapter in our next section there in verse 10 it says, for wisdom will enter your heart. And again, you know, the heart here is not talking about that pump, right, that pumps blood throughout our body, but it's talking about what? Okay the the the heart is used in scripture to speak of our inner being. Right to what makes us tick, the real us on the inside, as opposed to our physical being, right? So Um often it uses scripture uses the word uh mind when it refers to our inner being And that's not even referring to our brain so much as our our capacity to think and and process and um We're going to see a little bit later that there's reference to our conscience. And they're all intertwined in that inner being the immaterial part as opposed to the material part that we can touch, right? Wisdom will enter your heart, it says And that's a good thing because if it's stored up there, then what? It'll influence what we say, what we do, because it influences our motives. Our goals, our reasoning. Uh Drop down here to chapter three, verse one. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. So if your heart keeps the commandments, then externally, you know, what you say, what you do will be in alignment as well. Continuing chapter 3 there, verse 3, do not let kindness and truth leave you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. So that's figurative, right? Our our heart itself is immaterial. It's not something you can touch. The tablet of our heart is just a word picture to say, remember it. Write it down, right? Make sure it's on your heart for recall later. Um you know, we have these electronic tablets these days, right? And you can uh write things down and go back to it later and it's there. Same idea. two part beings were the inner man and the outer man, as as you've been describing. And I've often thought that um science can even pinpoint The moment of death. Hmm. Look at this band, H whatever. They don't even know what day she died. And I think the point of death is not when the heart stops beating excellence. I think it's when the inner man or the spirit leaves the outer man, when it leaves the body to me. That is the point Right. Yeah, and you see that several times in scripture actually. You know the description of um Rachel when she died. uh speaks of her spirit. I believe it uses the word spirit there. Leaves her departed. Yeah. And um Um even even when Jesus died on the cross says um Um he breathed his last. He gave up his into your hands I right, I commit my spirit. Uh so it's that separation of the spirit and the soul. they want, but if the spirit is gone, that person is dead. Yeah, and that's that's not that's not um visible. Okay. You're probably familiar with uh chapter three, verse five and six. Trust in the Lord, how? With all your heart, right? And to not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. So it is important to be walking along the straight path, the right way, but what's the prerequisite there? To have our heart right so that God can direct us. Yeah. And then 423, watch over your heart with all diligence For from it flow the springs of life. Everything that we do, everything we say. And Jesus pointed to this as well, right? Um again he he referred to the um the Pharisees who well he referred to them as whitewashed tombs Looked great on the outside, what they did, what they said, and great conformity to the law. But inside, what? They're full of dead men's bones, like a tomb And that's where Jesus was invariably uh probing what's on the inside And here's the answer. Watch over your heart with all diligence, for from it flows the springs of life. How do you actually play that? How do you do that? Um watch what you put into it, things you read. And that's that's that's one of the things we just said, right? Um Uh do not let kindness and truth leave you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart. Um Why has God given us the scriptures? Not just to fill our heads with knowledge, right? But to uh help us uh write on the tablets of our heart what is right, what is godly, what is according to God's will Not just as information, but write them on the tablets of our heart means be committed to those things. So the more we understand God's truth and we're committed to it because it's God's truth That's going to shape our decision making, right? And if it shapes our decision making, it's going to influence what we do and why we do it. It's going to influence what we say and why we say it and when we say it. So um the first step really is to be fully grounded, saturated by God's word. Because you know those tasks are so saturated with God's word So it's it's not just what's up here. Right. Right. Yeah, so it has to be a commitment of the heart to do the right thing regardless of the consequences. to do the right thing, regardless of how else we might be tempted, because we're committed to what we know is right. And um So there are ways that can be undermined over time. You know, we can compromise a little here and there. we can give in to our natural selfishness and laziness and many of the things we've been talking about here in in uh Proverbs. Um but it really c becomes uh a a need for adherence to God's Word And seeing the wisdom in it, growing in the wisdom of it, um, being committed to doing it Um no matter what everybody else is doing, no matter what the consequences are. Yeah. Like as you the more you do it, like the more it becomes Like the more you act on those impulses of finness and generosity and business remains it becomes more similar to buy like your you know instead of like um it's just the more you can reach those habits like I guess Absolutely. Absolutely. And it's it's a good example of that is faith. Right? People have likened our faith to a muscle. Right? It it it grows as you use it. So as we step out in faith and we see God faithful and protecting us and whatever, then our faith is strengthened because we've stepped out in faith, we've seen him um uh in action, if you will And um that bolsters our faith. And likewise when we see the wisdom of God um show itself to be for our benefit, to his glory, that it actually helps, then we're going to be more committed to it because we see the wisdom of it, right? Children learn that way You know, they initially learn by doing. Um And their parents will tell them, you know, here's the right way to do it, here's what it and to them it's just theoretical and they have to apply it because, well, they're accountable to their parents But after a while they see the wisdom of it. And when your heart sees the wisdom, then you're more committed to it. And it becomes more uh more ingrained and more habitual first, but then but then more of a volition commitment to it. I think the the opposite is true too, where since for for from and slow the swing of life, watch over your heart, right? So you know you can test your like if I'm getting angry and totally angry I said I need to have to say what's going on in my heart? What is what is happening here that this is coming out? You know, this is this is too much for this effect Right? Like someone cuts in front of me and I'm dressed in a rage. Why is that happening? What's my car? What's five? This guy should know that the king of the universe. My kids should know that I I have priority in their life. You know, and my and so it what's going on in my heart, did you see something like it has to follow. We have to ask okay what was going on in the park? What was what were they bound in? What was really the idol? We know on the outside that's all we can see It's uh whatever, the good. But when you in those moments that when they're free, then you see what's in their heart, what's in my heart. Because when things are going really well, I think it's sweet and But when things are really tough, what is in my heart? What what is really the thing that that is is motivating me and it may not taste it upon inspection for the foundation it will be pride or greed or selfishness or you know and those things I need to then come back to God's peace and say I need help. I need to change. Right. These are not two things that are in my heart. Absolutely. Absolutely. And so um uh what Anna is is referring to is is honest self examination, right? But there there's a um Uh maybe a corollary to that, which is we also need the honest um accountability of other people as well to keep us honest Both are needed. And um uh so we we we s we start with it's it's it's um Fed by um a commitment to God's Word. Uh and so that honest evaluation of ourselves is From God's perhaps I'm looking at this if I'm looking at myself from God's perspective, what am I seeing in my heart? And that's what others can be helping us to see as well. Um so yeah. Yeah, and I think the other part of it is relaxing Yes. So it's obedient to his word. It needs to be in there first, and then we're prompted by the Holy Spirit, we act so then we don't Right. Because yeah, we can't do this. We we can try to go through the day, you know, wake up in the morning and say, I'm gonna do I'm gonna you know, in my case, I'm gonna be the model the letter and wife that it wants me to be. And then when that choice comes, am I going to rely on the Holy Spirit's health help or am I going to Right. Excellent. And you know it's interesting, uh w we're not quite there yet. Uh But I mentioned the conscience earlier. The Holy Spirit works very similarly and maybe with our conscience. Our conscience is God given. Everybody has one uh to help us discern right from wrong to prompt us to do right and prompt us not to do the wrong. Or when we do do the wrong, what does it do? Convicts us as a guilty conscience, right? The Holy Spirit works very similar to that in terms of nudging us and and prompting us and reminding us. He um uh I don't know how it all works. You know, whether he he works through our constants or he just works in parallel with it, but it's a similar process. And um By the way, you know, parents have a very similar role in the role of their in the lives of their children. To prompt them, right? To to chastise them, to nudge them, whatever. Um so that their conscience is being shaped in a godly way. Um and that's partly what the Holy Spirit does with us throughout all our lives, as believers anyway Good point. Okay. Well, uh there is much here. I'm not going to be able to cover all of this. I assume you all are diligently reading through the ones that we can't um cover in class because there's much here. Let's go on page one forty to chapter sixteen, verse nine, toward the bottom. The mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. Right? So is it a good thing for us to plan our way? But what do we need to recognize? Can you redirect that? And so what should our mind, our heart, our soul be um considering in light of all that? Right. So we need to be flexible and therefore that requires humility, right? But it's definitely a good thing to plan to step out in faith And if he changes our direction, I'm good with that. Right? Not Lord clearly I have the better plan. Right? But um humility and flexibility and uh desire to to please God. Then go to the top of page 141, 17, verse 3 The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, but the Lord tests hearts. What's that mean? Purifies? How do we get purification there? Okay, so the refining pot and the furnace for for separating the the bad stuff out of the pure elements, right? The gold or the silver. Uh and that's likened to what the God does with our hearts, to separate out what is the good from the bad And g what does he do with the bad that's in our heart? He casts it out. Well one of the ways he does that is to convict us of it, to bring it to our attention, so that we will what? Repent, forsake it. Right. Yeah, so the the the boiling and the burning is not fun while you go through it, but look what comes out of it. And unfortunately, most of us when we're in that situation, we're praying for relief rather than for obedience. And joy. Yeah. And not just our society, but our inner nature Even our our own so sinful nature is prone to prefer pleasure, ease, simplicity, and all those things What's interesting is that those who are motivated by that selfish ambition and the desire for ease and whatever Their ultimate motivation is what's in it for me, right? The irony of that and the the maybe the shame of it is What's God's interest in doing that? He wants the best for us. We think we want the best for us, and our definition is ease and pleasure and lack of pain and whatever it might take God knows what's best for us and that pure gold, that pure silver that comes out Is something that's far better than what we would define as good, and yet we complain about the process? You know? We s we're we're i we're intuition uh we're bent toward what's in it for me and and and this temporal pleasures. We need to get off of the temporary and look at the eternal. Even the long term before eternity. What is the good that God's bringing out of this in my character, in my values, in my speech, in my conduct, right? And if I'm humble enough to say, Lord, uh you know what's best, uh I know this is a hard time. Um I need your help to go through it, but I'm convinced that you're making silver and gold out of me and that's what I want. That's hard. But that's wise. Right? I'm not sure if this is a discouragement What gold is it they find in one path through the process in seven times multiple times A mere seven, right? Everybody like pruning? But w it's needed, right? Yeah. And James of course says that because that's the outcome, we should what? Consider it all joy. Can you imagine that? So it all has to do with what's in our heart. If our heart is is um focused on us it's it's not going to be good, right? But if our heart is focused on God's truth, God's will, uh His Word, and it's it's um It's a growing commitment and conviction in our heart, then more often than not, we're going to have that response to the trials of considering all joy, not That it's a joyful experience at the moment, but we see the outcome. And we know that God is in charge of the process that leads to that outcome. For sure. Yeah. And that service often is in the form of helping someone else who's going through a similar thing, right? Where you can you can show very um Very definite empathy. Kind of come alongside them sure. Yeah, and as I think uh Henry alluded, uh sometimes God uses that to draw people to himself, just to bring them so low that they finally um By his grace, their eyes are open. I think to be honest, if if we're gonna be honest with ourselves and with those awesome It's uh it's a hard process. It's uh I'm okay today and I'm dying tomorrow. And I'm talking my home my own experience. I have like three diseases like heart disease, kidney disease and low back pain that killed me some da sometimes. And last year well, a year ago last week, my husband of twenty nine years left me. So I'm going through all these things And now I have to think, well I probably have to sell my house because, you know, physically and financially I can't keep a house So and and that's where the honesty comes, you know. Some day you wake up and you're like I can do this, you know? And that's the the be honest part No, I can do this. God got this and there's other days when you don't even want to get up because you're like, I do not cut this I'm doomed you know, and this is way too much. Why am I going to all this? You know, and let's be honest, we all do that. We all say, Why God? Why me, you know? Like we we think that oh wow if you look in this relationship in this marriage I was always the one doing the right thing. Why me? You know, and that's I think that's being honest, that's the truth, that's how we do it. Some days we do really well. Really, really I was like, you know what? God got this, I'm good, I'm just gonna get up and go to work. And then there's another day that she was just like I cannot do this. I cannot even get up. I don't know what you're thinking. I don't know what you're thinking, young when you thought I could handle this And then you like I can't and then some days you pray and you believe and other days you just like what's the point of praying? I'm still in this bad situation, there's nothing I can do and I think that's how you do it, you know, it's day by day and it's like recognize someday that you need God more than other days and other days you like God, thank you. You know, there are days that I get up and I say, Oh, the mortgage is paid. Thank you, God, thank you, thank you, thank you. And there are other days when I get up and like What in the world am I gonna do today? And I think that's how you do it, you know, and I and I depend on the grace of God every day It's like and then I go to bed and I like I did really bad today, didn't I? That's that's a good um a good Practice there, a good takeaway, right? Can I say something because she just prompted uh some you know, you guys heard my testimony l last week. But I can tell you not about the best thing you can do is s is ask for help and surround yourself with people that would with you. I know those moments of despair, of no one understands. There are people all all of us, all of you have stories to tell, all of you can tell me. I've been through something similar or whatever, but that's where you come along and then you lift me up. And it's not so bad when someone else can give you a hand when you think you can take one more step You can. Because the grace of God is there. And so you get stronger in going back to it's that cycle. You are going to be called one day to help that brother or sister because you were also helped. Mm-hmm. Yeah And also just because I mean you can be submitted to God's will. That doesn't mean that you want the trial that's coming. I mean, Christ prayed that the cup was passed Nobody wants to go through it. And I think that sometimes we get this feeling that if we admit that we don't want the trial, that somehow we're being able to There's a difference between wanting what's coming and being submitted to it and praying that we'll go through it well. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. Alright, so the second part of that verse, verse three, says, But the Lord tests the heart means he's doing something to us. We're uh reading God's Word, we're gaining wisdom that He gave us. There needs to be an opportunity for us to apply that wisdom to us. life. Again, more of a godly worldview of what's going on inside of it, specifically in our lives. So God is going to test us. He's not going to make us sin, but he's going to put us in a situation where we get to say, I'm going to apply God's word, or I'm going to fall into sin or do something in a worldly way. So he does create a situation where we have the Right. And his testing of the heart is going to make it transparent. It ought to make it transparent to us, that's his whole point. what our motive really was. And um if it's an ungodly motive, if it's a selfish motive, uh He'll make that clear to us in that conviction. And so he's he's testing the hearts, he's he's exposing something that's in the heart that is not right. And so it's like dross that needs to be separated. Um so yeah our our response needs to be not to fight him about that, not to uh negotiate, not to rationalize. But to say Lord you know you're right. That was my motive. You referred to James I and you consider it all through it, right? But if you look at the second part it says it's referring to um Testing us by making us more perfect. Right. Right. It may not have happened. Maybe two, three, maybe a dozen. Yeah, maybe a process. Yeah. And I also think what goes along with that testing in tearing down is building back up again, much like exercises There's when you increase your weight, you're tearing your muscles. It's to make them stronger. Make them stronger tissue I guess. But also um it tests your faith in that you you show that God you you're seeing that God is faithful in this trials, building your faith and strengthening your relationship with the Lord so that I may become a bolder Christian Yeah, we talk about wisdom and and things like that. We we come we know to help us how to help other people. So it's particularly helpful while that trial is happening, but certainly if after the trial we look back and say, I see what the Lord was doing, man, that's that was hard But um it's strengthening my resolve to be more cooperative what he's trying to do in the future, right? Amy. What's that a hand? Um it just reminds me a little bit of the speaker from the conference. I think here is that how a lot of the issue with trials for us is how we do them, I think like because it's an unmet expectation And and she was just going over that in her book. And so just hearing this is reminding me of it. I wish I could remember all four like truths she pulled from it for us to remind and when you were reminded every day through trials. But the first one was our m my trials are fewer than my sins. I mean, you think about how much we send The trial could be worse, right? It really could be a lot worse. And um this viewing that it's if if we're expecting how easy we are to have life versus Allowing God to work through it. And more often than not, which is what you were saying, instead of removing the trial, he changes us. Great, look for that. Right. For sure. Greg, was that another hand there? I I was just going to say I think the underlying thought and question is, you know, how could loving God allow suffering and trials? You know, that's what it always comes back to. And that's often a an a projection that people have, you know, how how could a a loving God allow this? And you know, the the answer is for his glory. And, you know, we we we see that uh in Job, you know, as he goes through the trial, you know, in the end, uh he he speaks And like Diane said, you know, it's Jesus, I mean we can't deny that that trials are difficult, you know, and hard to go through, and like Diane said Jesus praying for the the cup to pass, but yet it was for God's glory that he took the cup and and drank it. And you know, the Apostle Paul prayed for the thorn to be removed removed from his flesh and and and the Lord said, My grace is sufficient, you know, it's it's always for his glory that that he allows it. And we see that also in the Psalms. I mean they're filled with you know someone going through a difficult time. and they're praying and pouring their heart out to to the Lord and and in the end you see how even though their situation may not have changed, the perspective and understanding of it has changed. Right. And they they Amen. Yeah. And y you mentioned um you know uh or asked the typical question, uh how could a loving God allow this Well, it's because of his love that he does it, right? One of my favorite passages is Hebrews twelve, which reminds us that Um actually he uses the example of a father with his son. You know, what father wouldn't discipline his son uh because he loves him. He doesn't want him to to uh uh pursue a life of foolishness and and debauchery and whatever. But out of love he disciplines him and uh the message there is that God is like that. He loves us and he brings us into our lives because he knows what's best. And it's it's just part of uh his care. It's necessitated by our sin But it's his his intervention is motivated by his love. In pastor we have to make sure we're using the right definition of love. Are we using the biblical definition or the worldly definition? Well we know the biblical um like when we're when people say how can I love in God, I mean how are you defining love Well, that's maybe a good segue into the nature of God's love and it's very similar to people Scratching their head about the cross, we think of the cross as a as a symbol of God's love And people just look superficially at it as a means of execution. How in the world can that, you know and so it's just an opening to explain all of those things from God's perspective. Good point Too many s hands here. Yes, sir. So one of the challenges that we as believers, I think, face is so that And I think sometimes sometimes it's pretty clear. And so two very key things there is one is we need to be walking by faith. We don't have all the answers. We know the ultimate purposes of God, but we don't know the specific things necessarily. So we need to walk in faith, but also obedience. Yeah, there's another hand somewhere here. One, two. For me testing my heart comes when I look at other people when I go through and um this feel Yeah, I don't I get that, like won't uh you know um non believers just prosper and all this kind of thing But I even see within the church and you know, their lives like just any calm You know, yeah, I mean I cannot help be more envious of those people's lives. And that's my test and that God reveals my heart that one thing in my heart. Hmm, you know, why do you serve me? Why do you you know, is it because you want to get out of your s trial or is it because you want to be you know Sanctify. And and for me that was the biggest um test of art. Yeah, we have that inclination, don't we? compare ourselves with other people. But we don't know exactly what those other people are going through or have gone through. Right? Or are about to Or about the go through probably on on that note, you know, we're reading the Bible bells, trials that people through the learning and their trial. At the same time, one might be watched, you just said we may not know what they're going through, but they're watching us go through a trial. They're watching us. They're seeing how God works his grace, his power in our lives. And this person who's going through the same trials watching. Wow, God is working in your life. We don't even know. So we're sitting here wondering, why is God having me go through this? He's giving me the power to deal with grace, right? And we may never know that someone else has been blessed and benefited by that. Sarah. Yeah, and sometimes it's like in Joseph's situation, where God makes it clear uh what was going on, what his purposes were and how this is all for good, sometimes we're never gonna know. And we need to be okay with that. Seemed like forever, didn't it? Yep. Well you have to patience. Patience. Of course the Holy Spirit um specializes in that, right? Building that in us? Greg. I was just gonna um say, you know, just listen to how first Peter just parallels the says in this you greatly rejoice though for a little while if need be you have been grieved by various trials that the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. They be found to the praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Compared to eternity but compared to our lifetime. I was thinking of comparing like how hard it is for us to physically not give you know, like I have four kids so like I hated spanking my kids when you don't it it hurt me more than hurt them. Because I love them and I didn't want to do it but I did because I they need it's good for them. So I I think like I wonder if God feels the same way, you know, like I wish I could just take my child out of bed but he knows that we need that, you know, the same way he needs we need that to to build the characters to become more like Jesus and he leaves her day in that situation. situation but it's also hard on camp because I think like she wants to give us you know the relay the delay respect but in terms we need Yeah. Hebrews twelve. Anyway, we need to get sort of back to uh great great observations and applications, very helpful, but There is proverbs, right? So goal oriented here, you know. I don't think so. And then my stuff was a tough one. Yeah. So it is? It is helpful to think through how we should be responding in advance, right? And also evaluating after the fact, did I handle that the way I should. Um and that's part of the growing process. Yeah. Well, turn to page 143. I'm going to switch now to another category of the heart here, and that has to do with discretion and prudence. Um and so right right at the beginning in the book of Proverbs, chapter one where it talks about the various uh topics and applications that he's going to be including here to know wisdom and instruction, to discern the sayings of understanding, to receive instruction in wise behavior, righteousness, justice and equity. To give prudence to the naive and to the youth knowledge and discretion So what is prudence? Well basically prudence is thinking through the consequences Beforehand? Thinking through the consequences beforehand and acting wisely. Yes. Yeah. That's being prudent. So planning, um Evaluating, considering all the factors involved, that that includ that's part of being prudent. But particularly here in Proverbs it has the connotation of d I mean people can do that even if they're unsafe and even if they're they're They're devious. They could be thinking through, planning, and and ch considering all the options and outcomes. But uh in Proverbs it's it's applied particularly to wisdom, right? To the way of wisdom, to understanding um what is right and what's really going on and applying it uh to our lives. And discretion is somewhat similar. What's discretion? saying and doing the right thing. Think of that. If I do this or if I say this, I think it's disgusting over This question. I'll say to do the right thing, do the wrong thing with any It it's sort of sort of an application of wisdom. Uh if Um there are actually I think maybe two major uses of discretion in Proverbs. Uh one of them is I think where you're headed and that's Um if if you're using godly discretion, your uh thinking ahead and not saying blurting something out that's inappropriate But you are speaking at the right moment, the right kind of words, in a way that would be helpful. That's using discretion in terms of choosing the right time, not just the right words. But there's there's another aspect of discretion and it's here on the same page, down to chapter eleven, verse twenty-two. Do we have prudence definition in the notice triple? Well that's the word that's translated prudence can be used in a variety of ways. Yeah So it's it's um thinking ahead is the point. And it can be for good or for bad. Yeah. So look at eleven twenty two. As a ring of gold in a swine's stout, can you imagine that? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's a bad thing. It's out of place, okay. So is a beautiful woman who lacks discretion. Is that a w wha what's out of place there? Her actions don't agree with her out of the Okay, so her her actions are not as beautiful as she is on the outside. Okay. That's to me that's not beautiful as discretion. No, it isn't. That's right. Right. Um here I think a key is I think the other way that discretion is used in Proverbs. Um discretion comes from what word? Discreet, right? So And of course that has many meanings as well, but when someone is discreet, what are they doing? What's right for the moment? What's right for the moment? I think of discretion as interview the alpha saying is that it's that the woman she has a conundrum because the outer of her is beautiful but the inner conundrum No, Boseful is getting at it too. Yeah, all this is good. Or it's like um it's like um withholding something that you could do because you w you want to see more You w you you want to think more about what you would do. Okay. Well uh um think about this. Often we use the word discretion uh in the context of Someone confiding in us. And they say, please use discretion here. Don't just tell this to anybody, right? And so that would be being discreet to to hold uh to to guard a confidence that someone else has placed in you, right? Using discretion in that way. Someone who is not being discreet in that context is revealing something they shouldn't be revealing. Like a beautiful woman who reveals things she ought not to be revealing. It has it has a an an outward picture of what would be wrong, right, spiritually, revealing something that ought not to be revealed. It does. It does. I think all the things that we've talked about are true, but I think part of the word picture here has to do with that. Okay. 1415 kind of confirms some things that you all have been saying. The naive believes everything, but the prudent man considers his steps. Right? So you think it through uh biblically and um that's all a good thing. Okay. Let's go to page 145 Um pride. Any of us have a problem with pride? Never heard of it, right? Um at the bottom of the page there, there are six things the Lord hates, yes, seven which are an abomination to him, and among those are haughty eyes. That that pride that that dominates our our uh our thinking, our actions. Uh three seven, do not be wise in your own eyes. That's hard. 'Cause all of us inherently think of ourselves as the greatest thing since license. Typically. God specifically says, do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. Next page, chapter eleven, verse two. When pride comes, then comes dishonor, but with the humble is wisdom. Um in the same way that we w We don't enjoy trials when they come. Um we tend not to appreciate when the Lord convicts us of our pride and our lack of humility. Um and sometimes those trials are very connected to our pride. 1618, that's the middle of page 146. Pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before stumbling. It's better to be of a humble spirit with the lowly than to divide the spoil with the proud Um we're gonna have to end here, but uh on page one hundred forty-eight we also have a category here of joyfulness. Again, it's some of this inner inner character that we can exhibit even in the midst of these other things. Look at 1513. A joyful heart makes a cheerful face, but when the heart is sad, the spirit is broken. And the next one, fifteen fifteen. All the days of the afflicted are bad, but a cheerful heart has a continual feast. And 1722. A joyful heart is good medicine, but a broken spirit dries up the bones. And the bones here referring to again the the the inner part of us is not just the physical bones, but it it just dries up our our inner being. But a joyful heart is good medicine It's um therapeutic. I think really quick to go back but don't we have to build up our self-esteem? That's just so corrosive, isn't it? Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. The pride of life as well. Well, too bad we don't have two or three hours to delve into all of these, but this has been helpful. Let's close in prayer.