Well, today we're on lesson eight in our study of Proverbs. Is there anybody who needs a copy of the notes? Are we all covered? Need one? Uh Jeff can help you out. Anybody else need a copy of the notes? Need two of them just Kathy needs one. So we're on lesson 8, page 76, beginning a two-part lesson on finances and government. We're not going to get to the government part so much today. But um uh a lot of people um have questions and concerns about finances. I mean talk about something that's daily, right? And and very very much a part of our uh experience. And Proverbs has a whole lot to say about our approach to uh financial decision making and and that sort of thing. And hopefully this will be helpful. Now scripture has Of course, even more things outside of Proverbs, but we're going to be looking at the Proverbs portion of it. And hopefully it'll be a blessing. So I'm on page 76 First section is on wealth, riches, and prosperity And so that first passage there in chapter three, verse nine, honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first of all your produce. So your barns will be filled with plenty and your vats will overflow with new wine. So Um that's uh that's an example of a number of passages we're going to be looking at here that That show us that God is concerned about the way we handle the resources He's given to us. And there are a lot of right things we should be doing. There are a lot of wrong things we should avoid. And we're going to see those here. But At the bottom of it is the why. Why are we doing what we're doing? Why are we choosing what we're choosing? And he says here Much of the foundation there is the recognition that we are stewards and our point is to honor him with it. It's not about us Um our our the resources we have, the the good things we enjoy. Um it's it's not about us. It's about God. And so our first priority is to honor the Lord. Uh he says actually both from your wealth and from your income. both from your wealth and the first of all your produce. And it should be a top priority because God has created us to be his Servants, slaves, and what is the role of a slave So obey his master. To uh actually not just to obey the master, but to advance the interests of his master Right? It's not about the slave, it's about the master. And that's the role we're in. And If we honor our master from both our income that's produced through faithful work, and we're going to talk about work, um and investments and and so on, and whatever we might have accumulated in the process, if all that which Belongs to who anyway? Belongs to God, right? Um and he's given us the opportunity to use these things um to advance his interests Now, one of his interests is to care for us, and so that comes back to us and it helps us to earn a living, provide for our family, and and provide for our needs, and so on. But that's only a part of the picture. I mean he has other interests in mind for um the resources that he's given us. He's given us and we've seen this in our country um uh big time, given us more than we really need. Right? And clearly he wants us to meet our needs from the work that we do and the wise choices that we make and so on. But he also wants us to use those resources to advance his other interests. And so the very beginning of it all is to honor the Lord with those resources. And you know it's pretty easy to approach um Well, giving back to the Lord. Right? You think, well, the Lord's got this big bucket. of resources and I've got this little fiddly little cup with a very little in it. And I'm not sure I can get by with this little bit And he's got all those resources, so uh he's a big guy, he can take care of himself. Um I'm gonna need most of this, I'm gonna need pretty much all of this, maybe even more than this And where's my focus? On myself. Right? The reality is I don't have a little bit here that's independent of his big cauldron My little bit is a part of his big cauldron. Right? There's no distinction. It's all his. He created us. And uh the reason to honor him with what he's he's given to us is because He's master. We're slaves. Uh it's his interest. He's put us here for a purpose Right, you see right in Genesis 1 that he's commissioned us in various ways right after right the the first day of, well, day six of creation, but the first day of Adam and Eve. Gave them marching orders. They're accountable to him, his servants to uh uh accomplish various things, and he didn't change that with sin. It got harder with sin, but those instructions are still there. So honor the Lord from your wealth. We're going to see in many of these passages where people honor themselves and it brings downfall. Now, the other interesting thing here is verse 10. So your barns will be filled with plenty and your vats will overflow with new wine. Is that why we should honor the Lord from our wealth and our income? That shouldn't be our motive. Our motive shouldn't be sort of secular, where I'm honoring the Lord because I want him to bless me. Where's the focus? It's on me, right? So is it true that God In general, the general truism is that when we are genuinely seeking his interest, advancing his interests, and serving him, that he takes care of us. He gave them even more. Right. But the ones that didn't, he took away what they exactly. But the the the key thing here is motive If our motive is I'm going to meet the letter of the law so that he will bless me, don't expect that blessing. Right? But if my heart is really trying to advance his interests and obey him in the process, of course But my heart is not just meeting the letter of the law, but how can I serve him better? How can he get the glory? Think of Abraham. um who followed God uh in uh to an extent that I don't think any of us probably would where he had very little information. Um God said, I'm gonna pick you up and I'm gonna take you to another place that you've never known. And Abraham said Okay, I'm your servant. And um he did that. He followed God. And the way I put it is God blessed the socks off of him. Right. We have to always remind ourselves to get our perspective correct. Right. Because he's worthy. He's worthy. And we Right. Like we're worthy of it. Yeah, the the and that's that point brings out the the Uh the good news, you know, when we think of masters and slaves, our experience, our our um uh mental image is of a very bad relationship and a very bad thing. But in this case, the master is always right. He's always good. He's always um loving, but he's also um just. He always does the right thing. Right? And if I'm gonna serve anybody who has absolute authority over me That's who I want to serve. Right? Um I shouldn't have a mental image of a um an an ogre, essentially, who has jurisdiction over my over my life. Um well uh before we go too far I'll get you, Greg. Before we get too far, I want to raise something that's kind of come up a few times in our earlier discussions, and this is the lesson to talk about it. We have today Um a lot of people, a lot of churches, people who claim to be Christians who have a theology that says name it and claim it, right? Or uh uh uh prosperity preaching and and um uh that kind of thing. And what is the focus there? The focus is you deserve a better life You deserve God's blessings. It's all about us. Um And my my counsel to you is don't let a a false teaching like that Um cause you to completely reject what the Bible actually says. Okay? Um let me give you an example to belabor the point. There are a lot of people out there, a lot of churches out there, that Practice uh uh think that practicing spiritual gifts is all about speaking in tongues and these ecstatic uh experiences and this kind of thing. And we can tell from scripture that that's not biblical. They're taking a lot of things out of context and not seeing the actual teaching of Scripture. A wrong response to that would be to downplay the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives and in the life of the Church. That would be unbiblical to do that. But it may be a reaction to a a a wrong reaction to those who twist the scriptures in a way that that um Actually demeans the work of the Holy Spirit. And so don't be colored by those who who twist the scriptures For whatever reason, let's let the scriptures guide our thinking and see what the scriptures have to say. Okay? And I think we need to do that here. Um and the key here is what I was belaboring before, where is our heart? Is our heart Focused on us or on our master. That's key across the board. So Greg. Yeah, I just was gonna comment on uh the verse nine there. I think one of the key words is the word first. It's it's not that that has to be a priority, you know, it's not that I have to do it, that he commands it, it's that I want to do it. He he is the first in my life. He's he's the priority in my life and I want to honor him with how he's blessed. Yeah. And there there's something else about first, and that is a key word. Um honor him from the first of all your produce. What are you doing when you give them the first? Possibly the best, but what else? Prior priority. So what you're going to live on comes after that. That takes faith. Right? So if I'm going to give God the very first I'm going to trust him that he'll provide from whatever else comes to meet my needs. I don't say, okay, I'm going to meet my needs and then kind of exaggerate what those needs are and give him what's left over I give him the first, and that's a step of faith. A faith that he's going to continue protecting me, providing for me, and um I'm good with that. Because I know he's good. Okay, what is the cost of all your produce as an income earner? What does that mean to you? Your income. It was supposed as a long whole time year. Yeah, when you think about your budget You know you have certain income coming in. For most of us we have a pretty good idea what that's going to be as employees. Uh but even if you're self-employed you have a uh projections of what might be coming in. So the first of your produce would be the first of your your income. This is an income thing, as opposed to your wealth, which is your savings and other assets. So the first of your produce would be when you set out a budget, I've got a certain amount that I'm um I'm expecting will come in. And when I think through how I'm going to use that, the first thing I'm committing to is giving back to the Lord. And then I'm going to be able to live on whatever's left. Rather than the other way around. I budget and oh I I can't meet all my needs even with my budget. And the Lord just gets nothing. No, we start with giving back to the Lord and let everything else fall in place. paychecks. Like they'll take the the top amount off the net even before taxes are taken out. I've also known someone who projected what he was gonna make in a year and the first year of the month he he tides off what he thought the whole year would be and he'd only give one time. So um but I think a lot of people tend to do it with each income that comes in each paycheck that comes in instead of assuming or presuming the funds what it's going to be all year. But again the key is um priority, like R Greg was saying. And um That's a step of faith. That uh yeah, right. Alright, so I'm I'm reading the two verses. Honor the Lord with your possession And then the verse 10, so your barns will be filled with plenty. So for a person who has a heart to honor the Lord with his possessions. of her possessions to to see that verse and get also my barns will be filled with plenty. Oh I get to honor the Lord with more. Right? And it says somewhere that that God will give more to one who manages to live, right? So it's like more opportunities to bring additional honor to the one you're originally serving. Right. So I'm seeing that, but it's all about understanding it and having the right perspective. Right. Exactly. And Ecclesiastes talks about, you know, enjoying the the fruits of the toilet. Yeah. So you're working hard to get to enjoy what God has given you, but why are you enjoying it? I'm enjoying it maybe letting other people use what God has blessed you with, maybe Yeah, we're we're gonna see some more examples of that here. kind of teaching redefining what faith is for me. And there's a real quote that's kind of helped me kind of frame it all and I'd like to share with you all. It's by A. W. Tozer. He says real faith knows only one way and gladly allows itself to be strip of any second wave or makes the makeshift substitutes for true faith that is either God or total collapse. And not since Adam first stood upon the earth as God became a single man. Yeah, the object of our faith, God Himself, is certainly worthy of that. And um now the the you need to remember when we first started Back in, I think it was lesson one, what is a proverb? Proverb is a general truism. It's not a promise. But it's the general principle of it is is what God is telling us is how things work. So You know, it says, um, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it. That's not a promise. It's a general truism. And it gives responsibility to us to be faithful in that process and and so on. Likewise here, honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first of your produce, so your barns will be filled with plenty Well, I don't have any barns filled with plenty. I have a bank account that's pretty filled with plenty. Um, but that's not my focus. Um and It's possible that God in his wisdom would call out some people to serve him faithfully as in Verse nine, and go even far and above in their honoring God from their resources. And from our perspective, it looks like they don't have barns filled with plenty. They're just going from day to day. Um, it may be that that's because God is putting them on display of what real faith is. And uh they're a lesson to us and they're perfectly content relying on the Lord's riches day to day. that he's setting them on display so that he could be urging us to help them. You know, generous with what he uh up on his thing. And I also wanted to out there. You can be faithful at doing first nine and you may not see the results till Several years ago. That's right. It doesn't mean that I don't know. My husband and I we just were trying to be safe on it with the type of job that we have server orientated. This is a job labor oriented. So we didn't always have a lot of money, but we tried to be faithful to always honorable. And we didn't have we weren't necessarily blessed right away with any abundance, okay? It was plain. It was pretty tight. with the children. Most of the years. But um it seems like now now in our older age that it's just it's amazing Um it still is true what I'm saying. The next word came true. It doesn't necessarily come true in a year or two years or three years. Right. Sometimes it seems as tiny to do that kind of thing. For sure. Another hand. I think of three weeks It is a curious many deal with the public. You have more of a heart in the right to walk again. And you know, I read it if my day are gonna be yours. I read it. Yeah. And now it's a little object of the life is good point. Um Sarah's saying that Uh and we're going to see this, I think, as we go through Proverbs even today, that if our heart is right, uh quite apart from the immediate outcome of that, our hearts are going to be content because we know we're we're aligned with God's purposes for us. And that contentment is worth far more than any of these resources in and of themselves. Right? So let's take a look at some of these uh passages. Now uh I've got these listed in order and I I Yeah, they're in a section that's wealth, riches, and prosperity, but there are lots of subsections here we could have had, and maybe someday I will Uh so we're gonna be bouncing back and forth between some good things and some bad things. I mean good attitudes, bad attitudes. And um but That's only because Proverbs has so much to say. So, let's go to uh down the page a little bit to chapter 10, verse 4. Poor is he who works with a negligent hand, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. He who gathers in summer is a son who acts wisely. In other words, he's preparing for the winter, right? But he who sleeps in harvest is a son who acts shamefully. So a couple of things here that you're going to see repeated are that um work is important. Diligence in our work is important. It's God's design. And the general principle is that when we are diligent, when we are faithful to do what we should be doing when we should be doing it, like the harvest, that um we reap blessings. But also God is honored and we can advance God's interest. Um but he who Um sleeps when he should be working is one who acts shamefully. Let's go down to chapter 11, verse 24. There is one who scatters, yet increases all the more. And there is one who withholds what is justly due, but it results only in one. The generous man will be prosperous, and he who waters will himself be watered. He who withholds grain, the people will curse him But blessings will be on the head of him who sells it. So there are various scenarios here, but the general principle is that Um we need to make we need to be good stewards of the resources we have And use them even to serve others. Not just honor the Lord from our wealth, but serve others even from um what we've been able to produce, what he's given us, and so on. So being generous with others, um That verse 24 is somewhat ironic, right? There is one who scatters, and in the context here we see the scattering is helping out people everywhere. Lots of people Uh he scatters, he gives to all the these people, but he increases it all the more because he's faithful, he's doing it for the right reasons. But the opposite is there is one who withholds what is justly due, stingy, miserly, but it results only in want. Right? It The the the the logic of the world is the second one. Be it's all about me, I'm gonna be stingy, I'm gonna be um miserly, and uh let them fend for themselves. That attitude is going to put you in a position of need and um the Lord's not going to bless that But those who are generous and and help others, uh particularly Um for God's glory. That's sort of the context. God blesses that, one way or another. It might not be a material blessing, but it's certainly going to be a wide range of blessings. Let's go to eleven twenty-eight, top of the next page. He who trusts in his riches will fall. But the righteous will flourish like the green leaf. Do you think there are many people in the world today who trust in their riches? You bet. And that that um why do they trust in the riches? What's that? That's what they worship. That's basically their God, right. Um and they think there's comfort and security. in that. But that's misleading. That's dangerous. Uh those things are going to fritter away and uh they haven't really prepared for uh reality. I think about the stock market when it falls, they fall and and a lot of people in the was it nineteen twenty Nine great crash win so that's all they have to look for. Right. Right. And I won't say many of us trust tonight in the trouble. Now like we are smart, we are good and our work, we don't need to pay no God to take us through. We depend on our communication, on our surplus, and that is another way. Sometimes we are questioned to fully trust God We just throw them. We are good, we are smart, everybody can see our world and you just care about yourself. So in that sort of a place of trying to like God help you Yeah and and a a uh symptom of that is that um people will turn to God when all else fails. Right? Rather than submit to Him, serve Him from the outset. And seek his wisdom and be obedient to him. Yeah. I just wanted to say that I want to echo what she said, but I also want to point out that is very few for us to think that we don't have the which is well that I can't understand. But I think we're probably mistaken because if And we did it, then a lot of the work of God that goes on was not sufficiently death. I think you're right. Yeah. Yeah, it it's um we can we can say in our head and even believe sincerely that we're serving God. But not be um honest enough or observant enough with what's really going on in our heart And we could be like Io says, trusting in ourself when it really comes down to it. Um And so that's not just unbelievers, that can be any of us. And if we're not fully um surrendered to Christ. and um obedient to him and desiring to advance his interests, which I would venture to say none of us has really gotten there yet, fully But to the extent that we haven't, we're going to encounter challenges and and so on. And the ministries, like you're saying, the the work of Christ um uh from a human perspective anyway, will be hindered, even though God is sovereign over all that. Um now there are implications for sure. I think Personally, that's one thing I think that's it. You can trust in your wealth and your smartness how brilliant you are making money and then you get sick and you can't go to work. And you can't make the money. And and do you see what I'm saying? In I think the Lord was trying to tell people that didn't understand that essentially, but not sure how many spend on that. But I'm just saying you have to have health to be brilliant to work to make the money. So it still boils down to God, doesn't it? 'Cause you will So sometimes God is gracious enough to give us some illustrations of those principles. If only we had eyes to see. Okay. Um let's go down to thirteen verse eleven. Wealth obtained by fraud dwindles. But the one who gathers by labor increases it. So there's there's an example of where's your heart? Is it about uh scheming and cheating to get ahead and to get resources and so on, or is it I'm going to be diligent to do my um best to to work hard and with the right um attitudes. And it's it's all about what's in the heart. Right? Uh the next one here, 1321. Adversity pursues sinners. But the righteous will be rewarded with prosperity. So righteous again means doing the right thing. Those who are doing the right thing, and I would add, for the right reasons, uh will be rewarded with prosperity. Now that prosperity doesn't mean um endless material wealth and and so on, but um Uh there'll be the general principle is that God God is faithful to and rewards those who um Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. Okay. Uh fifteen six. Oh, I'm sorry. Sarah? We all have had an adversity. Even Christians have had an adversity So it you know this is kind of uh a tough word Okay, so it says adversity pursues sinners, but is there anybody here who hasn't experienced adversity? Right? Um There's a difference between adversity pursuing us because of our selfishness and adversity that God allows in order to help us grow, right? And we see lots of scripture where God allows things into our lives to sometimes chasten us, sometimes challenges to help us get clearer thinking or to test you know where our heart is really at. Um so all adversity is not created equal. What this is saying is that adversity actually pursues it always follows the sinner. It's not the occasional adversity that we have to overcome. But it actually pursues them. Yeah. Okay. Um since no one can believe him and not be a sinner. I mean it's it's a lot hard to see why Well, by the same token, how many of us can say that we're truly righteous? The point there is This contrast between those who are intent on sin and those who are intent on pleasing God. Okay, 15. 6. Much wealth is in the house of the righteous, but trouble is in the income of the wicked. So again, this gets back if your if your methods of of uh getting income, getting resources, getting wealth is wicked That's going to carry a lot of trouble with it. It'll catch up with you. But much wealth is in the house of the righteous. Those who are seeking to do the right thing for the right reason will be cared for and have no regrets and no one's coming by to to hold you accountable for your having gained that improperly. Right? So it's secure. 1516 Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and turmoil with it. That's similar to what uh Sarah was mentioning earlier. And likewise, 1517, the next verse. Better is a dish of vegetables, all those green vegetables. Um where love is, then a fattened ox and hatred with it. It's kind of a Interesting graphical way to show the the contrast there. Yeah. Yeah. And then um the next several ones here. Uh 168. Better is a little with righteousness than great income with injustice. Right? So the point here is not how much you have, but uh your state of well-being, really, with God. And 1616. How much better it is to get wisdom than gold, and to get understanding is to be chosen above silver. So above all these material things, the far more valuable thing, consistently in Proverbs, is God's wisdom and understanding. Pastor, I'm intrigued by your question in the notes which is better beside verse thirteen seven There's one who pretends to be rich but has nothing. Another pretends to be poor but has great wealth. Which would you prefer to be? And neither. Neither. Okay. That's a good answer. I I think of the second half of that verse a little differently There's someone who pretends to be poor and doesn't and mean it maliciously. It might I mean I know people who want to be rich and show that they're rich And others who have wealth but they're humble about it. They would rather live simply Yeah and And I think that's the key. You know, w what's what's the characteristic of Someone who pretends to be rich but has nothing. It's pride. They're the ones who are who are going and getting in debt Yeah. Probably because because of their pride and they they they want it even though they don't have it. But another pretends to be poor but has great wealth, the the point there is humility. Right? And so which is better, pride or humility? Yeah. It's a no brainer. Um the body and inheritance for students' children. So all this while um I think I have to leave the line that um for me to see myself as a student I have to work very hard so that I can leave inheritance. in my children's story. That's where I've been tapped all my life. And can correct me if I'm wrong, but what I'm seeing now is that as a good person, whatever wealth I get would reach my children. raise children. However, the um the work of the singer is sort of for the you know for the writers. So I don't have to think that all I have to work hard, get the title, get those things so that I can read it to my children too. It is just that when I call the God's heart and I quit him, whatever I acquire will get my children and my children's children. So it'll be a generational wealth rather than our wealth is failed or for supporting to the right to Yeah and and that's um What, supplemented by this other set of verses that we've already begun looking at, that a a a righteous person is going to be interested not just in himself and his children's children, but other people. Right? And so he's scattering widely, he he's generous to others, and um he who waters will himself be watered, it says. Um and so if if our heart is right and our our motives are right and we're we're serving the Lord, he's going to take care of us and there's going to be enough left over to bless subsequent generations. That's not our motive, but it is a biblical result, generally. I guess that's the way to put it. for economic righteous men's children. Uh yes these children uh righteous men's children taking bread. Correct. Right. Yes. I think we're gonna see that. I forget exactly where it is, but I think we're gonna get there. Hopefully, hopefully we'll get to it today. I guess the other one here, 17. 1, better is a dry morsel and quietness with it than a house full of feasting and strife. Um all right. I think you've got um you all have until one o'clock, right? Yeah. I'm not sure who's preaching today, Dave. Um Well, I would encourage you to, with that kind of intro, read the rest of these verses. They're in the order they appear in Proverbs. But I wanted to continue to some other topics here. On page the eighty we start the topic of work. Um We already looked at chapter 10, 4, and 5. Look at the top of page 81, chapter 14, verse 23. In all labor there is profit. But mere talk leads only to poverty. So y you can talk a good game, but if you don't don't actually uh Work? That's not good. 1626 is very helpful. A worker's appetite works for him, for his hunger urges him on. Do you see what's going on there? If if you've been lazy or for whatever reason you're you're you you have need, there's no um nothing to put on the table, you get hungry Um uh that appetite, that rumbling of the tumbly, as uh who is it, Fu Bear would say. Um that That's a God-given signal that, hey, you gotta wake up here, guy, and you gotta work and you gotta provide for your needs. It's not gonna be like manna from heaven, right? Um so that appetite works for him. It doesn't mean it works instead of him. It means it prompts him to work. Right? Look at 2125. The desire of a sluggard puts him to death, for his hands refuse to work. All day long he is craving while the righteous gives and does not hold back. You see the contrast? One is lazy and is craving because he hasn't done his part to work. The other works hard and is actually has a surplus to give to lots of others. 2229. Do you see a man skilled in his work? He will stand before kings. He will not stand before obscure men. What's going on there? How is it that a man skilled in his work will stand before kings? He's recognized for doing a good job. He's recognized for doing a good job? And so if if you're if you're the king, or if you're anybody And you want something done well, who are you gonna call on? Someone with a reputation to do things well. Um And often um if someone does it really well, it doesn't matter how much they charge. You want it done well. No, within reason. But a king, money's no object. He's going to want it done the best possible. And so this is just exalting God's principle that that we do our best in our work And leave the results with him. Um 2819. He who tills his land will have plenty of food. But he who follows empty pursuits will have poverty in plenty. So work And of a related topic, you flip to page 82, diligence and priorities, 10 four. Poor is he who works with a negligent hand But the hand of the diligent makes rich. He who gathers in summer oh we saw that part already. So um it's possible that someone could be working, but working with a negligent hand. His heart's not in it. he's he's negligent, lazy, whatever, um, that's that's not going to result in some good things. It could result in him being fired, and then he's really gonna be poor. Um It's just the opposite of this man who is skilled in his work and is recognized for his quality. The rest of these are very similar. Uh twelve twenty-seven. A slothful man. What slothful? Lazy. Slothful man does not roast his prey. Why? He doesn't have any. But the precious possession of a man is diligence. Diligence. Um 21. 5. The plans of the diligent lead surely to advantage, but everyone who is hasty comes surely to poverty. Now, this These set of verses here, on the one hand, it talks of negligent and slothful people. um not progressing and actually becoming poor. Here is someone who is hasty comes surely to poverty. What is it about hastiness that's the problem? Maybe didn't plan well, so maybe ran out of time or resources. But when you're too fast, you don't do a good job. Yeah, typically it's it's sloppy if you're in a hurry Now I learned this lesson from my two sons who We'll sort of remain nameless. Because you won't know who's which one. One, it was hard to get him started and hard to keep him on track and complete. And he would be tending toward not so much laziness as Daydreaming? The other would be very hasty, not so much necessarily sloppy, but maybe incomplete and not thorough and not skilled in his work kind of stuff. So that he could get on to doing what he really wants to do. Right? Both of them were being lazy. But in different ways, completely opposite ways. I wish I could tell you that by the time they turned ten they had been cured of all that. Both of them actually have actually um they still have some tendencies, but they've made it they've come up very long way. So Look at 2427. Prepare your work outside and make it ready for yourself in the field. Afterwards, then build your house. What's at issue here? What you do first? Priorities. Right? Think through the priorities. So what's more important? Planting a field when you've got this small window of time in which to do it because of the way the weather is working and the calendar? Or building your house so I can be comfortable now in the moment. And then miss the opportunity to get a good crop in. Right? So oh you got it. Okay So it's talking about priorities just generally. And so we do need to think through what is most important. Okay, we talked a little bit already about giving. There's a section starting on page 83. We already did chapter eleven there, but if you flip to page eighty-four, look at verse uh chapter fourteen, verse thirty-one He who oppresses the poor reproaches his maker. But he who is gracious to the needy honors him, honors his maker. So um being gracious is not just being polite, it means also um helping Serving, giving, and so on. 1917, he who is gracious to the a poor man lends to the Lord, and he will repay him for his good deed. What is it w what normally happens when you lend m let's say money to someone or lend anything to someone? It's going to come back to you. Right? That's the whole point. Otherwise it's a gift. But when you lend, you expect that to be returned sometimes with interest. Right? So he who's gracious to a poor man, he's giving it to the poor man, but in fact, he's going to get blessing back from the Lord. Even though that poor man's not gonna ever have perhaps have the capacity to repay. And that's not the intent. I don't need you to repay. But God blesses us when we serve other people For sure. Twenty one thirteen He who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor will also cry himself and not be answered. God's justice. Yeah. Twenty two nine. He who is generous will be blessed, for he gives some of his food to the poor. This sort of highlights a general principle I think you can you can take away from this, and that is that We're going to talk more next week about poverty specifically. But the general principle is God is as concerned about the giver as he is the recipient. Okay? So the issue isn't this guy doesn't have enough money. Would you please give him some? Because the focus is on him only. God is as concerned about the giver as he is the recipient, so that I would be giving with the right heart, the right motive, the right attitudes and and and so on. And what comes out of that is is going to be some kind of blessing. That's just God's economy. Um if um call is a weight. I noticed that the project is going to be friends teeth. Um how you being judged that the person seems to be going all around. I'm not going to oil night. Well the person will be going all around, I'm just putting that media. I think we have way the balance because sometimes I'm like, am I really joking? Yeah. Or can I go to it? Yeah. Yeah the question is is there's should I just give indiscriminately to to everybody who uh apparently has a need and whatnot Even though some of them will abuse that. Stay tuned to next week. Yeah, we're going to talk about that at length. Okay? All right. I think that's public um thinking about the blessings. The word giving, loaning, said loaning. So whenever we're loaning or giving, and there's a chance that maybe that blessing is coming back to us. Isn't The money coming back isn't the interest coming back. For sure. It's the blessing of the joy that we get of simply giving. Right. Never expect And and what he's saying here is that the blessing we receive from the Lord is more than the blessing that the person who received it actually experienced. It comes back to us with interest. Yeah. Isn't that also a way of storing up things in heaven because we're told to do that. Right. Particularly if um we're giving with the intent to have eternal impact. And so We're going to talk more about that next week. So we're going to get there. Let's go to saving and inheritance. We talked a little bit about that. But uh on page 85, look at chapter 6 at the beginning. Go to the ant, O sluggard, observe her ways and be wise, which, having no chief, officer, or ruler prepares her food in summer and gathers her provision in the harvest. What should we be learning from the ant who does that? Be prepared by um um saving up when the harvest comes essentially or when when the saving is possible because you know The winter is coming and and so you need to to save up now for a later need. That's the point. And why are the ants so wise at that? God gives them that instinct. God gave them the instinct to be an example to us to follow their example. Okay. Look at 2120. There is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise, but a foolish man swallows it up. So the contrast here is between saving and consumption. And more importantly, saving with the future in mind and consumption with nothing else in mind. Right. So let that be a warning to us. And you see a good example of that with uh the uh excellent wife in Proverbs 31 Let's go to stewardship. On page 87, we talked a little bit at the beginning about stewardship, including chapter 3. Uh chapter twenty-seven, know well the condition of your flocks and pay attention to your herds. Why? Because You've got an investment there that can can um erode in in value and and so on. Uh you need to manage those assets well Okay, let's look at investment. We're gonna do it here. Page eighty-eight. 14. 4. Where no oxen are, the manger is clean, but much increase comes by the strength of the ox. Okay, I don't know if any of you have oxys. Oxen. But uh what's the picture here? What what's a manger for? Yeah, it's not to put little babies in. It's it's a feeding trough, right? And so if the manger is clean, what's that an indication of? There are no animals there. You don't have an ox. And you don't have anything to put in there anyway because you don't have the help of the ox, probably. Right? But with Oxen, more than one is great, uh much incr much increase comes because you're um that ox may be dumb, but he's pretty strong. And God's given us resources like that to multiply our own capabilities, right? Um You know, these days we might think in terms of a tractor, but um uh assets like that can help us to be more productive. That's what we're doing. point. You still you if you have an ox, you're going to have to labor to clean the trough, to fill the trough, to clean up after the ox. But you're there's gonna be ready because of the the um multiplied um Production. You can increase the labor five. But it's worth it. But it's worth it. Yeah. So that's just that's an investment in in some assets that can help you um be more productive. That's a good thing. That's our bell. So on the uh on that note we better close in prayer.