Well, the last several weeks here, as we wind down our study of Proverbs, we've been looking at various categories of personal character that are addressed in Proverbs. You know, we talked about uh what we do, um uh how we think, what's in our hearts And today we're going to wrap up with what I'm calling how we exercise loving self-control. And maybe it would be helpful to have a little background there. You're all familiar with Galatians 5, 22 and 23, the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, and self-control. I kind of look at that that list there. First of all, it's it's not the fruits of the Spirit are. Right? Very clearly is the fruit singular of the spirit is. It's a package deal. Why? Because it's God's character. God is helping to build his character in the lives of the saints. And I've always viewed that list for what it's worth It starts with love and ends with self-control. And everything in between is an example of loving self-control. Patience, kindness, gentleness, right? And that's that's God's character. And and so when I've looked at the various um remaining character traits that are dealt with here in Proverbs, that came to mind. that it's it's a part of God's character that He's building in us. And there are both positive and negative here that are given to us in Proverbs to underscore what the truth really is So our first category today is this contrast between love and hate. And then also friendship is kind of interwoven here. So I'm on page 150. And let's take a look at that second set of verses there from chapter 9. He who corrects a scoffer gets dishonor for himself, and he who reproves a wicked man gets insult for himself. Then it says, Do not reprove a scoffer, lest he hate you Reprove a wise man and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man and he will be still wiser. Teach a righteous man and he will increase his learning. So we've we've already looked at at uh some of that, but I uh uh I think it's important here to see that that not only will uh correcting a wise person make him stronger, but it will cause him to love you because you've had that role in his life, right? It says, uh reprove him and he will love you because he's wise, he understands the value of what he's getting there. Right? And so that's That's sort of a natural result there. Look at the next one, 10, 12. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all transgressions. Love covers all transgressions. Does that mean that love overlooks all transgressions? Not really. What is it to cover transgressions? Yeah, and technically that's what the word atonement is meant to reflect, that covering. Um I think here uh it's it's more the the concept of um to some extent. Yeah, Julie. Yes, yes. So it's it's it's sort of a contrast to g gossip. You're you're nice You're showing some discretion, we've l looked at that already, right? Not to not to expose uh someone's uh sins unnecessarily Yeah, the it you're you're forgiving that person is between you. It's not you're not bringing it up to And yes, so you're not maybe you're not taking it personally and and hold having a vengeance or or this kind of thing. Well you're not blowing it out of pro out of proportion. That doesn't mean we ignore it. That's right. Right. But you know, on the on the one hand, Jesus said to uh conduct uh what we call church discipline, right? When we see sin we can address it privately in the right way. But on the other hand, he said, uh turn the other cheek. Right? Be forgiving And so we've got that that balance there to do things uh uh in the right way in the right proportion for the context. Yeah. Yeah. So that balance between um uh Overlooking someone else's faults, uh being gracious, being patient, being forgiving uh particularly in like a first offense. Yeah. Um but if it if it progresses into something that shows itself to be repeated and a habit, uh if it if it's something that will affect other people, you know, then we can step in. And there's a right way to do that. But just someone who just reflexively, reflexively, um has that knee-jerk reaction of lashing out out of selfish reasons, then that's not covering it it's it's um um retaliating. Yeah. Yes, so that from our perspective, we need to be sure that we're not reacting in a selfish way that whether they repent or not, we're still ha we're uh progress we're a approaching them from a forgiving Um our our forgiveness is uh not conditional on their repentance. We s we approach them in a forgiving way. Um But if if the situation is such that it needs to be addressed and they don't repent, then we have to go through the right steps for their benefit. It's not about us, is the point. Yeah. Also for the benefit of the whole body because it ultimately leads to reconciliation. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And if dealing with them in a spirit of love, not see not um not digits or anything or anything else like that. Exactly. Exactly. And so even when it needs to be addressed, it's addressed in love. Good Uh let's go down to 1421. He who despises his neighbor sins. So there's the opposite, right? But happy is he who is gracious to the poor. And the next one, 15, 17, better is a dish of vegetables where love is than a fattened ox and hatred with it. Now what's this contrast between veg veggies and fattened ox? Which you think most people prefer? Yeah. Obviously. Yeah. Yeah, it's that's uh I guess things have never changed, right? And so the veggies would be a little bit more um Common and and less expensive and less uh special. Right. Um But it's that's better where love is than a fat and ox and hatred with it. Yeah. Or another way to think of it think of it is back then people ate vegetables most of the time Yeah. Meat was just a just an occasional, but the meat was was a special or banquet feedwater. So the point here is that um More important than what we eat is the condition of our heart, right? And whether it's associated with uh love or hatred. And of course That's an obvious uh contrast. Okay, a similar verse t to what we saw In 1012 is 179. He who covers a transgression seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates intimate friends. So that repeating a matter is what? Gossip. Gossip going around someone's back. Its intent is to to um uh tear down rather than build up. Exactly. Right. Never letting it go. Right. And it's typically out of selfish motives. That's what's driving it. Right But covering a transgression doesn't mean we we overlook sin and like we've been saying, but there's an attitude of discretion, of of uh seeking the person's actual welfare rather than trying to tear them down Uh look at seventeen seventeen. A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. Let's go to the second part first. A brother is born for adversity. Does that mean you your your brother always gets into trouble and uh and chaos follows him and that kind of thing? Julie? I don't know if I've maybe interpreted it wrong all these years, but I I look at it as a friend as, you know, a a close con confidence the brother is very is a very intimate relationship and that kind of relationship will help you through really hard times More so than you mean just. So how often do we say we So I'll pray for you, I'll pray that someone comes, that God uses someone in your life to help you. Maybe you're the person that God's going to use to help. A brother is one that's there ready to be used by God Yeah. I also think that a friend is someone you choose. But a brother you have no choice. take what you get. And and typically, not always, but typically um the the the family relationship would bring with it loyalty commitment, right? And that's And that's why they stick with you even in your adversity. It's it's our adversity that they're sticking with us with, not so much theirs. Right. Um but a a friend loves at all times and a brother is born for adversity. So um There are friends who can be uh more loyal and committed and helpful to us even than a brother typically is or maybe is in our current situation. Um it's not a contrast here. It's saying that there are some loves, uh the some friends who loves like a brother would, with loyalty and so on. And uh nineteen four. Wealth adds many friends, but a poor man is separated from his friend. What's the point here? What's that? Fair weather friends. Okay, right. So yeah. You you win a billion dollars in the lottery, all of a sudden you've got a million friends. Right? What kind of friends are those? Friends are not friends. Shallow. Self-seeking, right? Twenty-seven five Better is open rebuke than love that is concealed. It's similar to some things we've already talked about. So what would be an example of love that is concealed Well you're afraid to tell the person the truth because you don't want to offend them. Maybe they're one of his friends that you can keep as friends, but you're afraid to tell them Yeah, so we we tend to deceive ourselves to think that the more loving thing to do is to to ignore it. So this, you know, we we've already been talking about the need to um cover sins because of our love Right? There's a place for that, but there's also a place for addressing something that needs to be addressed. And we do it out of love, not only in a loving way, but because we actually love them and want the best for them. Right? It's very similar to the way and the reasons why parents would discipline their children, chastise them because they love them. And to deceive themselves into thinking that well the more loving thing to do is to not make an issue of it, to try to paper over it, that's not in the long term interest of the child. Right? Well that's a situation where people are thinking more of themselves. They don't want people to be angry with them. And and they think that that that lack of of um intervention and and appropriate response is loving and easier on me. And it may be in the immediate sense, it may be easier, but not in the long term sense. And that just is a great picture of sharing the gospel. Because when you share the gospel there is there's a challenge to repent or you know you showing someone they're a sinner or I mean, that's where we all were one time. But it's hard because of the same reaction as even talking about everything else. Yeah, they're going to uh maybe become angry or criticize you. But you don't want to conceal that gospel message, you don't want to water it down. Just Right. For sure. Yeah, watering the gospel down would would be um leading them. Leading them straight and and would it would you know there are even preachers who water it down because they want people to like them and to not be offended and this kind of thing and that's that's just undermining the whole point. Yeah, Mark. And so but looking at that, right, so scoffer could be anybody that brings Next God or or right, and then they say the wise man would that be so I was trying to Scopper, you shared the gospel with everyone. But then you but the scoff would be they you could share the gospel with them, but then you wouldn't go, and I'm gonna judge you for look at that sin you're doing, right? That's not gonna be well received or can I feed you. So is that kind of the distinction it makes the scopper someone that you or someone that you know is a leader or striving to you would you would offer them maybe recruit because you know they will take it say no to take Yeah, possibly. Um although in terms of sharing the gospel uh often you're not gonna know that someone's a scoffer until you see the response. Right. Now it may be that you know the person well enough and you know he's a scoffer, and y uh it's like um throwing your poros before swine kind of thing, right? Um but often yeah i if if we share the gospel and someone is is very hardened and and not responding well at all, you know, we shouldn't take it personally. Right. Hopefully it's the gospel itself that's the offense, not us. Right. Um and just be content with God to use that sewing to meet his or to to fill with uh his purposes and uh who knows what God might do in that person's heart. So um yeah if you know someone as a scoffer and and so on, uh I think this is saying don't don't expect that you're reproving his heart and his motives and his beliefs and so on is inherently going to change his mind because he's probably going to be hardened all the more unless God is working in his heart. Just kind of the the general truism. Yeah. I don't know whether this particular case man uses opera, but I have a friend who used to you know grew up he grew up in the Christian home and uh his father was elder and all these things and then all of a sudden his child one of his children became trans gender and he got very brilliant and he got very angry at church who and even at his parents who are not accepting the fact that and then so we were talking about it and he got so angry you know, even at me but you Christians have no love and no compassion. And so at that point so do I consider him as a scoffer so that I don't even I mean, you know, I was like just so dumb on it I don't know how to respond. Yeah, yeah. Well, um Th we we already have looked at some other passages in Proverbs that place this between a a rock and a hard place because you know it's as if if you um Don't reprove a fool for this reason, but do reprove him unless he thinks himself wise in his own eyes. So i it depends on the context, but don't be surprised if he's going to get more hardened. Um if If you've properly conveyed the biblical um teaching on the subject It doesn't have to come as a, you know, you're a sinner and you need to change your heart kind of rebuke, but it's here's what God says. You need to know this. And let God use it the way He'll use it. If we haven't faithfully communicated what the truth is from God's Word Then I think we should. But if we've done that and there's still a a scoff, scoffing attitude and response Don't feel like we're gonna we're gonna change the heart if g if God's word has already been applied. Uh God can do it eventually, but we're not the ones who are gonna change their heart anyway. Right. In love, not yeah. Right. Unfortunately he goes to church. He he volunteers Lovingly right. But uh I I take verse nine eight is not a command not to reprove someone I think it's more of a this is the consequence is if you reprove a scoffer, beware he's gonna hate you. I don't think it's me I think it's more of a cause and effect Yeah. Particularly in the context of the other verses we've seen. Yeah. Well, uh that takes us then to 27-6 on the top of the next page. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy Think of Judas, right? Um so um Friends, if they're really friends, will be open, honest with you for your own good, not out of selfishness or pride or anything Um and a a genuine friend and a wise person will receive that well. Um but someone who is trying to um undermine an enemy will often use the seat to do that. Right? Uh whether it's uh flattering or or trickery of some kind, or pretending to be to be a friend and then you stab them in the back later. Um by the way that reminds me of um you all know William Wint uh Tyndale who translated the Bible. Um he was on the run in Europe because everybody in power was was against him. And um he was brought down by a man sent from the Church of England who kind of went undercover and became Tyndale's friend and betrayed him. Yeah, betrayed him and turned him in. Yeah. Okay. Serpent tried to be Eve's friend. I think one of the that point. Yeah. Very smooth talking and um yeah. Yeah. It's a good example. All right, let's look at uh twenty seven 9 and 10. Oil and perfume make the heart glad, so a man's counsel is sweet to his friend. So a good thing that friends would do is offer wise counsel in various circumstances. And verse 10: Do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend And do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother far away. So it seems to contradict what it says. Does it really contradict? It seems to a brother is made for adversity. And yet here it says, better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away, which sort of means what, given what we saw in the other verse. Don't um abuse the loyalty that your brother has and always go to him if in fact he's far away and you've got a a genuine friend who's nearby who can be there and stick close to you like a brother would. Uh don't o don't overdo your um your dependent on your brother, your relatives. Although that's that's important and and special. But um Balance is a good thing. Yeah, it it's actually exalting that close relationship with someone uh a friend who is close by. So that you not only can he help you in your time of need, but you can help him in his time of need. Um even like a brother would. Yeah. Sorry? I was saying that there's another proverb that says that spreading a net under your feet is when you're doing it in a relationship with Yeah, because when you're helping your neighbor, um he'll that relationship builds up and then he'll be there for you when the time comes Good. Okay. So let's turn to page one fifty two and look at kindness and graciousness. You see the fruit of the spirit here? Uh 33. Do not let kindness and truth leave you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, so you will find favor and good repute in the sight of God and man. So we talked a bit about truth quite a bit earlier. Kindness here. Um Self-explanatory what kindness is, right? And uh admonition is Don't let it leave you. Bind it around your neck. Write them on the heavy of your heart, which means what? Build it as part of your convictions, your commitment to godly uh relationships. So you will find favor and good repute in the sight of God and man. It's what God's looking for because it's really God's character that's on display And other people benefit from it, appreciate it, and notice it. For sure. Yeah. Uh yes, twenty-seven fourteen, the last one in the previous section. He who blesses his friend with a loud voice early in the morning, it will be reckoned a curse to him. So um I think the emphasis is on the words loud, early in the morning. Um inappropriately timed. Yeah. So use discretion. Don't um Also, why are you doing it loudly? Because that should be just between you and your Yeah, so the loudly might have been motivated by let other people see how friendly I am and and and so I don't know. But there's a time and a place for everything, I think, is mainly yeah what it's saying. Okay. We're back on page 152. Let's look at 1117. The merciful man does good himself, or does himself good. But the cruel man does himself harm. So how does that work? You replace yourself. Right. Yeah. Yeah, I think I mentioned um in a previous week when we talked about poverty or one of those contexts. My perception from Scripture is that God is as concerned about the giver as he is the recipient. And here's an example that by God's design, when we are um merciful and helpful and so on. Um it benefits not just the recipient or or the that person, but also the giver. Not that that's why we would do it, but it's just God's blessing and the way things work that um it helps us as well The cruel man does himself harm. Right? He's thinking it's in his benefit to be cruel to someone else, but that just shows how mixed up his thinking is Because it'll come back to bite him. You replace yourself, Jesus said. But in society or culture a lot of times someone will scream louder and louder. And be obnoxious until their birth. And I'm not saying that they might get the immediate reaction of the person they want, but long term it's not going to work. But in society in culture I people escalate. Right. Um and usually and a lot of times it works because eventually it's the other person back accounts. Yeah, yeah, and that that escalation typically is and the point is it's it's very short sighted. Yeah, yeah. It's motivated by what I'm you know, um where I'm at in the battle or whatever in relationships now without really much thought at all about the long term repercussions. And what this is saying is we need to be thinking about those long term repercussions. Yeah. Similar verses here. Let's go down to chapter fifteen, verses one and two. A gentle answer turns away wrath. But a harsh word stirs up anger. The tongue of the wise makes knowledge acceptable, but the mouth of fools spouts folly. So how is it that a gentle answer turns away rats? The opposite of escalating, I would do it talking about it. Things down to deflates it. Okay. Um I like that that passage Which is actually quoted in um Romans twelve, I guess, here in Proverbs, where it says um if if you do what is right and loving and gracious to someone who is um Even your enemy in some ways, that's like putting burning coals on his head. It brings conviction. Right? When you're doing something that is completely unnatural to love your enemies, that's not the natural response Um and if people see it as supernatural, it's not the normal thing. Uh then it can God can use it to bring conviction if they've got any conscience left. Um you know that can work in group settings also. about a playing um response because after I retired I went back as a substitute teacher at at the Source School. And you see a lot of things as a substitute the kids try to take advantage of Especially the older ones. You hear many sub the class is getting out of hand and the the substitute is yelling louder and louder, but the class just gets louder and louder. And it just escalates and I learn something from another substitute. When the class gets loud and out of hand, just whisper and you whisper and suddenly A gentle answer turns away wrap. Very good. Very good. About 15. 4, a soothing tongue is a tree of life, but perversion in it crushes the spirit. So a soothing tongue. This is not a deceitfully soothing tongue. I think the context here is that it's a good thing. But it's the same kind of principle, right? That if we're showing graciousness and kindness and and uh soothing in our speech That um that bears good fruit. It's a tree of life. A man's discretion makes him slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook a trans uh transgression. Yeah. Can you go back to that verse that you talked about the first part of this thing like that? Oh the perversion in your speech crushes the spirit? Perversion in our speech crushes the spirit. So even if the song is soothing but there's perversion in it, it does not Yeah. Yeah, it's the worst. Yeah, like I like I said earlier, it could be deceitfully um soothing It's the mo it's the motivation motivation. Right. That counts. Right. Um but it it could be um I've lost it. Which one is it? Fifteen four. Fifteen four. Fifteen four. Perversion in it, perversion in the tongue. crest is the spirit. It it could be that it's it's not even attempting to be soothing in our use in our speech. And if it's very even very clear that it's speech that's intended to cut down, then clearly it's going to have that result of crushing the spirit. Uh in order for a s a deceitfully soothing speech to crush the spirit, it's going to eventually have to be found out that it was deceitful. And that finding out that it was deceitful will crust the spirit. Right. Um so would it also mean that if I if I gently for somebody that I use words that that cut them down, that undermine them, that insult um it would Right. Crust the spirit. There's no hope. I like that because I tend to be wild sometimes. But this is a comforting to me because if you said, well, I Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'm re I'm reminded of of The epistle of James that kinda convicts us all. Yeah. You know, it's hard to tame the tongue. Yeah. Okay. Um Let's go to 1922. What is desirable in a man is his kindness, and it is better to be a poor man than a liar. So what is desirable in a man is his kindness. Um again, this is this is a mark of godliness And being kind is as we've seen, it's noticeable um to other people, but it's also, as we saw in chapter three, verse four, uh you'll find favor with God as well. Okay, let's go to twenty-two eleven on the next page. He who loves purity of heart and whose speech is gracious The king is his friend. So why is it that the king would want to be a friend with someone who's Um pure of heart and whose speech is gracious. Trustworthy, yeah. Yeah. So it's it's again something this godliness is something that even even other people recognize. And even if they're not godly, they see the value of it. Unless they're really hardened and deceitful themselves. Let's look at the next one here, 2417. Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and do not let your heart be glad when he stumbles. Lest the Lord see it and be displeased and turn away his anger from him. So Um you remember what Jesus said about loving your enemies? Yeah. Again, it's it's it's not the natural response, it's supernatural And so we're warned here not to rejoice when your enemy falls. Um I don't know if that means that you you rejoice when um When when you're um w um I know a lot of people think of of sports teams, you know, it's us against them. And we have certain teams that we love, we have certain teams that we hate. Don't rejoice when those you hate fall Because um That's not godly. Anyway. Coal uh burning coals on their head and enjoy things system. That's not necessarily a bad thing. Right. That's all coals were prized in those days and they had them to take home to start a fire or whatever they need. I I think it might bring conviction too. But hang on, what'd you know? It's a personal enemy Yeah. No. Well I don't know, maybe you can think of all sorts of applications. Yeah, it's it's this this personal animosity. And it's just the opposite of what Jesus said to love your enemies. I I think it's a photo. Because I have photography. Oh, she got away from the car and yeah. Yeah, yeah, it's just n natural to to be thinking oh he got what he he deserves, you you you know you reap what you so um and even if that's our first reaction Uh what it's advising us here is to um take the long term view and and um um maybe even possibly use this as an opportunity to help them see that you reap what you sow and uh in a loving way to Um present them with the truth. Yep. Right. Yeah. In fact, what he says, lest the Lord see it and be displeased, and he turned his anger away from him. He turns his anger away from this person who has fallen and where is it going to turn to? Maybe the you, right? So So is that different from the Lord said vengeance is mine? So in that aspect, if I'm waiting for that person to get the vengeance, I'm just being like, okay, done, check it off my list No, I mean still um given everything we see in Scripture, we still have an attitude of loving our enemies. And uh what the how that's gonna play out depends on the circ circumstances and the context, but it's not just uh just know that the that part has been taken care of. by the Lord and not be like, it's party time, let's celebrate, right? Well that that's true, but it it may be that the Lord the Lord's um uh desire to work on that person is for you to be a part of that. So in order for that to happen our heart needs to be right. Yeah. And not rejoicing at the calamity, but but uh feeling compassion for those who are seeing the consequences of their errors. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's oh that's what I was thinking exactly that this is like doing it if you rejoice you're not showing compassion to that person because the Bible says what a hard thing to fall in the hand of God. So like if God is punishing that person or whatever. And if you rejoice and we'll know better So I mean our sins may be different, but we are sinners, so you shouldn't be rejoicing when somebody else is being punished by God because And there but for the grace of God go off. Right. Yeah. So that's kind of the attitude for sure. Okay. Well here's the that passage I was remembering. Go down to 2521. If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink. For you will heap burning coals on his head, and the Lord will reward you. Um again that's the That's quoting this passage in Romans twelve. So uh very consistent with what Jesus said, you know, love your enemy, pray for those who persecute you. Um And what this passage says is that if you are kind in that way, genuinely kind That can carry with it some conviction. God can use that in their heart to convict them that um they're in the wrong and that you're behaving not in a worldly way but a godly way. And I'm remembering Romans twelve wrong because I seem to think it says for he meaning God for he's the burning cult. And I don't have my library up. Yeah, well I I think it's well the idea is is that um even to our enemies we should do good things because that those good things actually will bring conviction to that enemy. And God can use that in t to to accomplish his will. I mean I mean I mean think think think of it this way. You know God makes his enemies his friends. I mean we were once an enemy with God. And God made us from an enemy to a friend, and we should not be surprised if if God uses God makes our own enemies his friends and s and so and so they will be our friends too. And the and so what our what our responsibility is, um even though we may not feel like doing good to someone No, no, I mean you know w within reason. You know, you know, we should do good. Not do evil. Don't be overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good. In fact, that's exactly what the following verse in Romans twelve says. Yeah, and it it is you. It is you in Romans twelve. And so I understand those burning coals as God's work to bring conviction potentially to that person because of your testimony. your supernatural response to your enemy. Um It maybe a good example is David versus Saul. David bent over backwards to show respect for King Saul, the Lord's anointed. And I think that burn uh stacked some burning coals on Saul's heads at times. Surely this was It was Yeah, yeah. And even from the cross he said, Father forgive them for they know not what they do. Yeah. It's a prime example. Alrighty. So that's kindness and graciousness. Let's flip over to page 155 and start looking at Anger and temper. Now I know none of you have any experience with that. Uh so maybe This will be purely theoretical. 1417, a quick-tempered man acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated. So we can relate with that. A quick-tempered man acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated. So it's foolish to act in a quick tempered sort of way. Why is that foolish? Well he's out of control, clearly. You do things that you later regret. You're not laying out the competence. So it's it's um foolish because of what it can produce It may be foolish, in fact it often is foolish, because they're probably acting with incomplete information and they're certainly acting out of selfishness. It doesn't accomplish what even they want to accomplish. Sure. Yeah. And so, 1429 says, he who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who is quick-tempered exalts folly. A tranquil life, a tranquil heart is life to the body, but passion is rottenness to the bones. Now this passion is uh just the opposite in this context with a tranquil heart. It's uh the passion is not inherently a bad thing Um and you can have passion to serve God in in a very God-honoring way. And and that's good. But here it's it's the opposite of a trample heart. And it's more selfishness and evil and so on. So a man who is slow to anger has great understanding. What is it that a man who's slow to anger understands? Patience is a virtue, right? people with angry compassion of the moment and will say do whatever in that moment they take a step back and are slow to get allow that to build up, you're going to be able to see ahead and say, okay, if I say or do this thing, there's a con potential concept of position out. Right. Right. So um Thinking before speaking. What a concept, right? Um and not acting with the immediate selfish um leanings that you have? Put that in perspective and say, yeah. There's at least five or six Bible verses that are flashing through my mind right now. God's trying to tell me something. Right? Why doesn't it say he who becomes angry has or he who doesn't get angry has great understanding? Anger's not necessarily a bad thing. Okay. Anger's not necessarily a bad thing, why is that? Anger righteous anger. There is such a thing as righteous anger. And we see examples of that, certainly in the life of Christ, where he was righteously angry with the desecration of the temple, for example. Right? Um 1632, he who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who captures a city. So having self control is typically not something that comes naturally. Um but it has great effect. It's even more important than being mighty in some sort of outward way, being able to control our spirit, our um our our actions, our tongue. The ultimate conqueror. The ultimate conqueror, because if you conquer that, the rest is easy, right? Sort of. Okay, let's look at well the next one, 1727. He who restrains his words has knowledge. And he uh who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. So restraining our words Doesn't just mean you know you when someone speaks to you, you use a two-word sentence rather than a paragraph Um although that can sometimes be helpful. Um but Again, it's talking about restraining our tongue, right? Being self-control in what we say and um Clearly thinking before speaking. Right? And so that we weigh our words carefully That's easy, right? Uh let's go down to 1919. A man of great anger shall bear the penalty, for if you rescue him, you will only have to do it again. He typically he won't learn. Um and that penalty ought to be teaching him. But um If if he's really hardened, it probably won't. Actually, can we go back to fourteen thirty and Fourteen thirty. Yeah. It in this translation it says but passion. But I was looking like because I never heard the part passion, so I went to read like in Portuguese. And then I look and I'm the buttons that I see says envy. That's a big difference. Fashion and envy Yeah, it could be jealousy. Yeah, jealousy, soin me, yeah. Yeah, so it's it's it's passion It can be a good thing or a bad thing. And it's being used here as a bad thing. Right. So if it's envious, if it's jealousy, if it's motivated by selfishness That's not a good thing, right? We could be passionate a about what we're selfish about. That would be a bad thing. Uh but if we're passionate about what is important to God and we're godly in the way we're passionate about it, that's a good thing. a big to me it's a big difference envy or or jealousy and accident. Right. That's because it can be used both ways. Yeah. Thank you Uh all right, let's take one more here. Go down to twenty-nine eleven. A fool always loses his temper. But a wise man holds it back. So essentially, losing one's temper, a lack of self-control, is a clue that someone is a fool. But a wise man holds it back. Um he's more restrained, he's more self-controlled, he's uh thinking things through um and um up uh responding uh to whatever it is in a more Godly way. We do, because it's it's it's a mark of our sinful nature, our selfish nature that um we try to get what we want by throwing a temper tantrum. And um That needs to be taught um trained in our children that that that doesn't that doesn't work. Yeah. With children, and probably most everybody, a tempered tantrum sort of requires an audience. And if that audience is taken away, they're not going to be behaving the same way. I remember leaving the groceries and the card pounds and Tell my husband when he got home from working out the other thing. Okay, well there are a couple more here we can handle in our last few minutes. Uh gluttony. Proverbs has several verses here about both food and drink, where the drink is alcoholic drink. And that excess is um not a good thing. And the pictures here are amazing, right in chapter twenty-three, verse one. When you sit down to dine with a ruler, consider carefully what is before you, and put a knife to your throat, if you're a man of great appetite. Do not desire his delicacies for deceptive food. So uh the point here is to be self-controlled. And not not be excessive. Even when the circumstances look like it's okay to be excessive. And then of course 2320, do not be with heavy drinkers of wine or with gluttonous eaters of meat, for the heavy drinker and the glutton will come to poverty. And drowsiness will clothe a man with rags. Um so um Well uh here it's it's specifically talking about the company you keep, right? And Even if we sort of have a commitment to not be excessive in what we eat or what we drink, if we're with those who are themselves being excessive, it makes it that much harder for us to stay within our commitments. I think basically it's one. So, you know, your your companions, your your um Um well what's an another passage we had in Proverbs, you know, uh um a companion of fools suffers harm. Right, so um If if you don't want to be given to access, don't go around with those who do. Basically what it's saying. Well it it may depend on the context. If you're out just to have a good time and be and be uh indulgent and and whatever is Yeah, even if you're not drinking and you're the designated driver, um you're still a companion of fools. And so you need to be careful about that. Um However, it may be that these are fools you've been witnessing to and they're not pushing you away. Your example of not drinking and maybe even cautioning them against it can put some burning coals on their head. Okay, let's look at the last one there. Revenge. Do not say, I will repay. Wait for the Lord, he will save us. Um because why? Vengeance is mine, says the Lord, right? And verse chapter 24, do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause, and do not deceive with your lips. Do not say, Thus I will do to him as he has done to me. I will render to the man according to his work. Um well if we're honest with ourselves, that's what we deserve from God. God is gracious and we need to um uh love our enemies and leave the revenge to God. Right. All right, well we need to wrap up. I hope this is helpful. There's obviously a lot of other verses we didn't cover, so I hope you'll be able to use that in your future studies. Let's pray.