Well it is Memorial Day weekend, along with recognizing the sacrifices which not only some people but their families have made Through the years for our freedoms, dying to protect our land and all that comes with that. Many use the long weekend not just to reflect, but to relax. Go to the beach or the opening of the pool or whatever it may be, a show, a picnic, uh good time hiking or biking or boating. So out where we live now, we always know it's a special day and a sunny day because we have parade and motorcycles that come by our home on Route 144. They love that road. It's a beautiful road And uh kind of adds a lot of excitement into the air. You can know when uh the motorcycles are coming by it's a special day. And uh a lot of folks use the weekend for different things Some also go fishing. I'm not a fisherman myself. I kind of don't like sticking the, you know, all that stuff. Don't like doing that. But uh for many it is a relaxing kind of a thing Well, as we've been going through John, we're in the last chapter of John, John 21. I think we started about 12 years ago in John, something like that. And uh we finally reached the last chapter. The eleven disciples had kind of a vacation too. I guess we could sort of call it that. Uh it came for them after the death and the resurrection of Jesus after the first appearances of Christ uh down in the southern region in Judea, uh around Jerusalem. They had gone back north to Galilee. And uh while they were there the Holy Spirit had not yet descended and they had uh a couple of weeks uh up there, a few weeks up there actually and uh their their mission so to say hadn't started and uh there was a little bit of uh scratching the head and what were they supposed to do with their time now And uh like the cover of our bulletin puts it, some of them decided to go fishing. Literally. That's what they decided. Well their intent was in one direction, the Lord Jesus used that occasion to teach a valuable lesson to them. And we get to listen in and think about that lesson. For us, it's a lesson about God's provision. Why doesn't God provide and bless in some situations But then in other situations, at other times, he does. And this story here, a real account, a real historical account shows how God worked in their lives and we're hoping that we can get a little something from that and understand in our relationship with God why the Lord blesses sometimes and doesn't bless Other times, hopefully learn what is on God's heart, what he wants to see from us, as we understand God and how he works Because in some ways the Lord is stubborn and will not bend and we need to bend to his ways and not expect him to bend to our ways. And I think that uh We'll see a little bit of that in the story here today. So follow along in your Bibles if you have one there. There should be one in the pew somewhere if you didn't bring one. And you can ask for it to be handed down to you. We're going to do John 21, verses 1 through 14. After these things, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and he manifested himself in this way. Simon, Peter, and Thomas, called Dinemus, and Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. And they said to him, We will also come with you. They went out and got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing But when the day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. So Jesus said to them, Children, you do not have any fish, do you? I love that question They answered him, no. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right hand side of the boat, and you will find a catch. So they cast And then they were not able to haul it in because of the great number of fish. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord. So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about 100 yards away, dragging the net full of fish. So when they got out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire already laid, and fish placed upon it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have now caught. Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land, full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples ventured to question him, Who are you? Knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them and the fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. Very interesting encounter, wouldn't you say, with the Lord Jesus. Chapter 21, I need to say a little something about it as we get started into that. It's called the epilogue or the postscript if you would, of the Gospel of John. The main body of the Gospel concluded in those very important words, if you look backwards to chapter 20 at the end Which said, Therefore many other signs Jesus also performed in the presence of the disciples which are not written in this book. But these have been written so that you may believe That Jesus is the King, the Christ, the anointed one, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life In his name. Believing brings light. In his name. That's the purpose of the Gospel of John. Because of that climactic ending, some biblical scholars have doubted that this last chapter was written by the same man who wrote the first twenty chapters But we would say to those scholars and anyone who doubts that that the physical evidence is entirely on the side of those who see this as part of the original gospel There is no record or manuscript of John's gospel that has ever been found without this chapter intact with it. Plus, we notice that the prominence of Thomas being listed second here in this list connects or links the two chapters, chapter 20, where he makes that great confession and chapter 21. Furthermore, this chapter really does wound off the Gospel. It provides an epilogue the same way that John provided a prologue at the very beginning of the Gospel in chapter 1, verses 1 through 18. They are the brackets to the Gospel, and it shows balance in the way the Gospel was written. In this postscript, we find the answer to some lingering questions some of the readers of the Gospel may have had. foremost in their mind would be, well what happened to Peter? I mean here Peter has been so prominent and yet he has denied knowing the Lord three times Is that it for Peter? Is it all over for him? And this chapter, particularly the verses we did not read from verses 15 to the end, explain what happened to Peter. Also, what did the disciples do when they got to Galilee? We're not really told a lot about that in the Synoptic Gospels, and so here we have an encounter that they had with the Lord Christ in Galilee. Not just in Jerusalem, but also in Galilee. Did Jesus continue to appear to the disciples beyond those initial appearances? The answer is yes And in the book of Acts written by Luke, he stated that the Lord continued to appear to them over forty days with many convincing proofs, and here we see another one of those. reminding ourselves that not all of the appearances are actually recorded in Scripture. Also, this being the last of the four Gospels that were written by eyewitnesses, we know there were false gospels written in the centuries following. The world always latches on to those gospels, the Gospel of Thomas or this or that. But clearly they're written long after the apostles would have died, and so they cannot be genuine. This is the last of the eyewitness gospels, and so we also say the canonical gospels, probably written in the 90s, 80s or 90s in the first century A. D. And it answers one of the rumors which had been spread throughout the churches, and that is that Jesus would return from heaven bodily for his church before the last apostle died. And who was the last apostle to die? It was the youngest of the apostles during Christ's life, uh John the Apostle And uh so this answers that rumor that the Lord Jesus has not promised that, even though the rumor was being spread in the churches that the Lord's the Lord would return before his death, that was not true. And so if people thought that was a promise from Christ and he did not return That obviously would hurt the faith of those who are waiting for Jesus to return and think, well, maybe he's not going to actually return. And so this chapter provides that valuable information. Just a few more technical notes here for you. Others have also attempted to say that verses one through fourteen tell the exact Christ's disciples. But the differences between that account and this account are too many really even to draw that conclusion. First of all, here Jesus is on the shore shouting out to them on the boat, but in that encounter, Jesus is in the boat and the disciples are on the shore. Here Peter jumps toward Jesus to swim towards him in the water, and there Peter actually asks Jesus, Go away from me. I am a sinful man, and you're a holy man. I should have nothing to do with you. Here the fishermen are on the lake, there they are on the land, here they are alone, there they are with a crowd, here there's one boat, there there's two boats, and you can go on and on with the differences that are there No, this is a different encounter. One happened at the beginning of the ministry of Christ, or towards the beginning, this one happens very near the end. But it's interesting that they're similar, that people would even say they're the same encounter, because there's a lesson that Christ is teaching the disciples from that encounter all the way to this encounter as well. There are faith applications here. I think here we're learning of what the disciples' relationship would be Now that Christ is risen from the dead and they're not there with him every day, what would their relationship be to him now that he's risen and soon to be ascended? How are they to relate to this risen Christ? And by extension, how are we as disciples who have never seen Christ in person and know that he's not only risen but ascended, how are we to relate to Christ as well? And how does the Lord provide for us and when and why and in what manner? All of these are applications we can look at. Now there's three stages we're going to walk through here to learn this lesson. The first stage Is where we see the disciples' inability and that's in verses one through three. The second stage is where Christ provides. We'll call it Christ's Provision, that's in verses four through eight, and the last stage, the third stage, where they have fellowship with the Lord Jesus Christ in verses nine. through fourteen. The disciples' inability, Christ's provision, and then fellowship with Christ. Let's go back to the first few verses there and look at the disciples' inability again. I'll read it again After these things, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and he manifested himself in this way. Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus and Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee and the sons of Zebedee and two others of the disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. And they said to him, We will also come with you. They went out, got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. And that's very important because that's the point. Excuse me. After these things is just a general undefined note. In Greek it's meta tauta, and it just means after the things that we read about in verse in chapter 20 are extended here. We don't know. how much further beyond the events of chapter 20, but it couldn't have been too long because this is called the third appearance, and uh they have traveled the Galilee, so there's been a little bit of time They were told to go to Galilee by Jesus in Mark chapter 16 and verse 7, and so now they are there. And maybe a week or so has passed since their last sighting of Christ The resurrection appearance here is called a manifestation. That word there shouldn't be too quickly overlooked. Fanara'o. It means something that is made visible or he has an appearance It is a term that the Apostle John would use also in the letters that he would write to speak of Jesus when he would appear. And it means that this was a time where a revelation was being given. It was a time of special revelation. And of course Jesus would choose when and where and in what manner to manifest himself, and so he is the one who chose this time to reveal himself. And he would have his own goal in the manifestation of himself to these disciples. The place where he chooses to reveal himself is called the Sea of Tiberius. That's another name for the Sea of Galilee, or it's also called the Lake of Gennesarat. Or in the Old Testament, the Sea of Chinnareth, the sea that looks like a harp, it's shaped in the way of a harp. It's called Tiberius here because The dominant city on its shores on the southwestern side was built by the Romans and it was called Tiberius. Who is there? Seven of the disciples are mentioned. And uh the first, of course, is listed as Peter. His full name is given Simon Peter. He's listed first because he was still considered to be the leader among the apostles. Thomas and Nathaniel are also mentioned. Nathaniel's hometown is mentioned there. The two sons of Zebedee, though John never names himself. out of humility in the gospel, what is being referred to here is John and James, the two sons of Zebedee. This is one of the clearest identifications of that disciple whom Jesus loved being the son of one of the sons of Zebedee. and being John himself. The other two unnamed disciples we could speculate on, some have thought it would be Andrew and Philip, for they were also fishermen, and Andrew was Peter's brother. And usually when you find groupings of names of the disciples, Andrew and Philip would be named along with these. We're not told what the other four disciples were doing. We know what happened to Judas. He's dead by now. The other four probably were not fishermen and did not think this was such a great idea. I doubt Matthew the tax gatherer would want to go and do this. The question comes up of course, why would they go fishing? Well, their fishing was not for recreation. We need to state that. It was commercial fishing, and that was their trade. This is what they did. It was how they could provide for themselves. Because of this, some, when they read this, think that the disciples were abandoning their apostolic task, the Great Commission. that they were going back and returning to the very thing that Christ had called them out of, that they were fishermen, he called them to follow him, and now they were actually turning away from Christ and going back into their fishing business. And some have interpreted it that way. I don't think the text actually states that. I don't think it indicates that this was a severe departure from the Lord Jesus Christ. You'll notice that the Lord Jesus never rebukes them for what they were doing. He just teaches them in the midst of what they're doing. You may remember also that they were filled with awe and joy at the sight of the resurrected Christ, and along with Thomas's confession, made great statements of faith at that time And so that would hardly lead us to believe they were abandoning Christ just a week or ten days or so later. Also, they were never given a timetable exactly when Jesus would appear next They needed to put some food on the table and take care of themselves. They were not paid as apostles at this stage of their ministry. So obviously, if you were going to take care of your family at this point in time, it would be natural for them to choose fishing. So they did. By the way, Peter's reaction to the Lord Jesus when he figures out that it's him on the shore does not sound like a man who's running or trying to run away from Christ. He dives in the water to get as close to Christ as he can. Yet it may show us that the impact of the Spirit of God, which has not descended on them. Remember we said that in chapter 20 they did not actually receive the Holy Spirit I think that's the best way to interpret that. And here's another indication of that, that their lives are not really radically changed uh at this point they don't have a clear sense of mission at this point in time as you'll see that they have in Acts chapter two and following. So they'd come home from Jerusalem. They'd been there for the eventful Passover of the Jews and the feast of the unleavened bread. And they had gone north to Galilee. Jesus told them to go there, told them that they would see him, even designated a mountain for them to go to, according to Matthew 28, 16. Maybe they went to the mountain. Maybe Christ did not appear. Maybe they got tired of waiting. We're not quite sure. But as they were waiting, Peter, true to himself Doesn't like just standing around and doing nothing. He's a real doer. He's an impulsive guy. We know that. And and he likes getting things done and Uh maybe it was the sight of the the Sea of Galilee or the familiar smells and the the sight of everything that was there. And he says to the other, he doesn't even ask them to come with him. He says, I'm going fishing He said, this is what I'm going to do with my time. I am heading out and I am going fishing. And they seem ready and willing to join in. And so their entire enterprise, that whole evening, everything that happened that night is summed up in verse 3, right? They got into the boat. The V-boat has an article in the Greek that indicates it was a known boat, probably the boat that they used for their fishing business in pat in the past. They went out into the sea, it's the Sea of Galilee, it's a 65 square mile Small sea or huge lake, either way you want to call it. By the way, it was probably larger back then. It's been losing some water through the centuries. And um it's a sea they were very familiar with. They'd crossed it many times before, casting their net, uh trolling their nets along and fishing, they knew all about it. Uh the fishing industry in the in Galilee was well known in that day. In fact, a small boat uh from the very lifetime of the Lord Jesus was discovered back in 1986 in the mud because there had been a drought and the sea had receded and uh there's been a big deal about this boat because it probably is a very similar fishing boats of the kind that we read about uh over fifty times in the gospels that would crisscross all over the uh the Sea of Galilee. It was a fishing boat, it was uh twenty-seven feet long, seven and a half feet wide Um it was constructed as boats were known to be constructed in that time. It had mostly cedar planks, but there were other kinds of wood that were worked into it as well. It was a shallow drafted uh uh boat with a flat bottom it allowed it to get close to the shore without uh rubbing and they went through very extravagant means to salvage this boat because they realized this would be important for many travelers. uh to Israel and you can see it uh if you go there you can even see it online but um it's a similar kind of a boat that we'd be talking about here And so this kind of a boat they're out in, they're fishing all night long. Best time to fish was after dark and before the light in the morning. They knew that And and uh typically the fishermen would cast out the nets and they would be uh trawled along in the water until they would fill their nets with fish and then they would haul them in and they have a good haul and it would make uh all their work worth it We noted that a similar encounter with Christ happened back in Luke chapter 5 and verse 5. There also Jesus told Peter, Go out into the deep water, and he would find a great catch. And in verse 5 of Luke 5 it says, Simon answered and said, Master, we worked hard all night and caught nothing. Sounds similar? But I will do as you say and let down the nets. And we know the response that happened at that time also. Well here they are again, having fished through the night again, probably in the same boat or similar boat And again they caught nothing. Now maybe you would be relieved if you went fishing and you caught nothing because you wouldn't know what to do with fish. But obviously fishermen who go out fishing all night long and this is their tried to trade to catch nothing would be hugely disappointing. This would be a huge disappointment. They would start with high expectations. Yeah that sounds like a great idea. Let's go fishing And now it has ended in the morning with great discouragement. But it is a discouragement, listen, and a disappointment that the Lord Jesus wanted them to experience. You need to get that. Because not everything that we do, God blesses. God does frustrate some of our plans, and we need to be aware of that. That in his providence he was working this night. How he did it, I don't know Can God talk to animals? Yes, he can. Can animals understand it when God talks to animals? Evidently so. What did he say to the fishies? I have no idea. Something like swim away from that boat However that works between the divine and a fish mind, I have no idea, but I do believe it. And that is exactly what was happening. That disappointment was designed There was some divine providence at work. He who controls the sparrows who fall out in the woods can obviously take care of the fish in the water as well. The Lord wants his disciples to learn that we cannot be productive in our ventures apart from him, right? We say that and we say we believe that, but then we turn and we go and we start doing things the way we think they ought to be done. in the way we think they ought to be done, and we don't consult the Lord, and we don't really have any instructions from the Lord, and we follow our own will, thinking it must be God's will. And God does not bless that, friends. Did you ever realize that some of the things that you've been praying for, adventures you've got involved in, were supposed to fail? Because you were going about it the wrong way. You're not going about it through the priorities that Christ has put in your life. You're going about it looking at it kind of the way everyone else in the world looks at it. Well, this seems like the reasonable thing to do Well sometimes faith has to look above the reasonable thing to do and listen more carefully to the teaching of the Lord before you make decisions about where to live and Decisions about what job to get and about who to become involved in or what ministry to start or all those other things. And you and I can get frustrated in things because we think this just must be what the Lord wants and it's not I remember praying for several ministries that I was very enthusiastic about in a former church and could not understand why they wouldn't get any better, and I kept praying about them. And I was frustrated. And there's several ministries I was involved in in my local church. And all the while the Lord was trying to get me to take a closer look at what giftedness I had and what my future was supposed to be, and that was to head back to seminary and enter into Enter into the ministry full time. Meanwhile, I was working on this and working on that, and it was frustrating. And the Lord has a way of doing that to get your attention going in a different direction. Is it really what the Lord wants you to do? Is it really the use of your gifts? Is it really what what God has has equipped you to do? Are you really exercising faith in it? Are you just going about asking God to sprinkle some sanctification on your own plan? You're gonna get frustrated doing it that way. He may be steering you in another direction. He may be w you may be waiting before he puts his power behind it, even if it's the right thing to do, because you're going about it all relying on your own resources. Well I know how to do this and I can get a person to do that and I'll put a little money into that. And oh by the way, Lord bless this please We prayed. I don't know why God didn't bless it. We prayed. No, you didn't pray with humility. You didn't pray with reliance. You didn't pray where your heart was on the floor and saying, God, I can do nothing except through you. On the branch, you're the what? The vine, right? No, God's not going to put his power behind that Only when you come with a humble heart, determined to do his will, willing to wait to see what he wants to do, dependent as a little child, prayerful, interceding, seeking God seriously, do you see God's Sometimes people don't become leaders and they get frustrated. Some of them even had that in leaving this church, but they're not willing even to put the time and the sweat and the sacrifice into the study And into the kinds of things it takes to become a man of God and a leader. And God doesn't bless that. God doesn't bless that So we need to learn here this lesson that the Lord tried to teach them at the beginning of their ministry, and again is repeating it towards the end of their ministry. Look at verses 4 through 8 now as we go to the second stage, and that is Christ's provision. Let me read it But when the day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. So Jesus said to them, Children, you do not have any fish, do you? And they answered him, No. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right hand side of the boat, and you will find a catch. So they cast. And then they were not able to haul it in because of the great number of fish. Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved, that's John, said to Peter, It is the Lord. And so when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on, for he was stripped for work and threw himself into the sea But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about one hundred yards away, dragging the net full fish Well day is breaking. They've caught nothing. We understand that. Jesus stood on the beach. It does not say Jesus walked up to the beach and finally arrived at the beach. It just says Jesus stood On the beach. Remember what we saw in his appearances before? The doors were locked. They were the disciples were inside and fearful, and Jesus stood in their midst. He came and stood in their midst. Well, here he is We don't know how he got here. He may have just appeared, and he may have appeared supernaturally with all the rest that he wants to give to the disciples there. Well, Jesus is there. But typical of the disciples, in these resurrection appearances, they did not recognize him at first as Christ. So Jesus initiates the contact. He does it by asking a question. It's a question which expects a negative answer. Children, you do not have any fish, do you? Actually the word for fish is the word for food, but in this context it would mean fish. He calls them children, which would be unusual for a stranger on the shore to shout out to grown men children, unless there was some fatherly connection that the people knew about. Later John himself will use the same word children, Python, for the the disciples who were younger than him that he was writing to exhort in 1 John 2, verse 14 and 1 John 2, 18 the older man writing the Christians and calling them children. Of course, the Lord could use it this way, for he was speaking to his pupils, his disciples. Well the answer they give is what might be expected if you were a hundred yards offshore and someone asked you if you had caught anything all night. And you were a little bit bummed out, they gave a one-word answer. No. Like don't ask us another question and we don't want to talk about it. Hey listen, if they caught something great, they'd be blabbing about it all the time long, right? They'd be talking about like fishermen love to do and tell the fish story. You wouldn't believe what we got. Oh, it was an incredible night. They just get the Lord just gets a one-word answer. No. We didn't catch anything. You know the wearisome of work always seems more when you have been working hard and you feel you've been unsuccessful in the endeavor, right? But then the strangest thing happens. This man on the shore, let's call him that. This man on the shore calls back and says, and why would anyone say this? Cast the net on the right hand side of the boat and you will find a cat. I have to do a little bit of a reading between the lines right here what the the fishermen on the boat might have been thinking when this man on the shore that they don't know as Christ at this point in time would say that. Grown men, fishermen who know about fishing, some guy who doesn't even look like a fisherman on the shore telling them how to do their business? They'd probably be rolling their eyes, right? They're not going to just listen to anybody on the shore, right? Tell them how to do their business? Who does that guy think he is? How many times have they already cast it on the right side? And the left, and the right again, and the left, and the right again. I mean how many times throughout the evening, right? Dozens. And they got Uden, that means nothing in Greek. Not one fish. What an intrusive man this guy is. Now please understand there is nothing special at all about the right hand side of the boat. We are not being taught a lesson about luck here, that the right side is better than the left side. Okay? That's not the point. It's just the side the Lord told them to throw it on, and that's the only reason that the text gives. Yet with this stranger on the beach, he said it with such certainty, you will find a catch. And it was not impossible that someone from the shore could spot a school of fish from his angle that they maybe had not seen. Why they listened to the stranger on the shore were not really told. Maybe they were growing in humility, but they did not protest against him. They did as he said. They cast the net on the right side. And without delay, immediately they caught a great catch of fish. Not a small catch, but a large catch. So large they were having trouble hauling it in Seven strong men working hard to bring them into the boat. The little imperfect tense in Greek with the verb able indicates they were pulling and pulling and not able to draw it in. The fish were straining against the net and they were straining with the net and pulling against that and they must have been excited so their strength was revived and still they couldn't get them all in. Nice big large healthy fish The kind you want to catch. Exactly what fishermen want. The provision that they were looking for all evening long, just like they would dream about. In the middle of the night, this is what a fisherman would dream of. Dr. MacArthur writes about this. Just as he had rerouted all the fish away from the boat all through the night, Jesus now redirected a massive school to the right side of it. As a result, the net was so full that all seven of them could not haul it in. Dr. Laney adds this comment, only when the disciples obeyed Jesus were they successful in catching fish. So too, success in the Christians' ministry depends on obedience to Jesus. Consider what would have happened if the disciples had argued with a stranger on the shore. No fish is what would have happened. Now at this point, again, we see a familiar sight. John the apostle again is the first one. To know what was going on. The first one to have the spiritual insight. This was so similar to a previous encounter that they had with the Lord back in Luke Chapter five, as we mentioned, when the Lord filled Peter's nets there, after the Lord had preached from Peter's boat to the folks on the shore. He had them haul in a great hall back then also. That previous incident must have been in John's mind and understanding. For John turns to Peter immediately. You can't tell from how the physical features are of Christ that that is Jesus, but from what happened, the supernatural filling of the fish that he recognizes The manner in which it happened, the confidence with which the man on the shore spoke, the personal interest in which he showed in their fishing venture, and he turns and he says, It is the Lord. And he knows it. And he's the first one to figure it out. It had the hand of the Lord written all over it. This time, Peter believes John. And Peter acts as his typical self. He quickly dresses himself, more appropriate for a greeting. He was stripped down for all the dirty work in the boat. And he puts on the outer garments and does the exact opposite of what we would do if we were to dive into the sea, because we would take off to jump in, he'd put on and jump in. So that he would be presentable in that culture. And so when he came walking aboard uh on the shore, he would be in front of Christ clothed properly. He literally plunges in the water toward Christ to get to Jesus as fast as he possibly can. That would have been interesting to watch, wouldn't it? The guy fully dressed with a tunic slosing about in the water to get to the shore. It reveals a man who wanted to be close to Jesus Christ. Listen, if you're thinking I'm a weak man and I don't know how God could ever use me, take a look at Peter. Peter was a weak man too. Peter denied Christ three times. But did he have a sincere love for the Lord in his heart? Oh yes he did. And he was used here as well. And he comes he comes to Christ and he loved Christ. And so Peter leaves all the other disciples to do the work, notice. He shows more interest in being with Christ than what first interested him when he told all the other disciples, Let's go fishing. Now he has all the fish and he's told the Lord is there and he hadn't n not a second thought about the fish. He just dives in the water. I want to be with the Lord Jesus. Does that tell you something about Peter's priorities? This is what he wanted in his heart. A weak man, but a good heart. And so that's whom God uses as he changes our hearts. So that's familiar. John is the first to know. Peter is the first to act. And so we see the same guys functioning in the same way that we've seen them before. Next, John explains that he came along with the other disciples in the small boat. They were not that far from the land, dragging the net full of fish And this is just another little detail that you have written here that you can tell this was written from the perspective of someone who was an eyewitness. Not writing centuries later, but right there in the boat, and he tells these details from his perspective, not from Peter's, but from his own perspective, still being on the boat. Now this leads us to the third and the final stage, and this is fellowship with Christ. Fellowship with Christ. Look at verses 9 through 14. So when they got out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire already laid, and fish placed on it, and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have now caught. Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land full of large fish, 153. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples ventured to question him. Who are you? Knowing that it was the Lord Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. Well, they get to the land. Peter's already there. We're not told what Peter and Jesus spoke about during that time, maybe nothing, but the account continues from John's perspective as an eyewitness. And there was already a charcoal fire burning nice and hot and warm, wonderful for cold fishermen. It's already laid out for them, and there's fish and there's bread that's being warmed and cooked on there. And we're not told that Jesus did all this, but the implication, of course, is that he did. He's the only one there serving He may have done this supernaturally. We're not told that either. And so for the disciples, now after a very disappointing evening, it's breakfast on the beach. Yes, it is. Breakfast on the beach with the Lord Jesus as the gracious host. What a wonderful and delightful little scene this is. Can you picture it? A welcome sight, of course, for hardworking fishermen. They're up all night, probably wet, and now in the early chill of the morning, a little breeze coming off of the lake. probably very hungry, a nice warm breakfast all provided for them. The breakfast meal, the arastao, was the first of two meals that the Jews would eat We tend to have three meals. They had two. We see in the this scene here that the Lord Jesus is continuing to love his disciples. He's continuing to serve his disciples. He is there for them. He is there caring for them. He is there loving them in a tangible way. He's there meeting their needs. He knows what they need. He's teaching them a spiritual lesson. He's meeting their physical needs And he's there for them. Just as he had washed their feet, remember? Just as he had served them and loved them to the end, as we learned back in John 13, he's now there cooking for him, for them. Literally cooking and providing a meal He came, in his own words, not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. See the love of the Lord Jesus Christ here, beloved. See him and see how he serves us. The last time and the only other time in the entire Gospel of John we saw a charcoal fire was when In the courtyard of the high priest, remember, the wicked high priest, where Peter was standing there and warning his hands. And then denied that he even knew Jesus Christ three times. Remember that? The first charcoal fire forms the place of Peter's denials. This next one will be the place of Peter's reinstatement One was done at night in darkness, the next on a bright morning with the sun breaking, pointing to new possibilities for Peter. Next, Jesus gives the order to bring some of the fish that they had already caught and add it to the fire with the fish and the bread he has on there. So they would have even more to eat. This little detail must not be overlooked. It shows that the Lord Jesus could supernaturally provide for all of the spiritual blessings and ministry of fruit that we would like to see as a church At any time he could snap his fingers and he could do something supernatural and bring a whole host of people to Christ or to bring in more money for a local church or to open up avenues of service for them Or to comfort people's needs, send angels to the bedside of those who are hurting. He could do it at any time, and he chooses not to He chooses to use the efforts and the work of his people who are serving him when they obey him, for those fish were caught, because even though they were distracted by doing something they probably shouldn't have been doing, they at least listened And when they listened, they were blessed with these fish. And Christ says, Bring those fish also, and let's enjoy the benefits of those as well. The Lord wants to unfold his ministry fruit and the expansion of his kingdom through your efforts when they are done humbly in obedience to his will. God ordinarily blesses our endeavors when we are obedient to Him. We need to remember this point. We have resources from our services towards Christ, and we are to use those resources in His name. We are to use them as a church, we are to get busy, and as we put a little bit in the Master's hands, going back to the lessons in John chapter six, just a little bit in the Master's hands can then be what? It can be multiplied where the the loaves and the fish were multiplied back in John chapter 6. He could take a little and make it become a much. We should never look at the little we have and think we're not able to do the job because we have little Because we have a great God who has much. And we need to remember that. Again, upon the Lord's order, Simon Peter is the first one to act. Notice. And he goes, maybe because he realized now that he'd left all the others to bring the fish in, and he's the one who grabs the whole fish net and it says he I don't know if that means he led them all to do that or he did it by himself. If he did it by himself, then this is a clear indication that Simon Peter was a very physically strong man to haul a net of 153 fish. Some have said large fish that would be over three hundred pounds and he hauled it by himself. He was a big man. He's a strong man And uh so that might be part of the point as well. John makes the point there that the net was not torn. And that stated as if the net should have been torn. I know how many fish A net can handle, and it can't handle 153 fish, and that should have been torn, but it wasn't torn. Now at this point in time, many interpreters get all wacko with this. And they look at that number 153 and they say, why did the Apostle John and the Holy Spirit include that number 153? And they go into all their little allegorical and hidden meanings into this. Why was the net not torn and why were there 153 fish? And of course they can't agree with what they get out of that, because once you go into allegories, there's nothing to restrain an interpretation except the creativity of the one giving the meaning of the allegory. And that's why we're never to approach Scripture that way. It's impossible for anyone to agree on the meaning of Scripture that way. And really, allegorical interpretation of Scripture diminishes what Scripture's true intent is 153 fish means, and I'm going to tell you now, it means there were 153 fish in the net What's the spiritual meaning of that? The meaning of that is that fishermen actually counted the fish when they had something big like that. First of all, they had to divide the fish among the number of fishermen that were there so they would count them But they would particularly count them when they were amazed how big they were. Then be bragging routes rights for the future, you see. So that's why it's recorded The net not being torn just shows again that when the Lord provides, he provides in great abundance, and then he also takes care of even the little details In this case, so that their nets would not be torn. And so John was impressed by that. Another detail that this was given to us by an eyewitness who was there. And so that's what the Bible is. It's an eyewitness account. The rest of the appearance from verse 14 on shows the fellowship that the disciples had with the risen Jesus. Please underscore that this is with Jesus who is raised from the dead. And so they have they have um some inhibitions about what should be their relationship with him. And you see this this combination of certainty that it was the Lord Jesus But also a a little bit of they wanted to ask him about it, but then they go back and they're like, No, no, no, no. They hold him too high of a s esteem, too much awe in their hearts to say, Is that really you, Lord? Yes it is, I know, but is that really you? And so they're somewhere in between that and they know it's him and they have that certainty, but it's such a strange experience for them, these resurrection appearances that they want to ask, but there they are, and they don't even rush to take the food notice. The Lord Jesus has to not only coax them to come and have breakfast, but then he takes the food and he gives the food to them. Because of this, some have said what the Lord Jesus was doing here is he was celebrating communion with his disciples down by the shore. Well, despite the fact that this is not bread and wine, this is bread and fish, and so that's not communion, a little bit of a problem with that. It's a better to see this as the Lord Jesus was enjoying a time of fellowship with his disciples He was drawing his disciples together and saying, Eat with me, have breakfast with me, enjoy time with me. He wanted the relationship with the disciples. Listen, brothers and sisters, he died. And rose again, not for some technicalities, but he did that so there would be relationship between God and man. And he is God's Son. He is the mediator between God and man. And he draws man to himself and thus to God. And he wants the fellowship He wants the relationship, and so there was nothing more beautiful than to share a meal together. It was a time of communion and storytelling and laughing and crying and enjoying one another together. That's why it's important for believers to have meals together in order to get to know one another and enjoy the common life we have in Christ and talk about ministry and prayer requests and all of that together. Enjoy meals And so they're enjoying that meal together and they're having this kind of communion with him. They were uncertain what would their relationship be With Christ now that he's raised from the dead. He was revered before he was raised from the dead. Now that he's broken the power of death and he's physically and bodily among them, what would how would they relate to him And there's this mixture of incredible awe and reverence. And yet the Lord Jesus is saying, Come closer, enjoy the meal with me, eat with me. Have this time with me. And I would say that that is a very transferable lesson for you and me. Because you see, we are those who have a relationship with the resurrected Christ. Do you see what I'm saying? Now he's not only raised from the dead now, he's also what? He's ascended into heaven. And so we might ask, what as disciples of Jesus, as followers of Christ, what's our relationship with him? You have a glimpse of what it is here That he is to be revered, he is to be put in awe, he is to be worshipped, he is to be held in esteem, he is not to be treated lightly, as unfortunately so many churches do today But yet at the same time we are not to have him and hold him so far off that we don't feel some tenderness there. We don't want to long to be in his presence to see him in our minds at least and understand that one day we're going to see him face to face and he's drawing us closer and closer to himself. Listen to some degree, this is the story of the Bible, right? In Genesis, there Adam and Eve are created and they're given a wonderful paradise, and it says that God came down in some bodily form and he walked to be among His creation, man and his woman, and to be with there and to enjoy that fellowship with him. And when man sinned, he was driven away from the presence of the Lord. And sin created that barrier, right? And now they had to be away from a holy God They couldn't enjoy that fellowship and Christ comes and he reconciles us to God, right? Now we've been restored as friends and we are to have a relationship with God and we're to get to know God better and we're to grow closer to him in personal relationship with him. And when you fast forward and flip all your pages and you come to the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation, you turn to chapter 21 and you start reading what happens in the new heaven and the new earth, and it says, God will live among his people. And God will be among them, and God will dwell with them, and it's repeated over and over that God wants to be with his people And to enjoy his people. And he wants us to know him that there won't even be a sun in the new heaven and in the new earth because he will be the shining light for all of that. I would say if you don't have a plan for your summer, beloved, I would say your plan for your summer ought not to be just to go fishing. Just to go biking, just to enjoy the stars and just to enjoy the mountains and the beach. Enjoy all those things. I want you to enjoy the Lord Jesus Christ this summer. I want you to get to know him better. I want you to be honest with the Lord about what your relationship is with him. Maybe you're not even sure you're saved. You need to put your trust and faith in him so he can forgive your sins and save your soul. You could do that today. It's simple faith. That's all that it takes to be saved. Maybe you are saved and you don't have a lot of joy, you don't have a lot of energy, you don't have a lot of peace in your walk. It's because you don't know Christ well and you need to get to know him better. Church can become old and stale if you're not pursuing Christ first. I imagine the disciples didn't enjoy each other sometimes until they're all focused on Christ and all of a sudden they were buddies again And they enjoyed each other. And that's how it is in church. We're different people. We're different colors. We're different backgrounds. We're different social, ethnic, whatever you call that. Different education, this and that, different likes, but if we have our eyes on Christ, we'll all be drawing together. Amen. Father, bless the preaching of your word and our relationship with you, cause it to grow by faith from humble Honest hearts, confessing sin. And some of the sin we need to begin to confess, Lord, is that we've just let you be further away from our hearts. Than you should be. Help us to love you first and not lose our first love. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.