Well, welcome to our study in Proverbs. We're on lesson seven, Wisdom in the Family. Proverbs has a lot to say about family kind of topics. And we've raised some of them in other contexts in earlier weeks, but And so many of these passages will will look familiar, but I think working through them a little bit more exhaustively today will be helpful too. So, uh the our first section, I'm on page sixty-six. Uh is there anybody who needs a copy of the notes? We're all set? Okay. Uh our first section is on parenting. And so just starting with that first couple of verses there from chapter 3, where it says, My son, do not forget my teaching But let your heart keep my commandments. For length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. So this is similar, in fact, you see many of them here. Many of the passages in Proverbs are this appeal from a father to a son, right? And that that the thrust of those appeals is for listening and obeying, right? And here it specifically says, as many of them do, uh, for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. So how is it that when a child listens and obeys his parents that It will uh add years of life to his his uh lifespan and peace. What's the connection there Because parents teach you from your earliest days, don't go in the street for a symptom. As you get older, don't do drugs or whatever, these things that would kill you So these these as it says here the word is uh commandments, but in general the teaching of parents is to help the children understand right and wrong, good and bad, what is safe, what is not safe, just very basic things, right? Um but That that um you know the flip side of that, the the lesson for parents is that our teaching needs to be for the welfare of our um children, not um Do this, you know, do what I say, not what I do, or uh why? Well, because I say so. Um it needs to be grounded in truth, it needs to be grounded in Uh their welfare and God's glory, all of those kind of things. The commandment to honor your mother and father Which obeying and would be honoring this is the one that says it will add length of days to your life. Exactly. Exactly. The guys even promise that that's the general uh arrangement that he has given um children to specific parents for training up in the way they should go. And um Uh even the peace it talks about here is part of their welfare, right? You'll you'll avoid a lot of trouble if only you'll listen from the voice of experience and of wisdom and and that kind of thing. So look again down here in chapter six, verse twenty. My son, observe the commandment of your father, and do not forsake the teaching of your mother. Bind them continually on your heart. Tie them around your neck. It's probably easier to understand binding them continually on your heart. I mean take them take them to heart, right? What does he mean tie them around your neck? Well that's that's I mean that that's always no picky picture of just having something really close by. Okay, the it's close by and as Brian was saying, other people can actually see it as well. It's a constant reminder. Think of it leading you. Like a leash. Okay. Good. Lots of uh Lots of uh examples there. Like the black curve, the pretty word. Right. you know, uh that's right by their house and they'll touch it if you'll kiss it as they go in, speak the God's word. It's meant to be a reminder, right? Right. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, I'll hear that. Right, right. Meant to be a a continual reminder, indeed. Uh let's go down to thirteen twenty-four. He who spares his rod hates his son. But he who loves him disciplines him diligently. So the rod here is referring to corporal punishment, chastisement, spanking, if you will So why is it that he who doesn't do that with his son hates him? That was my mother's favorite verse. You know, and sometimes disciplining a child is almost a punishment on you. takes some privilege away but it puts more load on your shoulder. But you're doing it because it's for their good, not for your good. So it it's um If you just want what's convenient, that's not necessarily gonna teach and train your child. So it's just like you're hating it. You hate what's y you don't What's best for you, we want what's continuous to do. Mm-hmm. Right. Yeah. It's you know, you look at this person you think I I I hear all the time from from co workers You know, since they don't want to spray their children because that's unlevel. But as they continue to um um just perceive the attitude of their children. I just in my mind I'm like, you just need to give them a rod and get it over with you know. Not saying that that's gonna be all but They're not loving them to let them continue to make behavior. Right but they think that's loving to not, you know, give them a right But they're not doing themselves or their children a just uh a justice by not giving them the problem Yeah, so we saw late uh earlier, you know, as we compared the um um the wisdom of God and those who are fools, right, that the natural progression well it one of the verses I forget now if we have it here, we probably do. Um one of the verses we saw in Proverbs is that foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, right? What is that? It's sin. They they come to us as sinners. They don't become sinners later. Um and so That sin will have an impact on the way they go if it's not um corrected Whose responsibility is it mainly to correct it? The parents, right? And so if it's not corrected, where is that sin going to lead them? Foolish becoming fools, all sorts of trouble and and sort of the things that um even these other verses, you know, length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. That the opposite of that, of course, if they don't get that teaching fr and discipline from their parents, is a shortened life possibly, and uh trouble and all those sort of things. Uh and so it's not loving to basically intentionally lead them into that. Right? The loving thing is to help them see and help them learn the alternative. And that's God's design. Right. I don't other kids, I don't care what they I I really don't. Right. Oh yeah. Right. I love her. And um You make a good point there and I'm bringing turn if you have your Bibles, turn to Hebrews chapter twelve. And start with verse four. You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood and you're striving against sin. And you have forgotten the exhortation which is addressed to you as sons. And here it's quoting uh Proverbs three eleven, I believe. My son, do not regard lightly Yes. The discipline of the Lord. We've got that as our second passage here. Nor faint when you are reproved by him, for those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines. And he scourges every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as sons, for what son is there whom his father does not discipline? But if you're without discipline, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. That is, if you haven't had that discipline. Furthermore, we had earthly fathers to discipline us, and we respected them. Shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of Spirits? And lived, and lived. For they, our human parents, disciplined us for a short time as seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good so that we may share his holiness. All discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful, but sorrowful. Yet to those who have been trained by it, afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. You know what what I find interesting is scripture and places like that use the example of human parents to teach us something about the character and and practice of God in parenting us But in reality, most of us as parents need to understand first how God parents us so that we can copy him. Um and this is a maybe a good example of that. So um He who spares his rod, and again, uh I think I mentioned in earlier week that this word for rod, don't think of a a hard, stiff rod as we would use the word rod. Uh it's really in the Hebrew the word for branch, and so it it brings to mind sort of like a switch, a little branch, a twig or something. That's uh meant to sting but not to do harm. Right. And by the way, what does that sting do? Whether it's spanking or a switch or w w w you don't want to have it again. Okay, so it's very unpleasant and You're thinking about the future, Willie? Yes. Sin has consequences. So there's a teaching value and as as Anne was suggesting, there there's a long-term effect on your memory. It's therefore going to uh influence your choices and decisions going forward. And it's not just in the in the category of of discipline like this. There are lots of natural consequences that are painful Right? You're running when you shouldn't be, or you're not looking and you fall and you scrape your knee, there's a lot of pain there. You can even break your leg in some cases. There's a lot of pain Pain is God's gift to us to say, wake up. Learn from this. Right? That's just God's design. And we should be thankful for that. Okay. Here's one I like. 176. Grandchildren are the crown of old men. And the glory of sons is their fathers. How is it the grandchildren of the crown of old men? Your reward for raising your own children, right? Yeah, certainly if if um someone has invested in their children and sees that investment um bearing dividends and replicating itself in the tr in their training of the grandchildren, that's certainly very satisfying. And there's someone you could spoil. Yeah, well, yeah. You spoil a good pet. Oh, oh, oh, right. Yeah, so we one of the benefits of of grandchildren is you get many of the benefits but none of the responsibilities, right? Yeah I I think of a crown in two different ways. One could be a reward. You know, you win something, you win a crown. The other is a a a leadership role And you think of households when there's a i a a central grandfatherly figure and all the family comes around for the holiday Yeah, that's an interesting picture. Right? Yep. So there's there's again two sides to that coin. From the grandparents' perspective, um Uh there's maybe some responsibility even down the generations as an example, as a counselor and and that kind of thing, from the perspective of the children and the grandchildren uh there's perhaps just a built-in incentive to seek out the wisdom. Yeah, because we think uh it in the situations if you i if your children are responding to you as a an authority, the grandchildren are learning to honor those who are older than they are. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Good 1721. He who begets a fool does so to his sorrow, and the father of a fool has no joy. What does that word beget mean? Okay. Become the father of. Okay. So someone someone has a child, he begets the child But they're all fools from their first guide. Yeah, so let's think about this. So some of those who are are born into this life are fools and some are not fools. Is that what it's saying? No. What is it saying? Yes. So if the parent allows the child to become a fool Who does that reflect on? Well it reflects on the fool, but it also reflects on the parents. Right? He who begets a fool does so to his sorrow. It may be a lot of regret after the fact when it's too late, kind of sorrow. Or it can be the realization that, you know, I didn't invest in him the way I should have to teach him right from wrong. He's become obviously a fool And that's a heavy weight to carry, right? Now I'm just showing that on what you're saying about you know clearing the rod and how that's sometimes done for a convenience. I'm also thinking about the parents who don't discipline because they don't want their children to be upset with them. They want to be their children's friends. And all the while they're forgetting that you know nobody wants or really like to be disciplined, but Kids really do got on any need, but they want that structure. They want those boundaries Yeah, and even uh as Hebrews 2 said, if even if in the at the moment they don't come to that conclusion, the cumulative effect of it is, yes, I realize I need this Particularly in those times of non conflict when I'm thinking rationally. Um uh for sure. Yeah. Kids normally need it but they often know they need it. Or they come to it when they get old. Certainly but if if they're not a fool. Yeah. Let's say a a variant case at all. If they do spank the child a lot But he he does because he doesn't want to deal with the child's foolishness, but he doesn't do it well. Would it have the same effect? Yes, and you raise a very good point. Um the the um Yeah, I'm looking for the passage here and I don't see it, but um uh there's a right way and a wrong way. to administer that that chastisement, that correction, that that spanking. Um The wrong way is to do it bec out of anger, and where does that anger start from? I'm inconvenienced. I'm disappointed. It's all about me, and you're gonna pay for it. So it's it's the idea of meeting out justice or um just getting back at the child out of frustration and and anger and so on. And That can easily lead to abuse in the moment, but it almost always leads to resentment and the opposite of what we want in the long term. And I think also there's a when when you do that you don't get the child's respect, you get fear. And fear is different from respect respect like a child will respect you if they feel like they'll be disciplined in love. But if if you'd be disciplined just because it's disobedient then there is a fear and a Right. And then when there's no respect and then no love back to that parent, then the child would Just we bow. Right. That's how I see you. Right. So um much as we read in Hebrews twelve Uh the motive needs to be the benefits and training of the child, not the um satisfaction of ourselves. And because of that, often it comes and it's needed at the least convenient times. Anybody notice that? Um and that's one reason the parents um either respond in anger or or frustration or something. Or they don't respond at all because it's just not the right time. Um and I think in either of those cases the parents are not thinking long term. And when I say long term, I'm thinking not just tomorrow, but where is this child, what trajectory is he going to be on if I'm consistently not addressing the sin? Right? Now, we talked a little while ago, a number of weeks ago, about righteousness. Righteousness is doing the right thing, right? And is it possible to do the right thing without being pleasing to God? Yes. So what's key is the heart. Right? When Jesus said, uh unless your righteousness surpasses that of the r the scribes and Pharisees, you'll not see the kingdom of heaven And that blew away all the people who heard that because who could be more righteous than the Pharisees on the outside? That's what people look at. What's God look at? the heart. So how how is a parent going to um Um, I think that's a good idea. Not just focusing on the actions, punishing you for the actions, but working on the heart of the child. Why did you do that? Do you see the wisdom of God that that is not in your interest? It's not in the interest of the person you hit. Why did you do that? And ultimately it comes down to their selfishness, right? And they need to grapple with their sinful heart Which is why often uh in these passages you'll see a father pleading with his son, give me your heart Right. Um so y you know, it it's easy to create a Pharisee, so you're Your children know that all you're looking at is the outside behavior, and they'll, as long as they need to, while you're looking, they will do all the right things. You've created a Pharisee. That's easy. The hard part is focusing on the heart. So that they're humble before the Lord. They're seeking to do the right things for the right reasons. From the heart. Sometimes um I know you know I I'm seeing this from that people. Um He can't really tell the heart. From the meeting this but I mean one of my brother Um momente and there was employee time to think you got all kinds of things we did He sent me to my room. I think the universe. So to do A burst of two as Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good example. Yeah, you've got to focus on the heart, which is what God does when he disciplines us. Right. Pam, did you have a hand up? Um I it there's a phrase that I had about the few years that says loving discipline has much benefit. And when I think of that, even you know, back when when I started disciplining, um it starts with me searching my heart and then deciding, you know, as I search my heart decide your way to address because sometimes you can't address it at the time because you might be out of family or whatever, but make a note to say okay I need to talk to you at a proper time because sometimes discipline takes a it's not a fifteen minute thing. It takes longer at times than you're going forward your time. And I know sometimes it would felt like I was doing it every day. But it t it takes time because you want them to uh to understand what they've you know, really unravel what's going on in their heart and help them to take responsibility for what they've done and times you get, why are you striking it? You know, I'm like, okay, I'm doing it because I'm being obedient to God and this is my responsibility. And I said I'm enjoying it, I want to make sure you understand that I have a responsibility first. train and to teach you and that it's uh and so explaining all those things sometimes you can't do it when you're around Yeah. Yeah, a lot of the explaining, and that explaining is important, isn't it? To get to their understanding and their heart. Uh a lot of that ought to probably happen in times of non-conflict Where they're more rational, they're teachable and and this kind of thing. Yeah. Um I'll go to uh I'll let you add that. I grew up in the family when my family wasn't speaking. And I I was I was the world was perfect. I mean we would like off the world to and there wasn't anything like I mean you know you've done well and you can effectively. And um the the the the thing was expected I mean we were I wouldn't reach it in one second of the Um because the love the the love that he gave to us wasn't the love of the moment that we just love us of the in other things. Mm-hmm. that he lost us in everything that we see. And so when it came from this thing, I we can't say that it's anything else. I mean it the love that God's love, he is love. And so when he is chastising us, you know what thing then we understand that it's not included to our groups. And so I think it's most of them the as a child you don't if you don't receive the general law the relationship that already exists in the house of of parents and children. That it's a it's a loving environment, a loving family environment where if a child does wrong and it eats on the child they cannot dance you a lot. Right. The context is the loving relationship. Right. And so if the the the child is point at her in any way that you choose to by the way I think we have we received it even in our home. I mean the treatments that we had were different. I think we just had to give them across too. Um physically or And and so I would really just say that the family context is very important for child music. Right. Because these are child is used like Okay, my father loves me, my mother loves me, no matter no matter what. And if I do wrong, I receive what I have. Yes. Excellent point. Um and that's God's design That this discipline's happening within the context of a loving relationship of the parent and the child. And I'm convinced That if any child is absolutely convinced that their parents love them and are sacrificially showing it But they're also absolutely convinced that the parents mean what they say and there are consequences when that's violated. If those two things are in place, you don't have to be a Christian But you're shaping the heart of those child of those children the way God designed it. Yeah. Was there another hand I saw? Yeah, okay. Doing things with the right heart and motive, it gets me in line of work at school. And I have this issue that a lot of the results Don't agree with me, but I am not a fan of sports apology. When the kids do say And the automatic you need to respond, you need to tell them that you're sorry. I said, wait a minute. If the king isn't sorry, don't make them apologize. It's too empty and it's going to happen again. What I like to do is try to work with the child, get them to understand their actions be impact it has, hopefully then they will feel sorrow and you can move to that apology. But a forced apology I think is the worst thing Coming from a very experienced school counselor. But he's teaching them to BDC. Essentially, right. Um I I would also add to that, and even for any of us If um the action was intentional sin coming from the heart What's really needed is the humility that seeks forgiveness and restitution or restoring the relationship. Just saying I'm sorry doesn't cut it When I intentionally sought to bring you down. Other than ask it down with all the in the It wasn't intentional. What sins is intense? Yeah, exactly. Right. But but even as God did in in the Old Testament law, he distinguishes between intentional sin and unintentional sin. There is a difference. It can still be sin even though it wasn't intentional. Yes, right. Um but do you find that and and and maybe not so much, maybe, but don't you find that maybe the exception with children who are so choice and who react so quickly and who haven't really had time to um to I don't think we use the word man, but In other words, little kids do what comes hurdle. They say what they think, they, you know, you take you take that to me and I'll slap your hand and get it back kind of thing. So don't you think that with little kids in particular? children that I say ninety percent of what they do really is intentional in the fact that it's reactionary more so than anything Yeah. Did you think that um I I don't know how to put a percentage on it, but I would distinguish between Actually three things. One is intentional sin, which is knowing its sin before I do it, premeditated. Unintentional sin, which is like um a child running up to you while you're talking with someone and and completely interrupting you or taking center stage just to ask, are we going yet? Right. You know, complete disrespect and everything. That's sin But it wasn't premeditated uh willful uh rebellion in that sense. It wasn't designed to hurt. No, it was just out of Yeah. But it but it needs to be corrected. But there's another category which I would call uh non-moral errors. As they're growing, like falling off a bike, you know, and things that are not moral skills they do that are are wrong that need to be corrected, but it's it's a different kind of error than either of the two kinds of sin. Um and I I don't know what the percentages are, but but yeah. Somebody over here yes. So just to kind of understand I know that sometimes children will also I didn't mean to, but the effect is still there. Like sin is spinning, unintentional and part and it intentional just changes the consequence, not the the actual effect. Right. And I know that I've had some people whenever they're apologizing to me or you know book war whenever I would apologize to someone I would be like, oh well my intent was it doesn't really matter what my intense but I still cause harm or I sin. Right. And very rarely do I I I come in contact with a child who understands the difference between what the effect was versus what the intention Right. Intentionally changes can change for the consequences. Or at least the the the punishment, the the form of punishment or whatever. Like if you're being unintentional and you don't understand what you're hurting my feelings, then that opens up the door for conversation and like obviously this is communication. here and with kids sometimes like I said we're not like one of our babies sitting my niece my nephew well I didn't mean to and Maurian I love to sweet heart for kids Yeah, and of course kids can be very skillful in playing the I didn't mean to part too, right? Well, and probe enough to know what's going on in the heart. Yeah, that that's what I the heart is. And for a long time I thought we had two strong little kids. And it turns out we had one truly strong little defying child. And the other one, it was a self-control Issues. And when I realized, and they still have this issue, it's like they're very quick to come without any promising to come back and ask for forgiveness, to say that they're sorry. But in the moment because there's such a you know passionate like um it's just a lack of self control and it took a long time to realize that because it makes the difference in kind of discipline. If you know that they're being willful, you know, that's one you have to discipline that in one way. But if you know that they don't they want to follow the rules, it's more of a self control issue. Then you work on that. And so I really think it comes down to knowing the heart of your child. And what um and of course you speak to gospel as all of that because I've had definitely I've had some of my children and you know It's like if somebody gets hit with a car and the person dies, it doesn't matter whether the person who ran everything intended to do it or not You still have somebody, you know? And so our sometimes, you know, it it's the consequences to that other person are still there, right? That's right. And that has to be addressed. Very important that you you cause the image for whether you meant to do it or not. For sure, definitely. Good example. Uh yes. No, just thinking with all of this that you look at the Calvary situation, Christ on the cross And there's really three contingents in the crowds. There's the Pharisees who were completely premeditated. And then there's the crowd who started yelling, Crucify them, but they're not extremely exactly sure why. Christ said, Father forgive them for they know not what they do. But then you also have the Roman soldiers who are who are killing the Christ. But they're just doing their job. And so really the third category of people who is sinful good, but they have no idea and they didn't even call for this death. And so it's a fallen world Interesting. Yeah, you've got all all those categories. Yep. Uh I wasn't planning to spend the entire uh hour on the parenting thing. However, it does maybe raise the opportunity to say if if you're in or expecting to be in the situation of parenting children and you want biblical help in doing that, um we have a class called Parenting Toddlers to Teens. That takes you through 18 weeks of this kind of discussion and application. So I would highly recommend that. We offer it at least once a year. Okay. I want to turn to page sixty nine Uh and so Proverbs has a whole lot to say in this context of family. um violations of God's design. And adultery of course being the the most common one that's that's um addressed here, sometimes uh very graphically, really But I want to draw your attention to chapter five, verse seven, toward the bottom of page sixty-nine. Um the context here is starting in verse three. The lips of an adulterous drip honey, in other words, it Sounds good, it's enticing, I'm attracted to that. It's smoother than oil is her speech, but in the end she has bitter wormwood Sharp as a two-edged sword, her feet go down to death, and so on. But in verse seven, the advice here, now then, my sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth Keep your way far from her and do not go near the door of her house, lest you give your vigor to others and so on. So um I think makes you think of Joseph in the Old Testament. Yes. Indeed. Let's come back to Joseph in the Old Testament. Turn to page 71. for a moment. And the the thought question here at the bottom, part B. We're told in Scripture, you know, we have three major I'm not sure if I mentioned this before, but we have three major um battles as believers, we battle the world, the flesh, and the devil. Right? And so we're told in Scripture To stand firm and resist the devil, and he will flee from us. There's several passages there that speak to that. And we're told to transform our minds in defense against worldly values. How do we transform our minds? Scripture, align our thinking with Scripture, right? So that we won't be conformed to the world. However, it says we are to flee from sexual temptation. flee youthful immorality, right? And and so on. My observation is that left our own devices We tend to want to flee from Satan and stand firm against sexual temptation. We get it exactly backwards. We should instead do what Scripture says, stand firm against Satan. He's defeated. And we've got the armor of God protecting us and so on. But we are to flee from sexual temptation. And so we go back to Proverbs. And he says here, keep your way far from her and do not go near the door of her house. What is he doing? He's not only fleeing a circumstance, he's not making provision for that circumstance. Right? That's a form of fleeing. Position yourself so you don't even have to flee. You're preventing that temptation because you know it's there. And so when we get to um chapter seven, and this is my favorite knitwit in Proverbs You know, he he goes down her street and he should have known better right from the outset. But he's he's caught with the hook and he's He's like a ox going to slaughter. Lots of friends are saying this having friends that are members of the opposite sex Mm. And you know, before Christ I used to I used to hang out with anybody. It didn't matter to me I just didn't have a lot of your judgment. And I've come to realize that if you're really going to position yourself to not be tempted, then you can't have friends of the opposite sex in the sense that you're hanging out with males when you have a husband Even if you have no attraction to that person at all, if you spend time with somebody and you start to develop connections on there's something that can develop. I don't keep company with mail if my husband is not around. Except for a fourth violent family. But it to me it's a disaster waiting to happen. Yeah. Make no provision for the flesh. Right Um it doesn't mean that um we're not friendly with and don't have you know a wide circle of friends and so on. But particularly being alone And um exclusive and um yeah. Yeah, particularly when you're married. But even when you're not married, you need to be careful. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Um and here in the Bible and this was written there it talks most about the woman, uh married woman and today it it's not as much that anymore. that the young man struggles with. Um, in my country I'm from Brazil so young guys start having sexual relationships at a very young age. Twelve, thirteen teens I don't in America the young men struggle with pornography the most. You know, because they don't have the freedom. Not that one is better than the other. I'm not saying that they're both seeing and bad. But I'm saying like how I see that a lot in in my country, like you know, kids very young teenagers having children Mm-hmm. And it's it's uh most you know, um Latino countries are like that. And in America there is more of a moral standard and that's not accepted so but boys he struggles with um pornography so badly he's such a strange for the mother of the young boys myself the young Man, it's just it's something that it's it's very hard. It's a a struggle for them, especially the boys that um goes in church, you know, that goes to church. So that's something that like as a Christian mother, like how how you deal with that, you know, with that struggle Well um actually uh uh I meant to mention this in the context of parenting generally but also here in in this context. One of the best things we can do with our children and training them up in the way they should go is to do a study with them of Proverbs. Help them see uh in fact this maybe I can confess this. This set of notes my sons put together in a study I did with them. And I let them do the work to categorize all the passages and we discuss them. And did you do it with your daughters too? Um no, because my sons had already helped to develop it. I mean we w went through it, yes. Yeah. Yeah. Um But sensitizing our children to God standards and the reasons for them, the wisdom of it, and the the um admonitions here. Don't go near her, right? Make no provision for the flesh. And as each of these passages tend to tell us, there are consequences when you cross that line. And temptation is a is a pernicious thing. And it can hit at any time, and we are instructed to not make any provision for the flesh. And there's a good reason for that. Yeah. Um yes. It's everywhere. Yeah, everywhere. I mean it's glorifying, lovely glory That's right. And how can you um watch it with your kids? Or you don't. You need to do two things. One is to protect them when they're young so they're not exposed to things that they can't yet handle But then you need to prepare them for that world out there from a uh biblical perspective, a God-honoring perspective, so that they're making good choices when you're not making those choices for them Just just a second, I think. But you cannot even watch it though. That's right. Right. So um Scripture is graphic enough. I mean some of the passages here, you can talk about the dangers and the realities and the consequences and the nature of the human heart. and the nature of temptation and the consequences. And they don't have to watch it and experience it to begin to realize the um um what we're dealing with here. Yeah, but Henry. Good point. Was there another hand? Yes. I was gonna say it's really hard to decide like what movies to watch with your kids and that kind of thing. So what we just decided is if you're sitting that we would not do, then we're not going to watch other people do it. And so one time one of our children came to Dave and he said, Can we watch this movie? And Dave just turned it over and he said, Okay, a boy sees something and he steals it and then he hides it from his parents and then he just is like well buddy, pretty much the whole Ten Commandments are uh dishonors here. Check, check, check, check. That's kind of the back of the cover. And so we're not we're not not gonna watch that. And so it does make it very limiting, but you want to limit their mind of what is you know a certain brand of children's films where the parent is always apologizing for trying to protect the child who likes this fish movie where the the dad apologizes to the fish for trying to keep them safe. And it's like that's a And we're not watching that. So it's it's like that's just a a guideline And it's it's all out there, isn't it? But um there are some movies though. You have to you have to really use wisdom. Yes. I'm just saying because there's also about. But there are some that do show stealing and or some sin that a child does, but but the movie also shows the consequence. Yes. If you watch it to the end there's always a consequence to that sin. And those actually can be the teaching. Well yeah, as a matter of fact, uh all you have to do is read the Bible. It's a lot of dirty laundry. In the Bible. But it has consequences. It has a lot of it's very specifically as a warning, right? Um, there's a difference between Entertainment. For sure. Anyway. Um Let's go and to page seventy-two. Um seems better to balance this whole This whole category of adultery with the idea of faithfulness in marriage. Um Uh so chapter five, verse fifteen, drink water from your own cistern and fresh water from your own well. Should your springs be dispersed abroad, strings of water in the street? What's it talking about? Talking about your commitment to um your own spouse and rejoice in the wife of your w youth and so on And then in chapter thirty-one, of course, the excellent wife, uh how does she approach her marriage relationship? Verse twelve says, She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. And for example, in Verse 27, she looks well to the ways of her household, does not eat the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and bless her, her husband also, and he praises her, saying Many daughters have done no believe, but you excel them all. Um God has well, yeah, there's a lot of dirty laundry um in terms of faithlessness in marriage in Scripture, there as a warning to us. But the result of that is is is showing what happens when you depart from God's design. And it is God's design, right? Marriage is not something that human beings thought up It's God's design. And we violate that design to our um detriment. Uh that's a that's a tame word. But um all these problems that you see are because we're violating God's design, which he Created for our good, for our blessing, our enjoyment, and yet we We botch it when we violate his design. So faithfulness in marriage is is the the the theme that you get even from all that dirty laundry, I say dirty laundry, you know, all those negative examples. They're there to show us what happens Um you know like the bickering between two wives. If the if ever there was a a warning against um uh bigamy It would be, you know, the examples you see in Genesis of these these competing wives, um, it's it's just who wants to go there? That's just violating God's design. Solomon should know. Solomon should know that in space. That's right. You're right. Okay, let's go to page 73. A lot of teaching in Proverbs is devoted to wives generally and women. 12. 4 says, An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who shames him is as rottenness in his bones. So there's obviously a wide range of of uh character there 14. 1. The wise woman builds her house, but the foolish tears it down with her own hands. We may have talked about this uh many weeks ago, but when it speaks of building her house, what is what's it talking about? Household, family, it's it's not the structure of the building, but rather the family. structure. She builds that as an investment. She puts her time into it to build it well and um That's wise, it says here. But the foolish one tears all that down with her own hands. That is her own actions. 1913, a foolish son is destruction to his father, and the contentions of a wife are a constant dripping. It's like that ancient Chinese water torture drip. Trip, trip. Um so that would be a warning. Uh nineteen fourteen. House and wealth are an inheritance from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the Lord. God uh graciously um Provides spouses for those particularly who are um submitted to him and um uh Um ultimately you're looking for a a spouse who whom God has um In mind for you. For your good, for your spouse's good. And God is sovereign over all that. If we don't um rebel against his leading. Um And of course 3110 says an excellent wife who can find her worth is far above jewels. Far above jewels. I guess Solomon didn't find one because he kept looking Actually there's a verse in Ecclesiastes that basically says that. Okay. Let's go to page 74. Again, we're talking about the family here. One we talked a little bit about grandparents, but the aged 1631. A gray head is a crown of glory, and it is found in the way of righteousness. What's that mean? You're gonna go out and dye your hair gray? It happens on its own, okay. What's the association here between a gray head and um righteousness? I think it means like a older person has already fine with that. Okay. So an older person has acquired wisdom and so on. Okay. That comes with time. Okay. You remember those other passages we saw here in Proverbs said the um uh wisdom leads to length of life, right? And so someone who has a longer life is bound to, you know, in in general, have more gray hair than someone who dies prematurely because of their foolishness. Right? That's part of it. So but the the general principle there is we should we should recognize that those who are older have more experience, more wisdom, and um Value that. Yeah. Look at um twenty, verse twenty nine. The glory of young men is their strength, and the honor of old men is their gray hair. If they have any hair at all. And then 23-22, listen to your father who begot you, and do not despise your mother when she is old. Right? So the repeated lesson here uh uh not only in Proverbs but elsewhere is that we need to have a a necessary respect for our elders, our uh parents, grandparents, anyone who is more uh experienced and wiser than we. It doesn't mean that they're gonna be right on every topic, but we need to uh give them the the respect and deference that uh is due them if for no other reason than they they've traveled this life a lot longer than you have And this reminds me of a a story. Last week I saw an old Grunt grandmother helping the Boy Scout across the street basically from the state That's the good counterparts of the one I told you is that. Yeah. Okay. Well, uh real quickly on page seventy-five, widows and orphans, fifteen twenty-five, the Lord will tear down the house of the proud, but he will establish the boundary of the widow. And 23. 10, do not remove the ancient boundary or go into the fields of the fatherless, for their redeemer is strong, he will plead their case against you. So God, and you see this throughout the Old Testament, particularly and even the New Testament, God has a special place for the defenseless. Widows, particularly in in those earlier times, didn't have many options. Uh and the fatherless, same thing. uh orphans. And um God gave instructions to Israel to how to care for them and so on. Um And the the point is that that we should all uh be particularly attentive to the defenseless. Doesn't this refer to their inheritance inheritance like the boundaries are very important because that's the boundaries of their land. And people who would move on would want to take something away from late. It would be stealing, essentially, right. So there there are there are many things people could do to take advantage of those who are somewhat defenseless. disadvantaged even. And i there's strong warnings against that. All right. Well, let's close in prayer.