We're on lesson two. Last week we had sort of uh uh an introduction to uh the book, uh who wrote it and um uh when it was written, who it was written to, that kind of thing. And we're going to continue that overview today by looking more at the book itself and its organization, what's in it, and how we can interact with it. So we have on page 12 uh kind of a high-level overview of uh how the book is structured. And uh that first set of seven verses kind of is a preamble to the whole book And so it says the the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, King of Israel. And then it he doesn't he doesn't say um here's why I'm assembling these proverbs. He just gets right into it. Here's the why. To know wisdom and instruction To discern the sayings of understanding, to receive instruction in wise behavior, righteousness, justice, and equity. To give prudence to the naive, to the youth, to give knowledge and instruction A wise man will hear an increase in learning, and a man of understanding will acquire wise counsel. To understand a proverb and a figure, the words of the wise and their riddles, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Did I say wisdom? It says knowledge here. Yeah. It's written both ways in various verses and passages in Scripture. So there's his sort of preamble. It's all about wisdom, it's all about these various synonyms of wisdom uh knowledge, instruction, discernment, discretion, wise counsel, and so on So the rest of the book, uh at a very high level, uh even the first uh the r right through uh chapter nine you can still think of as something of an introduction uh where it's dealing with various aspects of acquiring wisdom So one of the problems, of course, in acquiring wisdom is foolishness is diametrically opposed to wisdom. And if you're wrapped up in foolishness, then you're not going to be growing in wisdom But some of the advantages of seeking wisdom, again, follow, that's foolishness, right? May prevent one from seeking wisdom The advantages of finding wisdom, not just seeking it, but finding it, and then the folly may prevent finding also. So there's a lot of related verses there, and there's some protracted illustrations of wisdom versus folly in those passages. And we'll have we'll have uh much to digest there. Well then the what is probably the the the core of the book From chapter 10 through the middle of chapter 22 is a collection of what appear to be pretty much unrelated proverbs And then there's sort of an intermediate section there, sayings patterned after earlier teachings. which are going to seem seem a little bit similar. But then another collection of unrelated Proverbs through chapter twenty-nine And so what I've done in this in this um in these outlines is gather all these quote unquote unrelated proverbs into topics, so in topical order. So we're going to be uh walking through the various topics drawing from the entire book of Proverbs. And the point is application, right? So we can learn to apply Chapter 30 is as we mentioned last week Not from King Solomon, but rather Augur. And we don't know much about him, but his sayings were encapsulated in chapter 30 And then chapter 31 is attributed to King Memuel, but from the teaching he got from his mother. And as I mentioned last week, uh King Lemuel probably is a nickname that his mother gave him to King Solomon. He's specifically a king in Israel and uh pretty much everybody understands that as a nickname for Solomon. Okay. So that's a high-level overview. Not a whole lot of structure to the book of Proverbs, but such as there is, that's it. Okay, so last week Ann gave us a good question, what is a proverb? Just kind of kind of get our our thinking straight. And on page 13, Anne was ahead of her time here. Page 13, uh we describe the nature of a proverb. So you don't have to worry about the Hebrew word, whether it's in the noun form or the verb form. It's pretty much the same word. But essentially it means that a proverb is a wise saying, a general truism. that uh c can be applied and um um Some have characterized it as carrying the dignity and respect of a natural law, sort of things that when you think about it, yeah, certainly that's got to be right. Right? And so um the the challenge of course is as you read of one of the proverbs and you say, Now what in the world is that saying? Let me think about that. And as you think about it, you realize, oh yeah, I see So it's it's uh often taken from everyday life, even though these were written from an everyday life that was quite some time ago, and so it might not connect with your everyday life, but the principles do. As spiritual in terms of not necessarily spiritual meaning in terms of the nature of God or the nature of salvation or that kind of thing. But it's all about godliness. And Uh wisdom is not just generic secular wisdom, it's God's wisdom. That's at issue here. So it is really spiritual in nature. It's if we live the way God wants us to live Good things are generally going to happen. And if we violate the way God would want us to live, bad things are probably going to happen That's what a lot of the Proverbs are saying. And so it's all about godly wisdom and godliness. It's often referring to things like righteousness. What is righteousness? Doing the right thing. Yeah, following God's ordinances, following God's wisdom, uh living the way God would want us to live. That's righteousness. Uh righteousness is all about doing. Doing the right thing. And uh it's all from God's perspective. It's not wisdom from a worldly perspective at all. And so in that sense it is very spiritual Well, they're they're still all about God's um God's design and his will for us in our living. So keep that in mind as we walk through these various ones. You know, is there a spiritual dimension to this? And I think you'll find that in most cases there is. Uh okay, so in the middle of page thirteen here there's also the statement that a proverb is Not necessarily a promise. It's not like it's always going to be characteristic of what the Proverbs is saying here. So for example Proverbs 1027. The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be shortened. So does that mean that every wicked person is going to meet an early death and all the uh godly people are going to live long lives? Not in every single case. What's the general truism? That if you live rightly, you're going to avoid a lot of things that are actually going to be fatal to you, you know, not just miserable to you, but even fatal. And so it's a general truism. And then Proverbs 3, 9 through 10, Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first of all your produce, so your barns will be filled with plenty and your vats will overflow with new wine. So um does that mean that I mean quite apart from the you know I don't think any of us have vats and and new wine, right? But just in terms of the principle, does that mean that if we if we give generously back to the Lord to his work then we're guaranteed to be rich materially? That's not what it's saying, right? Now does but what is it saying? It's saying that God will honor, he will bless those, not necessarily materially, but sometimes also materially, those who by faith are returning back to God right off the top. Top priority is to give back to God, and then by faith, he'll let me get by on what's left. God honors that. And in in a variety of ways, it doesn't mean that you won't have hardships and this kind of thing, but God does honor those who honor Him by faith. Yeah. Yeah, and so so um He changes our our hearts, our desires, and um part of the blessing that he gives us is um uh a a sort of a godly outlook on our circumstances and not so focused on it that that it's all about us. Um And so also many of the blessings are some of those blessings are bound to be um um material. I mean, God didn't hesitate to bless Solomon. Now it didn't necessarily end well for him because he didn't apply it very well, right? But um The main point is that God, and we're going to talk about that extensively when we get to that topic. But Uh the general truism here is that God blesses those who step out in faith in obedience. And Put their money where their mouth is, essentially. And he'll take care of us, right? That's what Jesus said. Seek ye first his kingdom and he'll add all this to you, right? A warning about Yes, yeah there is that and we're going to get to that when we get to the whole the whole economics sort of section of our of our verses. But yeah, there there is like there is with pretty much every doctrine and lots of of passages from Scripture, there are those who take them out of context and to the extreme and come to the conclusions that um that are not supported actually by the text of scripture. And this whole health and wealth gospel kind of thing is an example of that. But my my uh recommendation is to not let that that um Side perversion of doctrine caused us to go to the other extreme in an unbiblical way Um and it just looking at scripture for itself, uh by itself, letting scripture interpret scripture We're going to see in Proverbs lots of examples where God just enjoys blessing those who follow Him, who are obedient to Him, walking by faith. That doesn't mean they're going to get rich and we're not going to want to obey him so that we can be rich? Right. That's the wrong motive, right? But God Um God just look at look at Abraham. Right? Abraham um believed God, God credited him as righteousness, and God blessed the socks off of Abraham, uh both in his own life and multiple generations after that. Um God is a very um gracious and um compassionate god, right? And um When we walk in his ways, when we when our heart is is devoted to him and to his glory, not our own. He tends to he he doesn't of he doesn't cause us to avoid all challenges and sometimes he needs to use those, right, to to refine us, perfect us. But he also blesses. Like Job. Like Job. He ended up with double the hand. Yeah. Yeah. So The the what it really boils down to is where is our heart? Is our heart on me or is it on God? And if it's on God, like Jesus said, um God will take care of the rest If we seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, then he'll he'll take care of all these things, you know, the the the food, the clothing, that was the context. The things that we need, he'll take care of. And then I think we're going to see from Proverbs, he'll not only take care of our basic necessities, but he's more than abundant in his blessings. So we don't need to worry about that. That's the point. That's what Matthew 6 is all about, right? Don't worry about that. God's got you covered. What's our responsibility? Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. What's his righteousness mean? Doing what the good things that he wants us to do for the right reasons. We're doing it by faith. We're doing it to to exalt him, not ourselves. All of that. Right? Proverbs is going to have a lot to say about that Okay, here's a good one. Proverbs twenty thirteen. How many of you love sleep? Do not love sleep or you will become poor. Open your eyes and you will be satisfied with food. Now what's that saying? Don't be lazy. That's essentially what it's saying. And the Proverbs has a lot to say about laziness, idleness, sloth, right? So we have a responsibility to be productive, to make to be good stewards of what God's given us, resources, energy, our lives and health, and so on. Uh we need to be productive. That's why he created us and charged us to be fruitful and so on. Um and not to be lazy Similar here in Proverbs 21:5, the plans of the diligent lead surely to advantage, but everyone who is hasty comes surely to poverty. Uh it's amazing how much Proverbs has to say about poverty. We're gonna have a lot of interesting discussion there. Proverbs 21:17, he who loves pleasure will become a poor man. He who loves wine and oil will not become rich. So these proverbs are very similar, right? This diligence, this this applying ourselves responsibly is in contrast with laziness and Um pleasure seeking. Um all those things. Yep, very related. Another one I really like, Proverbs 22, 6, train up a child in the way he should go, even when he is old he will not depart from it. Now is that a guarantee? There are exceptions to that. Um but what does it say? What's it mean So parents do have a responsibility to instill those values, the training of of what's right and what's wrong, hold the children accountable to that. That's not a guarantee that they're gonna be a bright star and shining uh example of righteousness, but what does it say? Yeah, if you don't do it then you mu have a much larger probability of getting a failure, right? Um Uh but again, God delights in blessing the the um the efforts of parents who take their role r uh very seriously and responsibly. And God just God has to do the work in the child's heart Right? But a lot of that cultivation is happening by the parents and the example and all those things. So it's not a guarantee, but God none the nonetheless delights in honoring that principle. Colin, is there another hand there? Well and and but what you're saying is what I'm saying, which is it's a proverb. It's not a promise. It's it's a general truism. It it it you know, we can't as parents just say, well, the Lord is the only one who can work in their heart, so I'm going to be praying for them to to um uh get saved, my children. And then say, I've got no responsibility at all as a parent? Are you kidding? God's laid out all sorts of responsibility we have as parents. And he says the general truism is that that's going to bear fruit. You don't know when or how or whatever, but generally speaking it's going to bear fruit. Now there are exceptions. And yes, God does have to be the one who works in their heart to draw them to himself, but God delights in honoring those parents who invest in obedience to the Lord in their children. That's the general truism. So you're saying that that if if a parent does apply all those principles and and is a good example and provides good teaching and and accountability and they still end up um unsaved and maybe even um rebellious. Um that doesn't make this prom proverb any less true. It's just that that's an exception. Right. Especially when times are really hard. They'll remember it. Like when things are really when all they have is God. You know. Yeah. Sometimes they have to be brought very low for the things that are in their hearts and in their mind to bear fruit. Yeah. And keep praying. Yeah. Yeah. I can say, you know, I'm and I'm not the only parent probably in the room that has had this, but you know, kids that walk away from And we you know, at first we went to the misapplication of this scripture, you know, basically and saying, you know, what what happened? You know, was it But I think in the outgrowth of this, what we did find is kind of what Umani talked about was um uh when things do get bad, they know where to go to for the solid rock of council and everything. thing like that. So while they may not walk in the Lord, maybe you know they don't believe that's their relationship between God and them, they still know know where to come to when they need s you know the help Right. Yeah. And often the Lord has to humble them in order to bring that to their mind and their their will. Yeah. Right. Yeah, very good. Planting seeds is a good illustration. Yeah. Okay, so these are just a short list of examples, but remember it's a proverb, a general truism, that has great insight for us. But it's not a command necessarily or a um uh a guarantee, a promise. Right? There may be exceptions. Okay, so it might be helpful to walk through here uh toward the bottom of page thirteen. the various kinds of proverbs, the various kinds of literary styles that we're going to encounter. And I haven't given these the names that I've given you here. They're from another source, but I think they're helpful names. So one would be synonymous parallelism, expressing the same idea in slightly different ways. So they're parallel, right? So, Proverbs 18, 7. A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare, are the snare of his soul. Both of those are kind of saying the same thing. We need to get our speech right, right? Um because it has consequences. And so it's just two different ways of saying a very similar thing. Or the other way around, antithetical parallelism, making a point using two contrasting examples. And this is pretty common in Proverbs. Like Proverbs 12. 8, a man will be praised according to his insight, but one of perverse mind will be despised. So there's both a warning and a general truism that are pretty much opposites. So if if this is true of you, this won't be true of you. Or the other way around, right? You see a lot of that in Proverbs. And usually connecting those two halves of the Proverb will be the word but. Because of the contrast. Sometimes you get contrast though introduced with an and, but usually it's but, I think. Okay, top of page fourteen, emblematic parallelism. Who thinks up these words? I don't know Uh the the idea is to use similes. What's a simile? Mike a comparison. Right. A comparison, um a similarity using words like Like or as. Right. So you get a lot of those in in um Proverbs. Proverbs eleven twenty-two. As a ring of gold in a swine's snout now I get that picture. You got that? So is a beautiful woman who lacks discretion. So there's supposed to be some similarities here. Two different pictures, but they're saying basically the same thing. We'll talk about that when we get there. Proverbs twenty-five, eleven. Like apples of gold in settings of silver, is that a good thing or a bad thing? That sounds like a good thing. Like apples of gold in settings of silver, is a word spoken in right circumstances You can kind of see what's going on there, right? That's a good thing. Right. Then there's synthetic parallelism. Using the second line to amplify the first, kind of intensify it. So Proverbs 16, 4. The Lord has made everything for its own purpose even the wicked for the day of evil. So amplifying or maybe being narrowing the scope, it's it applying it specifically to a particular illustration. Then there's what you might call formal parallelism. Which takes a variety of forms here. Let's look at some examples. Proverbs 1531. He whose ear listens to the life-giving reproof Will dwell among the wise. So um there's kind of a cause and effect thing going on there. Um It's in this case it's talking about who and then what. So Uh Proverbs 16, 7. When a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. So again, there's this cause and effect kind of thing. Proverbs sixteen twelve It is an abomination for kings to commit wicked acts, for a throne is established on righteousness. That works the other way around. If the throne is built on righteousness, then the king's um Acts are going to be pleasing to the Lord, not an abomination. Let's look at the last one there. Proverbs 15, 16. Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and turmoil with it. So you can see what's going on there about the contrast, right? Uh it may seem like it's a good thing to have great treasure, but uh it's often associated with a great turmoil. And so compare that with having a little, but there's an appropriate fear of the Lord and relationship with the Lord. And the two are far from comparable. Yeah. He says it's far better to have just a little about the fear of the Lord. Okay, so there are a variety of teaching methods that are used in the uh book of Proverbs. One are actual commands or prohibitions. So for example, Proverbs 16, 3, commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established. So that's not a, it doesn't even say if. It says, here's what you need to do. Commit your works to the Lord. Right? That's an imperative. But then there's also here an example in Proverbs 23:9 of a prohibition, just the opposite of an imperative. Do not speak in the hearing of a fool. For he will despise the wisdom of your words. In terms of not being a promise I mean, being a an imperative. It just says commit your ways to the Lord. Here it just says train up the child in the world. Right. So an imperative with a general consequence doesn't mean it's a an imperative with a guarantee. It means it's a general truism. That's the exact same thing. That's right. Yeah. So this could have been an example in that earlier list for the same reason. Well they're they're um parallel, yeah, very similar concepts. No, but the general truism that if you really are committing your works to the Lord, it's all about Him and not about you. See if you're committing your works to Him in name only But in your heart, this is to magnify me and get what I want, but I'll go through the motions and say this is for the Lord, that's not really committing it to the Lord, right? Committing your works to the Lord means, Lord, I'm your servant, I'm your slave, I'm here to do your will. I think this is what would bring you the most glory. I'm going to step out in faith, hoping that you agree and um I'm going to be obedient to all the principles I understand from your word. And I'm doing this, Lord, genuinely for you, and it's for your glory, not mine. That is committing your work to the Lord. And if we do that, then the general truism is that your plans will be established. Now he may redirect you a little bit along the way Um but again he delights in answering those kinds of prayers. But it's not a guarantee because we don't know his ultimate um sovereign will, right? He may actually have um a plan for us to suffer for a while He may have a plan for us to do something completely different, but if we're stepping out in faith, we're going to be sensitive to his leading. And he'll direct you know the m mind of a man plans his way, but what? The Lord directs the steps. Another proverb. And so it's his directing our steps that we need to be sensitive to as we go out with the right heart attitude. So it's a general truism, but it's not a guarantee in every single situation. That's the point. Right. Yeah. So that's that's part of the way he uh it seems ironic or contradictory, but it's one of the ways he blesses us. Right? Uh because that that um uh those trials he uses to refine us and to to make us what he wants us to be. And that ought to be what we want. And yet how often do we pray for escape from the trials? And it's those very things that he wants to use to refine us. Um yeah, so uh same kind of thing. It's general truism Another example here is illustrations or of traits or actions to follow or avoid, and there are quite a number of those. Proverbs fourteen thirty-one. He who oppresses the poor taunts his maker, that is God. But he who is gracious to the needy honors him, honors God. So uh there's a lot implied in that, and we're going to talk more about it when we get there. But you see the use of illustrations here very often in Proverbs. Uh it's it's a y good teaching method. Illustrations of often help to connect the concept with reality, right? Um And then stories. I didn't print out here that whole passage, but if you're you're familiar with Proverbs 7, this is uh kind of a narrative of a nitwit who gets That's that's a biblical term. Um a a nitwit who who has no um sense and wanders into the territory of a harlot, gets tempted by her, falls for her her um uh conniving schemes and uh he's like a like an ox, I think it says, led to slaughter. Yeah And uh so it it it has a powerful lesson, but it it's presented in terms of a of a story. And uh there are a few of those in Proverbs Another one that's interesting is personified speech, where wisdom itself is talking. And um Uh foolishness also, folly is talking in in a parallel uh portion. So uh those are somewhat interesting Lists are given quite a few times, and there's a kind of a Hebrew poetic form that's going on here. For example, in Proverbs 6 There are six things which the Lord hates, yes, seven which are an abomination to him. Do you see how it starts with six and then goes to seven? Other passages, you know, there are three things, no, there are four things. It's a Hebrew way of emphasizing the the general principle And in this case, uh seven which are an abomination to him, haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans. feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies, and one who spreads strife among brothers Now, I think if you looked at the entirety of Scripture, you could add a lot to that list, but this is just a way to highlight specific things that ought to be uh red flags to us in terms of what's pleasing to God versus what's not. Right? Often the Proverbs provide the moral reasons for the instructions. Look at Proverbs 1920. Listen to counsel and accept discipline. Why? That you may be wise the rest of your days. So it could have said those who listen to counsel and accept discipline will be wise the rest of their days, and there are several proverbs that basically say that. This one, though, is more cause and effect. It's not only cause and effect, but sort of the moral reason why you would want to do this. That you may be wise the rest of your days. And then Proverbs 3. 11 and 12. My son, do not reject the discipline of the Lord or loathe his reproof. We were talking about hardships and trials and so on. Why? For the Lord loves, or for whom the Lord loves, he reproves, even as a father corrects the son in whom he delights. That passage is quoted in Hebrews 12, and as a great example, what the writer of Hebrews is saying is that this is the way the Lord treats us. And those like a loving father who brings reproof and discipline to us, it's for our our benefit. And it's coming out of his love for us Another teaching method or poetic style here is the acrostic poem. You know what an acrostic is, right? So at the very end of Proverbs, verses 10 through 31 of chapter 31 Each of the verses begins with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And so there are twenty-two twenty-two characters in the Hebrew alphabet. They didn't have to worry about things like vowels, you know. Who who needs vowels? So they only had twenty-two characters. Um And um if you know Hebrew, which I don't, it's all Greek to me, but Um if you know Hebrew and you see that, you immediately are seeing this is a poetic uh structure to help people remember it. Right? And I'm sure that would be helpful. Okay. Lessons drawn from comparisons. Another kind of teaching method here So there are things that appear distinct but really are similar and so you might have to think about it. Okay, so how are those? How are those connected? Proverbs 14, 4 might be a good one. Where no oxen are, the manger is clean. Now, how many of you have oxen or mangers or anything? Probably none of you. So it it it won't be as immediate to you as it might have been to the original readers But where no oxen are, the manger is clean. What's the manger for? Feeding the animals. Like the oxen, right? And so if you don't have any oxen, are you going to likely have f Any feed in the manger? No need to, right? Where no oxen are, the manger is clean. But who wants a clean manger? Right? He says, but much revenue comes by the strength of the ox. Why does much revenue come by the strength of the ox? Oh my gosh, he he uh multiplies the amount of production that you can produce, right? I mean you could do it yourself But it would take you years to do what you and your ox could do together. And so much revenue comes by the strength of an ox. So is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's a good thing And so having an ox is a good thing. So it's saying, don't be so concerned about how clean your manger is. It's a good thing to have an ox. And if you're going to have an ox, you're going to have a manger that has food in it. Well, not your food, but food for an ox. Um so they are connected. Yeah. An oxymoron? Some kind of a moron, I don't know. Okay, well how about the other way around? Things that seem the same but really are different. This these kind of get your mind thinking, right? Proverbs 27, 7. A sated man, what does sated mean? Filled to the brim. Filled to the brim. In his tummy, right? A sated man loathes honey. Why? He's full. It is it you know, even even ice cream isn't really gonna attract him at this point. But to a famous man, any bitter thing is sweet. Is that s the same thing or di the opposite? Well it's using the opposite example to say basically the same thing. that um what how we evaluate food depends on the nature and the condition of our stomach and whether it's much or little, right? Um okay. Well, I'll let you read through the rest of these. Well let's go down to number six. Sayings that indicate relative values Proverbs 27, 3. A stone is heavy, and the sand is weighty, that is, if you give a bunch of it, but the provocation of a fool is heavier than both of them. So the stone and the sand are weighty in a physical sense But he's saying that in a similar way, the provocation of a fool has more consequence than either of them. It's a heavy thing. Okay. Um I'm flipping over to page sixteen. And there's a number of words that are used in Proverbs that um we'll be encountering all the way through. And I thought it would be helpful to provide a little background on each of them. Clearly words well there are both positive words and negative words. And sometimes they're contrasted in the same verses. Um clearly a lot of them uh include reference to wisdom and being wise Again, righteousness, what does it mean to be righteous? It means to do the right things. To be upright is often a synonym for it. To do the right things. I you know, I used to think that righteousness and holiness were synonyms, but they're not Righteousness and justice are synonyms. If you're doing the right thing, then you will be just. If Uh God is just when he does the right thing. Of course he's always just. He's always righteous. Because he always does the right thing. A judge, even a human judge, is just he executes justice if he does the right thing. So he's presented the facts and the the the prevailing law and he does the right thing. Now an unjust judge would do what The wrong thing. He could be twisted away from the facts, away from the law, uh whatever it might be, and that would be unjust. So, uh, righteousness is doing right, doing the right thing. Ideally, it's doing the right thing for the right reasons By the way, you remember um in Matthew five On Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees, you will not see the kingdom of God. Now, if you were listening to him say those words, You would be blown out of your seat. Because what can you say about the righteousness of the Pharisees? Well the right thing. And so the people listening to Jesus were thought, you've got to be kidding. I've got to be more righteous than the the Pharisees. I mean, they pride themselves on Not not making any mistakes. But that's the point. That's what Jesus was saying, right? Your righteousness needs to surpass that of the Pharisees. How It needs to be from the heart, not just superficial. Jesus said, you're just a bunch of whitewashed tombs look great on the outside, but you're full of dead men's bones on the inside, right? And so if we're doing the right thing, it's important to do the right things, but it's important to do the right things for the right reasons. So it's from the heart. Even by faith, trusting God, yeah. Yes. Yes. Well that is true. And it's really saying the same thing. How is it that we can do the right things for the right reasons? It's not in our own strength. Yeah, it's because Christ is living his life in us because we're submitted to him. And our heart is already transformed. Now, wouldn't it have been nice for Jesus to have preach the sermon on that one topic right there and just explicitly say all those things. But y you take all of what Jesus said and what the apostles taught together and we very quickly come to that conclusion, right? We need to be doing the right things for the right reasons, from the heart, and it's it's gotta be Christ living his righteousness through us. Rather than us gen we we can't generate it on our own, right? Um that's how it happens. Yep. So like you, I always thought righteousness and holiness were the same? Is that the difference? The heart aspect or righteousness is about doing. You do righteousness. Holiness is about being separate from sin. Right? So um I think even in Proverbs, but but multiple times in Scripture you see righteousness and justice linked. Um because they're the same thing essentially. Do righteousness and justice, Scripture says. It never says do holiness. It says, be holy. You shall be holy because I am holy. Yeah. So it's a st holiness is a s Um state of being, uh it's a it's a it's it's being separate from sin. And the righteousness is the outworking of that, really. It's doing the right things because of that. Exactly. Right. They're connected. But one is about doing and the other is about being. Yeah. Okay. Any other words here that you want to talk about? Prudence. Uh discretion is a good one. What's discretion What does it mean to be discreet? Okay, so that's a good uh example of being discreet. You're holding something in confidence, not sharing it with others. Essentially it means not revealing something that shouldn't be revealed. Right? So you can hold that confidence. And so uh the proverb that says um I forget exactly how it's worded, but it talks about a a beautiful woman who lacks discretion. What's it talking about? She's revealing things that shouldn't be revealed Yeah. Anyway, that's discretion. Discretion also is Very connected with with wisdom. It's it's um Having good judgment. That's another uh example of it. or choosing not to say or do something to avoid that circumstance. Right. That will be discretionary. Yeah. So showing showing good judgment. Showing good judgment in the context. That's right. Yeah. Oh yeah. Well Um like I said, the Hebrew is all Greek to me. And um I think I was copying m all of those Greek terms Um sorry, Hebrew terms, but um at least when I was doing this, my word processor didn't have the Hebrew font. And so don't worry about it. Just look in the parentheses if you want to get something of the um of the pronunciation. Okay. So we're going to talk about each of those qualities, both good qualities and negative qualities as we go along. And um perhaps this list will help you as we as we go through. Well, uh this is gonna be this is gonna be fun because um you know, I I like the thinking through illustrations and connecting them with real life and drawing principles from them and I think we'll find them very helpful. So next week we'll get started topically looking at wisdom, which is clearly one of the major focuses of Proverbs. But let's go ahead and close in prayer now.