All right, so we are uh on lesson five, page forty-seven. Last couple of weeks we've been talking about wisdom and then foolishness. And So we're going to start a section today on wise and foolish responses to external influences. In other words, the kinds of things that we need to respond to. whether they're good things or bad things. And so the first category here is teachability. It's a lot in Proverbs that that um uh shows us the importance, the wisdom of being teachable and responding correctly to wise teaching. Some of these we've already covered, but I wanted to begin with chapter 1, verse 5, near the top of your page there. A wise man will hear an increase in learning, and a man of understanding will acquire wise counsel. You know, that may seem a little bit counterintuitive. A wise man, you would expect, well, he's made it, right? But someone who's wise is always increasing in wisdom. And he's increasing in wisdom because he's wise. And there's there's really no end there. It's not like um uh we've made it. But uh the key to that wise person's wisdom is his heart of of knowing that he doesn't know everything, knowing that he's not all wise, and he's taking advantage of all the wisdom that comes his way. Brian. Yeah we haven't gotten there, but that's true too. might think we know everything, yes, but we really don't. Right. But there's others that God has placed in the body of Christ to encourage us with our to get to gain more understanding Yeah. So think about that. What is the the sort of the character trait that would be would lead someone to be teachable versus the character trait that would lead someone to not be teachable. Humility versus pride. Humility versus pride, right? Right. Anybody got a problem with pride? We all do, right? And so this is a warning to us to Be humble. We don't have all wisdom. We don't have all knowledge. We can benefit from uh the wisdom that that others can provide, and so we need to continue being Humble. That's one of the main lessons here. Exactly. Exactly. Yes, and that's the first step, right? That humility. We'll see that repeatedly here. Let's flip over. We've covered a number of those initial ones in the context of wisdom. But flip over to page 49. I'm going to start about the middle at verse uh chapter nine, verse seven. And it picks up on the same theme. He who corrects a scoffer gets dishonor for himself, and he who reproves a wicked man gets insults for himself They're not humble. They're too proud. You're wasting your breath, exactly Verse 8, do not reprove a scoffer lest he hate you. Reprove a wise man, and he will love you. Big difference. And so they're responding in different ways to um the same External influence, a reproof. It could be the exact same reproof, it could be the exact same consequences, but they respond differently One's humble and teachable and wise, and the other is proud and therefore not Responding well. And continuing verse nine. Give instruction to a wise man and he will still be wiser. He will be still wiser. Wiser more wiser, is that? Yeah. Teach a righteous man and he will increase his learning. So Uh the point of that is not so much this is the way things work, but what? Application Right? If this is true, then w how should I respond to these external influences? I should be gleaning what wisdom I can. From uh the counsel, even the reproof that I get, right? Let's go to the next one here, 108. The wise of heart will receive commands. What do you think that means? Obey. Yeah. Receive them well. Sure. Obey them. Open to them. But a babbling fool will be thrown down. There's several references to that kind of picture here. Look at the next one, 1014. Wise men store up knowledge Now that's not just saying they're filling their heads with facts, but they're seeking understanding, right? They're kind of a sponge when it comes to understanding and wisdom. But with the mouth of the foolish, ruin is at hand. Why would ruin be at hand? They're not heeding warnings because they know it all, right? It's right in his own eyes. Right. Yeah. That though applies to unbelievers as well as believers. Oh sure. Yeah. More so to unbelievers because uh they're more often not humble, not teachable, not seeking wisdom. uh true wisdom. And they don't have the Holy Spirit spectrum when they are who Okay, let's look at the next one there, 1017. He is on the path of life who heeds instruction. But he who forsakes reproof goes astray. So there's a right way and a wrong way. Those who receive instruction, counsel, even rebuke tend to go the right way if they're wise and um go astray off the the the right way if they're a fool. The next one, 12-1. Whoever loves discipline That is, receiving it, loves knowledge. But he who hates reproof is stupid It's not even in his best interest to hate reproof. I mean it it doesn't seem fun in the moment, right? It's humbling. But a wise person knows this is for my good. This is wisdom. I need to eat this. Right? And to not respond that way is stupid Yeah. Let's go down to 1310. Through presumption comes nothing but strife, but with those who receive counsel is wisdom. So presumption here is the opposite of the second part of this, right? With those who receive counsel is wisdom So presumption is just kind of going ahead without receiving counsel. You presume what's right. And um Typically, that's going to end in nothing but strife, it says, difficulty. But those who receive counsel Or wise. And it's not necessarily just the counsel of one person, it could be But it could be a the council of many advisors or or so on. And um that produces better choices, better understanding, so on And the next one there, 1313. The one who despises the word will be in debt to it, but the one who fears the commandment will be rewarded. So when it's speaking of the word here, it's not necessarily only the word of God, but the word of counsel, the word of instruction, the word of wisdom. And the one who despises that will be in debt to it. In other words, you're going to regret it at some point But the one who fears the commandment, that is, respects it, heeds it, obeys it, will be rewarded The next one, 1314. The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life. To turn aside from the snares of death. So that is a um A warning, a a nudge, if you will, to all of us that we should be seeking the teaching of the wise because it's characteristic of life. And we saw earlier that uh uh the one of the differences between uh wisdom and foolishness is wisdom is associated with longer life and foolishness is associated with shorter life because a lot of the bad choices you make um are harmful and many of those harmful ones can lead to a premature death, right? If you're foolish. Um and so that's kind of in the in the extreme there, but the the um uh the teaching of the wise is a fountain of life to turn aside from the snares of death What would be a snare of death in general? Well it's that's a specific example perhaps, but just in general, in what way would a snare of death be a snare? And then entices. It looks good, feels good. Um it's like that little hook. And there's a lure there that looks real nice. I don't know how fish think when they see a lure and a hook there, but um there's a hook in there. Yeah. And I understand It's designed to be hard to get out. So a good yes. And he's always busy if I were doing it Yeah, that that's the rationale. Others are doing it. Looks like it's fun. Yeah, but it leads to death. Okay. Let's flip over to page 50, near the top, chapter 15, verse 14. The mind of the intelligent seeks knowledge, but the mouth of fools feeds on folly. So Why do you suppose it says the mouth of fool speeds on folly when the it set it up as the mind of the intelligence seeks knowledge? Well that is just a pit picture of uh you know pig or something like that, just um no no beaten my garbage or or something like that. Not even thinking about it. Not even thinking about it yet. Yeah. So it's it's it's speaking of the intake Are we intaking, are we taking in wisdom or are we taking in foolish things? Well the fools will take in more foolish things. Feed on that. Also there's a saying that um you can appear foolish but if you're quiet you just appear foolish because if you open your mouth you Yeah. Yeah, and actually there we're gonna get to a proverb on that one of these days, so when we talk about our speech. Yeah. Okay. Let's look at the next one there, 1531. He whose ear listens to the life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise. And he who neglects discipline despises himself, but he who listens to reproof acquires understanding. So in both cases uh listening to reproof, what does that mean? I heard it Heated it. Yeah. Heated. You listen to it with an intent to obey, take advantage of it. Right. And the contrast, of course, is neglecting discipline. And the discipline here is not just uh being disciplined to do certain things and be in a certain routine and that takes discipline, self-control. But uh more more generally this is referring to the discipline that others would bring to us, uh the like it speaks of here, uh reproof and so on. How do you despise this open dollar? How do you despise oh you you just said that oh how do you like Obviously that others perhaps please available to use. How do you do that? Ignore it, laugh at it, scoff. Um okay. Sometimes when you listen you're UP something, how do you devote that? You have a hardened heart already. Yeah. God's word and we say that's good for you, but it it's not really good for me. Yeah, you we rationalize. Right? Right. So that's good for you, but not for me. Yeah, if our knee-jerk reaction is to rationalize, um we're not being very wise, for sure. So your mind is Closed minded, hard hearted. Um and we're not immune from that from that. We've got to be on our on our toes, right, Colleen? One of the things that um it seems that we have a hard time with is we tend to mix up the truth that when a brother or sister comes to us and offers words or wisdom or whatever sort of correction or whatever, it is spirit of humility and it is hopefully uh the outcome will be to humble us or for us to accept it humbly. Um and I think um times we equate that with humiliation. And I I I really do think that sometimes people get those two things like some God does not desire to humiliate in anyway. He desires to humble us. And there's a tremendous difference between the two wanted son in law caring and hopefully with the sphere of truth and change. The other is just on evil and meaning that's not God and that's hopefully not our brothers and sisters. Exactly. And a good example of that is the whole church discipline process. That first step is not humiliation, it's humility because it's in private God designed it that way. And if we go to one another in love and in humility ourselves, then the outcome is going to be more likely to be favorable. So are you saying uh the intention of the one who's ready to approach our this is bare is to humble but the person who is the receiving who the receiving at And then I guess if you accept it, we have to be humble that we don't accept it. It turns out the deviation from their perspective Well yes. Um if if the person is a very good question, doesn't receive the rebuke or or the the uh the challenge about sin well Uh they can view it as humiliation, but it it's on themselves, really. If they're b if they're not being um humble, teachable, uh open-minded, seeking to honor the Lord, uh seeking to be obedient to Scripture, for example then they can view it however they want, but it's it's not what God would want. Yeah. Just real quick answer. Someone came up to after the And they were very upset because they said they would be humiliated if that happened to them. And I said that that's not We did not dishonorize anyone. And I after a long time of talking, eventually they came to see what the their purpose was, but it their initial reaction was they were embarrassed because they felt the person would be humiliated as well. Well um that's To prevent that is why God designed it so that there would be um um at least those four steps. Well three steps before you get to there. So there's been multiple interactions, multiple um reaching out to the person in humility, and so Um it's not like this is out of the blue. Yeah. Okay. Well let's go to Sixteen twenty, still on top of page fifty. He who gives attention to the word shall find good. And blessed is he who trusts in the Lord. So again here speaking of the word, clearly it's it's uh um uh Paying attention to Scripture is important, but I think even more generally here it's the word of rebuke, the word of instruction, presumably consistent with Scripture But um giving attention to means what I'm saying. Thinking about it, pondering it. And incorporating ADN. Incorporating it. Julia said responding. Yeah. Um So I think all of these things together, let's say the word is here in the example a word of rebuke or something like that. Then uh and let's say it's not specifically tied to Scripture. It's a rebuke about something or other. Okay. Giving attention to it. Could and should include, okay, I'm I want to be teachable here, but is that rebuke consistent with Scripture? Hopefully it is, in which case I'm submitted to Scripture. Uh I'm thankful for the rebuke. I'm thankful God uses other people to keep me alert and accountable and and that kind of thing. That's a good response. That's giving attention to it. Uh but it's possible that uh if it's if you can be objective in that situation, maybe get counsel from others, in asking that qu is it really scriptural, is that biblical, or is that maybe um Legalism. Something people have added to Scripture that they would hope that we would conform to it. Now even if it is, and even if the conclusion is that's just legalism, that's not biblical, there still may be a kernel of warning to us Right, that we need to learn from. Maybe it's uh avoiding misunderstandings that people have. Um Maybe it's uh affecting the way we interact later with the person who gave us the rebuke after we've thought it through, maybe even received other counsel uh not shunning them, but rather having a Christ-centered discussion with them about the difference in this case, say, between legalism and uh scripture Uh that would be a sort of a healthy way to what's the word here? Uh give attention to it. So you don't just slough it off. make an immediate judgment necessarily, but um think it through. Yeah. Uh is there is there a significance to the R code B cord? Um I'm I'm thinking the way it's written it's general uh the word of rebuke, the word of instruction, um um Clearly it would include the Word of God, but it may well be in context delivered in some other way and and it could be the the voice of experience, maybe, you know, that kind of a thing. Um okay um Paul teaching that he Well the people's bowl is not like only people would think No big deal. Things said and two eyes and mouth Yeah, that's a good example. Um several places Paul gave um Instruction about how to handle those situations where um some people are very much against something and others who say no we have freedom in Christ, there's really no spiritual significance to like eating meat sacrificed to idols. Um that's not an issue I don't think any of us have had to face, right? Having meat sacrificed to idols and whether we eat it or not. But there are other things like that. Yeah, it's all about the conscience and about how we need to be thinking not about black and white, what is um right for me, must be right for everybody, but Being careful not to cause others to stumble whose whose conscience is weak or their faith is weaker. Um And let's not let's not be a part of the problem, but rather part of the solution. Yeah. So much as we uh think about examples for others, we really are. People Right. Yeah. Definitely. Okay, um I think we looked at this one last week, 1710, but I really like it A rebuke goes deeper into one who has understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. That says a lot, doesn't it? You're wasting your time. Yeah. Um so again, this is a fool, not someone just Um last week we we covered, you know, foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. That doesn't mean they're fools. It means that they will be fools if they're allowed to continue in that sin. nature and not be guided and instructed and uh receiving reproof and so on. think about what it is like to be on the one who's giving the correction. How much easier it is to simply have a conversation with someone they understand. But if you're sitting there for a hundred lifes you're Yeah, so it's gonna be frustrating to the one who's offering the review. Yeah Uh let's go down to nineteen twenty here. That was a good year. Year my dad was born. Listen to counsel and accept discipline, that you may be wise the rest of your days. So listen to counsel. That isn't inherently painful. It could be painful unless they're counseling something that that you know you need to change, for example. But accept discipline, uh, usually that does come with pain, some humbling Um but the result is that you would be wise the rest of your days. Let's go down to chapter twenty-two here, beginning in verse seventeen. Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise. Again, incline your ear. It's not just listening to, but listening with intent to learn and obey, right? And apply your mind to my knowledge. For it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, that they may be ready on your lips, so that your trust may be in the Lord. I have taught you today, even you. Have I not written to you excellent things of counsels and knowledge to make you know the certainty Of the words of truth that you may correctly answer to him who sent you. So a lot of very wise exhortation, really, to all of us Um that we would apply our hearts and our minds and our will to receiving the wisdom that others can make available to us. Alright, that next one there. Apply 2312. Apply your heart to discipline. And your ears to the words of knowledge. Now this one makes it very clear that it boils down to what's in your heart. Right? And again, it's is it is it pride or is it humility? Is it stubbornness or teachability? That's all from the heart, right? And if we're going to follow these instructions to gain wisdom and to respond well to reproof when it's needed That's gonna be based on our heart condition. 2323. Buy truth and do not sell it. Get wisdom and instruction and understanding. So um it says by truth You know, you just go to the store and just buy it, right? No, that's not exactly what he's talking about, but it it it does come with some sacrifice Right? It does come with some sacrifice. To sacrifice, among other things, our pride, maybe even our firmly held ideas We need to hold on to those loosely. And if we see something particularly from Scripture that that um either completely uh demolishes our ideas or even just uh redirects them a bit more accurately then it's worth the sacrifice. Yeah I think too um secret culture today where truth is relative and so when we find truth we have to attain that and you know we're buying it it's now it's it's out we're gonna hold on to it. Yeah. No matter what anybody else says to us, we're not gonna Right. Good point. Yeah. You want to own it. It's yours. Sticking with it. Um We saw, I think we saw before, 2511, like apples of gold in settings of silver. That's good, right? Is a word spoken in right circumstances, and like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear. So we would treat the one who is giving us that reproof as that's a good thing. Thank you. That's like Money in the bank. That's like gold, right? Uh that's the way we should approach it. Here you go, Brian. Twenty seven seventeen. Iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another. Um that has lots of applications. And it's not just men, by the way, right? But uh w we we need to benefit from the um the wisdom, the experience, the our flock, doesn't matter how old you are, I want you to come because the benefit, no matter what age you are, you're learning from each other. So the iron sharpening iron is big there learning from one who's been a uh around quite a while had many experiences, but then the older ones are actually learning from the younger ones when you talk about How they always say the world's changed a little bit. God has not changed. But how do you live and how do you go to work and school in society that we live now. So the whole ones we learn now. So we're sharpening each other with every conversation that we have. Right Yeah. And that's that's the point, that it's it's not it's not always and not typically a a one direction kind of a thing. Maybe a discipling relationship would be more like that. Um there there are some relationships like that. But in general, we need each other. Yeah. Yeah. Can I make a plug for the women? A plug for the women. Yeah. Uh in women, right? Um Saturday morning breakfast teaching time Yeah, so uh the a lot of the ministries here are designed for that very thing, right? The women's ministry, men's ministry, flock groups. They're all designed well, because God designed the body of Christ to be that way, that um we need each other. Uh even um Uh those who are more mature, as Brian was saying, need um They've learned a lot, but they haven't learned everything, and it it could well be that God is is um bringing other people into their lives to challenge them in specific ways. More often than not, the more mature are going to be helping the less mature, and that's good. But they're also different gifts. And God designed it so that spiritual gifts are not, you know, none of us has all of them. And He's designed it so that we need each other not only to um Well, by the way, while we're on that subject, it seems like it's very silly. I don't know if you've ever noticed that Pretty much all of the spiritual gifts that are currently active, the serving gifts, the speaking gifts, and so on, pretty much all of them God has commanded each of us to do anyway. You ever notice that? You can't say, oh, I don't have the gift of evangelism, so I'm not going to evangelize. I'll leave it to those, the experts. Why am I gonna leave it to the experts? God's commanded all of us to evangelize, right? You can't say Yeah, I I'm I'm not called to give. I'll leave it to the people who have the gift of giving. You can't say I'm I'm not very merciful, so I'll leave it to the person who's gifted in mercy. No, God's called all of us to be merciful. Well if that's true, why is he given some the spiritual gifts? If we're all called to do these things, why do some of them have the spiritual gifts in those areas? They can kind of lead the way, be the experts and uh Yeah, we need them So that we can be more proficient at these things and more faithful in these things. We need their example, we need maybe even their teaching, so that we can all grow in these things, each member providing its own um uh benefits and and role in the in the body, in the proper working of the body. So we need each other by God's design. Okay Yeah, great. I just if I can I would just wanted to share something from uh if we go back to I was thinking about uh chapter twenty two first seventeen to twenty-one there. Just uh how that applied this week in in our lives, in my life. Um Um at the end of verse seventeen, apply your mind to knowledge at verse eighteen, for it is pleasant if you keep them within you that they may be ready on your lips. So that your trust is in the Lord, which I really like that. I I have taught you today, even you, I I like that. And And have I not ridden excellent things? Have I not ridden to you excellent things of counsel and knowledge? So um we've been going through a a difficult time with uh um the MLs and um I know we're not the only ones in the in the church family dealing with elderly parents and and you know just trying to manage care and health band but uh feeling that it's it's been extremely difficult. And and it it's just you know as we were praying for it um looking for for wisdom and and guidance and and and you know I mean it's just amazing the timing as I was so you know, my daily Bible reading that day as I was thinking about these things and not knowing what to do. And uh the passage I was in was uh 2 Chronicles 20 which is Jehoshaphat. And the army was coming against him, was overwhelming to him. And he was praying, you know, Lord My enemies are too much for me and I don't even know what to do. And, you know, God responded to him and says, you know, that the battle is mine, it's not yours. Stand still and see the Salvation of the Lord. And you know, he goes on and um he says, Don't be dismayed, you know, don't be um of this great multitude. Um, you know, position yourself, you do not I need if I stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. And you know, it just it was just so encouraging, and then Jehoshaphat's response was um that he appointed those to sing who should sing to the praise and uh of the beauty of the holiness of of God's holiness. And so it was just such a a blessing to see how God used his word, you know, he he's have I taught you, have I not written to you excellent things? You know, how his word applied in the time And then my New Testament reading for today was in Romans twelve, which went on to say, you know, don't repay evil for evil, you know, and as much as as possible it's you. Be at peace with all men. And it was just so I was just so thankful, you know, how God used his word, you know. That's neat. That's neat. So sometimes, in fact, often uh the council that um we need to heed comes to us directly from the Lord. You know, we're reading scripture or, you know, hearing a sermon or something like that. And um Often it's it's not only wisdom, but it's coupled with compassion and timeliness. But to think that that in order for that to take place, God knew about it way back before the publisher put that daily reading in the paper, knowing when it was gonna coincide I will look true. There's no coincidence. Right. Right. Hopefully it's good. God is good. Okay. So one more here, top of page fifty-one. He who turns away his ear from listening to the law, even his prayer is an abomination. Because the problem is not his ear, it's it's what? His heart. Yeah. Yeah Okay, so our second category here on page fifty-two, we talked about um uh teaching in general that we'd be getting and that included a rebuke and so on. But uh Proverbs has a lot to say about parents teaching of their children. And so I thought it would be helpful to highlight a few of these. Uh starting with the first pair there, 1-8 on page 52. Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and do not forsake your mother's teaching. Indeed, they are a graceful wreath to your head and ornaments about your neck. So I think we talked earlier that The picture here is that that the wisdom that you get from your parents' teaching, particularly if it's consistent with scripture, right? is it's it's put on display. And it's evident to others that you're wise because of of that teaching and heeding that teaching. Skip down to chapter 2, verse 1. My son, you will receive my sayings and treasure my commandments within you. Make your ear attentive to wisdom, incline your heart to understanding. For if you cry for discernment, lift your voice for understanding, if you seek her as silver, and search for her as hidden treasures Then you will discern the fear of the Lord and discover the knowledge of God. So um Here's an example of a of a father uh pleading with his son to be teachable in these regards. And I think um if that's happening then he's also praying diligently for his child, right? Skip down to 3 verse 1. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. For length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you If only Solomon could have heeded his own words there, because his own father uh told him the same thing. Look on the next page, chapter 4, starting at verse 1. Hear, O sons, the instruction of a father. And give attention that you may gain understanding. For I give you sound teaching. Do not abandon my instruction. When I was a son to my father, tender and the only son on the side of my mother, then he taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast my words. Keep my commandments and live. Acquire wisdom, acquire understanding, do not forget, nor turn away from the words. of my mouth. Um so there's ongoing exhortation to uh benefit from, to listen to, to obey the teaching that your in this case the Father gives. Have you ever thought much about God's design for the family? That you know it's it's a lot different from You know, the animals that have instincts and so on, and it doesn't take long for the young to sort of get in the string, you know, in the groove of things. Um But with us, we're completely dependent on the teaching of our parents. We're not driven by instinct. We're driven by teaching. And we are moral characters, not just uh operating from instinct. So um This is all the more key that we listen to our parents. God gave us parents who are not themselves um all knowing and all-wise, although we probably start out thinking that they are. But they have much to teach us and it's their responsibility to be teaching us. I was excited that this is not only teaching the children, the young to listen to their parents. If you read it, it's teaching the parents You must teach your children. Both are true. We're gonna get to that. Similar here uh as chapter four continues Verse 10: Hear my son and accept my sayings, and the years of your life will be many. I have directed you in the way of wisdom, I have led you in the upright paths. When you walk, your steps will not be impeded, and if you run, you will not stumble. Take hold of instruction. Do not let go. Guard her, for she is your life. And then there are warnings that go along with that. And then skipping down to verse 20, my son, give attention to my words, incline your ear to my sayings, do not let them depart from your sight. Keep them in the midst of your heart, for they are life to those who find them, and health to all their whole body. Okay, so let's flip over to page 54. I'm going down to chapter 6, verse 20. My son, observe the commandment of your father and do not forsake the teaching of your mother. Bind them continually on your heart. See the importance of the heart here. tie them around your neck. They're always gonna be um um On your thoughts. It's always going to be evident what that teaching was. When you walk about, they will guide you. When you sleep, they will watch over you. When you wake, they will talk to you. For the commandment is a lamp, and the teaching is light, and reproofs for discipline are the way of life. Uh similar things in chapter seven. Now chapter seven is this one Uh as we get into page fifty-five, you got this this little vignette of this what I call knitwit. who doesn't heed the warnings and he's he's um he stumbles into sin just like But at the beginning of that says verse one, My son, keep my words and treasure my commandments within you. Keep my commandments and live And my teaching as the apple of your eye. Bind them on your fingers, write them on the tablet of your heart. Say to wisdom, You are my sister, and call understanding your intimate friend That they may keep you from an adulteress, from the foreigner who flatters with her words. And then it goes on to talk about this. example. So this is not just theoretical, it's very practical. Right. And the the role of parents to train up their children in the way they should go, and we're going to get to that verse in a minute, um is crucial. Skip down to 131 on page 55. A wise son accepts his father's discipline. But a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. So it's the same thing we were seeing earlier, but now it's even in the family context that a wise son accepts his father's discipline. 15. 5. A fool rejects his father's discipline. But he who regards reproof is prudent. 1918, right at the bottom of the page. Discipline your son while there is hope, and do not desire his death No. Why does it say don't desire his death? Which yeah, or or uh even if it doesn't die early, uh it has eternal consequences, right? Yeah, Discipline your s ha your son while there is hope. So um there's hope in the sense that that all of them are born in sin Uh foolishness is bound up in the heart of every child. But there's hope in the sense that, well, we're going to get to there Uh yeah, let's flip to page fifty-six. Um And go to 2215. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. And again, that foolishness is not because they're fools, it's because they're sinful. It's the sinful nature that's bound up in their heart And it's gonna have it's gonna reveal itself in their actions, in their their hard attitudes, right? And all that. Um don't let anybody fool you that children come to us as a clean slate. Right. You don't have to teach them to be selfish. It comes with a package. Right? Yeah, they learn those things very early. Um, it just comes natural Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. It's in the heart. That's the problem. But what? The rod of discipline will remove it far from him. There's the hope. Right? Um discipline him while there's hope. And if we're consistent in that discipline, that pointing him in the right direction, um that God uses that to train up the heart that is is born in sin and foolishness, but can be um Can be redeemed, certainly, but also can be trained. Um all of us have a conscience Right? We're we're born with a conscience. What does that conscience do for us? Okay, so it it it warns us against bad things. What else does it do? Protects us by warning us against bad things. It actually does help to prompt us to do the right thing, right? A conscience Because everybody has a conscience, whether they're saved or not, means that they have a basic understanding that there is a God, they're without excuse And they know that there is a right and there is a wrong. That comes with a package that's in the conscience that God has created. Now that conscience can be fed nonsense and become hardened, or it can be fed truth and aligned with ultimate reality, which is the role we as parents have, right? To Train up our child well, that's the previous verse. Let's go to that, 22-6. Train up a child in the way he should go, even when he is old, he will not depart from it Now we mentioned the very first week that this is an example of a proverb, which is a wise saying, a general truism. It's not a promise. It's not a guarantee. It's not a cookbook thing. But it is what God has pleased to accomplish that if a parent does train up a child in the way he should go, even when he is old, he will not depart from it. So yeah, I forget who uh I guess it was Ann who mentioned that a lot of these passages are either the example or the um The focus is perhaps on the child who needs to be learning from the parents. But the flip side of that very same coin is the the um admonition here to parents that that's their role. Don't abdicate that responsibility. You've got them for only a short amount of time. This is your job, folks. And um the uh the general reality is that if you train them up in the way he should go, which is in the nurture and admonition of the Lord then even when he is old, he will not depart from it. I have really seen his play out over the past twenty-three years to school. I have had so many students end up in prison or dead actually because the parents fail to do what they should done in terms of establishing guidelines, disciplining them. And I'm not even talking about godly discipline, just any discipline at all. for authority that's going out. There is no when I taught school fifty years ago it was quite different than it is at school ago. You were teaching when you were five years old? This is a great head of Christmas. But you respect the third Just in general nowadays they don't. They don't respect the government, they don't respect the parents, they don't respect the belief, they don't respect God. You know, when the Board of Education meets the meets the seat of understanding, then there's there's learning that goes on, right? Um has to be level. All right. Twenty three nineteen. Listen, my son, and be wise, and direct your heart in the way. Parents need to not only tell their children what the right way is, but they need to appeal to their heart. Right. If their heart is not right, it doesn't matter. You know, um, The easiest thing to do in parenting is to create a little Pharisee. They're doing the right things on the outside, but it's not in the heart. Jesus said, unless your righteousness what's what's righteousness? Doing the right thing. Doing the right thing. Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees, you will not see the kingdom of God. In what way does our righteousness to exceed that? When Jesus told that in the Sermon on the Mount, I'm sure that his disciples and anybody else who has listened to him said You've got to be kidding. There's going to be more righteous than Pharisees. They're not only keeping all the law, they're keeping all their own laws How are we going to exceed, that's that I'm sure what's going on in their mind, how are we going to exceed their righteousness? It's got to be in the heart. Jesus rebuked them. You're like a bunch of whitewashed tombs. Look great on the outside, but on the inside you're full of dead man's bones. Right? We need to teach our children that it's not just doing the right thing, but it's doing the right thing for the right reason from the heart. That's hard. It takes work. That's where it's at. And when they try to disagree at Yeah, so they need to understand, our children need to understand, that it's not just obeying mommy and daddy It's ultimately God's word, God Himself, they're accountable to, for sure. And that takes a humble heart and a commitment to Doing that from the heart. Look at 2915. One of my favorite proverbs. You ready for this? The rod and reproof give wisdom But a child who gets his own way brings shame to his mother. How is it that a child who gets his own way brings shame to his mother? Okay, there's no control. But this way is the way of foolishness. He's been allowed to go the way of foolishness, which is causing him to be a fool, right? And what is it that um prevents that from happening? The Board of Education meeting the seat of understanding. I can't help but thank people in. Didn't your mother teach you any manner? That kind of thing, right. Yeah. Why the mother here? I think that the presumption that the maker is I don't think it's all No, you're right. You're right. It doesn't absolve the father, but but um the father and the the The father has the God-given responsibility to provide for the family and he's likely to be out in the field or in the workplace or something like that, but that the mother has more time with those children, investing in them And it's first and foremost probably a reflection on her if they haven't received the discipline that they needed. word of God so that there's a rationale or reason for training. We had a resource we used in in uh raising our girls. It was a chart we hung on on the door and it was if there was a an infraction there was a Bible verse associated with it and next to it was a kind of discipline that was needed And the only thing that required the the physical paddling was either if they lied or there was a blatant disrespect. But if there was like an unkindness. There was a verse that went with that and then the the punishment, if you will, or the correction was you have to do something kind and unkind I think you have to say something. Excellent. To show that accountability wasn't just among the data, it was a higher standard. Excellent. related to the attraction. Yeah. And it's also helpful to parents to have that discipline because if it's my rule um just because it's the way I want it Um they need to understand that while that may be legitimate in your family as a family rule, it doesn't necessarily carry the weight of scripture. Right? Now the concern are afraid with the thing because of this whole threat of DPS. As somebody in the school I'm the child of teachers in Liazon and one of the most annoying things for me is when a teacher comes to say they want to leave a call because there's an abuse. And as I'm talking to the person, I'm saying, no, that sounds like it was a thinking, which is the cat parents right there is a difference between loving discipline and abuse. But everybody has been so brainwashed to think that if you strike your child in and Yes. Well that's a good point. Yeah, it says um Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, the rod of discipline will remove it far from him. Now um There is the potential that if parents are not um thinking biblically and they're thinking selfishly, their discipline could be uh outbursts of anger, which would be sin on their part The rod here, I don't know what the mental image you have when you when you read that, that the rod of discipline. You're thinking of a rod, I'm thinking of a like a uh a rebar from from concrete, you know a rod. No, no. The rod here is often translated um branch So y think about you know a switch. You know a switch is a it's a it's a exactly what my mother used on me. Yeah right off the tree. There you go. If it wasn't big enough, I had to go back and get another one. So it's it's um It's not intended to inflict physical harm, but it is intended to create what? Pain. What does pain do for us? It makes us remember and say I don't want that. Yeah, I don't want that. Right. It that's true even if you you're running and and you scrape your knee and and that the pain, God designed it so that we would learn from that, right? That pain isn't the rod. I you know, there are kids that have buns of steel and you could whale them all you want and they're not making but if you take away that special outing Or that I mean that hurts that so you gotta find right what hurts the pain. Right. The ultimate principle is is the learning that comes from pain. Correct. the heart and not just not I'm just gonna bring my wheel on you. So there is that aspect. I to be honest, I sympathize with a lot of parents, especially those who are not Christian Um but even for some who are Christians who are not people have the privilege of being taught you know the purpose of this kind of discipline and whether the right attitude or uh environments dealing with difficulty. I think it's very difficult. In fact I think uh I would be in big trouble if I if I hadn't been problem with it because sometimes Yeah. Oh we need to end. Um passive. We're basically at the end. Yes. I just want to ask you, do you know what two American one American flag says to another Um I'm afraid to ask. They don't say anything, they just wave at each other. On that note, we close in prayer.