All right, we are on lesson six in our topical journey through the book of Proverbs. Last week we started a I guess it's a two week. Yeah, a two week um section on wise and foolish responses to external influences. That's kind of general. And today we're going to see a lot of the miscellaneous things that kind of fall in that heading. But it's important for us to understand this, again, this distinction between wisdom and foolishness that we've already talked about. And how that plays out in in real terms um in everyday life So our first section today is on having accountability and recognizing that there are consequences to our choices, our actions. And so I'm beginning here today. We're on page 58, in chapter 11, verses 5 and 6. Where it says, the righteousness of the blameless will smooth his way, but the wicked will fall by his own wickedness The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, but the treacherous will be caught by their own greed. There's there's a principle there that's even repeated in the New Testament, right? You reap what you sow. And this is very much what's going on here, that there really are uh consequences to our decisions, our responses to various things. Look down at chapter 11, verse 17. The merciful man does himself good, but the cruel man does himself harm. Now how does that work out? I don't know if Elvis had a song that'd be cool. Well that's that's inspired. So how is it that the merciful man does himself good? It's someone who's merciful to someone else, right? How is someone who is merciful to someone else um take it down Um um the attitudes of blessed and merciful. So if he's showing mercy, he's thinking of something else. So what kind of blessing? Right, so that one particularly says he'll be shown mercy, be given mercy, right? Uh so one possible um scenario is someone who is merciful when he has a need, someone's gonna be showing him mercy. God God is sort of superintending that. Yes. what I just said that when you do show mercy to others, you are also showing Christ's mercy. I remember one of the parables where the mouse like um Jesus and I was where did I do that? But where did I do that? And um it shows us that when you did this good, you did it to me. Right. Um so whenever we are showing other people mercy, um even though it will come back to us was we are really showing God mercy because this is His um his people. Um allies his activist managers really is his people. Yeah. Oh, okay. All right. We'll let you go this time. So it may be that we will have a time in need and because of our um Whether there's even a reputation of our being merciful or not, God is superintending our care as well, and will will um Provide mercy and and a merciful person now has a now has uh now has a new agreement. Or maybe stronger friendships even. Yes. So there's there's mutual benefit there. And yeah, that's one of the things I wanted to point out that You know, when when you show mercy, when you're compassionate, when you're helping someone, you have immediate benefit, which is what Well, there there is this this joy in being of genuine service and following God's leading and helping others, being others oriented, getting us out of our selfishness box, right? Um that's all a good thing, even in the moment. Now we wouldn't That wouldn't necessarily be our motive of helping someone else. I want to get blessed, so I'm going to bless this person. But that is the way God works if we're genuinely helping other people um he brings joy and and purpose and and so on to us. But I'm sure it also includes the the likelihood that when we have a time of need God will see to it that someone else will meet our need. And uh that's beautiful. And you you may you may have Jesus now A person that worship them to make me put a reason can only Right. Yeah. So the even if the person can't reciprocate Um there's there's assurance that God is sovereign over all this and you're doing the right thing, and that brings a sense of of fulfillment and satisfaction. That um May well someday return to us, even if it's not from the person who we showed mercy to. Yeah. Yeah. What's up? I was just gonna say And you know, I will also talk about being a peace maker. And when you're merciful, you're encouraged with peace for the punishment. Mm-hmm. So it all fits together. Yeah, correct. I was just thinking, um, you know, sometimes you want to show mercy, but it's not not always received with gratitude. And when it says it does himself good, I'm thinking you know when when we see that when when you try to reach out and help someone and it's you know, receive this bitterness or whatever. But it just helps me think of how we need to be when mercy has shown shown to us. You know, there'll there'll come a point in time where, you know, our girls may say, you know, it's time to give us your car keys. You know, you're not no longer safe to drive. And it's like instead of being upset and angry at it, you know, you need to understand they're they're watching over you and be merciful and you know, be willing to give up that privilege of Christ. You know, it's There comes a point in time. It just helps us to see how we could respond, you know, when someone is trying to help us, you know, instead of responding in pride and independence. You know, we need to be willing to accept it. Yeah. It's interesting, I don't know why, but it reminds me of um the story of the Boy Scout who um helped an old lady across the street. And um it didn't go too well because she didn't want to go across the body. Let's look down to um Yeah. Let's go down to twelve, thirteen. An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous will escape from trouble. So how is it that an evil person could be ensnared by the transgression of his lips? Can you think of an example there? I think we got a good example in these trials going for the January 6th Fridays where people were lying about it and what happened with everything and now they're trying to The truth comes out. So they get ensnared by what they said. Yeah, ensqu ensnared by the transgression of its lips is surely talking about uh lies, deceit or or whatever, and they come back to haunt you for sure. Right? There are consequences. But the righteous will escape from trouble. In other words, it's not so much getting out of trouble, I don't think, but avoiding trouble because they're they're um uh righteous. But even if they are into trouble unjustly, the truth will come out and and so on. Look at the next one there. 1214. A man will be satisfied with good by the fruit of his words, and the deeds of a man's hands will return to him. So both what we say and what we do has consequences, and you reap what you sow. Right? So a man will be satisfied with good by the fruit of his words. His words have uh consequences, they have impact. And um if they're good words, they'll have a good impact and a positive effect. Good reminders. Was there a hand over here? No? Okay. Let's go to the next page and chapter 14, verse 32. The wicked is thrust down by his wrongdoing, but the righteous has a refuge when he dies. The wicked is thrust down by his wrongdoing So again, there are consequences, right? Those wrong things that we do can bring us down. And um and yet the righteous has a refuge when he dies. He knows that he's um in good standing with God. Good. Does this speak to the the ultimate end of the wicked and the righteous? Because you know, so often you know, we see things going around and and and we don't see that happening with the wicked. you know immediately. Immediately. Yeah. Yeah. And and when it comes back to saying the righteous and he's talking about the righteous death basically is the ultimate end of of Yeah, I I I certainly it refers to the ultimate outcome. God is the ultimate judge and he is just and no wrong is going to go unpunished. Um but I think there is an extent to which Maybe not always, but often the truth will come out, the justice will be done, and and there will be even temporally before the ultimate judgment, there will be a reckoning. So it still wants. Or you or you can always or you can think of it this this this way. The wicked will be to thus down over and over again. The righteous, even when he's got it, ultimately um he will find a refuge. Yeah. So pretty sure both are true. The ultimate one is always true. The temporal one, um uh Maybe delayed. So this being written by you know Solomon in the Old Testament, he's you know, he defines how does he define righteous verses how we know that we are so not. We all fall short of the glory of God and we are and it's not our righteousness that gets us anywhere It's actually Christ's righteousness, the Vasada's righteousness that gets us anywhere. And so it's interesting that he Like I'm putting myself in in Solomon's face and he's trying to get people to understand that if you try to follow the law It's d you know, and you and you think and you put sco God first, you'll be in a better path and to honor that. But the truth of the matter is as uh as I'm reading all of this, I I'm recognizing that I'm anything but. Yeah. No matter what, I'm anything but. Um I would love to say that I am because I want to be, I try to be, I would like to be, but I recognize that I am so far from that So every time I'm looking at this, I'm putting myself on the other side. On the not that I'm I'm a deliberate wicked person and I love being wicked. I don't mean it that way, but I I mean I'm I'm I'm seeing like um that's not me. That's not me I I can't call myself righteous right now. Yeah, yeah well yeah but still we don't have to ascend that sin that Solomon ascend perfect righteousness. This is just righteousness as we see it on No C T T T Earth. Yeah, and and so Proverbs and even elsewhere uses terms like righteous person uh blameless person, upright person, not in the sense of perfection, but in the sense of submitted to God, wholly desiring to please God Um it's still a work in process, but but um not rebellious against God. Um It does not mean sinless, because there's no one sinless except Christ. But it does, I mean, it's it's the that term is being used of lots of people in Scripture. A good example is uh Joseph being an um righteous man or upright man, uh depending on the translation, didn't want to disgrace Mary and and so on. Um And so uh there clearly are people who are not uh righteous and blameless and upright in that way, but there are those who are uh submitted to God, growing um grievous over their sin and responding rightly to conviction about that sin. That's who it's really talking about here. So that can be and should be all of us. The very same thing is the the word saint as it's used in the New Testament, right? What does saint mean? They're holy ones. Any of us holy? We were all saints. Positionally, we are. We're saints. We're holy ones in God's eyes through the blood of Christ. And uh that's another example of using sort of a a very pure extreme term to apply to people who are a work in process. Yeah. Henry. Yeah, that's certainly true. Yeah. Yeah, so um uh righteousness has everything to do with doing. Um holiness has to do with being separated from sin So the righteous person is someone who does right things, has right standing even before God. Um But even in the immediate sense, the r the the righteousness is the good works. Um Even the Pharisees were righteous, just weren't righteous enough because it was all external and not from the heart. Good points. Okay Uh that kind of leads us actually to sixteen five. Everyone who is proud in heart Is an abomination to the Lord, assuredly, he will not be unpunished. So what's the key here? The condition of the heart. Right? And if it's pride that causes us to do those right things, which was the case of the Pharisees, then um It's like worthless rags. He will not be unpunished. Sixteen twenty five. There is a way which seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death. If you skip back up to 1412, it says basically the same thing. There is a way which seems right to a man, but it ends as the way of death. being repeated in different words to say the same thing. And people I think we're like with nights so long. I mean nobody has any um racial things anymore. Yeah, Sarah makes a good point. You see this exhibited every day if you turn on the news. Um and people are very confident about what they think is right in their own thinking. But Um the end will show whether they're right or wrong. Well in that case wrong. Um most of the time you're if you're following the majority and they're all doing it and you're you're doing it as well, you must be right. That that is the mindset, isn't it? That is the mindset. Yeah. Yep. Okay. Let's go down to nineteen five. A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who tells lies will not escape. So that's similar to what we've already said. Look at the very next one, 199. A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who tells lies will perish. So clearly God is a God of truth. He rewards those who speak truth. And punishes those who don't. You know, I'm struck by um like places like Revelation where it says uh adulterers and murderers and all these what we think are bad crimes will not Not to leave anybody out here. No, I think it's because he took to God. Lying is just as bad as murder and adultery. It's just It it it's it's God is God of truth and so anything apart from truth is an abomination to him. It's just inconsistent with his very character. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Okay, nineteen nine. A man of great anger shall bear the penalty For if you rescue him, you'll only have to do it again. So again, he's responding to something. It's just general here But if he responds in anger, that's not going to end well, even for him. That's the general principle. And Let's go to 2017. Bread obtained by falsehood is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth will be filled with gravel. What does that mean? Doesn't it so well make it when you get quiet? Maybe Any other thoughts? How yeah. It'll catch up with you. So the gravel, what he's looking for something to eat that is nourishing, he enjoys and whatever. But the gravel he's not enjoying. So it's not it's not um that the bread turns in physically turns into gravel, it's that Um enjoyment shortness. Yeah, pleasure is temporary. It's temporary. And not only is he not satisfied, he's going to have worse than not being satisfied. It's going to be uh very unpleasant. Consequences. Yeah. The N justifies the means. I mean it's opposite that's what we think about it. Um I'll make some progress if I just want a little bit and uh it'll do my benefit But the end of it did not mean exactly. Right. Yeah, the end does not justify the means. Usually the end is going to be um consistent with the means and not be pleasant. So in this case the the immediate end, the bread in the mouth Um is may seem pleasant, but the ultimate end is quite the opposite. That's the point. By falsehood. Right. Right. Uh let's go down to the last one there on that page. 2113 He who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor will also cry himself and not be answered. Why is that? Two is looking out for the rules in the hook. So we know Okay. You reap what you sow. You reap what you sow it's another example of you're reaping what you're sowing. Um The rich man the rich man. Yeah. Yeah, so the the um the temporal benefits and and pleasures and so on in this life were nothing compared to their eternal destiny. Yeah. But that's typical. Um the way of of sin is to look at what's in it for me in the here and now And what's typical of righteousness is to be thinking eternally, long term. Yeah. I guess we know the definition of the field. And you know, work is bird Yeah, good question. So Sarah's asking um So he who shuts his ear to the cry of the poor will cry himself and not be answered. We're going to come back to that in a section on uh poverty. When we talk about finances and so on, the Proverbs has a lot to say about poverty. But just to give you a heads up It says that there are three main causes of poverty, and our solutions to those causes need to be consistent with what the causes actually are. And in this case, it doesn't specify what the cause is, but it's consistent with um I'll call it the third cause, which is injustice. When they've been taken advantage of and and unfairly treated and this kind of a thing. Then for sure in that case we need to reach out to them. But much of what Proverbs says about the cause of poverty is their own failure, their own laziness and and you know, d many verses talk about the sluggard and and and so on. In those cases, it's still possible to not shut our ear to the cry of the poor, but to be helping them see the ultimate problem, the cause, so that we can help them out of that. Yeah. Mm. Someone else has yes. It just reminds me of like uh Bo Allen Roots. He's following the biblical principle of you know, he he leaves the gleanings on the field so that the poor can come and work and and is their needs. He would he had his ear to the foreign. Right. Yeah, Boaz is a good example of that. Right. But whatever the cause is The ideal, the ultimate thing that we ought to attempt to do is to help them address the underlying cause But even in the midst of that, not knowing the underlying cause on a case-by-case basis, it is a God-honoring and gracious thing To show grace. And help. Yeah. I'm just thinking uh some project we need rushed upon people who That's what we too. Right. Uh like natural disasters. We can have a tornado can do and take everything we have, uh hurricanes, you know, like the flooding, uh we can take everything. Um um then all of a sudden you know resort. Um in those cases I think we need a specialty sensor to help, you know when that happens. Because it's the beginning of the data. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, well and the same general principle is true. I mean if if we can help address the actual problem, the actual cause, then it's all a good thing. Compassionately. Let's flip the page. Oh I'm sorry. Another one? Yes. Oh the problem I've been facing is when I email um I'm criticized. And it could be something as small as, for instance, um, if I go to the store, you know, I will take my neighbor next door. Um with a mother and daughter, they don't work. Um, they're both um on disability. And my neighbor downstairs who had um single mother to the child. So if I go to the store out And I can criticize the other people. Like, you know, why are you trying to They have family or you know, they have older um um children or they have parents or a sibling, you know, and it's like, well, I'm going anyway. So I can just pick up whatever they need if they need something. But why do other people need to know? Well well the people need a check away plus you can I don't know, I just again constantly just like if I let's say if I was going to the back and the building chair in the back and I think somebody had a coffee cup, I may reach out my hands maybe. Yeah. Well, um on the one hand, if you're criticized for doing right Don't don't be surprised. And um don't take offense, just do what's right. Woe to those who call good ego. Exactly. Laura, yes. Um before we get to the pages tonight, I wanted to just um I've been holding my mind drawing the line between um poverty and prosperity. Um from the things I saw when I met, I thought it's clear God wants us to be rich. Um says that um the the righteous reward is prosperity, the good man is inherited for his children. It talks about so many marriage And recently I went into exercise and it's saying all is sanity. You don't even know what's going to happen to your witches or whatever you're leaving. And um So at the time I was like, okay, so do I just work, live, uh sow into God's kingdom and don't stress myself so much as I have to Where do I draw the line? When you're talking about the poverty IBC women, people could please delve into that. how rich we want to reach and where we want to stay but that we want people stop loving God or pleasing God And not at the end of the day, totally not that was all the people are saying all these sanity. So that's what I mean. Yeah. Good question. You're just a few weeks ahead of us though. Um Uh yeah, two weeks from today, we're going to start a section called Finances and Government Dealing with topics like wealth, riches, prosperity, work, diligence, priorities, giving, saving, stewardship, investment Poverty and hunger, laziness and haste, stealing, corruption, bribes, greed, envy, jealousy Uh being surety for others, lending, borrowing, and then of course, government. That's just one class. That's two classes. So we're gonna get there. Okay? There's a lot there, if there really is. But it's good question. Yeah. Alright. So I'm on page sixty, Proverbs twenty-seven twelve. A prudent man sees evil and hides himself The naive proceed and pay the penalty. Makes sense, right? So if you see evil and you take cover, uh seek protection, avoid going there and all those qu kind of things. Um you can generally if you're alert and you see that the evil and the things coming, uh you can avoid much harm But um the naive proceed and pay the penalty. Why do they proceed? Okay. Where you're going, many people have gone the same way and it hasn't yet worked out what I think. Oh no, it'll be different for me. It's kind of a definition of a teenager, right? We've all been there, yeah. Yeah. There's something about the School of Hard Knocks and being But yeah, you can look ahead and rise to be able to look into mistakes others have made. Right. And they've suffered serious consequences from that Right. Not going that way. Let that be a warning. In fact that's why a lot of the what I call it dirty laundry of of The nation of Israel is laid out for us in the Old Testament. It's as a warning. Even Solomon himself, it's a warning to us. Um another reason the naive proceed Uh may not be just their pride, but also their um not being teachable, so they haven't learned appropriate lessons from the voices who have been in their life, for example. But they also may not be on the alert anyway. Uh b uh that's partly their pride, I suppose. But the end result here is that they pay the penalty. There are consequences and Uh hopefully at that point they will be learning from those consequences to be wiser now the next time. Yep. Now skip down to 2810. He who leads the upright astray, see here upright, it's another like um uh righteousness, the upright person. He who leads the upright astray in an evil way will himself fall into his own pit. But the blameless will inherit good So again, upright and blameless, just synonyms for someone who's seeking to do right, to please God, and uh Someone who intentionally tries to lead them astray will himself be the victim of his own trap. Poetic justice or God's justice in this case, right? Could you explain twenty-eight eight to me a little bit? Twenty-eight which one? Eight. Twenty-eight eight. He who increases his wealth by interest and usury gathers it for him who is gracious to the poor. Okay. Uh you know what interest is. And I know what usury is. You know y what's usury? Excessive interest? For what purpose? To take advantage of someone when he's down, right? So he who increases his wealth Um by at the expense of others. Right. It was the second part that I didn't understand. Gathers it for him who is gracious to the poor. He can't take that money with him. Okay, so that's what the but that doesn't mean the person who's gonna get it is gonna be gracious to the poor either. So I thought Well, the the general principle is that um those who are not thinking selfishly, the first guy's thinking selfishly. It's all about me What God is exalting here is someone who is thinking of others. Right? And in the general overall scheme of things those who are selfish with regard to their resources, their money and whatever, and their ways of getting it, um Aren't going to be able to enjoy it in the long run. They can't take it with them. But those who are thinking outside of themselves and genuinely interested in the welfare of others and and so on, um tend to be um Blessed by God as a result of their wise handling of their resources. And uh it it it might not be the the uh What's the right way to say it? You know, the the one person who is stingy and selfish and taking advantage of others It may not be that, say, when he dies or even before he dies that his money is going to be shifted to righteous people, uh, but the general rule is that uh in God superintending all of the circumstances, those who are thinking of others, gracious to others, not selfish. are going to be blessed. Sometimes that blessing is by i in their financial resources. Sometimes it's and may always it would be other types of blessing as well. But um it was that gathers it for him that I got to think. Yeah. Well it's just w where does it ultimately go? God is going to be blessing he doesn't bless those who are selfish, he does bless those who are thinking of others. Or or could the um could it could it mean meeting the Be like this. You know people tend to like the righteous around. They don't want the wicked around. But it's the wicked that k that tends to make the righteous brothers look good Well that's the that's the way to think about it. For those who Those who um have at least some perception of basic right and wrong they're Um they see the some as wicked and others as being, you know, a bad thing, and those who are generous and so on a good thing. Yeah. And so that contrast is even greater The more evil they are. You know, I think it all works together if you think back over several weeks. The one who's greeting is with interest is also the naive or the simple term. You know the the the stupid they do things their life is short things We've seen that because they do things. So whatever they have's got to be left to others. But the people who do good They tend to live longer according to this. So they're around to inherit things. Because living others are not going to be able to do that. It all works together. By the way, when it says um he who increases his wealth by interest in usury, you can see the usury part. That's really evil. That's taking advantage of people who have no other choice and you've you've got them, you know, and and you lend them money but at exorbitant interest rates you just that's oppression Interest, when we think of interest, we think of um well these days they don't charge really much interest at all, right? It's it the rates are so low. Um This doesn't mean that, say, a bank should not charge interest. It's talking about interpersonal relationships. And clearly uh charging interest when charging interest would be inappropriate. Because it's it's clearly uh usury, which is always inappropriate. Um We'll see other passages where um the lending and even lending at interest is is is fine as long as it's not excessive and it's it's it's um It actually serves a good purpose for both the lender and the and uh and uh recipient. Okay. Yes. Very similar process. The wealth of the sinner is stored up for the righteous. Exactly. Yeah. Um. Well, there is a lot more there, obviously. They're all sort of in that category of you reap what you sow. And so on page sixty-one we have this section on discipline and we introduced some of these, I think, last week. When we talked about um reproof and the training of parents and that kind of thing. But there's some general Principles here as well. So look, I'm on page 61. Look at 13, verse 18. Poverty and shame will come to him who neglects discipline. But he who regards reproof will be honored. And so the discipline there is It's not just personal discipline, it's the discipline of others. It's the reproof, the the correction of of others to set 'em straight. One of the consequences of neglecting that will be things like poverty and shame. I mean you you should have done better. It's shameful not to have done better. You didn't heed that advice 1324. He who spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him disciplines him diligently. So again, there's this need for external correction and and redirecting and learning so that Um uh instead of hating someone, it's tough tough love, right? Instead of the way to hate someone is to let them go off in sin and bear it all the consequences. But a loving thing to do would be to help them see the error of their ways and the ultimate outcome that's going to come It the loving thing is to help them learn that and that reproof that discipline is essential. 1510. Stern discipline is for him who forsakes the way. He who hates reproof will die. Very important. Let's flip over to fifteen thirty-one. He whose ear listens to the life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise. And he who neglects discipline despises himself, but he who listens to reproof acquires understanding. So it's important we all need that correction, that uh redirection, uh, that discipline Go down to twenty-three twelve. Apply your heart to discipline and your ears to words of knowledge. So it's not just be disciplined yourself, but when you are disciplined externally, when you are disciplined, take it to heart. What is the lesson here? What should I be learning, right? And you and apply your ears to words of knowledge. So if if the correction is is a reproof that's spoken or a a um uh explanation of what is right versus what is wrong. Just apply your ears to that so that you can benefit from it. And then the very next uh couple there, twenty-three thirteen. Do not hold back discipline from the child, although you beat him with a rod, he will not die. You shall beat him with a rod and deliver his soul from Sheol. So there are eternal consequences. Of allowing those children whose hearts are are um bound up in foolishness Uh there are eternal consequences for letting them go through life in that foolishness, becoming fools. Um and the solution to that is this correction, this discipline. So we covered much of that last week as well, but there's some general aspects to it here. But I wanted to move on to getting counsel from others. On page 63. A wise man will hear an increase in learning. A man of understanding will acquire wise counsel. So a man of understanding doesn't have all knowledge, but he does understand enough that he needs to get input from others. For sure. Wise counsel. 1114, where there is no guidance, the people fall. But in abundance of counselors, there is victory. Um now that uh that has a flip side to it too. Often when you You know the the joke usually among economists is if you ask ten economists, you know, something about economics, you're gonna get Fifteen different answers. And it can be that if you ask a lot of people for counsel, you're going to get lots of different perspectives. But what's the general benefit of that? Well, because you can take this in the system perspectives and if you're the one making the final decision then you can take all of those, weigh the pros and cons of each and then come to a final conclusion. Yes you can weigh them, right Um what merit do these have, especially in light of what? Scripture. Sure. Right? Well in the circumstances. But scripture, what are are the right principles being applied here Some of them may be very confident in their counsel, but not very biblical. Their ultimate objective is completely contrary to what we're thinking about. Which suggests that we ought to be a seeking counsel from Christians from ideally from believers, or at least wise people who have experience and are um not clearly seeking evil for us. Um so yes, we need to weigh Let's go down to 1310. Through presumption comes nothing but strife, but with those who receive counsel is wisdom. So again, we need to humble ourselves and realize that we're not uh the fount of all wisdom. Others can speak into our situation and offer us wise counsel. And it's it's a sign here. It's a sign of wisdom That we would even do that. It doesn't mean we have all wisdom, but it's a wise thing to be seeking the counsel of others 1522. Without consultation, plans are frustrated. But with many counselors, they succeed. Again, it's not that they would all be unanimous in their counsel, but the truth and the wisdom typically will rise to the top. And perhaps things you hadn't considered, now you'll consider because yeah, that makes a lot of sense. That seems biblical. Why wasn't I thinking that, right? Um 1920. Listen to counsel and accept discipline, that you may be wise the rest of your days. 2018. Prepare plans by consultation and make war by wise guidance. So if you're ever going to make war, be sure to get wise guidance. 24-5. A wise man is strong, and a man of knowledge increases power, for by wise guidance you will wage war, and in abundance of counselors there is victory. So um you know the the specific context here is the making of war, uh but the point is any any Clearly any serious decision you need to make with with uh major consequences either way The wise thing is to not rely on your own wisdom alone, but to seek the counsel of others. And um we have beliefs based on God's Word. And we're supposed to be strong in His Word. And while we're trying to influence our society somewhat, we're living trying to stand strong I mean this word loaded prize, but the society is trying to include its us in so many ways. You even have homosexuals at some point of in the cartoons, coming after your kids. That's crazy. We need to stay strong in the word. So how do we do that? Understand the word, have a lot of counsel, have the right counsel. And stick with that. This is what we believe, this is the truth, and no matter what society says, say so strong than this, then it will not go well. Yeah. And again, that's just a reminder that whatever counsel we receive we need to uh evaluate in terms of what we know to be true in scripture. Professor Fox. I realized before any of this needed happen, I have to humble myself. I have to have a humble heart and be willing to admit that I need counsel, that I need those Because so often we want to believe that we already know and don't want to appear to others because we don't. It it it takes humility to recognize that we don't have all wisdom and we can benefit from the insights of others. Yep. That's very direct impacts on us. I don't know for that. itself it's it's like a war. We haven't seen that we and that's why I appreciate the children again because obviously with this the scientific problem that we have there are so many resources with mind people and there you are there many different um class we have every quarter that just provide that we don't we need that will help us realize You know, I'm so encouraging young people, very well you guys, whether it's white counseling So I found this very useful where like there are so many resources that we benefit from because we jump really in all areas of our life marriage, um finances, uh being a Christian, so many things in the world are so conflicting. And that's why this just included there are so many groups that just address it, even for teenagers It's there for women, single men, people in college. I'm just encouraging everybody, just key into the resources we have is there for you. Like Dan said, um it doesn't have to be positive enough to know I need it. Right. And teams will say that Billy said it might be around you. Yeah, it's a good reminder. We have lots of resources, um not just in the church, but um outside as well. And um let's take advantage of those. Okay. A couple of other quick categories here on page sixty four. Uh one of those influences from the outside could be alcohol. And turns out Proverbs has a fair amount to say about that. 21, 20 verse 1. Wine is a mocker, strong drink, a brawler, and whoever is intoxicated by it is not wise. Just a statement of fact. 2117. He who loves pleasure will become a poor man. And he who loves wine and oil will not become rich. Do not uh uh yes. I mean people I know, that's all not true. There are so many people who are not poor. Yes. Yeah. So the c the question is um What about the counterexamples of people who um uh love pleasure and don't become a poor man, right? Or what about those who love alcohol and all the other fineries. Um and they are rich. Well There there are two things going on there. One is like we mentioned before, proverbs themselves are general truisms, not promises The nature of a promise, or the nature of a proverb is to set out sort of a general principle, and there may be exceptions to them on certain cases. A example we gave was uh a proverb that says, uh a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it. Does that is that a guarantee? No, it's not a guarantee. It's a proverb, it's a general truism. The same is here tr here too, but here particularly I think part of the the um reality is there is a short term, a sort of immediate or short term um uh circumstance or outcome like uh stingy people um are rich and um people who are who love pleasure uh don't become poor in the short term. Um but in the longer term Usually that's very much an exception. And clearly, in the ultimate sense, when God judges them Um they're gonna have nothing to show for themselves. So there's this short term um situation, but then there's also the longer term. And the general truism is that um if if what you're seeking is pleasure for me, that's not going to ultimately be productive. Um Yeah, but I think both are true. I think both materially poor and spiritually poor certainly spiritually poor. But I think it's m not entirely a spiritual principle here. It's also a physical material principle. Right. It's like those earlier ones we said about being gracious to the poor and someone will be gracious to you. Yeah. I think we see a lot of those admiring celebrities, you know, they're very rich, they have a lot of But then they lose everything on on the life that lives are miserable. So it' in certain case they may have money very rich but they end up with not not rich in joy or written relationship. Um before we've gotta we've gotta wind down here, but I wanted to cover this last section here on peer pressure. Uh you've got that extended section in chapter one of Proverbs where there's this this scenario where where um sinners are enticing the sun involved here. You know, come with us and we're gonna we're gonna become rich at the expense of other people and so on. And of course the um The council here is uh don't don't follow their example. That's certainly a very negative peer pressure. But look at 1320 He who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. So is peer pressure inherently a bad thing? No. You there is good peer pressure and there's bad peer pressure. And ideally, we'll surround ourselves with those who will keep us accountable, give us wisdom, encourage us to keep pressing on. That's all good, fear pressure. And that's a lot of what happens within the church with doing the one another's with each other. Um But that's actually also a good strategy for training up our children to make sure that they are companions of wise people rather than companions of fools. Right. Um twenty two, twenty four, and twenty five. Do not associate with a man given to anger or go with a hot-tempered man, lest you learn his ways and find a snare for yourself. So that's very much like the warning that um God gave to Solomon and all the nation of Israel to not Not take on these heathen wives, otherwise they're going to influence you to worship their gods and it's all downhill from there. So anyway, um the other passages there I don't have time to read, but they're all very much along those same lines that we avoid what we know to be uh bad morals. Bad company corrupts good morals, right? Um And to be wise in our associations because of that. Okay. Well, we need to close down. Let's close in prayer.