Well welcome to our Proverbs class. We're on lesson four, following up last week's Discussion on general teaching on wisdom. Today's class is on general teaching of the opposite, foolishness. And I think we'll find that many of the texts we'll go to here from Proverbs are the same ones, because often in in one breath Um the the the proverb teaches on both wisdom and foolishness, contrasting them and and so on. But um If you want your own copy of the notes, a hard copy, you can get those. Just talk to Jeff afterwards. And The PDF is also available if you need that. Okay, so this is about foolishness. Much of Proverbs, of course, is is teaching on wisdom. And sometimes the best wisdom is to know what to avoid, right? And why. So, let me ask you a question. What is foolishness? Being what? Reckless. Reckless? That would be pretty foolish. Denying God's Deg denying God's only a fool says in his heart there is no God, right? Okay. And his authority Given wisdom and not applying it to your life. So being given wisdom and not applying it to your life, that would be pretty foolish. Right? Not loving wisdom. Not loving wisdom, okay. Knowing what's right and choosing wrong nonetheless. That's a pretty good definition of a fool. Just going the opposite direction from God's way and will. Sure. So Self-centeredness. It's right at the core of it, right? I like what you said a few weeks ago, Pastor. I haven't forgotten it. I keep looking it up in the Bible, I didn't find it. But living like a nymph. Actually I think it's network. Proverbs seven. That's your basic network right there. Well, one of the verses we're going to look at today is Proverbs 22, I think it's 15. Which says foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. But what? Do you remember what it says? The rod of discipline will drive it away from him. So um what is foolishness in that context? Ignorance? Ignorance. Our nature. Immature. Our nature, immaturity. Um Basically it's synonymous with sin. It's a sin nature. Right? Children are are are born, they're conceived, just from the very beginning, they have a sin nature. That's what it's warning us about. And parents, of course, then have the responsibility to train them up in the ways they should go uh which involves uh correction, teaching, correction, training in righteousness, right? Um so that They don't become fools. What is a fool? Someone left to know what's a fool. What's that? So when sin crystallizes. When sin crystallizes, it it it kind of makes it Bears its natural fruit when sin is left unchecked. Someone who rejects its authority, God's authority, any authority, and those who everything is right. Yeah. Yeah. Those are all many kinds of good descriptions. Yeah. Yeah. Professing to be wise, they became fools, right? Have we seen that? Yes. Big time. Right? Um so we're going to see some of that in what we're going to cover today. And um foolishness Sinfulness and as as Sarah says, self-centeredness, it's all the same thing, right? Comes naturally. But the the the problem with the fool is that they um either um Well, God said they're without excuse, right? Uh but but uh to the extent that they've had any kind of instruction, reproof uh training or whatever, they've rejected it out of a hard heartedness and uh um then become characterized as a fool in God's eyes. So um if on occasion we uh demonstrate foolishness, maybe in the making of a decision or something we do or say, doesn't necessarily mean that we're a fool if ultimately we're humble enough to be corrected and and learn and and um move in the right direction, right? Uh but a fool is one who has just given up on all that And uh it's hardened. Okay. Well I'm going to begin here in that first section. We're on page 38 We spoke significantly, I think, about this passage from Proverbs 1 last time. But here in verse 22 it begins by saying, how long, O naive ones, will you love simplicity? And scoffers delight themselves in scoffing, and fools hate knowledge. So there are various synonyms here that are used and throughout Proverbs really. Naive is not just a um Lack of experience and and so on. Here, naive is uh and and also simple Simplicity is not uh referring to like an uh an easy, straightforward way to do something. I mean that's that's usually pretty good. What Simplicity here is referring to simple-mindedness, right? Being um naive, being um not not subject to um sound wisdom It's just the opposite of of wisdom. And so it's using these various terms all in the same way. How long, O naive ones Well, you love simplicity. And scoffers delight themselves in scoffing. We'll look at scoffing in more detail in a few minutes. And fools hate knowledge. And even the knowledge here, it's not just uh um facts that it's talking about. It's talking about wisdom. It's using wisdom and and knowledge, instruction, all those things interchangeably. along with the majority. A lot of times majorities are not correct and not right. The easy way out, what's expedient. Once you stay and make a Yeah, very much so. Yeah. Yeah now so which is easiest? Um the thing that is easy now But has long-term ramifications or to invest in the right thing now because it also has long-term ram ramifications for good. The latter is better, but which is harder? The latter. To do the right thing now rather than the expedient thing now. Why why would we do the expedient thing now? It's easier for now. Exactly. Yeah. So who is down here towards the future? The here and now. That's a pretty good characteristic. You know, they're thinking that if they do this foolish thing, like even in Proverbs one, um, uh robbing people that that's, you know, a get rich quick kind of a thing, no matter what the rema ramifications, that uh that's gonna set them up for life. They may have some vision of what the long term is going to be, but it's misguided. Right? And so if we know the truth and we know what the the long-term ramifications of our choices are, from God's word. And we're committed to that. We're willing to do the hard thing now because it has much better Ramifications down the road. That would be the wise course rather than the foolish course. Right? Honestly, I think a lot of it also has to do a real believers and those who've been given the gift of understanding, we also understand that our kingdom is not necessarily in this realm. And those who live without that really are focusing on on the grains they're putting in their silos now. Right. Yeah. You know, they're only they're not they're not thinking about the data told will be required of that. Right. So Dana brings up a good point that thinking long term is not just 10, 20 years from now. It's what's the eternal impact of my choices? Right? And uh you know Jesus said don't lay up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust can destroy, but what? Lay 'em up in heaven, which will have eternal value. Yeah. Good point. Okay. Go to the top of page thirty-nine. We'll look at Proverbs five. I'll begin here in verse three. For the lips of an adulteress drip honey See it's it's the short term focus, right? And smoother than oil is her speech, but in the end She is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two edged sword, her feet go down to death, her steps lay hold the shal. She does not ponder the path of life. Her ways are unstable. She does not know it. Now then, my sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house. Lest you give your vigor to others, and your years to the cruel one, lest strangers be filled with your strength, and your hard-earned goods go to the house of an alien. And you groan at your latter end when your flesh and your body are consumed. And you say After it's too late, how I have hated instruction, and my heart spurned reproof. That's a pretty good definition of a fool. Right? And I have not listened to the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to my instructors I was almost in utter ruin in the midst of the assembly and the congregation. Almost in utter ruin suggests that maybe this regret has turned to repentance. And there's some hope. But so much waste. So much. necessarily keeping so the midst of the congregation. So we're all born with that thin nature. And we all need to um to uh humble ourselves before the Lord, apply his wisdom, and avoid the um the the flourishing of the foolishness that was already in our heart from the from the get go. Yeah Okay, let's uh turn over to page forty Uh I'm not skipping these others because they're not important. Actually we've got unlimited time today. The clock's not moving. Still not moving. So hey. Um No, I uh these are here for you kind of categorized by topics so that you can refer back to them and and benefit in your own study as well. So at the bottom of page 40, we're looking at Proverbs 8. And we touched on this last week. Does not wisdom call and understanding lift up her voice? On the top of the heights beside the way, where the paths meet She takes her stand beside the gates at the opening of the city, at the entrance of the door, she cries out, To you, O men, I call, and my voice is to the sons of men, O naive one. Discern prudence, and, O fools, discern wisdom. Listen, for I shall speak noble things, and the opening of my lips will produce right things. For my mouth will utter truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. So God's wisdom, God freely offers his wisdom And it's it's incumbent on us to respond appropriately. Um Now, what's interesting is the next chapter, if you go to page 41, there's an interesting contrast between wisdom and foolishness Uh the second section there, which starts with uh Proverbs 9-1. Wisdom has built her house, she has hewn her seven pillars, she has prepared her food, she has mixed her wine She has also set her table. She has set out her maidens. She calls from the tops of the heights of the city. And again, calling out. Whoever is naive, let him turn in here. Who's talking here? Wisdom. Whoever is naive, come on. Come here. To him who lacks understanding, she says, Come, eat my food, and drink the wine I have mixed. What's she referring to here? The substance of her wisdom she's willing to impart to feed um The foolish, the naive. Come, eat of my food, and drink of the wine I have mixed, forsake your folly, and live, and proceed in the way of understanding. So again, this picture of calling out to the foolish ones to understand God's wisdom. and to apply it and thereby to escape the consequences of foolishness, of being a fool, right? Well what's interesting is if you continue, um skip down to verse thirteen there The woman of folly is boisterous. She is naive and knows nothing. And she sits in a doorway of her house on a seat by the high places of the city, calling to those who pass by. who make who are making their paths straight. Whoever is naive, let him turn in here. She's saying the same thing. Whoever is naive, let him turn and hear, and him who lacks understanding, she says, and to him who lacks understanding, she says, stolen water is sweet. And bread eaten in secret is pleasant. Oh, this temptation, right? But he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol. And so if a foolish person, someone who who uh has not been um Um even starting to understand the wisdom of God probably. And it's just a sitting duck He hears that and says, oh, that sounds good. Yeah. And so it's interesting, both wisdom and folly are are making the same invitation. And um to the naive, which one seems more attractive? The woman of folly, yeah. And you can see where that leads. The uh skipping right down to the next uh section here, uh chapter ten, verse one Proverbs of Solomon, a wise man makes his father glad, but a foolish son is a grief to his mother. Um that's not suggesting that he's a not a grief to his father. It's just using the poetic way of saying it's it's It would be equally true to say a wise son makes his mother glad, but a foolish son is a grief to his father. Both are true. But you see the contrast here Between wise and foolish. The next one, verse 8. The wise of heart will receive commands. But a babbling fool will be thrown down. So what does it mean that a wise the wise of heart will receive commands? Teachable. Open to understanding. Open even to correction. Bright? you have the Holy Spirit in you. And since you have the Holy Spirit in you, you're going to receive those commands. Aren't you? I mean there's some things we might do that a fool doesn't make mean you a fool. But once we get to the point that we're rejecting all those wise commands, then we start leaning more toward becoming a fool. Exactly. We have the whole spirit of this, but we'll be leaning more toward For accepting those commands, wanting to understand those commands and apply it to a lot of students. I guess advantage? I was struggling struggling for maybe a different word, but the the advanta one of the advantages of being indwelt by the Holy Spirit as a believer. All believers are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. One of his roles is of course to comfort us and to guide us. But also to teach us and convict us, right? So I could do something very foolish as a believer and I would get convicted like that If I weren't a believer, I could do that exact same thing. And there's uh a unless my conscience, which God works through, is going to convict me. But if if I've hardened my conscience, it's not as going to be as active as it should be. Um but I could do the same thing and I'm not getting that conviction. You you've probably experienced uh a period of your life, hopefully not very long, where you're wrestling with God on something, right? And you're not as yielded to Him as you know you should be. And the Holy Spirit's not letting go of you Right? And you've got that conviction going on and it it's it's not comfortable. It's it's sort of miserable even at times if you let it prolong. The unbeliever doesn't have that. It's actually to our advantage that the Holy Spirit doesn't let us go. Yeah, we're uh we're accountable to him and he he loves us so much that he wants to to deal with these things and to help us to conform to the image of Christ. And so Christians, if they're genuinely Christians, the Holy Spirit is indwelling them, um uh they're gonna have quicker uh typically quicker um accountability to to the Holy Spirit than any accountability even to their conscience that they would have if they're not believers. Understanding it that goes a long way. think you're even going really grasp what's being said. Over the head. Yeah, Dana. I'd like to just make a point that this is written with well before Christ. So there's nobody who under who read this this from Solomon who had the Holy Spirit in them and that was that was um hard. It was hard because they had to try to get it from outside. Like they didn't have the like we're so blessed that we got saved. But um the truth of the matter is that there's nobody who read this originally um up until people who Well that's not entirely true. It's just that the Holy Spirit wasn't universally in the world. But this went out every Jew in every synagogue every week. So it's like these were considered scripture and it was really important that they're saying, look Listen to this. Yes. Because this came from the Spirit. So we all know that this did not come from Solomon. This came from the Spirit within him. But so that's why God gave it. That's why God gave it. Because they did not have And they had to they had to wrestle with that I think even more than we do. So I'm not saying in any way, shape, or form that it's not. I'm just saying that they the the people who were reading it in the synagogues had to just try to take it and make it the word of the law. And they um Because he the Holy Spirit was trying to say, just just uh if you honor this he'll see. Right. You'll see. And it's it's for your benefit. It's for your benefit. And for God's glory. Yep. Yep Okay. Um question? Oh yes. What about Solomon? He's the one who built and he viewed over But you know, obviously God gave him his wisdom, but when he didn't obey him Yeah. Yeah, so Solomon's an interesting example or counterexample. You would think that of all people, he would have avoided much of the the um The baggage and even sin um that he encountered. Um Fortunately, it seems at the end of his life, at the very end of the book of Ecclesiastes, he recognized his error and said what it really boils down to is we need to Uh fear God and obey Him. That's what it really comes down to. And he wasn't explicit right there, but I think the implication is that he regretted not having done all that, fearing God and obeying him, as he was specifically instructed by his father, David. Um And so it was too little, too late. However, the question becomes um he wrote most of he wrote down most of the Proverbs Does that discount the value of the proverbs? No, because it's ultimately from God, and God can use and has used Every single time he has inspired uh biblical writers to write down the words of scripture, he has used sinful vessels to do that. And Yeah. Yeah. Um I think Solomon at the end of his life he re And that's a really strong admonition to all of us. All of these influences are always there. are wearing on us and we just often don't realize. And he he came to that point, but as Pastor said, at the very end of the need to turn it on Yeah, so um you probably noticed this. Yeah you can read the entire Old Testament, particularly And one of the things that jump jumps out at you repeatedly is man there's a lot of dirty laundry here. I mean, even in the life of David, who is very um Who loved God and loved by God and and blessed, but nobody's perfect. Right? And there's a lot of dirty laundry there. Why You know, if if human beings were writing it, we probably would have avoided all that embarrassing stuff, right? Why did God include all that? As a warning Right. So that we would learn from their mistakes and um avoid them. But first of all, maybe it's still possible that even if the Holy Spirit inspire some of the writers of scripture, sometimes they look things that they didn't understand. Yes. What is the possibility that even though God inspired someone of the writers of the It's possible. Um we do know that he had he excelled in wisdom because God gave it to him. Um Um but there may have been even some of the knowledge. I mean th that wisdom the word wisdom there includes all also knowledge because he had insight into things like biology and and And the way the world works and everything that no one else had comprehended even by his time. Um But certainly wisdom as well. And yeah, there's a possibility that he could have the wisdom, he could speak the wisdom and understand it to a certain extent. Um but Seems not to have understood it in the heart enough to be committed to it at all costs. And so that's that kind of sets him up for disaster. Yeah. Yeah. And um also Sullivan Um you know, in a near the beginning of his life, he um he decided to use his wisdom to find out where what What's the see what really makes you happy? You know how and how far can you go to get happiness in life And he went down these roads and sort of never came back until it until he was really engulfed in this thing. I wouldn't think he was getting his wisdom No. Not um he he y uh the what God gave him was certainly an in included in the wisdom. Some of which I think just got zapped to him, but some of it may have come over time. One of the things he had was an inquisitive mind He wanted to see how things fit together and and whatever. And like Larry said, uh part of that inquisitiveness was to see how far can I go? Well what is it that brings ultimate happiness? And If we were to ask be asked that question, what would what would we say? What brings ultimate happiness? Do all to the glory of God. What's that? Do all to the glory of God. Do all to the glory of God. Yeah, so that's the point. Having Solomon's search for for the first time, uh happiness outside of God's will ought to be a lesson to us. Right? That's why it's there. Yeah, I mean that's why we we you know when someone says all is van all is vanity we should We should know up front all these things. Shouldn't be a mystery anymore. Yeah, and Nehemiah made that point, right? Remember we we looked in what was it, the first week or the second week? Um to the people who were back in uh Judea who had married foreign wives during the exile and and he says, didn't you guys learn anything from Solomon? So it's it it benefits us much the same way today for sure. Well this we saw so we'll crack in this part of God. A little fabulous apart from God Yeah, that's the point. You're never gonna find it. Yeah. And um you know what one one point we should look at from here is is that even with all the wisdom and all the understanding and all the all the the knowledge it didn't change up inside. Right. And that's the key. Yeah. And um so that verse I was speaking to, we'll get to it here eventually, um Proverbs twenty-two fifteen, foolishness is bound up where in the child? That's the problem. The heart. Right. Okay. Um There are a lot of big kids, yeah, who have never grown up. Yeah. Uh let's look I'm still on page forty one at ten fourteen. Wise men store up knowledge, but with the mouth of the foolish, ruin is at hand. So the wise men are are g gaining knowledge for uh for benefit, and the foolish are spewing out what's inside them, which isn't wisdom at all. It's it's it's foolishness which leads to ruin Uh skip down the uh ten twenty-one. The lips of the righteous feed many. How do the lips feed many? Their soul, not their physical. So there are words that are are helpful and edifying, right? But fools die for lack of understanding. Why would a lack of understanding lead to death? Because by nature we're not going to be forced Yeah. Foolish choices lead to consequences that Um at best are unpleasant. At worst can kill ya. Yeah. 1023. Doing wickedness is like sport to a fool. Just having fun. Right? And so is wisdom to a man of understanding. It it's uh you derive a lot of joy from From understanding wisdom and applying it. It brings great joy. I'm flipping over to page 42 here Look at twelve fifteen. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes. Does that sound like judges? Sound like you've seen that? Right. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes But a wise man is he who listens to counsel. And so as we've noted before, the fool has hardened his heart against sound wisdom, instruction, and so on. 1223. A prudent man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims folly. So the heart of fools proclaims folly is similar to what we spoke of just a few minutes ago, right? He's got foolishness in him, he's got Um his ideas are foolish and he doesn't hesitate to to let everybody know what his foolish ideas are. Right? Usually it's not hard to identify who's a fool. But a prudent man conceals knowledge. Now does that mean he doesn't share it with anybody? Um as many of the we're gonna We're gonna spend a whole section here eventually on what Proverbs says about our speech. And it says a lot about our speech. But this is one of them. Um uh I lost my place here, just a second. A prudent man conceals knowledge. He he's not he's not um He's not bending over backwards out out of pride to let people know how wise he is. In contrast with the fool who doesn't know anything but to, sometimes they're called babbling fools here, but to to announce his foolishness to other people Um and so uh um a prudent man will be more judicious in his in his um uh sharing of the wisdom and knowledge that he has for the right time in the right place. I think that's basically it. He's wise enough to know Not to either waste his time to play casting pearls anywhere to swine why I do it. Uh possibly, except that um The the contrast here is is clear, but it's not clear that a prudent man in the c in the company of a fool will conceal his knowledge. It just says generally a prudent man conceals knowledge. Um and I think because of the contrast, it's that he doesn't announce I'm a man of knowledge. In so many words. But in prudent man conceals dishonor. That's sort of the opposite of knowledge Prudent man. Look at the one just above two twelve sixteen at the end, but a prudent man conceals his arm. And then twelve twenty three approved me in concealed knowledge. Yeah, there I think, you know, a fool's vexation is known at once. But a prudent man conceals dishonor. Um I think he's it's referring here to his um Discernment. Discernment about not not um announcing or making fun of or making light of the the uh dishonor of others. So he's more reserved, uh discerning. Uh now there is a place to address those who need to be corrected and whatever. But um Uh he he's not making making light of others. Yeah. I can look at I can look at least first Instead of your security hand, we did a sponge that was just because she had water And I look at the floor and I think he eased like he just The water goes right through. Yeah. Yeah. I suppose it just was interesting. Yeah. That's where it's coming from. What what uh the verse thing to you where it's saying that um a prudent man could Um key not to be in it. Just always Yeah. Yeah, the contrast is is with the fool who uh just spurts out whatever comes to his mind and and um um it's just obvious that he's a fool. And so the opposite of that is m being more reserved and And um uh someone who um is prudent May well have some some good ideas and some understanding and some wisdom, but he's also characterized by uh consulting with others and heeding the the advice and taking advantage of the experience of others and that kind of thing, which a fool is not. And so he there's some humility even with his prudence. Um but there's no humility at all with the fool. Yeah. Uh well, 1316, same kind of thing. Every prudent man acts with knowledge, but a fool displays folly. So you hear it in what he says, you see it in what he does, and uh it just comes naturally. And he enjoys doing it. Look at 1320. This is a good memory verse. He who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. So you've all heard about peer pressure, right? Is peer pressure a good thing or a bad thing? This verse is saying it it it could be both. What's the key? The character of your peers. Um in the body of Christ, is there a positive peer pressure there? Is there's accountability? There's shared wisdom and counsel and example. That's a good thing. But if your companions are fools, what's gonna happen? You're gonna become like them. Yeah. Yeah, you know it's human nature for us to sort of share our opinion about something. Not necess not necessarily because we really want to help. someone understand but we want to share the opinion so that so that others share that same opinion so that somehow our opinion is somehow tr truer better because more people now believe our opinion And this is a a fool because a fool would just um you know talk whatever he wants to. Um whether it's true or not, because he wants uh uh uh others to think how good he is and and for them to be like him. And you see how that's rooted in pride? Yes. Yeah. Yep. Uh how about fourteen one? The wise woman builds her house Now does that mean that she's a carpenter and she's building the the structure and everything? What what's it mean? The home, the family, right. And she's building it with with um wisdom, with knowledge. Sets the tone. Yep, all of that. But the foolish tears it down with her own hand. It's a pretty graphic picture, isn't it? So we can tear down things like our our family and our our um uh children and our legacy and and so on by our own foolishness. Yeah 143 In the mouth of the foolish is a rod for his back, but the lips of the wise will preserve them. The mouth of the foolish, what's coming out of the mouth of the foolish? Foolish ideas. Right? And There are going to be consequences there. And sometimes they're going to be held accountable for their foolishness. And so Sometimes that involves uh actual punishment. Look at uh fourteen, six, and seven A scoffer seeks wisdom and finds none. But knowledge is easy to him who has understanding. Leave the presence of a fool, or you will not discern words of knowledge. So a scoffer seeks wisdom and finds them. Why doesn't he find some if he's seeking for wisdom? What's that? He's looking in the wrong place. He's got um he has an agenda probably. And so he's he's limiting his sources of wisdom Um like Larry said like Larry said, basically he's looking for other people to validate his opinion, which Could it you know, and so that's part of that too. Yeah. You know, like he's surrounding himself with all like the S Man syndrome. Yeah. Yeah. Because he was seeking to scale. And because he was seeking to stop at it, he's a cool Yeah. And there's nothing there for him to scoff at. Because he doesn't know any better. It's that of that agenda, right. Right. Right. Fourteen nine, fools mock at sin. What is sin? It's basically foolishness. It's bound up in the heart of a child right from the get-go. And so a fool gets to the point where he just mocks the whole idea of sin. It's all about me. Right? But among the upright there is goodwill. Let's go down to 155, toward the bottom, page 42. A fool rejects his father's discipline. So he's being disciplined because he's been foolish, and when he rejects that discipline, he's well on his way to being a fool But he who regards reproof, what does it mean to regard reproof? Learn from it, submit to it, be humbled by it, yep, and seek to to Learn he who regards reproof is prudent. It's wise the right thing Okay, let's go to um On the next page, seventeen ten. A rebuke goes deeper into one who has understanding. than a hundred blows into a fool. What's the difference between one of understanding and a fool? They're humble, willing to learn to and bear fruit. I'm sorry? I said convicted by it. Convicted by it? Yeah. And very much open to to correction and greater understanding and accountability. Those are all signs of um prudence and wisdom. And what? Teachable. Teachable. That's right. Right. And to be teachable they need to be humble. To be humble is to Um control self, to be self-controlled, and not to allow self to run amok. Right Uh can't separate a fool from his foolishness. God can but it's in the heart and if it's a hardened heart um All we can do is to share God's truth, God's wisdom, his word, and if God is so pleased, that will Take root, but um that's not the norm. Yeah. Back in fourteen were a fool monks monks us in. I mean that's where we are in spades in our culture of today. Yeah. You know just pollutants. We don't even know pronouns anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Um so much that it's become the norm to take pride in what is foolishness. Yeah. Let's go to page forty four, near the top, twenty two, verse three The prudent sees the evil and hides himself. But the naive go on and are punished for it. You can imagine, you know, a a a picture here, right? The prudent sees the evil, it's a warning to him. I better take cover, right? But the naive out of foolishness, pride, um say You know. Who cares? Whatever. They go on and they're punished for it how What consequences do we see? Okay, so we looked at 2215. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. The rod of discipline will remove it far from him. And so the fact that our children are born in foolishness Uh they come right out of the box as sinners. Um that doesn't mean that they're fools. It means they will be fools if what? We don't knock it out. We don't knock it out. We as parents have a role there, right? To uh bring them up in the way they should go. And um so that's that's uh an important responsibility. Here's a good one Down the middle of the page, 26, 4, and 5. Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him. But then it says, answer a fool as his folly deserves, lest he be wise in his own eyes. What do you think about that? It takes discernment. Okay. Is not to answer a fool according to his folly, in other words, in the same way he's being foolish But to answer a fool as his folly deserves. Now sometimes his folly deserves you just walking away. Sometimes his folly deserves um wisdom, correction, rebuke. Um maybe God will use that. What he w wants what he wants most is an audience to hear his foolishness. And um just simply saying that's foolish and walking out God may use that as conviction, or a a uh a wise word aptly spoken. Might be wise. Okay. We've got just a few minutes. We can take a look at scoffers here. It's just a a subset really of fools on page 45 Very similar here, but back in in chapter one, uh verse twenty-two, which we read earlier, how long, O naive ones, will you love simplicity and scoffers delight themselves in scoffing. And fools hate knowledge. It's really lumping them all together. It's the same category here. But part of the behavior is scoffing. What is what does it mean to scoff? Mock. Make fun of, sure. All those stuff. Um And scoffing, making fun of what? Interest in that Usually it's things that are good and right that they're scoffing at. Usually. Um And that's clearly not a good thing. And verse 25 there, you neglected all my counsel and did not want my reproof. And that's equally so of the scoffers, the the simple, the naive, the fools. Um Verse 30 again, they would not accept my counsel, they spurned all my reproof. And so that's the mark of a fool. Spurning reproof. Sperning wisdom. Not wanting wisdom, just wanting uh my way. Yeah, I have a question for you. All in um verse twenty two it says how long simple ones. We love simplicity for sporters delight when you're sporting. Now could it be the application of how long BC ones or maybe I'm I'm thinking non-believers looking at us as believers and we're supposed to be following the truth, but we're choosing not to, and they're watching us Why don't you believe it? Why aren't you following it? A lot of times the non-believers, they know enough about God's word and know that we're not acting in the truth Yeah, that that would that would not be a good thing, but the the text here if you look at chapter one it's it's wisdom speaking here, not the unbelievers. An interesting thing at the very bottom of page forty five in chapter three Do not envy a man of violence, and do not choose any of his ways, for the crooked man is an abomination to the Lord, but he is intimate with the upright. The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. And look at verse 34. Though he, God, scoffs at the scoffers, Yet he gives grace to the afflicted. So is it wrong to scoff? Well the Lord does it. The Lord does it. What does he scoff at? The scoffers themselves. You know, look at um Psalm 2, where it refers to the kings of the earth are scoffing at at God, and he just scoffs right back at them because he knows he's right and they're wrong. Um interesting. That doesn't necessarily mean we can stuff. No. We're not God and we're not sure. That's right. So I think we have to be careful Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um that's very similar to um Boasting. God can boast, but we have nothing to boast about. Other than God. Right? Uh and so this should look on the last page, forty-six, this should look familiar. 13. 1. A wise son accepts his father's discipline But a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. Right? So scoffer, fool, same thing right here. And it's characteristic, right? Not listening to reviews, not being or not being humble enough, i. e. being so proud as to uh not not receive the very thing that's beneficial to them. Yeah. And so in 2124, proud, haughty, scoffer are his names, who acts with insolent pride. They're all connected. And the very last verse there, twenty-four nine, the devising of folly is sin And the scoffer is an abomination to men. So the devising of folly is sin. Remember, uh sin is is our nature. We're born with it. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child even. Um and and that's that's sin. It's a sin nature. The fool builds on that rather than seeks correction for it And he's devising folly. Um and it's by definition sin. It's it's rooted in a sinful heart. And uh Um that's a warning to us. For sure. Okay. Maybe next week we'll uh not have limitless time. But um let's go ahead and close in prayer.