Well, good morning. We are on lesson eleven in our study of Proverbs. Down the home stretch here, as it were. Last week we began our final series of general topics about personal character in Proverbs. And we began by looking at what we say last week. And so this week we have the natural follow-up, what we do. Proverbs has a lot to say. I mean it just goes on forever about what we do and sometimes don't do. So our first topic or category today is about integrity, trustworthiness. And um again, Proverbs has so much to say about that. Uh we've already touched on some of these, but I'm trying to bring out some ones we haven't talked about that in this case speak specifically about integrity. So integrity, being a person of integrity is um having having a trustworthy reputation, uh doing the right thing, being honest, right? So in Proverbs 10, 9, uh by the way, does everybody have a copy of the notes? Anybody need a copy? We're all set? Okay Proverbs 10. 9 says, He who walks in integrity walks securely, but he who perverts his ways will be found out. So when it says walks here, what's it referring to? Living, the way you behave. Right, exactly. It's not just your you're putting one foot in front of the other, right? It's it's you're applying your integrity to real life And um what it says is that he who walks in integrity walks securely as opposed to He who perverts his ways will be found out. So if you're walking in integrity, then you're walking in truth. You're walking in transparency and um uh you're your uh words, your actions are going to be in sync, right? As opposed to somebody who perverts his ways and his words and his actions aren't in sync, what's going to happen to him? His ways are going to be found out. His his um his motives are going to be found out eventually. But someone who walks in integrity, there's there's not that mismatch between what we say and what we do. Right? That's the whole point. And you don't have to Remember the lines you're trying to cover up. It's like the old adage, the tangled web that we need. Yeah. Yeah. So if if you're trying to keep covering up and be creative and trying to be um uh persuasive. It gets harder and harder. So as not to be inconsistent and all that sort of stuff. Yeah. It's just inevitable, yeah. Indeed. Because a wonderful club for children are lying. I mean what they were Right. Yeah, we talked a little bit about uh lying here in Proverbs, but um It it just leads to being found out, well, as this passage mentions. Look down a couple more here to chapter 11, verse 3. The integrity of the upright will guide them But the falseness of the treacherous will destroy them. So again, you've got this very great contrast. Now Why is it that somebody would be uh would lie or um be treacherous? What would motivate them to do that? Money. Okay, money. Elevate self. Pride. Pride. Shame. Maybe shame. Um They're often trying to get out of accountability, right? Um And so that's eventually going to destroy them. And Um and yet the contrast here is that the integrity of the upright will guide them. It's it's going to be clear which is the right way to go if you're committed to the truth. Right? And doing the right thing. Um so that will be the ultimate guide How about 1113, the very next one listed here? He who goes about as a tailbearer reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy conceals the matter. So a tail bearer is someone who, well, reveals secrets, right? Um secrets that are better kept undisclosed, at least at the moment. Um and yet Someone who go goes around that person's back and gossips or spreads this information with particularly with an evil intent. Is not being trustworthy. If he's being confided in and then doesn't keep that confidence, right, then that's uh being well unfaithful, it's being deceitful, it's it's gonna have consequences that that um are not good for anybody Uh that doesn't mean that these confidences and these secrets need to be um uh protected indefinitely. It doesn't mean that they're even necessarily right, but there's a time and a place. to reveal something and if someone has told you something in confidence and you've given them the assurance that you're going to keep it in confidence then spilling it out all over or even anywhere is not being a person of integrity. Um Let's go down to twelve twenty-six. The righteous is a guide to his neighbor, but the way of the wicked leads them astray. So that's that has the connotation of a person of integrity, someone who is righteous. guides his neighbor. He's providing uh helpful information and dependable information. Um But if someone is wicked, you're going to lead your neighbor astray. You don't want that. Alright, let's go to the next page here, to 19 verse 1. Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than he who is perverse in speech and is a fool. So we often in Proverbs get these contrasts, right? So um Here we're contrasting the behavior of a poor person and someone who is perverse in speech. What's the contrast there? Doesn't seem like the the kind of contrast you would have expected, right? You would have expected maybe someone who was rich. And is a fool. That would be the contrast with the person who is poor, right? But it says, he who is perverse in speech. Why is someone perverse in speech? Typically. Um wicked. Pride, wicked, for what motive? Self gain. Self gain, right? So to being perverse in speech for self gain, in other words, to to um uh manipulate people to get your own advantage and to be rich even by that. Um And yet being a fool, in fact, the yet part of it isn't even necessary because doing all that is foolish, right? Uh is actually a contrast with the person who is poor, but who walks in his integrity. So it's not our financial position that's really important in God's eyes, it's our integrity. Or the lack thereof. And that will show up both in what we do and in what we say. Okay. Let's go down to twenty verse seven. A righteous man who walks in his integrity, how blessed are his sons after him? So what's the result here? The result of a life of integrity? Yeah. So it it it gets passed on. That character why why would it get passed on from one generation to the next? Well they see how his father is blessed and they want to be blessed. So they see the fruit of that character. Good. Was there something else, Larry? Well I I just said that that the kids typically imitate their parents in many ways. Yeah, kids imitate their parents initially just because that's how God designed them, but eventually as they see the example, as they think through the benefits They buy into it. Right? So it's following their example by choice, not just by default. They're also blessed and that they are not ashamed of their father. Okay. I mean how many kids would be seen with such homes that they they don't even want to bring a friend tone that people. Right. So there's some continuity there of the character. And actually the next one we have listed here, chapter twenty, verse eleven, picks up on that to some extent. It is by his deeds that a lad distinguishes himself if his conduct is pure and right. So even children can be characterized by doing the right thing. And ideally they're being trained up in a way that they're doing the right thing for the right reasons, not just to manipulate people and and try to get ahead for themselves. But essentially your your actions will prove eventually in the overall scheme of things what's in the heart Right. Actions speak louder than words. To some extent, right. Particularly the ways in which we do the actions. And so Jesus could could um condemn the Pharisees not for doing the wrong things, but for doing the wrong things for the wrong things for the wrong reasons. It wasn't from the heart. And you can often see that countenance of pride, and it wouldn't have taken a rocket science scientist for people to have seen the Pharisees for what they were Although Jesus knew their hearts as well. Okay. Let's go down to twenty-two twenty-eight. Do not move the ancient boundary which your fathers have set. So you've got boundary lines between properties, adjacent properties, right? And if you look around, nobody's looking, you could, you know, move it for your own personal advantage. Right? That's what he's trying to get at here. But The command, it's it's even stronger than a proverb. It's a command Do not move the ancient boundaries which your father has set. Let's go to the very next one that's listed here. Yeah. exceedingly important to the Jews in their land because that was their inheritance that they passed on to their their children, not particularly money. Yeah, the land was very much a part of the blessing that God was uh giving to the uh the Israelites. Um But it's no less a concern to people today because people have boundaries, right? They have boundaries. And so the next one I have listed here picks up on that, 2310. Do not move the ancient boundary or go into the fields of the fatherless. For their redeemer is strong, he will plead their case against you. So, um You have here the possibility of someone taking advantage of uh orphans, for example. And God's saying, no, no. Um you may get away with it in the short term, but in the long term you're gonna have to answer it to me, God says. Because he Um he is strong and he will plead their case against you. So they're going to be accountable for that. So that's all about integrity, right? You don't just take opportunities that come your way that take advantage of others, um you do the right thing. Yes. scripture. So uh Titus two seven eight was a um a couple verses I had memorized at one time but I was thinking about while you were talking and it said In all things showing yourself to be a pattern of horse, in doctrine showing integrity, reverence, incorruptibility, sound speech cannot be condemned. That one who is an opponent may be ashamed to have enough evil to say about you. So it's going to steal land, so your neighbor comes over say why'd you do that? Uh say the right thing, do the right thing. Right. So no one ever can come to you say, I'm doing it. Exactly. Exactly. So um that reputation of integrity carries a lot of weight for sure. And sometimes can change the the um potential What? Um attitude of people who would be against us if they see that Christlike godly character of integrity um God can use that to change their thinking. We're not doing Christ just in the building today. It's just when we do feel at in our house, businesses, schools. Right. And you can have the um you can have the Cash a cash here and the sun's not moving fast enough to but just what you do at that moment Oh I thought you were going to say at the cashier when they give you too much change. Same thing, right? I I I I look to all of you as something that I used to do Um I'm at the cash cash register at supermarkets years if you keep in mind. Many years many years. The old Brian. I've I've grown I've grown integrity over the years. So I'm there and I'm there and someone behind me is like coming closer and closer. Closer is like pushing me. I can't move because the person in front of us in front of us is not moving. Okay, so here's the profession. So I'm there and all of a sudden I just let out a big fake sneeze like this. Just to let 'em know Just move back a little bit. So anyway, I don't go grocery shopping with my wife anyway. There is a mark of integrity, Brian. You're you're transparent, Brian. Brian said don't pass it on, so that's a secret Oh, okay. So here are a lot more people sneezing at the grocery store. All right, let's go down to I'm on page one sixteen now. Chapter twenty-six verse eighteen. Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death, so is a man who deceives his neighbor and says, wasn't that just joking? Oh, just kidding. Yeah, just kidding. So um uh he's not talking here about you know just innocent um uh jokes and practical jokes even. But someone who who is two faced about something. You know, on the one hand, he's he's uh very serious about his accusations, you know, these firebrands and arrows and death. I mean they're very serious accusations and whatever. And then when he Um he's called out on it, kinda changes his tune. Know any politicians like this? Look down at 28. 6. Better is the poor who walks in this integrity then he was crooked though he is rich. And so now this one is very much this contrast between the poor and the rich. And again it's integrity versus in this case being crooked And so God is saying that what's more important? Money or integrity? Integrity by far. Right. And then let's go down to thirty, verse five and six. Every word of God is tested. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words lest he reprove you, and you be proved a liar. So part of our integrity is being people of integrity in handling God's word. Right, what he says. And if we rely on What God says, that's going to be um a shield for us, a refuge for us. It's truth. Uh if we manipulate it to advance our own ideas and whatever, then don't expect that it's going to have the same beneficial result, do we? It's not like a rope that you've tied and you're pulling on it to make sure it is Essentially, yes, it's sound. It's it's proven. Yeah, and so it's it's proven, you can rely on it just like you should be reliable. God's word is reliable. Yeah. But can you can you speak to what it means to walk in integrity? What what is integrity? Again, your your walking is is not the steps that you take on the on the floor. It's your life. Right, the way you live, the way you conduct yourself. And if you conduct yourself according to truth and what is right, righteousness the and you're you're not um uh what is it uh double tongued, right? Speaking one thing to one crowd and something else to another, you're consistent You're um you can be trusted, all those things are part of being a person's integrity. I was trying to think what what is the adjective form of integrity I'm not sure there is one. So we say a person of integrity or you walk with integrity. So the reason I asked that question is because today you if you listen to you know, a lot of things. It seems like our society still values what integrity is. Okay. But I I think sometimes the death definition of what integrated is is really not um because you see someone tell a ball based lie and complain that that person of integrated. So so that's why I Ask that question. Obviously society thinks it still thinks that integrity is something to be um value So when we say uh as believer that a person walks in text Put some uh I know personally that I am um I'm convicted every time I read there's this uh passage But he who perverts his ways will be found out. So there is something about being, you know, duplicate and yet looking like your um Yeah, and and the key is walking in truth, truthfulness, trustworthiness. And someone could claim, maybe even genuinely think, that something is an example of integrity But if their concept of what truth is, is wrong, then the whole foundation is is thrown out. Well, yeah, I mean I mean mo most people will say that they're good that that they are for of integrity. Even though don't condemn someone else who does the same thing that that they do. Yeah. So hypocritical and and whatever. Yeah. I I would also think of someone who as the phrase is a man of his word. Someone who is if he makes a problem promise keeps the promise. You can trust that they're gonna do what they say they're gonna do. Right. His word is his follow up. Yeah. Um and that's not someone No, it isn't. He had it built. He hired a contractor But he never they never signed a contract. It was a handshake deal because they were men that they trust each other. I will qualify that a little bit, because it is possible for an evil person to do exactly like he said he was going to do. That doesn't make him a man of integrity It makes him a man of his word in a way that's maybe technically correct, but if it's not according to the truth then he's not really a man of integrity. Yes. That too. Yeah. Okay. Yes. What is um how does one uh add to his words Uh to add to God's words would be to try to in in our in our context, you know, when we think of the word of God, we're thinking of course of Scripture, and uh for us to add to his words is to to basically either put something that man says on par with what God says or try to provide an interpretation of something God has said that goes beyond what it actually says. And make this man-made addition to what God said as having the same authority as God. And that's basically legalism. It also values scripture in Revelation Do not answer the words. Right, well it's exactly what it says here too. Right. Could it also be, you know, the Lord told me to do this kind of language, you know, a lot of people Yeah, that would possibly be a like the televist. An example of it, but they're they're not well yeah, they're saying this is the word of the Lord to me. Right. That would be maybe an example of it. Yeah. I think this is so I have to wait only once that we shall not shall not kill me. Getting him back to it, they will not kill him. Which I think is the employee, you know, to be back to the word. A misapplication. I think that's an example of how it can add to the word of like taking a person Yeah. Yeah that that that's twisted Yeah. Twisting, but it's it's also um misapplying. I guess. Yeah, I uh she says the word twisting is just the source and so I think Yeah. So who who do we see in scripture does that? It starts with with Satan, right? Right back in Genesis three. And questioning God and kind of twisting what he said and and so on. And He's referred to in scripture as the father of lies, right? And a lie doesn't mean that everything you said is Untrue. It means you're twisting the truth sometimes and applying it in a way it wasn't intended. Um or another way to say say it is be careful when you s w when you say to speak for God. Yeah, that's pretty dangerous. Trying to speak f well, if you're speaking for God as if um it originates from you but it's for God, you're his best bud, right, and and you're speaking on his behalf, that's Extremely presumptuous and dangerous. Prophets, of course, spoke on behalf of God, but they spoke God's words, what God had communicated. Yeah. So um related to uh teaching or witnessing, encouraging, being mentors or uh discipling others. And how often do we say something that's in God's Word, say, oh, God's Word says this You say it to encourage them and you're doing the right thing at the same time. You're not living that passage in your own life No temptation to seize you except what is common demand, right? Thou will find a way out. Encourage that, but You say it, and that occurs to them, God speaks to their heart, when you were struggling with that yourself Is that hinder your own? Well that's that's not exactly adding to God's word. That's not applying it to ourselves when we should be. Hopefully when we're speaking, Yeah, looking at that yourself. That's your lack of integrity there. Is it your your Yes. Yeah, that that's a lack of integrity. Uh particularly if You're being what duplicitous and hypocritical and and whatever. It's not exactly this verse of adding to the word. It's it's misapplying it. Henderson. What does it mean to walk in the tender? Yes. Right. Right. is is is wrestling with a sin or there are issues in their life, I don't think just because you have the same uh struggles in that person, you're wrestling with these things as well. There's no sin, but that means common to make that you don't say it. It's like a doctor who's overweight is unable to tell a patient who's like, you need to move a little bit away. I mean if you don't you're still speaking in truth, you struggle with it too, but that doesn't means that that word is not true or valid for that person. So it depends on how we come if you're saying like, oh I'm really good, but you, you have problems. That would be a little bit dependent I got it all together. Right, right. I got it all together, but I'm going with I'm going to encourage you to think you're coming alongside and I'm struggling with this issue, but this is what got Yeah, and and that's the key, how transparent are you? Right. If you're intentionally non-transparent, giving the impression that it's more true of you than it really is Um yes, God can use that if it's truth, but it's far better to be transparent. Say, you know, I'm struggling with this, it's a lesson I've learned, and I'm continuing to learn. Let me help you apply it as well. That's a lot more. uh genuine and uh what is that adjective for integrity? Integris um then sincerity out wax. Right. Right. Pastor Pump, I wanted to add something to somebody who said what does it mean to add to the word of here? I think that is critical because it touches a small else that I think all of us might have one or the other opinion about about uh the cessation of certain gifts such as uh and uh there there are some people that believe that they've ceased and they There are others that believe that it hasn't seized. For those who believe that it hasn't seized, it means that there are still going to be prophecies which invariably will have to be added to what we have as a can of it, I think that will constitute adding to a word of God. Yeah. You're right. You're right. Yeah. Yeah, it's a good application of this. Okay. Um let's go down to the next section here on this page, uh chapter thirty, verses seven through nine. I think we read this earlier in another context, but two things I ask of thee, do not refuse me. This is kind of a prayer to God. Uh do not refuse me before I die. Keep deception and lies far from me. Right? And that's that's very um applicable to our current context. Give me neither riches or poverty nor riches Feed me with the food that is my portion, lest I be full and deny thee and say who is the Lord, or lest I want and steal and profane the name of my God. So um That would be good to be our prayer that um God would keep us alert to and sensitive to any tendency we have to be deceiving and lying, and that he convicts us immediately so we can avoid it Okay. So the next section is on righteousness. What is righteousness? Doing what's right. Exactly. And then the following section is on evil and wickedness, just the opposite. And so some of these verses show up in each of these sections Um so to I wanted to show you particularly there are too many here to cover, but I wanted to show you particularly Well I suppose we'll find it here. Let's go to um On page one hundred seventeen, chapter two, verse nine, so uh uh he's the context here is his plea to to um uh adopt and understand this wisdom and to apply it to your life, since then you will discern righteousness and justice and equity in every good course So, righteousness and justice are essentially the same thing. It's doing what's right. So a judge who is just always does the right thing. Because God is just, because God is righteous, he always does the right thing. Um go down to verse twenty there, chapter two. So you will walk in the way of good men and keep the paths of the righteous. For the upright will live in the land, and the blameless will remain in it. But the wicked will be cut off from the land, and so on. So the paths of the righteous, uh the pattern of behavior of those who do right, um Um is the goal, right? And so following this wisdom will allow you to walk. And uh uh behave in those right ways. That's righteousness. Let's put the page uh to go to chapter ten. Verse 2 Ill-gotten gains do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death. Now it's interesting. Why does someone pursue ill-gotten gains? So that they'll profit. Right? Maybe at someone else's expense, maybe by cheating But he says, in the long run, ill-gotten gains do not profit, but righteousness, doing the right thing, delivers from death. Um when we do the right thing, um there's probably two general paths here that it's it's speaking of. Delivering us from death at the hands of others, because if we're doing the right thing, uh the truth will prevail typically and will be exonerated because our our um righteousness is going to be evident if if uh the justice system is uh anywhere near what it should be. But there's also the long term, the e even the eternal impact of that, right? So that if if we do the right thing, we have a right standing with God That doesn't mean that our salvation is a salvation of works, but uh we've seen throughout throughout Proverbs, and you see it elsewhere in the scripture as well, that God commends those who seek to live an upright life before Him. And to obey him. Not that they're perfect, but that um they're not rebelling against God and his commands. And so they need salvation as much as anybody, but they're they're um commended in scripture because they're seeking to honor God. And typically it's because well in effect entirely it's because God is gracious to them Because, you know, which of us can't say, there but for the grace of God go I right in some path of of evil. Um But anyway, the the truism here is that if we genuinely have a a a track record of of righteousness, of doing the right thing, of integrity, then um Um that's that's gonna have short term benefits, it's gonna have long term benefits. Yeah. Why does game field carton gain? Why doesn't it find The the the word um game there I think it also means profit. So ill capital profit doesn't profit. Because ill gotten gain, if it has any gain at all, is for how long? Short term. Short term. And the ultimate profit is Long term. That's that's the contrast. If you think you're getting profit out of it, think again. You're only thinking short term. Yeah, I think we've mentioned this before that different cultures stress different things or in different ways and when you get transplanted from one culture to another, you're you're you tend to get f forced to think through those differences. And it's it's easy to maybe get caught up in the excesses of to to leave the excesses of one culture and to adopt the excesses of another culture without viewing both of them through the lens of scripture. And um all of us, whether we change cultures or not, need to be looking at the um circumstances, the the values around us through a scriptural lens rather than what's in it for me or what it what am I attracted to. Yeah Um, but I also just wanted to clarify, and I'm not sure if this is where I've heard, but someone can be wealthy and genuinely be a Christian. Right. This is not necessarily the day elder. That's right. There are extremely wealthy Christians who are absolutely truly safe. So I just want to make that suggestion that Right. Yeah, and so in scripture. Yeah, in scripture it's it always boils down to what's in the heart. Right? And if God chooses to make somebody rich through um um What's that adjective again? Integ integris. Through integrity and through diligence and through wise even biblical thinking. Um that's not luck, that's just God's providence and and so on. Uh that same person could easily have not gotten rich and would have been just as content because he's a person of integrity. Yeah. So uh but the the generalities here of of if if your motive is to get rich versus your motive is to stay with integrity, then those are going to result in two very different things. Or increasingly what's in the world is is there any right? Any absolute truth. Yeah. Exactly. Um most of you probably never Yeah. And that's consistent with several of the parables, right? Um, that those who are faithful God gives even greater reward but also responsibility. Amen. For sure Okay. So um let's go to page one nineteen. Go in the middle of the page, chapter eleven, verse five. The righteousness of the blameless will smooth his way, but the wicked will fall by his own wickedness. The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, but the treacherous will be caught by their own greed. So there are various synonyms here, righteousness, blameness, blameless, uh upright That doesn't refer to a person who is perfectly sinless, but rather, as we've been saying, person who is characterized by doing the right thing and having the right motive in the heart to do the right thing. And uh that commitment, it says, that commitment to righteousness will smooth his way. So it's not creating problems for him, it's probably solving and preventing problems. But the wicked will fall by their own wickedness, caught in their own snare. um other passages say. Caught by their own greed in verse six. So it'll it'll come back like a boomerang, right? They think it's going to be the the strategic thing to do at the moment. But they're so focused on the moment they don't see the big picture and it's gonna come around to bite them And that's the principle here. They don't they've got their their own worst enemy, essentially is what it's saying, right? Let's go down to eleven nineteen. He who is steadfast in righteousness will attain to life. And he who preserves evil will bring about his own death. So it's a similar thing. That if we're doing the right thing, we're likely to avoid things that are going to be dangerous and even kill us either the the the things or the people. Um but uh the general truism is that if we're doing the right thing, uh we're going to avoid those kind of problems. Particularly given verse 20, it says the perverse in heart, again it it's what's happening in the heart. They're an abomination to the Lord, but the blameless in their walk are his delight. Again, it's not talking about people who are sinless are of delight to the Lord, but people who from their heart are committed to obeying him as best as they're they know how and are seeking to please him, uh they're his delight. And Um because God is sovereign over all those circumstances, um he's partly responsible for the the um the well being of those who are walking in uprightness. That all these circumstances pave their way and make it smooth, right? Um and likewise the flip side of that is if uh if their heart is perverse then um it's not only gonna be an abomination to the Lord, it's going to cause God to orchestrate the circumstances so that it's gonna come back to bite them. I I kinda like words a lot really well I think that it's before you make that. 1111. By the blessing of the upright a city is exalted, but by the mouth of the wicked it is torn down. I think they give you um kind of the necessity of really To be aspiration and wealth and integrity as you feel and uh in your humanity So it has implications for our role as citizens. Yeah, for sure. Yep. Well That's similar to on the next page, fourteen thirty-four, righteousness exalts a nation But sin is a disgrace to any people. Okay, let's go to um Still not finding the one I was looking for. Too many here. But anyway, let's go to page one twenty three, or actually one hundred twenty-four, or get in the section of evil and wickedness in the contrast with righteousness. So righteousness is doing the right thing. Evil and wickedness is doing the wrong thing. Right? wrong uh heart particularly. Um page one twenty four, chapter three, verse seven. Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. Turn away from doing the things that are uh not only displeasing to the Lord, but often just an abomination to the Lord, just turn away from them. And then on the next page on the top, chapter six, verse twelve, a worthless person, a wicked man is the one who walks with a false mouth. So that's the opposite of integrity, right? Uh who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet, who points with his fingers who with perversity in his heart, and again, that's the key, perversity in his heart devises evil continually. And so um it's not just what we do or don't do, it's why we do it that God's looking at Uh let's go to page one twenty six. And uh on the top, chapter twenty uh ten, verse twenty. The tongue of the righteous is as choice silver. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's a good thing. So it's speaking Wisdom, speaking truth, right? Like choice silver. The heart of the wicked is worth little. The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of understanding. Yeah, uh are a fool and wicked the same Uh here in many of these passages they are very much linked. Um but um I mean can what is kind of wicked thing? Yeah, what is wicked is basically the same as evil, uh evil intent. things that are rebellious toward God and harmful to other people, you know, those kind of of problems. Um I'm trying to see if there's is if there's much distinction between that. Foolishness is maybe a little bit broader. I think evil is an example Is that right? An example of foolishness? Being a fool. Um If it seems like evil uh presumes that there's a a bad intent Toward God or other people. Whereas a fool could merely be out for number one. Does does uh uh tap the tenderist when you think that just help uh explain that a little bit is doing wickedness is like sport like food. Yeah. Doing weaknesses like sport, so it's it's it's fun to them. It's it's it's Entertaining. That's foolish to do wickedness. So they're they're very much connected. So I don't know if you've been with us all summer. Lesson three we had on the general teaching on wisdom from Proverbs. And chapter four was on foolishness Both of those were focusing mostly on our mindset, our values, our motives, right? Here we're talking more about uh what we're doing. We we um the the sort of i in many cases, even with fools, it's the the overflow of the foolishness is Um actions that are people would call wicked and evil and whatever, or they could just be labeled as foolish. Um So they're highly connected for sure because it all starts in the heart and if in the heart they're fools because they're characterized by uh rebelling against God's uh word, God's truth, God's standards, God's values, then uh that's going to show up. So foolishness leads to wickedness? Yeah, but you c you yeah. That that would be one thing to think of it. It leads to wicked acts actions But it can also lead to foolish actions that are that might not be characterized as wicked or evil, but they're foolish. They're self-destructive, right? It could be both Yeah, I I don't know if I'd draw a a a real bright line between um foolishness and um evil, wickedness. I mean they're they're highly related, but one is speaking more about um the intent, yeah, and the other is more about Now if the outcome is the intent, then they get connected. Right? Well yeah. The writer of Proverbs is is using these terms and a tet in a in a technical stance But they're just broadcasts. Yeah, they are ca in fact there's multiple uh synonyms used almost in each verse. Yes. Yeah. But there is the issue of intent and the issue of actions and uh it's hard to separate those two. Uh the actions come from the intent, right? And you can label them as evil, you can label them as foolish. Or being a fool. Um they're all part of the same thing. Yeah. Well, we're not going to be able to cover everything I was hoping to here, but um After that section, on page one hundred thirty-three, we start a section on justice and oppression. Um Yeah, I was thinking I would see the verse I was looking for here, but I don't yet. Uh we're not gonna have time to look at all those, but uh again, what is justice? It's doing the right thing. And typically it's going to be in an official capacity, but sometimes it's just justice between people, treating people fairly, right? Doing the right thing. Whereas oppression is just the opposite of that, taking advantage of people and uh obviously not doing the right thing. So some of these passages here in Proverbs in this section are directed toward the responsibility of um a king, you know, someone who is in charge of of exercising justice. But a lot of them are just for us, just to treat people fairly. Yeah. Okay. Well those are there for your reference and study. Next week we're going to continue talking about personal character. We've talked about what we say, what we do. We're going to even talk about what we think. You know, because it's really all in the heart. And so we're gonna look at that next week. But let's pray.