Well welcome to lesson ten of our study in Proverbs. So today and actually we're going to introduce um uh ten uh four uh different aspects of the teaching in Proverbs of Things having to do with our character, our personal character. And so today we're going to look at what we say. Proverbs has a lot to say about our speech. Uh both as Proverbs is wont to do. Both good examples and bad examples, right? And we'll look at both of those today. Starting with speech that builds up I'm on page one hundred, lesson ten. So Look at that second passage there from Proverbs 1225. Anxiety in the heart of a man weighs it down. But a good word makes it glad. So what does it mean? A good word makes it glad. From a friend, possibly Someone coming alongside, giving an encouragement to someone who is um uh bearing a load of concerns or you know whatever it is, someone coming alongside and and expressing a valuable, encouraging word. It says um makes the heart of that person glad. And you've probably experienced that, right? People have come to you and have spoken a uh an apt word, a word of truth, not a word of um uh superficiality just trying to get them to to smile, but uh a word of truth. And so Proverbs definitely uh teaches that. Let's look at the next one here from uh Proverbs fifteen, one and two A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. The tongue of the wise makes knowledge acceptable, but the mouth of fools spouts folly. So here's the situation where there's there's conflict, probably, right Um and there's there's um even wrath and anger, but a gentle answer Turns that away. It's essentially disarming when someone who is being subject to such anger and wrath has peace. And gives truth in a gentle way. That's unexpected. That's um Very godly. And can be disarming if the person you know, w what do you do when you lash back at the person? You're just feeding it, right? But when you uh when you return a gentle answer, even a loving answer, um you're deflecting all those those darts and arrows that are being thrown at you And um it's not that you're not listening to them, but you realize ultimately none of that really matters. And so when someone sees a quiet spirit like that, um it can be very disarming. Look down to sixteen twenty-one. The wise in heart will be called discerning, and sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness. So here it's not so much a comforting word to someone who's going through some hard times, but rather you're trying to make a point And if you're belligerent in trying to make your point, even if your point is correct, you're not likely to have as much success as if your speech is, how does it put it here, sweet. Right? Not Sticky icky sweet, but pleasant and um uh positive And true. The point here is not that it's deceitful, but that it's it's making a point in a very godly way. and hopefully a good point in a very godly way. It increases the persuasiveness. So it's not just the content of the point you're making, but the way in which you make it that is important. Right? The next one there, 1624. Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bones. So what is it about a honeycomb that's going to be true of these pleasant words? It's sweet, it's desirable, right? Um nourishing. Nourishing. And so it's uh sweet to the soul and healing to the bones. So, you know, you if you break your bone, right, and someone speaks well to you, it heals the bones. No, it's not talking about the physical healing of the bones, but rather the inner part of you It's it it it those words um whether they're um Harsh words or pleasant words, uh you take them in. It's uh you internalize it. And into the very heart. And in this case, if they're pleasant, then the effects in the inner part of you will be good. Yeah 2211. He who loves purity of heart and whose speech is gracious, the king is his friend. Now why would the king be the friend of someone who is pure in heart and whose speech is gracious? Yeah, so those in authority uh tend to attract people who are trying to get something from them or through them, right? You know, these days we call them lobbyists. But they've been around for a long time, people who try to redirect those in authority to their own advantage, right? And so, um, he who loves purity of heart And whose speech is gracious. So it's it's good motives and uh uh godly speech. Yeah. And um if the king or anybody in authority is any any sense at all, they'll realize, no, that's a person I can trust. That's an asset. Yeah. And h his speech is gracious as opposed to what could it be? Um demanding. Um What's that? Harsh. Harsh. Yeah. Yes. It seems that it is some the speech uh could also be the person uh the the in this case the king um knows enough about that person that that he's characterized by um um wisdom, uh good motives, um serving well, um But um yes, I think you are right that often the nature of the sweetness of the speech and the graciousness of the speech will give some clues about the genuine nature of the pure heart. As opposed to flattery, which sometimes is, in fact probably often you can see it from a mile away. Yeah, we're gonna talk about flattery actually a little later. But uh yeah. Could could the uh word gracious speech also be uh Um uh referring to the um the uh the the the purpose behind it me for example The person is not necessarily trying to gain favor for himself, but at least uh you know when he's giving uh advice to the he or to the to the person that the the person is giving that they get proper credit or uh for example in in in in in in my in situations where I've had to either give uh recommendations for for someone or what have you. It's it's it's true and honest but it's also um um uh put putting forth a person in in in the best light possible, not myself and not trying to keep uh any any kind of credit or same me but kind of pushing that off of someone else. Right. For example. When people tell me that you know we do a good job, I I usually with with in my manager, I usually say, no, the team did a good job They are the ones that do the work. Um they follow through and I couldn't do this myself. I have a very good team as opposed to thank you very much. Yeah, we did do a great question. Excellent example. Yeah. Um y you might call that uh selflessness. Right, as opposed to selflishness, which usually you can spy. Yeah. And that would be characteristic of being righteous. Reminds me of um that verse in James You know, uh actually several verses that talk about um how hard it is to tame the tongue. You know, you can you can steer a boat with a little rudder. Um And it's amazing what that little tongue can do to steer you in the wrong direction. Let's go down to 27 verse 2. Let another praise you and not your own mouth. A stranger and not your own lips. So what is it trying to get at there? What is it trying to avoid? Pride. Pride. Right. So rather it's it's trying to um remind us to be humble It's not wrong for others to praise us, although we can respond to that praise maybe even in a proud way, and I think Willie was talking about maybe a better way to to do that, to be more selfless. Um How about the next one? 27 verse 5. Better is open rebuke than love that is concealed. We've talked a bit about that already, but what's the loving thing to do when someone you love uh needs correction. You know, the loving thing to do is not to cover it over and um watch it get worse and worse, but rather the loving thing to do is to to address it in a loving way and a humble way so that um the person can be helped by that. That's the loving thing to do. And so if we're silent in those cases, that may not be the most loving thing to do. Although we we fool ourselves into thinking, well, I don't want to make an issue of it because I love him too much. That might not be the right loving response. When it says open in you Doesn't that really mean just open to that person? You don't want to do it in public all of these other people. Correct. Yes, good point. Yeah. It's open in the sense of it's in this relationship it becomes open because you've raised it with the person. Uh it's not and we're going to be talking about backbiting later It's not going around the person and damaging a reputation and and so on, but going directly. people who are closed to rebuke like that as the characteristic of foolishness. Uh and we're gonna pick up a few more verses I think on that today even I received uh correction from uh one of my Um but one of the things that she did was she was very transparent and she pointed out some things that I was doing. Um but before she pointed it out, she made the point to say that she had fallen victim of one of the many kinds of things that I would do. And the first thing was the first thing she said is, you and I are like. You know, and she said, uh, we give from the heart. You know, she said sometimes God may not want us to give, and we want you to help us the person in another way given the resources that they need to help them go instead of you know giving all the time you know what they need um help them so that they're able to you know help them So that's that's a gracious way to make the point, isn't it? And she did it at the I mean the per the time was perfect. That's great. Yeah, that's a good example. Well, you see that's the point. Um, if you really love someone Right? And so it'll show up in in what you do, what you say. That's I think the point it's making. Yeah. You it's love, really, if it's concealed, and you're not really doing the loving thing. Um I think that's the point it's making. Okay. Twenty-seven twenty-one. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Um actually what she brought up is like very, very helpful. A lot of people feel like um you're more relatable when you're saying, you know, but I've done this too. Right. Because then people do feel like you said like the graciousness uh you know that speeches you know it's I'm not seeing any judgment of you but it's just you know you're trying to correct in a way because they have learned Right. Right. So we were we were ta we were chapter like him. Yeah. We were chapter So there's that that that genuine expression of love, even though it's can be challenging if it's done in the right spirit and the right um uh humility and and love. can actually bring people closer together. Yeah, in fact it usually does. Yeah pride will just cut that apart. But humility, yeah, that that goes a long way. Yep. Okay, let's look at 2721. The crucible is for silver and the furnace for gold. A man is tested by the praise accorded him. So here again it's um it's good for us to praise people. But it's also important to realize that there are appropriate ways to respond to that praise. If we're proud, our response to that praise probably is not gonna Be very helpful. Right? But if we're uh gracious, thankful, um humble about it, then um then that's a much stronger testimony, for sure. So it even says here, God is possibly even testing you by the praise that you give. Is it pride within you or is it humility within you? That'll probably come out as a result of the praise that you're given. Okay. Let's flip over to 102 for the opposite now, speech that tears down. And we'll look at a few here. Yeah, unfortunately. There's a lot of correction involved here. Let's look particularly in that first section at um Uh chapter two verse sixteen. Here the context is um learning wisdom and discernment and staying away from um The adulteress, for example. And 216 it says, the adulteress who flatters with her words. So again, flattery is a way to be devious and uh ultimately wanting to tear down even though it appears like it's trying to build up. Right? So we need to be careful about that Look down at the same time. For example, you can you can tell someone something true about themselves, but give it to them so that they could So to move their to move their actions or or or or response towards you, not necessarily towards the right behavior. Yeah. Yeah, well the I I I think it's fair to say that flattery can have some truth in it. In fact, it probably often does. Uh but it may be exaggerated. It may be um misplaced. But I think the real test of it is what's going on in the heart. Am I saying this to manipulate the person, or do I genuinely believe it? And is it a is it a worthy thing to praise them about? Usually it's all about manipulation. And even if the words inherently don't um give that away Um eventually that the motive of the heart will become clearer, usually. And I think that's the key test If it's an attempt to manipulate somebody, then you know it's it's flat. Okay, let's go down to ten thirty-one. The mouth of the righteous flows with wisdom, but the perverted tongue will be cut out. That's strong, isn't it? The lips of the righteous bring forth what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked what is perverted. So perverted speech, uh crooked speech, um speech that Uh again, attempts to manipulate and um uh lead people in the wrong direction to the wrong conclusions, whatever. Uh it's it's perverted it. It may not be complete outward lies, but even half truths are lies. Right? And it's perverting it's perverting the truth. Yeah, intentionally. That's the point. Um So clearly this is a warning to us. And you see the contrast here between the lips of the righteous and the mouth of the wicked. And that's a A good warning to us. Look at 17. 5. He who mocks the poor reproaches his maker. He who rejoices at calamity will not go unpunished. So another type of speech that tears down is mockery. Right. Um usually it comes out of pride and maybe even hate. Um but it it tears down rather than builds up, and therefore um is is um something that God would warn us against. Making fun of people making fun of um you know uh Maybe what they're maybe what they're going through. You know, ah you deserve that, or you know, whatever, it's kind of mocking them Or what about 1808? The words of a whisperer are like dainty morsels and they go down into the innermost parts of the body. Does that mean it's wrong to whisper? What what do you think it means here that a whisperer gossip could be gossip? Grumbling. Grumbling. Yeah. Why whisper in those cases? Doesn't want the others can authority here. Yeah, it doesn't want to be accountable. Yeah. Trying to avoid accountability, trying to also um it's another way to manipulate. You know, tr try to make pass on something that you think is is helpful information, um kind of the inside track on the truth And you whisper it hoping that the person will act accordingly, whether it's gossip or whatever. And um I think they also whisper it, I think, hoping that you'll pass it on to someone else who passes it on. That's certainly the case with gossip. Right. And so w in what way would it be like dainty morsels? Are day tea morsels supposed to be a good thing? Sweet. Yeah, they go down smoothly. So it's the kind of thing that people receive very easily. They receive this whispering information and um because it appeals to them It appeals to the sin nature, sure. Yeah. And so we need to avoid that. Um Whether we detect it seems to be gossip or just a way to set us in opposition to somebody else with a rumor, you know. We need to guard against that, even though it sounds like it's it's um juicy information. Top of the next page, 20 verse 19 He who goes about as a slanderer reveals secrets, therefore, do not associate with a gossip. So a couple of key ways that speech can tear down here. One is slandering. What what is slander? Spreading falsehood. To discredit a person, to bring them down. Right. And here again, it may have some kernels of truth in it, but it's got a spin on it. to um tear somebody down. And even in this context, the slanderer reveals secrets. Um It's it's generally not appropriate to pass along the secrets of someone else. Um even if to some extent there may be some concern there, but then that that uh gossiping isn't the solution, it just makes things worse. Even if there is some truth to it, it's not the right solution. Right? And so the gossip tends uh the gossiping person tends not to have all the facts anyway. But they have just enough to pass along what they know to be damaging to someone else and they feel good about damaging somebody else. Um as if they're holier than thou, right? So it's all very, very uh ungodly Uh, let's go down to um chapter twenty five. There's several verses there, but uh the context here is arguing your case with your neighbor and you've got an issue and you're you're wanting to resolve it. And verse ten says Do not reveal well 9 says, do not reveal the secret of another, lest he who hears it reproach you, and the evil report about you not pass away. So what's interesting from verse nine is you're passing along um you're you're rumoring, you're you're gossiping about someone else to a third person, and who is it who's reproaching you? The person the third person. Yeah. He who hears it reproaches you. So th the person here who hears it Understands this is gossip, this is this is not helpful. You should be going directly to the person if you've got an issue Um and so this person who hears it is acting responsibly. Right? He's calling them out on this. You shouldn't be telling me, you should be going directly to the person. 2523. The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue. An angry countenance, that's what it brings. A backbiting tongue. What's backbiting? Argumenting? Ar arguing? Yeah? What else? Yeah, so it's a back. You're you're saying something about someone else behind their back, which means what? They don't know it. Right? You're trying to tear them down at their expense, of course, uh, without them being able to defend themselves. And you think that puts you in a strategic advantage, tearing that person down. And that's backbiting. Yeah. Why would that bring an angry countenance? Whose countenance is angry there? The person who's been back bitten, when he hears about it, someone's talking behind my back. Yeah, when he he he he wouldn't hear about it initially, but eventually he'll he'll hear about it. It'll come around. Um and It clearly brings an angry countenance, which means it breaks that whatever relationship there was, right? Yeah. Uh let's look at twenty-six twenty. For the lack of wood, fire goes out. It's fuel, right? And where there is no whisperer, contention quiets down. So what is whispering in the context of contention? It's like fuel to a fire, right? Where there is no whisperer, that is someone who's not kind of going around spreading um rumors, gossip, maybe even false information or uh information that should have been kept in confidence Anything to tear down someone else. Um that just feeds the uh contention To the next section, page 105. And here we can use our tongues for either blessing or destruction. Could there be a greater contrast? Blessing people versus destroying people? Right? So look at 119. With his mouth, the godless man destroys his neighbor, but through knowledge the righteous will be delivered. So sometimes that's people's intent to destroy their neighbor. And often it's by what they say And it may not always be true. 1111. By the blessing of the upright, a city is exalted. But by the mouth of the wicked it is torn down. So our tongues can be used for blessing or for tearing down. And that's a warning to us that we should use them for blessing, not for tearing down. Right Let's go down to 12. 18. There is one who speaks rashly like the thrusts of a sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing. So it's pretty common for people to lash out with their tongues, right? Sometimes in a fit of anger and frustration and maybe even uh jealousy. And it's like the thrust of a sword. You're kind of indiscriminate. You're just slashing away. But the tongue of the wise brings healing. It's just the opposite. Rather than tearing down, it's building up. That's a wise thing to do, and it's characteristic of wise people to uh control their speech in such a way as to build others up. And fourteen twenty-five A truthful witness saves lives, but he who speaks lies is treacherous So a truthful witness saving lives, can you think of a scenario there? Court case. Maybe a court case. If if the witness is lying Someone's life could be in jeopardy there. Someone who's innocent could be found guilty on the strength of a false testimony. And this verse says that is treachery. That's pretty serious stuff. Let's go down to the last one here on the page, chapter 18. With the fruit of a man's mouth, his stomach will be satisfied. He will be satisfied with the product of his lips. So that's all a good thing. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. And those who love it Will eat its fruit. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. And those who love it will eat its fruit. Those who love what? I'm thinking uh both. So it's like you you reap what you sow. Right? Um you'll eat the fruit, the fruit of your speech will be either for death or life, and if you're using your speech in a harmful way Chances are real good, it's going to come around back to you and be harmful to you as well. But if you're using your speech and the power of your tongue for um blessing people and for life as opposed to death, then you'll reap the fruit of that as well. So basically you report your song. Well I'm I'm not all that sure that it It doesn't include the possibility of a physical consequence that's good for your stomach. You know, if if we're known to be truthful the fruit of a man's mouth. If if we're known to be truthful and we speak the truth, um that's likely to show up Uh the the fruit of that is likely to show up in um uh our our income, our job, um, our advancement and and um customers and it's all gonna be benefiting us, even giving us food to eat and and not going hungry because our mouth has gotten us in trouble Right? So while I agree that there there could be a lot of symbolic blessings and so on coming from it, it could also influence our or um our tummies. Yeah, kind of a name it and claim it uh kind of thing or No, that's not what yeah, I think I think if you think of it in terms of you reap what you sow that if you're intense and your words are are evil and are tearing down, that's gonna come back at you. And if your words are genuinely gracious and building people up um you'll you'll have good fruit from that even in your own experience. So it's kind of like you replace yourself. Yeah. Not that it's a self fulfilling um prosperity kind of thing, but it it's nonetheless a truism that you report yourself. Generally speaking. So um they could use that as an argument too, for example who we means that you think you have way, you say, for a scale great and you say, How are you? And you say, Well I'm well. No, you know me I'm not well. You know and Because they feel well I don't want to speak evil into my situation so I'm a sinist and light I'm a part of the town, so well. So when when I say I really am not feeling well then I am inviting you you understand what I'm trying to say. So it it kind of not that I'm saying it's true y I support what they're saying, but they feel well that's where the power of the tongue comes in. No, you said you're not both you're not black. You're you you think so that's their thinking when they say death and life are not So when you said you read what you sold, they can also say it. Am I making sense? Um yes, the problem is they're not making sense. Um Yeah. So it's it's um it's like that you you're Well that that's that's how they feel because I I know someone who a lot of times it's you know think I'm doing well and I am. They always say, you know, they put this pocket and you know, to it and I'm thinking, but that's not the case. I mean why don't you just say what you you know what's really the situation and that way I know how it will help you But in a way, I sometimes do that because say you come to church and everybody, Oh, how are you? And I say, I'm fine, I'm fine. Well I'm really not you know But the thing you're not you're not thinking that by saying that that's what's making No, but in a way, I'm fine. You know, so that's different from when you say it's intentional because you believe that if you say the you know the truth. Yeah, kind of a determinism based on what we say. That's not what this is about. Okay. Where were we here? Oh yes, we just turned the page. Page one oh six. Here we're looking at truth versus lies and deception and a little bit more of flattery. Um Let's go down to because we already saw in chapter two there's examples here of flattery. Um 424 Put away from you a deceitful mouth, and put devious lips far from you So if we're speaking with deceitful intent, it's um trying to manipulate people, maybe manipulate them into thinking that we're we're right or that what we say is true when in fact we know it's not, that's devious, that's deceitful. Right Disingenuous. There are a lot of synonyms. Uh and the the counsel here is put that away from you, just don't even go there. Right? Um Let's go down to chapter six. There are six things which the Lord hates, yes, seven which are an abomination to him. That's a that six and then seven is a very common Hebrew structure um that just emphasizes this is a nasty list in this case. Sometimes there are good lists in Proverbs. But anyway it says haughty eyes w what does that refer to? Pride, right? A lying tongue Hands that shed innocent blood, and so on. And then verse 19 says, a false witness who utters lies. So lies actually shows up there twice. So God is um Truth. Everything God says is true, everything he does is consistent with his uh nature of being true. And anything that falls short of that, uh, particularly in what we say, and if it's intentionally untrue Um that's just an abomination. It says the Lord hates that. It's an affront to him that we're not truthful. Uh anybody struggled with that? It's pretty common, right? We try to save our neck through our words sometimes. Or just to save our what we think to be saving our reputation, we'll kind of twist the facts a little bit. Right? Um God hates it when we lie And we often um uh think of creative ways to exonerate ourselves. Well, it's just a little wait line As if white lies are better than blue lies? I don't know. Uh by the way, uh what's one major characteristic of Satan? He's a deceiver. The father of lies, a deceiver. And you see it all the way back in Genesis 2, uh, three. Right? Where he can use some of the truth and twist it to try to manipulate, but it's ultimately a lie when it's twisted. Yep. And we're warned not to go that route. Let's go down to ten verse eleven. The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life. But the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. Maybe we should start with the second part. How could the mouth of the wicked conceal violence? They're not being truthful about their wicked plans. Right? They're trying to cover up so as not to draw um a response that would block their way. And so they'll they'll um cover their tracks before they're discovered. But the mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life. So there's wisdom, there's blessing, there's valuable uh counsel in the words of the righteous Uh 1018. He who conceals hatred has lying lips, and he who spreads slander is a fool. So here people again are um misrepresenting the truth. concealing hatred. Uh saying something so as to get someone to not understand that they really hate them. But that's going to be revealed eventually as through their behavior. It's going to be clear that that person wasn't being true when he was concealing that in his speech. Yes. Exactly. And so I think that's the point that it's eventually going to become clear that there's hate here through our other actions. And so if our speech wasn't genuine about that hate, then when it does become clear that the hate is there, it's going to be obvious that that speech was not true Right. Yeah, and it's also connected with um uh what we've seen over and over that a a fool doesn't respond well to rebuke. And that rebuke could come out of genuine love, but it could be interpreted as hate because they're a fool. Well, um Proverbs does have a lot to say about exercising discretion. and saying the right thing at the right time. Um and we're gonna see in a few minutes, I think. Um page one eleven. Um restraint, not speaking um prematurely and out of turn and and um before the time is right. Um so a lot of it has to do with uh whether something is true or whether something is false and also what our motives are. If our motives are to manipulate uh and to tear down rather than to build up, then that's a bad thing. But sometimes it's a good thing to to as it says a a um can do wonders. And so blurting out all of the truth without regard to context It probably isn't very wise, it's not showing much discretion. Um but it depends on what the motive is. So if our motive is to be building people up, then we're not going to be hiding truth, but we're going to reveal that truth in the right context, in the right way, and to the right people. So where is the heart? Well, um examples like that typically are uh in the context of uh enforcement from the government. Right? Uh and how do we respond when we know that if w where w if we spill all the facts, someone's life could be in jeopardy or someone's welfare. Um and that reminds me of what um Uh Peter and John said to the Jewish officials, you know, we need to obey God first and foremost. And if that means disobeying you, you be the judge of what to do about that. But um we report to and are subject to a higher authority And we are required to obey the governing officials unless they cause us to um disobey Gods. There's another example. Right. So when we're when we're subject to a higher authority, we're still to be uh not deceitful in the way in scheming, but um uh we we do the right thing and um let the chips fall where they may. If if we're found out to be a liar, then we'll we'll gladly face the consequences. But we're facing Greater consequences if we don't I want to go to page 111 here. Restraint, silence, and timeliness, since we sort of had that segue here 1019 When there are many words, transgression is unavoidable. But he who restrains his lips is wise. The next one here, 1112. He who despises his neighbor lacks sense, but a man of understanding keeps silent. 1113. He who goes about as a tailbearer reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy conceals a matter. In other words, there's a time and a place where that information could be very helpful and useful, but not if it's used to tear somebody down. 1523, a man has joy in an apt answer, and how delightful is a timely word. 1582. The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer. In other words, you don't speak first and think later You think first, and then speak, if at all, accordingly. But the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. He who restrains his words has knowledge, but he who has a cool spirit And he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. So being self-controlled in what we say, when we say it, is a virtue Anyway, there's lots more there, but we don't have time. But it's all there for you to uh uh work through in your own studies. Let's close in prayer.