Okay, well welcome to our discussion of Proverbs. We're on lesson three today, page 19. Does everybody have access to the notes? Okay. Need a copy? Do you have a spare there? So um you can get a PDF of the outlines uh on our website uh in hopebook. If you want a hard copy, those are available uh upon request uh for what is it, ten dollars I think. Yeah. So see Jeff at the end if you need a hard copy. Okay. Okay, so um As I mentioned last week, we're going to begin today working through various topics in Proverbs, and it seems fitting that our first topic would be wisdom, right? There's so much in the book of Proverbs on wisdom and its nature and uh how we get it, what we do with it, and and so on. Uh by the way, as a heads up, our topic next week is the opposite. Foolishness. So there may be some uh look uh Yeah, foolishness is the one we have down pat, right? Um No. So um I've included a couple I our first topic within the subject of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. There is so much in Proverbs that emphasizes the nature of the fear of the Lord. And so I listed here in this first couple of pages all of the verses from Proverbs that deal with the fear of the Lord. And then, starting on page twenty one, I've included my outline essentially from that sermon I gave a couple of weeks ago on the fear of the Lord. So if you didn't take notes, now you've got them. And um so I'm not going to go through those in great detail These notes include, I think, pretty much all the verses from Proverbs, but also a lot of the other scriptures from both the Old Testament and the New Testament about fearing the Lord. And so first is the on page 21 it starts with the connotation of fearing the Lord, what it means, and then Um on page twenty-two, the conditions for fearing the Lord, what it requires of us And then beginning on the bottom of page twenty-three, the consequences of fearing the Lord, what will result. And So those are there for your your um study and application and and so on. Um so I'm not gonna delve into those so much today because you can also listen to the sermon from a couple weeks ago and Get that overview. So I'm going to basically start today on page 27. God's wisdom and knowledge. God's wisdom and knowledge. And you might add there the word understanding. Wisdom, knowledge, understanding are used somewhat interchangeably often in Proverbs. And so, for example, that first section from Proverbs 2, for the Lord gives wisdom, from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. And so God's wisdom, God's knowledge, God's understanding are all part of the same thing, right? Uh because he knows everything, because he understands everything Um everything he does is wise and his counsel to us is wise. It takes into account everything that needs to be taken into account because he knows everything. Right? So if you go to a human counselor and he's limited in understanding and limited in knowledge and he gives you some advice Often it's pretty good advice, but what if it would have helped to have had more knowledge or more understanding of how it all fits together? then um the wisdom that's shared may be limited somewhat. Not that it's wrong, but it may be limited. But in God that's not the case He's got all wisdom, he's got all knowledge, he's got all understanding, and so when we go to him for wisdom, when we go to his word for wisdom Um we're not going to be misled. There's not something that's he's missing. That's the point. Right? The Lord gives wisdom and he wants to give us his wisdom and much of his His um intent in giving us his written word is that we would have his wisdom to live by. Right? Look at that next section there from Proverbs 3. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge, the deeps were broken up, and the skies drip with dew. And he picks up on that again in chapter 8, if you can go down a few sections here. I'm going to start from 8, verse 24. Where it says, When there were no depths, I was brought forth. Who's speaking here? No? No. You have to go back to verse one, which I didn't print for you there. But it's wisdom. Yes, wisdom is speaking here. And I think I may actually have it Printed for you elsewhere. Wouldn't hurt to have your Bible open in case Maybe I don't have it in this section. Anyway, it's wisdom speaking. So it's I I think I mentioned last week one of the One of the techniques, one of the literary forms that is used in Proverbs is um uh the personification of what's being spoken of and particularly wisdom is personified. Right? It's um wisdom is acting like a person in speaking to us, giving us. Wisdom. Okay, so um wisdom speaking. When there were no depths I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water Before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth. While he had not yet made the earth and the fields, nor the first dust of the world When he established the heavens, I was there. When he inscribed a circle on the face of the deep, when he made firm the skies above. When the springs of the deep became fixed, when he set for the sea its boundary, so that the water should not transgress his command when he marked out the foundation of the earth. Then I was beside him as a master workman, and I de uh was daily his delight. Rejoicing always before him, rejoicing in the world, his earth, and having my delight in the sons of men. So um here and and elsewhere we see that God His whole creative act in creating the world, in creating people, the heavens, everything was by his wisdom. by his knowledge, by his understanding. And um so that's that's an important thing to note, but what implications of that can you think of? Why is this being emphasized, you think? The earth and thing about it's so intricate, it took a lot of winds to the first time. Okay, so there's there's There's evidence of God's wisdom because we see how intricate, involved, and even beautiful things are, right? Any other implications about our lives here? What's the therefore? Yeah. So if he knows that much and if he's that knowledgeable, wise, skilled and everything He would be a good person to go to, right, for wisdom. And it's in that wisdom that he founded everything. And so he is for sure our source of wisdom. And fortunately, he is um Happy he is uh um uh even insisting on sharing his wisdom with us. It's not like he's a close book, right? And so he disp puts all that wisdom on display, inviting us to come to him for his wisdom. He's not going to share with us, we wouldn't be able to handle everything But he was gonna he's gonna be uh very much willing to give us the wisdom we need for our situations. Right Okay, so let's go down here to uh chapter 16, verse 9. Do you see that? I'm on page 27. The mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. And then the very next one also from Proverbs 19. This time verse 33, the lot is cast into the lap. What's a lot? Dice. Yeah, so it's sort of you can think of sort of like dice, you know, you roll the dice and what whatever it turns up as, it says. It's every decision is from the Lord. So what do those two verses tell us about God? Does not play dice. What's that? He does not play dice. He um He's in control of the dice. Which means what? He's sovereign. It's getting at his sovereignty, right? Um Everything. Over really everything, even the roll of the dice. It says it's it's under his ultimate control. Yes. I have an illustration on that version on my mind when my first one was one who was pretty sure. Um And just at John Coffin, who was a weekend home, they they had a program for signature babies that were gonna be early um for their mom to help their mom and suspensive boy is it seems more necessary for a little white boy. So um It was perfected, which has since been approved and FDA approved and they do a lot in team that helps the line knocked the sticks together so they can breathe better. It's what it's from actually the news kind of helping. Anyways, within the research thing they they flipped those guys so to speak And I remember when they told me they were going to look at for my son to see whether he's his kids or not good. I had no idea. Whether it would even work or not or or whether it would harm, you know, you you don't know, right? When something we're saying I prayed. I prayed this verse. I prayed this verse. This is the one that the Lord put in my mind It's not going to help us not be on it. So it will help them continue to help or if you know that it's helpful. And they came back and told me that right away now that they closed over that he was gonna receive it. So it was kinda painful for him as a little baby, but um 'Cause he has to hear it's a really long needle into the lungs and it could be two and front, two and that. But anyway, I'm just saying God was in charge of that and helped him. He was able to get onto the oxygen as a bat. Which helps their brain. God is the control, he could carry it. So it is the um For some people this can be scary, but actually it's it's reassuring to know that the all-wise, the all-knowing God is um not only capable, but also he's the ultimate sovereign king of the universe. And even things to us that seem minor and insignificant are under his ultimate control. And um You know, um when we think of absolute sovereignty, if we think about a human being being absolute sovereign Is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's a bad thing. It's hard to imagine the evil that can happen with a fallen, sinful human being having absolute sovereignty. However, Everything God does is good. Every single thing God does is good. So if you're going to have anybody who's ultimately Sovereign over everything, you want someone like God who is good. Everything he does is right and good. So that actually is reassuring. My father used to have saying he would say power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely Yeah, it's because of our sinful nature, right? But God's not like that, fortunately. Okay, so so we see he's all-wise, he's all sovereign. Let's look down here to chapter 20, verse 12, at the bottom of the page. The hearing ear and the seeing eye The Lord has made both of them. What's the implication there? What do we take from that? Okay. Everything that God has created is for a specific reason. Right. And for I guess for believers. that the hear and hear is to hear his word, hear his direction, see his creation, see his sovereignty over everything. Is that what you mean? Well that's all true. That's not exactly what I think it's getting at. Yeah, that's true. Well on the physical perspective, um all that we can perceive it comes from God Himself. And also Since God created the ear and the eye, God can certainly see. That's the point. That's the point. So we can see, we can hear. Guess what? God can see everything. He can hear everything. He made us like himself in in various ways. Um and there are implications of the fact that he can see. Uh there's nothing that gets by him. This is all part of his wisdom, right? His knowledge. And um You can't whisper something in some dark corner and he's not gonna know, right? He's gonna hear everything. So um There are implications of that. Yeah. Growing up had a fear in my mom. Hmm. It seemed like she could see everything and hear it. Yeah, moms had these eyes in the back of their backs, don't they? Yeah. So there's there's the fear of the Lord, there's also the fear of mom. I realized uh later that it was the best. You know, then um she could listen through the dance. Yeah. Yeah, it turns out they don't have eyes behind their back, but they've got ways, right? Okay, top of the next page, Proverbs 20, verse 24. Man's steps are ordained by the Lord. How then can man understand his way? That's an interesting question. So man's steps are ordained by the Lord. That gets back to what we were talking about earlier, right? God's sovereignty. But then it asks, how then can man understand his way? Which is to say By understanding the Lord in His place. Uh yes, that's true, but apart from that It's pretty presumptuous for us to say that I know what I'm doing. Right? How can man understand his way apart from God's God's um let's say his perspective, his understanding, his wisdom. Yeah. How about uh chapter twenty-one, verse two Every man's way is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the hearts. That was a bit easier to grasp, right? Um w we can be pretty sure in our own thinking that What we're planning is right, but the key is not so much um The what often, but the why. And God weighs the heart. If a heart is not right before the Lord, then it doesn't matter what the what is. The modus, exactly. Right. Let's look at um the next one there, twenty-one thirty There is no wisdom and no understanding and no counsel against the Lord. What's that mean? It means there is no link to no understanding of comes from the full. Okay, that's what it means. It's pretty straightforward, right? That we can't we're powerless again. We're powerless. We can't outsmart him. Right? We can't uh n outnegotiate him. Any of those things. God is uh all wise, all knowing, and so on. How about 22-2? The rich and the poor have a common bond. The Lord is maker of them all. And then skip down to 2913. The poor man and the oppressor have this in common. The Lord gives light to the eyes of both. So twenty-through two makes this contrast between the rich and the poor, except that there's a commonality there, which is The Lord made them both. They're both therefore accountable to him. Right? And twenty-nine thirteen there's this supposed it contrast between the poor and the poor's oppressor, and yet there is some commonality there. The Lord gives light to the eyes of both. What's that all about? Sort of like the New Testament verse that says he rains the rain down on the good and the righteous and the unrighteous. Okay, so it's it's equal, they're all created equally in God, uh by God Um and um both of them Larry, did you have a hand up there? Well I mean this um yeah I mean I yeah I was gonna say the law for God is the same for both of them Both of them will be accountable to God. Yes. Both will be accountable to God, and we're getting that really from both of those passages. Um and the light to the eyes thing, uh again, both of them need to go to God for wisdom to know the right way to go. Yeah, we all do. Doesn't matter if you're rich or poor or or um um it also in a way shows the goodness of the Lord that Something good, light and the eyes, he would give to everybody, whether they're righteous or not. Right. Right. Yep. He is Um not only their sovereign creator, but also um source of the blessing. Yeah. How about uh chapter 30, verse 5, toward the bottom there? Every word of God is tested. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. So what do you think it means every word of God is tested? True. It's a sure foundation. Right? Definitely. And therefore, he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. We can depend on his protection, we can depend on the faithfulness of his wisdom. And the rightness of the direction he calls us to go in, right Okay. Well that leads us then to page twenty-nine where it begins this section on the blessings of wisdom. What are some of the ways that wisdom blesses us? And this gets at God's goodness toward us, graciousness. And so, right from the beginning in chapter 1, at the very top there, verses 8 and 9, hear my son, your father's instruction. And do not forsake your mother's teaching. Indeed, they are a graceful wreath to your head and ornaments about your neck. So what does it mean that the the the wisdom and instruction and teaching of your parents Are a graceful wreath to your head. But you bring them a grace. I think it's back in the big time as you've got a wreath. Okay, so a wreath on your head would be a symbol of victory um at least you know back in the Olympic days, which I think is after this. But I think we're on the right track here. What other connotations might there be of of a wreath on like a crown maybe? I guess the the first very basic question, is it a good thing or a bad thing? It's a good thing. Okay. Now how it's interpreted and and why it's good may be different in different cultures or whatever, but it's a good thing. It's pleasing, it's it's Sort of well it also says um ornaments about your neck. Right? Uh a status maybe, but still it's it's it's intended to be Something that's good that's put on display, even, right? And so the instruction and teaching of your parents, presumably, and as Proverbs unfolds here, it's obvious that these are the teaching and instruction of parents who are um passing along the wisdom from God then ultimately their teaching for you is for your welfare and it's from God's wisdom. That's going to be something that's um a good thing. And um it's something that will uh sort of naturally be put on display You know, if you're living your life in a way that's pleasing to God and according to His wisdom, people are going to notice that. And in a world like ours, it kind of sticks out You know, what makes you tick? Why are you so different? It's it's on display, right? God's wisdom is something that just naturally is on display if we live by it. Right. So the green represent three in the child's life. So if the if the child's choosing not to listen to instruction, this is for next reason. Could be a crown of thorns, so no I'm just gonna be a good thing. But no, I think you're right. Yeah, that's count. Um yeah, no, I think you're right. That that this just be a natural thing that's on display that the the person is Um at least in many respects, living by God's wisdom rather than by foolishness. And that will be noticed by people. Like a a a nice wreath. I I don't really long to have a wreath on my head. I mean that's that's not really my thing. Or even a um Uh ornaments about my neck. I this is about the only ornament I have around my neck. Um but your life will go back That's the point. That's the point. That is the point. People will notice it. It's going to be on display. And it's a good thing. Uh attractive. People are going to want to know even. How do I get one of those reads? How do we get one of those ornaments around your neck? Yeah, that's that's a n part of God's um character if if if God opens our eyes to um uh his truth That becomes very attractive. If he hasn't opened our eyes to that truth, it becomes very convicting, or can be. So in this case, it's something that will be pleasant to all. Okay, let's go to chapter 2, verse 6, just a few portions down there. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity. Okay, so what I want to mostly focus on here is the blessings of wisdom. That's the category we're in. I mean, we've already seen that the Lord gives wisdom. And knowledge and understanding. But what is the blessing here that comes from it? Protection. Protection from what I'm gonna do. Yeah, all those foolish things that can happen to us if we walk without that wisdom. Yeah. So he's protecting us. So his wisdom is for our good. Right? It's not just to put a straight tack on us and and to control us, but it's for our benefit. Right? Yeah. A lot of times when we talk about blessings, we think of maybe worldly blessings and physical things we see. But when you're going through a trial or a suffering or something You don't necessarily see those blessings, those physical blessings, but what you do see is what you're talking about, the blessing of wisdom. You're learning you as you're trying during that subway of trial, you're flying the problem because you're applying God's words. God is teaching you something. But what you learn, that wisdom, is a blessing. Right. Let alone with anything else that you gain. And so learning through those kinds of trials to respond in a godly way rather than a selfish way, um that's putting God's wisdom on display. For sure. He's going to get more specific here. Let's go down to chapter three, verses seven and eight. Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. Why? It will bring healing to your body and refreshment to your bones. What will bring healing to your body and refreshment to the your bones? The fear of the Lord and not being wise in your own eyes. Those are direct opposites. Right? Bring healing to your body and refreshment to your bones. Um Is that necessarily talking about physical healing and every malady? Not necessarily, but it doesn't preclude some of that healing. Right? But what's what is what's it talking about more deeply What kind of blessing? It's physical, sort of. Peace. Contentment. Right? Assurance that God's got everything under control. I'm living a life that's that's um consistent with his wisdom. Uh there there's peace in that. There's contentment in that. There's refreshment in that. Sarah. Freedom. Freedom. Even if you go and ask him you go to how you want. Okay, you go and it's got to be back. Right, so it's the opposite of anxiety. Right? Yeah. And that has physical ramifications. You can sleep better. Right? You're right. It's a good conscience, another way of thinking about it. Yeah. And when it speaks of refreshment to your bones, what's bones got to do with it? Anybody got tired bones? Yeah. I do actually. Um but it's talking about it's it's your inner man. Right? It's it's from within. You've got this peace, contentment, uh good conscience, it's all the inner part of you that is aligned rightly with God and therefore peaceful. Let's go down to the last one here on page twenty-nine, chapter three, starting at verse thirteen. How blessed is the man who finds wisdom and the man who gains understanding for its prophet now see here's the blessings, right? Its profit is better than the profit of silver, and its gain than fine gold. She, that is, wisdom is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire compares with her. Long life is in her right hand In her left hand are riches and honor. Her ways are pleasant ways, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and happy are all who hold her fast. You see a lot of blessings there? From God's wisdom? Well, this makes me think of Solomon wrote this, right? Solomon was the one who asked the Lord for wisdom And yet God said, Because you did that to me, I'm going to also give you riches and an honor and all these other things right here. Yeah. Right. And um This passage is interesting because it it puts the the ultimate value of material Riches, which may come as a consequence of living wisely, but it puts them in the context of God's perspective, which is what? Wisdom is more profitable than the profit of silver and the game than fine gold, right? Wisdom is more precious than jewels and nothing you desire compares with her. So it's not saying that there wouldn't necessarily be material benefit from living wisely. That's probably going to be true, and we're going to see that in various passages, but that's not the point The point is that of greater value is wisdom itself and the the the the the blessings that come from living wisely by God's Will. And you know one more point is that is it is that this these verses seem to be the foundation of the parable of Jesus about the about the treasure found in this found in the great field. Yeah, so uh the kingdom of God is compared to someone who finds this treasure in someone else's field and then goes and sells everything he has. buys that field so now it's his. It always struck me as kind of weird. Why would the person sell if he knew maybe he didn't know the value of it, right? Anyway. But the point is that it It yeah the the the the point is that um we correctly value what God sees as valuable. And in the case of that parable, what God sees as valuable is eternal life. And relationship with Him. And the parallel here is just wisdom itself from God is so valuable that we should sell everything we have and get God's wisdom. Same kind of thing. I think it's valuable because treasures, um, honors, all those things can be taken away from your cleaning. They can be stolen from your But wisdom can have unusual. Right, right. So there wisdom has eternal value, these other things. It's not that they can be, but they will be They're gonna grow up, right? But wisdom won't. Sarah. Right. Yeah, they they certainly misinterpret that, don't they? Yeah. I mean that does chemically gold or silver? Yeah, I think we're gonna see is it here in Proverbs? um that that uh picture that if we um if we set our heart on uh uh those material things That's pretty foolish because they're gonna sprout wings and fly away. It's a very interesting picture God gives us. Chapter 16. The only life is a five second left There's a hand with the hand chair on the I'm not sure in the case. When would I Yes, so um right hand and left hand right so in in verse sixteen there, long life is in her right hand. What's that mean? is that we're going to avoid things that are detrimental to living. I mean we we could we could very easily um you know, get in with the wrong crowd, we could we could um do all sorts of things that would very foolishly end our lives very prematurely. But if we live wisely, you know it doesn't guarantee that everyone who who lives wisely is going to live to a ripe old age, but that is the basic The basic um, yeah. That that uh the one of the blessings of wisdom is that we we Don't act foolishly and then suffer the consequences, even sometimes premature death. So when it says that um long life is in her right hand. That means it's it goes hand in hand with wisdom, that living by wisdom, um uh people tend to live longer, so that's a very tangible uh benefit, blessing. And then it says, in her left hand are riches and honor So again, this is the riches and the honor go hand in hand with wisdom. And we're going to see some various verses that speak to both of those. Yeah. So so um the the point is that living by God's wisdom has lots of blessings It could be long life, it could be uh tangible benefits, it could be intangible benefits, in fact mostly it is, uh. But all these things God provides for our good for our blessing. With her hand yes. Uh you some kind of labels left hand and right hand. in perspectives like right is good, left is bad. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think that's what's going on here. Um in fact in you know in the Latin right is what? Dexter and left is sinister. That's where we get the word sinister. You know, if you're left-handed, woo, that's a bad thing, right? Um I don't think that's what's going on here. I think it's it's using the same terminology. These things just are or these things come with wisdom. But we have to see the rest of Scripture to understand both of them. You know, we we don't pursue God's wisdom so that we will live a long life. But we happen to live a long life if we're characterized by following God's wisdom. And we don't pursue Um riches and honor, we don't pursue wisdom so that we will have riches and honor. We pursue wisdom because it's right and It may result in, and often does result in, good material things as well as good immaterial things like the peace and contentment and the good conscience that we've already talked about. Um so yeah, Sarah. We are riches and high can be explored. We are each key apartment. How less things we all can say And people and reading down nation of our own. Yes. And we're gonna see some proverbs that exactly say that That's right. That contentment that comes from living consciously by God's wisdom is far better well what's what's it say, more precious than jewels, right? Yeah. The riches can be both material and not material. I think they're both involved there. Yeah. Kind of the line of our discussion kind of reminds me a little bit about what you what you talked about last last week I think it was, where these are truisms, right? There's kind of general truisms. And I think We could we could read more into this in what actually is being written in the world. And people do. That's right. That's right. We start reading more into this spiritually or or physically about what this says, we can go into some weird angle of theology where this is not really what God promises. And I think we touched on this When we sequized them and when we abolize fight, often these things can be can be a result of that It doesn't mean that it will be. I don't think it's a promise of that it will be and and that God wants us to be prosperous. In in this physical life. I I come back to these a lot of times. These have more of a spiritual significance in our internal life with God. The blessings are, you know, more eternal in nature. But I think as we go through this study and stuff like that, we have to be careful not to over-spiritualize For under spiritual light, they get read these passages because we just start embarking on some very weird stuff. Right. We view these more as promises of prosperity. Right. And and um very much so. And you know those who would um espouse this prosperity gospel and everything, right? Um uh invariably take things out of context. They don't look at the full teaching of Scripture, which we're going to attempt to do here. and make it say things that it's not saying. And I think that's what you're saying. But coming back to the illustration that we saw earlier In um top of the page, chapter 1, verse 9, there are graceful wreaths to your head and ornaments about your neck. The point is that uh the blessings and the results of your living by God's wisdom are going to be on display for people to see. Right? And so if you live wisely as a relatively poor person And uh others are going to see your wisdom and maybe even envy you that you're more content, clear conscience godly than anybody they've ever known, right? It's on display. And they're gonna say, what makes you tick? It's God's wisdom. Someone else May have lived by God's wisdom for a long time and may have material blessings as a result of making wise choices. What's that put on display? God's wisdom. Right? It's the same thing. Both of them can point to God as the source of the wisdom they're governing their lives by. And if we don't Then we're misapplying his wisdom. And we don't want to do that. So the point is not How rich are we? The point is, are we living by God's wisdom and seeking to glorify Him rather than ourselves Right. And when we are living by Israelis, people are gonna see that. It's gonna be on display. Yeah. People don't display, people came all over the world to see him and the world rich and all. Where did it miss it? Where did he miss the fact that we have what you're done and in love with all What can we do last right? Whether it's a window or reach. What do we have for multi business? Yeah, well uh I cover Uh starting on page six in the notes, lessons from Solomon's life. Um the I I think the bottom line that he understood too late is um this this wisdom uh needs to be applied correctly. And uh it's not about us, it's about God. And since it's about God, we need to live in the fear of God and the obedience to God. Solomon knew better. He knew even before he asked for wisdom, I mean his father David gave him very strict instructions to obey the Lord And when it really came down to it, he didn't. And so maybe I don't know we don't know everything about what was going on in Solomon's heart necessarily that led him down these various paths of of disobedience, but um what it really comes down to is he didn't fear God as he should have. And so that's a lesson to us. We need to fear God, we need to obey Him. Can I bring you back on that question more than this? Yeah. When Solomon asked about the wisdom, and God gave him wisdom. And if I understand correctly, uh a lot of times wisdom can be subject can be thought of as Appropriate application of knowledge and When God gave him a wisdom, how did he acquire? And if the wisdom that he has to pass is not acquired over a long period of time, as long as we imagine it would take us to get to that point because we just say it's that So his mouth comes wisdom and and the wisdom that comes from his mouth, he believes, read. And So invariably we end up observing it. It doesn't come in. Is there a difference? Can you tell a difference? Can you wear it? You see an idea of the difference in the wisdom that someone acquires about the God and the listen that we can. And could that have been Could that have in any way led to probability of applying that wisdom optimization? Yeah, so that's a good question. Um The clock isn't working, I have to keep checking. It's still a quarter of nine. We've got lots of time here today. Well a couple things. One is that that passage where God answers his prayer for wisdom, God says, I have given you wisdom. I've already answered your prayer. So there's a sense in which he got zapped. He doesn't even say I have already decided to give you wisdom as if it's happening in the future. He says, I have done that. I've given you wisdom. And so there is uh just the the the the history that flows after that is pretty immediately evidence that he's acting wisely, he's he's providing you know knowledge and wisdom and people are awed in awe of it. uh that there wasn't a lot of learning on his part, it seems. Now, when we acquire wisdom Uh all too often we learn it in the school of Hard Knox. Right? Uh we we make mistakes And we say, now I should have done something different. Ah, God's Word was telling me that all along. Let me go to God's Word and get wisdom and follow it. Um I don't think that was the case so much with Solomon, except maybe toward the end of his life. And Ecclesiastes may be an example of that. Um where in the end he came to the right conclusion. What really matters is fearing God and obeying him. So there was some school of hard knocks even in his life, but I think for the most part the wisdom, the knowledge and so on that God imparted to him was kind of zapped I don't know what that looks like and how that worked, but it seemed like it was pretty quick. Yeah. And so in that sense it may be a bit different from the way we would normally acquire wisdom. Usually it comes with experience, right? Um and yet as we ground ourselves in God's word, um we can get all the wisdom we need, at least in theory, um directly from his word Now our application of it may reinforce our understanding of it and and that may come with time, right? We mature and so on, but it's it's all there in his word Uh and I think one of God's purposes with Solomon is to put a lot of that wisdom in writing for us here in Proverbs. Solomon didn't have that to learn from, like we have it to learn from. And so yeah, there's probably a little bit of a difference between us and him, but not in terms of where our hearts are at necessarily Uh we need to be guarding our hearts for much the same reason. Yeah. I remember a wise man saying The total reason for being here is the four or five guys that have been realize. Yes. That's the total reason. Go ahead, Belma. We obviously think that it is we don't gain knowledge. So just knowing something doesn't mean your life. Because At least towards the end of his life, when we look at Solomon's, you know, activities, would you call that loser? Or he knew, but then he was not acting right. He should have been with it. Yeah. Well, that's, you know, i i our our usual our usual understanding of wisdom is it's the correct application of knowledge. Right? And knowledge is more the the the facts and and and so on. But Proverbs itself uh uh often uses the two interchangeably. And the word understanding as well. Just just they're all part of the same thing. Um The the knowledge and the understanding are more about the facts and the wisdom is more about the appropriate application of those facts. But in Proverbs it's hard to disentangle them. Which is the way it should be. You know, if if we shouldn't only have the facts, we should have You know, if even if we know the right thing to do, um it doesn't it doesn't that's not the doesn't fully satisfy things because we have to actually choose to do it, right? Um So yeah, they're definitely connected. But anyway, yeah. Alright, so since it's Father's Day. Two days ago I gave my file on Father's Day Park. And basically short and sweet might say the thanks for teaching things over the years. You may take it if you really go on, what in the world did I teach my son, right? But things don't necessarily think of us not physically teaching something, it's we're watching our parents. Oh they're they're teaching all the time. I've learned from good things that he's done. I've also learned from some bad things just like Solomon watched him David and hear it about his life that he's learned, right? We are learning from God's Word things that people in the Bible have done, we don't necessarily have to experience So the true wisdom, I believe, is learning from others' mistakes, so we don't have to make the same mistakes. I don't have to try every single thing in life. I see the the ones in the Bible that they try different things. They've experienced different things. I'm learning from them, so I believe I gained some wisdom based on their Yeah, God in his grace gave me an older brother. And I learned a lot from his mistakes. I said, I'm not gonna do that, because I saw the consequences of him doing it, right? And um That was kind of unfair. He didn't have an older brother. Okay. Um Let's uh we've only got a few minutes here. Let's turn to page thirty-three, the goodness of wisdom. Ah here it is. I was looking earlier for uh chapter 8 verse 1. You see it on the top of page 33. Does not wisdom call and understanding lift up her voice? On top of the heights beside the way. Now I see you're reading into it, Ann. Where the paths meet, she takes her stand. Beside the gates, at the opening to the city, at the entrance of the door, she cries out. Okay, so there's this this wanting to share wisdom, right? To you, O man, I call and my voice is to the sons of men. O naive ones, discern prudence, and O fools, discern wisdom. Listen, for I speak noble things, and the opening of my lips will produce right things. For my mouth will utter truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. All the utterances of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing crooked or perverse perverted in them. They are all straightforward to him who understands and right to those who find knowledge. So the whole point is that wisdom is not only freely available But it's for our good, and it's it's offered with good intent for us from God, right? I think it's interesting that they use email from him to the other. Yeah, that's what Ann was saying. Well I wouldn't push that too far. Female. Female or male. Female, yeah. So like And if it's gonna be personified He's in Spanish everything so does Hebrew have that pastor? Yeah. I I don't know. Maybe it's all Greek to me. Let's go down to chapter eight here, verse thirty-two Now therefore, O same chapter. Now therefore, O sons of men, listen to me, for blessed are they who keep my ways. Heed instruction, and be wise, and do not neglect it. Blessed is the man who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my doorposts. For he who finds me finds life. And obtains favor from the Lord. But he who sins against me injures himself. All those who hate me, wisdom, love death. So wisdom is is offered in God's goodness and grace, and it produces Good results. And it's it's for our benefit. Do you notice though uh is it not the same little attention there is It is freely available. It's depending on you. Don't have to please don't have something to do with it. Exactly. And yet it refines it which would almost require like Even though it's there, you still have to look. Mm-hmm. Yeah, no, I think that's right. Yeah. It's freely offered, but um we need to seek it. And you know, left to our own devices, we're probably not going to seek it. Right? The people of the world out there, I mean you see them all the time, who aren't really looking for God's wisdom, um unless God opens their eyes and uh softens their heart and their pride and and so on. I'll let you read through the last couple of session uh sections here, the blessings of the Lord that begin on page 34. and faith and trust. Let's maybe wrap up here on page 36 with Proverbs 3 ver verses 5 and 6. Maybe many of you have memorized this Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight. So um that kind of is a good summary of what we've covered today, that that God is the source of all wisdom uh knowledge, understanding, and we're to to he's freely offering it, we need to seek it But in order for us to apply it, we need to trust him. We need to trust that what he's saying is the right thing. You know, it it doesn't work to say, Lord, I I I want to know what you want me to do. And they let's say he shows you in the word what what you're supposed to do and you say, hmm. I don't like that answer. I want another answer. Yeah. You ever been in that situation? Um we need to begin that prayer saying, Lord, I don't care what you want me to do, I just want to make sure it's what you want me to do. We need to be prepared to obey before we understand the what. That's how we should be approaching Scripture, right? to to understand his wisdom so that, by definition, we're going to obey it. And if that's our heart Guess what? We're going to learn a lot more of His wisdom. But if if we're um guarded and we're sort of in judgment of God's wisdom and and not ready to obey it, then we're probably going to have a hard time seeing what that wisdom is to begin with. Or we're going to misapply it. So trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding, and all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your path straight. Good words to live by. If you haven't memorized those, do it. Let's pray.