Let's keep going. Psalm sixty-nine is uh part of the last four Psalms. There's a reason for categorizing it like that in a second. In the second book of the Psalms, I I think I told you before the Psalms are broken up into five books. The second book, first two or three books is really attributed largely uh to David. Uh the second book is from Psalm forty-two to Psalm 72. So we're within the last uh four Psalms here and if you just read ahead a teeny bit in your notes uh you'll see why I I I reference it like that and we'll we'll cover that in a second. According to Psalm seventy-two twenty, which is debated about whether it was part of Psalm seventy-two or added later, uh it nonetheless states that uh Um that this is the conclusion of the prayers of David, the son of Jesse. And while seventy Psalm seventy two is clearly not a prayer of David's, um that seems to be some sort of uh section divider on these first uh these first couple books of the Psalms. There's clearly a lot of unity um in the first two books of the Psalms, so up here through seventy-two, and then as I've noted in this next section here, there's uh There's a really interesting and I I say this because you know the the scriptures aren't clearly aren't, you know, don't state that this is a clear parallel to uh the life of Christ, but um through quotations in the New Testament and just the structure of Psalm 76. 67 through 72, uh there is nonetheless uh an amazing parallel uh between what we read in these Psalms and what we see in the life of Christ tonight. I just wanted to play that out a little bit for you there. You can see it in the notes. And you can uh I would highly encourage you to actually read through the Psalms. That are lifted here to see some of the parallels, it's really amazing. God's amazing deeds in creation And in relation with his covenant people. That's really the subject of Psalm sixty-six. And so I want you to picture Christ sometime after his baptism in those that early part of his ministry where he was preaching and teaching and moving around doing tremendous works for the glory of the Lord. Um and it you know uh um exercising mastery over all of the created order, healing people, um uh changing things that had been defective since birth, raising people from the dead, uh that kinds of It's more the natural world that's in view in Psalm 66, but nonetheless you have God's amazing deeds in creation and in relation to his covenant people, what he's doing for them. And so I think that parallels their early ministry of Christ well. In Psalm 67, you have a lot of praise. It's uh filled with praise to God for his grace and blessing to his people. And this one and really the next one I would argue is those later parts of the ministry of Christ into the triumphal entry section when there was just so much excitement about all that Christ was doing. Um there was an expectation that he was going to satisfy their, you know, long ambition to form this kingdom and they had that expectation come on in this Um th there was that expectation because he was doing such wonderful works for his people. So praise to God for his grace and blessing to his people and then God powerfully conquering um and ruling over all the world, um, but especially his enemies there in Psalm sixty seven and sixty-eight. So I would call that that that pinnacle of Christ's ministry, at least as far as the you know, men were seeing it. I know Christ probably had a slightly different perspective on that And then we see, somewhat surprisingly, given that we were on this kind of uphill slope, you know, that was uh pinnacling with the the Lord reigning and ruling over all the earth, not just Not just uh Israel, but all the earth, uh we run into the surprise of a suffering king here in Psalm 69 And we know that this is related directly when it uh related directly to the suffering Christ because when the apostles The gospel authors wished to express the suffering of Christ, they did it in terms largely of Psalms 22 and 69 And obviously we're here in 69. So verses 4, verse 9, and verse 21 are directly quoted in the New Testament as being fulfilled by Christ. And so we know that this suffering king that we see in this uh in the context of Psalm 69, obviously that's David, but in the context of the New Testament, we see it applied to Christ. And then the suffering king is expanded on in Psalms seventy and seventy-one. And I think it's interesting, again, just just a point of interest, right? It's not not doctrine, not even good theology, just a point of interest. So be careful where you go with this. Um I find it interesting that Christ spent three days in the grave, and there are three Psalms to express the sufferings uh that that would be experienced by this king. Uh and they're extreme. Uh they are the psalms of the deepest depths. Um and we'll we'll cover we'll try to expand on that word deep waters or deeps um in a in a little bit. But um I do find it interesting that three days in the grave, three days to despair, um And three Psalms to express that in, followed by Psalm seventy two, may God exalt his king What a great uh what a great progression through to the resurrection, the exalted king, right? We looked at the trial that Christ suffered and he uses the very language of Psalm 69 to express his trials. and struggles. And we look at those things and we see frustration and disappointment. We see defeated expectations. We see abandonment. We see loss. We see suffering. We see everything that is from a human perspective. And yet Christ used these very same things to accomplish an ultimately good goodness. Yes, I know I said that twice. It's not because I'm a smart enough to come up with other words. But God expresses his glory as his goodness to Moses, and I want to stay as close to that language as possible. I do not need to conflate the glory of the Lord with fancy words. If he says he is good and that is intended to express his glory when he expresses it to Moses and to other people, then it's a good enough word for me. May God exalt his king. And may that be permanent. Once we learn it, right? May we never fall back. May we never fall back and forget what God did there. But effect exists, as Colleen brought out last week when we were talking about all the goodness of God Um all the blessings and superlative goodnesses that we get from God as a result of his uh resurrection last week, she said, well what about the trials? And so we're going to spend some time in Psalm 69 talking about that. To conclude, if you will, these uh introductory remarks, I want you to We won't really spend a tremendous amount of time on this. I feel like it's a separate topic and a one I don't have figured out, frankly. Um Psalm 69 is very explicitly an imprecatory psalm Um and while I have a definition for it there, does anybody anybody tell me what i uh imprecatory or imprecation is or means? Reading your own words without reading my sentence and I know what the sentence is. Yeah, calling a curse on someone, that's what you said, right? Yep. Yeah, so say what you said louder. Oh, I said it's it's a negative side of prayer. So you're dead on, but it's important to add to it the facet of prayer Right? Imprecation is a bad prayer, effectively. But it's important that it be be discussed in terms of a prayer, right? At least in terms of the Psalms Uh what makes them I'll say somewhat surprising and to us in a New Testament context uh uh a bit heinous um is that There's not just a a letting out of anger. There's not just a gee, I really wish something bad would happen to that person. There's a settled, I'm going to go before the Lord and request through his sovereign work that he do these things. And uh just by way of introducing that to you real quick, I I don't want to belabor these, um, but David is very symmetric in his um And his imprecation here. And I spelled those out for you. I don't need to go through them all. But basically, he prays that everything that has been done to him or that has resulted in his life as uh uh from the actions of his enemies would be heaped on their own heads But were that not enough, he ends in Psalm uh in verse 28, excuse me, with wipe them out of the book of life. Wow. And I think it's a little shocking, I just wanted to call your attention to this. It's particularly shocking Once you've studied Psalm sixty nine and you've got verse four and verse nine and verse twenty one all pointing you to Christ, all being fulfilled by Christ, and you're thinking, How could David pray those prayers? And my answer is I don't know. Um I I have a a little bit of a struggle here, right? Uh whether it's Old Testament or New Testament, every word of scripture inspired by God profitable for doctrine, for reproof. Correction, instruction, and righteousness. And I end up with these very deliberate, very carefully laid out, very systematic imprecations in Psalms like Psalm 69, and what you see most commentators do is just go, well, that was bad Well maybe maybe David's maybe David's approach to lament. That was just then too. Or maybe God's initial covenant, which he reflects on continuously in the New Testament, is the basis for the new covenant that he made in the New Testament. Maybe that was just then. I'm unwilling to start throwing scripture out because it doesn't fit my model. Now what do I do with the imprecations? I don't know yet I've got some interesting books on it. I'd be happy to study it with you. But I'm going to need some help. So I'm not going to touch on the implications much. I just wanted you to see that they were in here and that I'm recognizing them. That was brought up in the um in England area. Yep. It was an unfair that God would charge them with their And and that the if they didn't repent then they would it would they would never like look at that on a I don't know what's up there at least not looking to say. I don't know if we would think that includes Yeah, I I think it's a great point. Um I I don't see anywhere in the Old or New Testament that would discourage us for praying for God's justice and ultimately um W what what victims of injustice should hope for is in fact justice The difficulty with the imprecatory prayers is it puts the person praying it in the role of, this is exactly what I want for justice. And we we as New Testament believers feel like that's withheld from us. We're supposed to appeal to God for justice and stop. Right? That's at least that's the uh the prevalent philosophy that we have, right, in him. Yep. So So I'm I'm even with that comment, while I totally understand Lawson's perspective and in fact read the same one. Um I'm You knew you're beeping, right? Um I think it's it's observed the aspect of what we are seeing Well at my age one day. Hey look, I get so few opportunities to pick on you I gotta take them while I'm getting Otherwise you get 'em on me. Yeah, I I I just don't know is my answer, right? I I wish that somebody would do a good systematic approach to impregatory prayers that I could just wrap my teeth around and say, yes. I mean that really that bites well, right? I was gonna say that when I read that, you know, uh originally, I was thinking When he said wipe them out of book of life, the only thing that came to my heart was that they were never in it anyway. Right? Like He he says that they're not walking in righteousness, so there is no discordance with wipe them out of the book, right? That's exactly Lawson's point. And I I I kind of I mean immediately like that as soon as I read that, I mean You know, when I read it. Um, I was like, Yeah, they haven't ever read it anyway. So that was my first like immediately. The struggle we ha I don't want to spend too much time on this. The struggle that we ultimately have is that David went through these circumstances to this deep water. They are directly related to the sufferings of Christ by Christ's own Uh subscription to these prophecies in the New Testament, and yet when he hung on the cross, his final words were forgiven putting in that weather And so there's a there's an apparent discordance. I say apparent because I I will not admit a discordance in scriptures unless you've wrestled me to the floor on it, but there is an apparent discordance there that I just need to do more studying on. I just don't understand it fully enough to feel like I'm confident enough to teach it. I don't know how much response, but I think uh immediately thinking about Matthew twenty three and is close to the verse seeds. And I know we're still in an old FC context to some degree there, but uh him based upon the verse was how are you going to state L based upon L use that And all the you know all it could be on you basically. And then think about Rome twelve uh thirteen because we're gonna talk about not thinking vegan screen So but then thirteen, right? Like old then what? Then that's the old in the government, right? So like they're four to take that means. Um Yeah. I uh see I love all this discussion. Now you want me to go study the impregatory prayer? I mean I would love to I really would I would love to get all your ideas and be like, oh yeah, oh I didn't think of that and oh give a really cool perspective. Let me let me uh And I don't know that this would be satisfying, but it helps me. How many of you in the room have actually had an enemy? Like a person that you knew was attempting to persecute you, destroy you, defraud you, defeat you It's very few I find. When I ask people that question I raise my hand thinking everybody in the room is gonna raise their hand and I usually get very few. Where they were using scriptures to basically teach something that was inclusive contradictory to them, right? And at the end of the conversation, after being speaking of Try to hold forth like love, patience, passion, understanding that you know, except for the crazy guys or go I, all those things. But you have to leave them at the end of the conversation. conversation I feel like kind of leave the person over the question. Right. But just saying like I'm going to hold you accountable for what you're doing. Right. Um so I I think I only saw three hands counting nine in the room. Is that about accurate? I I had, but it was definitely four and So I I just want to make that point because I have. I have had a person pursue me uh through through legal recourse. Their attempt uh stated intention was to destroy me, to hurt me, uh to cause ruin to myself and uh those around me. Uh there was distinct malice in it. There was a lot of ugliness obviously in the interpersonal relationships that were uh interpersonal relationships, I don't know that you have those with enemies, but you know what I mean. Um It it was ugly and it consumed uh about three years of my life. It um I say consumed It it went on for and you knew me why this was going on, by the way. Uh so it's in the recent past. Um And it it was just something that ate at me all the time and it ate at me in so many different ways too, from anger to frustration to I mean just So why why why why why is somebody that is naming the name of Christ and trying to walk in obedience to Christ even having this experience? What is wrong with me that I have this experience Right? You know, and and so I I was all over the place in my mind. And I I had already been I've shared with you before, I've been studying the Psalms for over fifteen years systematically Um the in the second iteration through the Psalms, I became very impressed with the honesty of the psalmist in his prayers. Just to pray what was on his heart and to be bold and to let the wo Lord kind of sort out a little bit in that prayer process like the You're not allowed to say that, Scott. You're not allowed to think that, Scott. You're not allowed to feel like that, Scott, but it was necessary for me to say it to him. To get to a place where I understood that wasn't there. And I'll tell you very honestly, I tried out the imprecatory prayer thing, and I didn't I didn't have the guts to pray that he would like be harmed Although I think I felt that way a few times. I didn't have the guts to do that. But I did ask for a series of things to occur that would make it impossible for him to come after me any longer. And I was just basing that on the Psalms, right? I was basing that on on Psalms like this one. And and I don't I I don't have a conclusion, so like you're looking at me with a wide mouth back there, like what's the what's the big conclusion? I don't have one necessarily. I just know that I did pray those things And I know that I usually felt like the Lord was saying, Do you see what's in your heart here, Scott? More than I felt like he was saying. And I didn't feel rebuked for going to him like that, by the way. And if somebody's uncomfortable with this, feel free to say so. I'm just sharing my experience with you here. I'm not telling you this is the pattern for godly men all over the world, men and women all over the world. I'm just sharing my experience with you I went honestly, I prayed those prayers. My experience was that the Lord generally came back and worked in my heart. What are you thinking about me, Scott? What are you thinking about yourselves, Scott? And oh by the way, we have a small matter of this other man. And when he has a name, which he did in my prayers, it's a whole different deal than this other man Right, when the name gets filled in. But I will tell you it was good It was good for me to pray those prayers. I I don't mean that it was righteous before the Lord. I mean I learned a lot about myself. I learned a lot about my small view of a great God that needed to be corrected And I I learned a lot about the insignificance of this enemy. In the scheme of things, I learned a lot about the insignificance of this enemy. He didn't matter as much as what I thought about God And how I was responding to God in the midst of that trial. But I will tell you, I did follow this pattern at some point in time And I found it helpful in my trial with the Lord. So I am done talking about imprecation. I didn't intend to say any of that this morning. I just wanted to be faithful and let you know that this was an imprecatory psalm. And if you want to study imprecatory psalms, Here's a doozy. Okay? I'm done with it now. Moving on. And the primary purpose. . Can't believe you did that to me That's your fault. The primary purpose of studying Psalm 69 is that it is a Psalm of lament. It teaches us how To deal with our trials. And that's important. It teaches us how to truly wrestle with our trials instead of just saying things like, well, I know God's good. Our cop-out Christian responses. Right? It teaches us to actually deal with them. And it's not trite. It doesn't just solve them. Six steps to fixing my problems, six steps to success, or eight, or nine, or three, or two, or take the magic pill, or whatever it is. Boundaries. Telling Mr. Doyle the other day, he caught me reading the book, said, What are you reading? I said, I'm reading the heretic, but he sometimes provokes me to think about things well, so I I'm actually going to quote him a little bit today. Uh this guy I don't really like and can't really recommend. I think his reference is actually in the books that I gave you, but I'm going to quote him here a a little bit, uh kind of an extended passage. This whole next section is largely taken uh from McCain's book on uh introduction to the theology of the Psalms. Reading the Psalms as Torah is the name of the book and the subtitle. And the author there does a really good job bringing out the contrast, the the significant contrast in the Psalms. uh between praise and lament, both as necessary and useful parts of our relationship with the Lord and our worship of the Lord. And as a matter of fact, he does a really good job of saying if you counted up all the different psalms and categorized them according to their genres, praise is is fundamental and foundational. There's no there's no way to diminish that. There's no desire to diminish that. There's no cause for diminishing the fundamental nature of praise in our relationship with God But there are more laments in the Psalms. A significant portion of the Psalms is of the lament genre. Right? And I argue that um w without much defense because of the time, uh I argue that that that is so Expected for our lives under the curse. We know what will happen. We know what was intended But we know what did happen in the garden and the curse that resulted from it, and that's where we live. Peter calls it the exile, for those of you that went through that class with me, right? We are in exile. Until Christ comes again and establishes his kingdom and our citizenship becomes the citizenship of the kingdom. And then we are no longer in exile and I expect the Lament Psalms to completely go away. They're no longer necessary. But our experience here under the curse as exiles in a kingdom that is not our own is entirely reflected by the hope, the praise and the hope that we have in God. And our experience under the curse. He says praise involves the affirmation, affirmation of God's reign Which he is reigning. The affirmation of God's reign and the offering of the whole self to God. I love that definition of praise, right? So not just, gee God, you're great. It's you are the greatest. And it's the offering of the entire self to him. It is a full commitment and conviction. And I love that. Praise is absolutely fundamental in the response of man Who is in right relationship with God. And you will see it over and over again As the Oh, there's a word I want, and it's right there, but I can't get it I can't find it, I'm sorry. Um praise is always intermixed in our lament I wish I could find that word. It's right there and I can't grasp it. But anyway, um it is that thing that takes the lament experience. And sanctifies it in such a way t to make it good. It's God's miraculous work. Right? in our lives under the curse to redeem all things for himself and he allows us even in almost every matter of fact I can't think of a psalm, I'm sure there are some, but I can't think of one right now. that does not have a significant praise section in it. As the lamentor um is appropriately interacting with his Lord, who he is and what he is doing and who the psalmist or the lamentor is before him So it is fundamental in a responsive man and right relationship with God. And we focused our attention on this, right? Almost all praise from Psalm 16 and 34 and 113 and 118. But the question of pain still persists. Um pain or lamentable circumstances Prayers of lament or complaint outnumber hymns for songs of praise. I already said that. And yet a survey of modern hymn books, um this Uh the Presbyterians tend to do a lot better job of um intermingling um the the Psalter, if you will, or psalms in their hymn books than I'll say we do. Uh I don't want to draw two True part of a distinction there? But um and yet even there uh there's uh almost three to one ratio uh relative to praise to lament songs that are used there. We clearly want the praise songs, choose the praise songs more And McCann then says the church has lost the knowledge and blessing of lament. And I I have to say I would agree with him. But whatever that's worth to you. The church's loss of lament, uh, McCann goes on, is costly uh psychologically, sociologically, and theologically, and and those are wonderful words, but let's just make them real, right? They're costly in how I think about myself. They're costly in how I think about community and relationship and the body of believers and other things. So they're c costly about how I think about myself, they're costly in how I think about others, and what's required of me to respond correctly to those others. And they're costly in the way that we think about the Lord. psychologically, sociologically, theologically. And just to explain that a little bit, psychologically the lament Represent the believers taking initiative with God, and that is exactly what you are seeing here and or will see here in Psalm 69. It's taking initiative with God, thus avoiding the development of a false self that simply accepts passively every circumstance that comes along. Right? We have it in our heads that the Bible promises uh trials and sufferings and we're expecting it and we talked about it last week. Um to some degree, and so we're all kind of hunkered down, waiting for it to come. Okay, it came, I survived it, it passed over me, and I'm done. But you never see that in the Psalms You never see that in the Psalms. You see an active king. You see an active lamentor that is busy working in the community around him to accomplish whatever it is the Lord has given him to do. You see a psalmist that is active in refining how they are responding to the Lord And I'll try to draw your attention to these. I don't have time to do it now and do it later, so I'll try to draw your attention to these more as we go through some of the psalms, but you see that very much here. David looks at himself and how how am I relating to the Lord and what do I need to change here and what needs to be different here so that I can realize the blessing of the Lord Um and and and then finally it's always, Lord, what are you teaching me about yourself? How do how do I grow in in my apprehension of you? And through that growth How do I minister to other people to encourage them and strengthen them in the Lord? There is always that aspect of it. I need you to teach me about me So that I can learn more about you, so that I can give praise to your glory for the benefit of others. And a failure in any one of those, as you go through the Psalms, some more, some less, but a failure in any one of those is a tragic failure, according to the psalmists. To not know oneself is to walk around a fool. To not know your God, how desperate is that? The God who is present with you and has orchestrated all of history so that He can repair the breach in relationship that we caused in the garden and that we now cause every day in our thoughts and actions, that God How horrible to close your eyes to him, to sit in a corner, to not know him, to not respond to him. And then finally the recognition that God has put you here sociologically if you if you prefer that word, I don't know why you would, but to be useful to him for his ministry And to deny him that. What a great sin So there you go. Psychologically, sociologically, theologically, you can read the other notes. In short, laments teach us about ourselves, our view of the world. And our view of God. And they do it in a way that I'm not sure you could find evidence for in other ways. And I have no time for it at all. But take that red statement And research it in the New Testament. And you tell me if you find exceptions to that statement. Lamentable circumstances, trials Discipline, that kind of thing that we like to lament over, is the Lord's tool for teaching us about ourselves, our view of the world, and our view of Him. And yet we largely despise them, eschew them, attempt to escape them, fail to ever respond to them in a manner that's systematic. We'll get up every morning and complain about the fact that we don't do our morning devotions. But when is the last time you got up and said, Man, I am really frustrated with myself that I have not lamented well lately I know it sounds stupid. But it sounds stupid just because it's so foreign to us. If if you walk out of here with no other No other takeaway. I hope that you will walk out of here with the statement that a regular discipline in your life needs to be God-honoring lament. I don't mean you make yourself sad. I mean you take the things in your life that cause you those frustrations, right? That are that are beating on the issues of who are you and who is God and what is your responsibility in the world. Those stressors, those strains, those whatever they are, right? You fill in the blank. Can't imagine in a room this size what diversity of of those laments might be, but I'm sure it's diverse You take those and bring them to the Lord in in God honoring them and use the Psalms. How many books have Yeah, you know. How many books have you read on praying the praying the Psalms or praying the scriptures or use the Psalms? Okay. Because we and we feel like a chemical. Even though we've been taught that God knows our thoughts, so that we verbalize God in his honesty And the question guide, I think that I I think the coach has kind of taught us that that's not okay, that's not proper. I don't think we've been taught this doctrine of open event And so I think it makes it harder to to to to start that process, but to to start it in a way that comes humbly before the Lord and always isn't just complaining there's complaining before the Lord. And like moving from being honest with the Lord and complaint and despair and desperation, but having that recognition of who we are the like buttons and yet that happen in the comments. I agree with you so much. Um and I think that the balance there the uh of knowing how to come to the Lord with God honoring lament versus um god condemnable grumbling is so difficult. Um That I I personally would only be willing to bring laments that are patterned closely after what's in these psalms That would be the only way I would feel like there were sufficient guardrails to keep my heart on track and to prevent me from only godless grumbling instead of God-honoring lumin. And that's exactly why I'm excited about Psalm 69, because I believe it has more of the fullness of lament facets, if you will, over like Psalm 130, that's much shorter. It's just a solid lament. Pretty much. There's a little bit of praise, because it almost always is, but it's just a solid short lament. Where Psalm sixty nine has has a lot of this This up and down. You can see the time if you can't, it's getting late. I'm not going to be able to finish this, but take the notes and run through it. Take the notes. Commit a day. Not I don't mean every week, right? It it probably would become morbid if you try to do, you know, systematically or I'll lament on Wednesdays, right? That that probably would become morbid instead of God honoring But pick a day sometime in the near future and just commit first to saying, what is it? What is it in my life that I am lamenting over? And it's fairly simple to figure it out God, I can praise you for this and for this and for this and for this and for this, but I'm not praising you for that. That hurts. Or I'll praise you, but you know I don't really mean it Right? That's your lament. It's really very simple. Now for some of you it's going to be easier, right? You're like, I'm sick. Or my loved one is sick Or I am defeated or I am depressed or I have a bill I can't pay or you know, I mean whatever it is, right? For some of you it'll be easier But take a moment and get these notes out. Or just the Bible. And just work through that. Pray that back to the Lord. Where? Psalm sixty nine. We're finally gonna get to start the study of Psalm sixty-nine. Fantastic The greatness of David's trial. Verses one and two talk about deep waters, him being overwhelmed, right? Save me, O God, for the waves have come up to my neck. I sink in deep mire where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps over me. That word deep uh is is uh significant there depths I have it in your notes right there refers to waters of the Great Deep, the bottom of the deep oceans. And the implication here is that David is at the very bottom of trials and and superlative trials. It's only used four times that I could find in the Old Test uh five times, sorry. That's just for Carlos. He takes notes and I like to screw up his notes. So I give him numbers and then I come back a few minutes later and I'm like that was wrong. It's actually this number. Um I can only find five times in the Old Testament that it's used, four in the Psalms, three in the Psalms. Sorry, Carlos. Um Three in the Psalms once in one thirty, twice in sixty-nine. In Psalm one thirty, verse one, it says, Out of the depths I cry to you, Yahweh Yahweh, hear my prayer. And again, Psalm 130 is considered that prototypical lament psalm. Right Uh the the trial is real and it's deep and it's all encompassing and it saturates every area of your life. It it's not a little thing any longer um i in uh psalm one thirty or here in psalm sixty nine even. Um It's important to see that you know the way David sees his deep waters, so you know this is uh uh maybe the like the first point of importance, the difference between godless grumbling and god honoring lament must start with how you see your deep waters. It is okay, according to this psalm, for you to say, I am at the depths Right? I see no struggle with that in the in in in the pattern presented here in the scriptures. But I would see a problem with it and the scriptures I believe would would chastise you here as well if you do not recognize that your debts are orchestrated by the Lord. Psalm 6926 is talking, he's it's in the middle of this part of imprecation, but even in the midst of his imprecation, do all these bad things to these bad people for these reasons that they have persecuted me. But look who he attributes his deep water to ultimately For they, these people I'm praying imprecation against, they persecute those that you, God, have wounded And they talk about, or mock, or deride, or scoff at, or whatever the case would be. They talk about the pain of those that you hurt. Right? So God does all the action in the wounding and the hurting. And that's why ultimately I recommended this book. This author leaves no room for that. He systematically approaches Old Testament references to words like, did evil. If I asked you all this, does God do evil, what would you say? So for those of you at the conference yesterday, I expected a different first question. Very good. And and Leighton Talbot goes into that. He goes down to a linguistic level and he brings it back up and he says, Well this is what evil means in in in the Old Testament context And then he begins to approach the passages that say things like, this was done to you, it was evil that you were born blind. And so we go, well, God doesn't do evil, so God didn't make that happen. Well, yes he did. And that very same passage is saying that God did it. Right? And he systematically, time after time after time goes through all these Old Testament passages saying exactly that thing. There is no deep water that is not from the Lord. And that and that maybe is a double injury to you instead of a comfort. I I'm not suggesting that it needs to be a comfort. I'm telling you that if you're going to exercise the godly practice of lament That you need to be able to see your situation in all of its badness, and you need to be willing to say, God is the one wounding me. God is the one that is causing me this pain. Now he's using these enemies, and I apparently feel some justification to pray in predicatory prayers against these enemies, and there's all that There's all that reality of how God is working in the situation, but the root cause, the sovereign one who superintends all these things, is still God. Difference between grumbling and God honoring lament is recognizing who's doing the worst. And that has to calibrate a lot of things about our response to it. Isaiah 5110, I liked this because it it actually is intended opposite of how I'm using it. There's a hermeneutic concern somebody should have there. But anyway, was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over? What's being referenced there? The Exodus, the Red Sea crossing. Right? And so in this particular case, it's kind of a positive thing. It's like, hey, didn't you do this stuff so they could get to the Red Sea? But in the context of Psalm 69, I loved the fact And if you just read around that passage, I loved the fact that the Lord led them into what was specifically and deliberately an inescapable massacre type of position. He said, go here, and it was a place where the world superpower at the time, study history, where lord the world superpower at the time was able to completely contain them in a natural bottleneck that there was no way of escape from. He led them there. And then he did this crazy thing and opened these waters, and I don't care what sea you think it is. I mean I I I'm a literalist, right? So I think it's the exact one right here, right? But I really don't care And the reason I say that is the idiots could say it was a marsh, I'm like, fine, but it was the most treacherous marsh in the world because it destroyed the superpower of the world at the time So whatever it was was still significant. It was still awesome. And I love that God chose to redeem his people by walking them through the deep Same word here. And again, only used one, two, three, four, five. Isaiah, Ezekiel, three times and so on. Five times. Only used five times in the scriptures. So it's not like the word gets scattered around and I just got lucky and it hit here I just love that God redeemed his people through the deep here in Hazaiah. This is bad, it's persistent, it's a it's a it's a great trial, and it's a persistent trial. David has cried for so long that he has worn himself out and commentators uh I don't know where exactly they get this from but they all agree that David's health is completely compromised by how weary he is of this trial Right, the stress, nobody's surprised there, the stress has defeated him physically. You see that at least uh evidenced at least a a few small ways here His throat is ablaze from repeated calls to God. It's raw with the crying after the Lord out loud, by the way. Just have you noticed that. Right? Um I don't know about you, but I I I'm not an outwardly except for when I'm standing up here, I'm not an outwardly very emotional person. Um you know, so I think a lot of thoughts, but I'm not gonna say 'em. His trial was bad enough so that you're given the picture of him standing in his room or his place of study or reflection calling out to God to save him. And his eyes are sore because of crying. It's a sore trial and it's a persistent trial. And then unlike those of us in this room that I would say are fairly fortunate, David says, more numerous than the hairs of my head are they who hate me without reason. Who hate me without reason, those who are destroying me are mighty And they are using falsehood. Christ Himself claims to fulfill this verse in John fifteen, twenty-four. This quotation is preceded by an extended teaching that because we are Christ the world will hate us like it hates him. I actually find the passage a little bit difficult to uh understand, the John passage, juxtaposed the Psalm 69 passage. I would actually say that by almost all of the ways that Christ used Psalm 69, I'm always like, exactly what way did you mean that? But I have found uh also that it it it's clear to me that the Christ is grabbing these songs and he's describing himself as a an obedient, suffering servant that will realize the fullness of God's blessing when he suffers, when he laments, if you will, according to the pattern that honors the Lord. That is clear to me. What also is clear to me is that in almost every one of the passages that's quoted in the New Testament, I didn't get far enough in my study to verify this. But there are passages like John 16, 1 where Christ says that this teaching is meant to keep you from falling away. There's this significant lament facet of our lives, and it will be there for as long as we are under the curse. And Christ says that as this, as as our Author, as our leader, as the one whose pattern we are to follow, he associates all of this suffering in Psalm 69 to himself. And then he says, Well why did I do that? I did that so that You would not fall away. When your time of suffering comes, you would see that it's the pattern that I established and that I intended And that you would be faithful in your walk, in your deep times there as well. You'll see that again if I have enough time to get there, you'll see that again The specific complaint he has against his enemies, no commentator was able to nail it down. Many think it was uh David's desire to build the temple. Uh so we created a a fairly heavy tax system in order to uh accrue the materials. That caused a lot of people to get upset Um and and you know, say he defrauded them of things and so he was constantly dealing with that. That's completely speculation. I don't I don't know what it is. Uh what is clear to me is that David believes that he was not guilty of of the things that were charged against him, but he was trying to do the right thing by those people, even while asserting clearly and repeatedly he was not guilty of the claims that were against him And because I don't know how far I'm going to get here, I I want to just make this statement here. David later on is going to make a comment that commentators pick up on and they're like, see David, David was completely trying to serve the Lord and all he did. He was suffering for the Lord's sake. That that's not clear to me from from verses like Five and six. Oh God, you know my folly. The wrongs I have done are not hidden from you Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord God of hosts. David seems to be recognizing that he did do wrong Not necessarily in this situation, but in general, he cannot assert his righteousness in the midst of things. And I say that to say it's not clear to me that David's trial was a direct result of his overt representation of the goodnesses of God and all he did. What is clear to me from the psalm, is that in his time of trial, he is attempting to walk faithfully before the Lord in all he does. He's being accused about things he didn't do, and he's trying his best to repay even that which he does not owe. He's trying to make sure that he has no unconfessed sin on his heart, and he's not trying to hide that in any way, and he's he's concerned. that uh his representations about himself and his Lord will shame other people, other God fearers. What is clear to me is that as he suffers, he's trying to honor the Lord. Whether or not the suffering is caused by him trying to honor the Lord initially That's unclear to me. And yet almost every commentator takes that up and is like, oh look, he's exactly like Christ. He he's suffering because he did a good thing. I don't see that in the Psalm And I frankly think it's inconsistent with the rest of the laments in in the scriptures. And I frankly think it's abusive to us to turn to the Psalms to figure out how to lament well Because I suspect that few of us believe that we get ourselves into trouble all the time because we're so uniformly representing Christ. I think we get ourselves in trouble because we're foolish. And we end up having to go back and apologize and ask for forgiveness from the Lord for not living according to the truth and repaying men that which we owe them, which is entirely consistent with the, at least the Hebrew in verse 5 here, this guilt offering that needs to be paid. I I confessed my sin to the Lord. Right out of our study previously on the Levitical guilt offering. I confessed my sin to the Lord for not living according to his truth. And I repay what I owe the man that I d a man or woman that I damaged as a result of not walking according to the truth. That is what is in Psalm 5. And that is probably far more consistent with how how we live. And then here's where we get into the the practice of lament. And so I just want to read the titles for you real quickly. Um again I I'm not going to drag you all the way up to the wire here, right? So we're going to pull the report on this and You can uh use my notes to study the rest. We we see in verses one through four David's situation And it is in fact a truly lamentable situation. And what we see in the remainder of this is how David Laments in a God honoring way through prayer firstly Firstly, that's that's important to say. And then as he thinks about himself, and as he thinks about the Lord, and as he thinks about his obligation to those around him And I I love this. He affirms what God already knows. That's in your if you if you're using Motyur's translation, that's one of his subheadings there. He affirms what God already knows. He affirms what God already knows about how he can't merit mercy, but he says it And I suggest to you that the benefit of doing that is more for him than it is for God. God already knows it. But in him spelling it out And him saying it, right? He's able then to think through the promises of God. I have acted foolishly I have not walked according to the truth in a way that I even think meets the standard. So why should God think it meets the standard? But I have a promise. David had a Levitical process that he can use, but we have Christ. I have a promise in the New Testament that says, repent and turn and be cleansed. I say I have a promise, but I actually have that promise over and over and over and over again in the New Testament. And I think the benefit of rehearsing that in our lament is key, is important. It makes the relationship that David's going to talk about in a little bit that much more important. And by the way, if you want to cross-reference for 5 and 6, put 13 and 16 down. 13 and 16 is really where he hammers. You see that on page three, by the way. I have my notes here. You'll see that in an extended section on God's passage, God's covenant love, and God's abundance of compassion. God will be faithful as a matter of his will to his people. But we as frail people and as relational people only find so much comfort in that. It's a really easy test. Alright? Husbands, look at your wives and tell them that you will love them because you covenanted to covenanted with them to do that. on the day you got married. And then see if they liked that. Right? They're not gonna like that by the way. I I I don't know any woman that's like, I'm I I'm gonna do this for you because I'm under contract. Right. Right. We don't like that as people. We don't like that in people we don't like that as people until it rescues us, by the way. When the contract rescues us from a situation. Well wait, you can't do that because the contract said we we do like that. And so God's covenant love, God's Passion is important to us in that context, but it's not enough to comfort us in the midst of our trials. And so what you see is David focuses on the abundant compassion And just read the notes there. There's some good things there. I actually went back to a 1905 uh textual study that started with Latin and moved into the Semitic languages. I summarize that all for you in a fairly succinct quote, but it's really cool and magnifies the idea of God's emotional, heartfelt, brotherly love for us. as well. And David puts them together in Psalm verse 16. Psalm 6 In verse 13, he focuses on the covenant love, but in verse 16 he puts the covenant love and the abundant compassion together. And he says, that is what I am depending on in the Lord. But that comes from First recognizing what exactly am I bringing to that? And so that's where five and six, that telling the Lord what he already knows about who we are And about how we see ourselves is super important. And then there's the recital of suffering. Tell the Lord what the thing is. I don't mean like, you know, Susie Susie called me a dirty name and I'm like that I can't even think of a good example, right? I mean like spell it out. This is what I am upset about This is how I see my predicament. This is what I'm angry over. This is what I feel defeated by. This is what I'm discouraged by. Right? These are the things that that really form My suffering. And you see that in 7-8 and through 1012. He's very specific about it. And it's true of of all the lament songs In that passage on recital of suffering, there's uh two more quotations of this psalm from the New Testament, John 2. 17, Romans 5. 3 again, both related to Christ. And again, just to whet your appetite for this, again uh later on in Romans, he says, For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. Right? That's back to that idea that I'm I'm not always clear why Christ is saying, hey, these things that were said in 69 are also true of me, but in every place he's saying, Yes, I am the fulfillment of that very same suffering, and it is intended to encourage you and to strengthen you and to keep you from falling away and to keep you from failing. Right? And so I really felt some liberty to walk in here today and say, I'm not trying to teach you to go back and do some old ritualistic lament thing from the Old Testament because gee that liturgy would be great to do I felt some license to be able to come in here and magnify the practice of lament in your daily devotion time because Christ conscripted it as a part of his ministry that was intended to encourage his people in the days, weeks, months, centuries after he left, that we would be found faithful. That we would walk through those deep waters to the redemption that He had prepared for us with heads up and with praise on our lips. I have to stop. I want to end with the last page here. You'll have to go back and study the notes. This is the pattern of lament that we want to watch uh so carefully in our own lives. And then a couple of questions here for you. Do you believe that if the Lord took your counsel In whatever one trial it is that you might focus on. Do you believe that if the Lord took your counsel in this trial, this one time That things would come out better than he is planning. That you're personal Resulting response. Meaning, if he took your counsel and things worked out the way you told them they should work out, do you honestly believe that the result you would obtain from that personal counsel that you gave to God would be filled with more joy or more thanksgiving. And for those of you that are like, of course I don't. That's fine. But how do you actually live? How do you actually lament? And it's it's it's just clear. It's so clear that if you cannot end your lament With songs of praise, right? Which is a heart actually overflowing with legitimate, real, sincere praise. If your lament cannot end with those praises Then it is tainted by this perspective So you're laying that on a tick. I am. And there's there's lots of room for grace and mercy there. Part of the reason for taking on the practice of lament is to teach ourselves and refine ourselves in that practice I certainly don't want to trust you or bruise you or tell you not to take on lament because you might find out that you've got a little bit of this holdback scenario. Like I, you know, if God would just listen to me, we'd be good to go. I'm not trying to discourage you with that, but I do want you to know who you are. And I want you to know who your Lord is. And I want you to know how you're supposed to respond to him as you interact with other people And then final question, if you believed the lie that God is manifestly present in your blessings, but that you are alone, rejected, and judged, meaning separated from God, in the depths of your life. When the testimony of the scriptures is almost universally that the Lord is never closer to us than in our deepest depths. As a matter of fact, the nice thing about those depths are we're alone with him. We don't even get our own comforts and our own distractions and the arrogance of our own resources when they're in the midst of our depths. I cannot tell you while I was going through my own circumstance with that enemy that I described to you how many times I would come downstairs early in the morning for my devotions. Birds aren't even up yet. That's not a joke either. And I would lay my Bible open in front of me and couldn't figure out where to go, just knowing that I ached and think, Lord, what do I do? I I I have nothing that I know to do or say. There's no ability for me to manufacture light in this circumstance. And God was gracious most days. I mean He's gracious all the time. I'm sure I got in the way on some days, right? But he was gracious on most days Just say Scott, I I get it. I put you here, and I'm the only one in here with you. Now stop being a jerk and walk with me And enjoy it while I show you who I am and what I am, who you are, and what I intend for you to do I hope that you have at least gotten some provocation to take up the discipline of lament from the Psalms.