Turn over to Psalm 16. I I just more than anything I woke up this morning and uh you know well never mind what time I woke up, but I woke up early this morning and uh it was very dark outside And then some hours later, uh, I drove out to our property and we got a bonfire started and I was meditating on the passage that I wanted to share with people there and uh sorry for those of you that have been stuck with me all morning. I really don't know why you do it. I honestly don't. But I am grateful to you and humbled um by your kindness But we read from Psalm 22, Psalm 16, and Psalm 116 around that bonfire this morning as we watched the sun come up and try to get our bones warm. And we are going to read from Psalm 16, Psalm 34, Psalm 113, and Psalm 118 this morning This morning s in the dark, as the sun rose up, I really focused on the disappointment of the disciples. Their hopes had been smashed, crucified, literally. Um and just how disappointed they must have been. And um Just thinking about that in our own lives, how we deal with the disappointment of not seeing God infinitely present, right? We we got saved and that that excitement that follows salvation was there and it wanes over time and the trials of life and the just the the tedium of life uh seeps in, just like the cold of the night seeps in. And when God is gracious to us and opens our minds to his work in our lives and the work, the word that we read in the scriptures, it's like the sun coming up, right? the lights come on and we see we see the beauty, right? In this morning's time we were running around with flashlights trying to find wood to throw in the bonfire. By the time the uh once our eyes actually adjusted it was a fairly bright moon and that was nice. But once the sun came up we could see And the land was beautiful. And it it's just starting to look nice finally. And it was encouraging. And it was encouraging to be there with people from six or eight different churches that we have known for the last 23 years, faithful friends. that have challenged us and rebuked us. It was just a wonderful experience. And I was working through that how we really struggle with the the evenings, the night times of our lives repeatedly and how we need to be refreshed in the resurrection mornings. But here today all I want to focus on is the freshness. The fullness of the resurrection mornings. I just want you to see the joy I want you to see the mandate for the joy. I want you to see the reason for the joy. I want you to see the blessing of the joy. I just want you to see the beauty that we have in Christ. The exclusive, abundant, presence, fullness, and beauty of the Lord. And I'm going to do my best to share that with you from the Psalms, because I'll tell you what The New Testament authors returned to the Psalms when they were explaining Christ. You're gonna make it over there. I saw you wince Should have prayed. I just want you to see that abundant beauty in Christ. So turn to Psalm 16. If I had to give this a label, I'd call it a life rooted in the joy or pleasures or end pleasures. of Christ's resurrection. This is actually called a resurrection psalm, and it's called that because verses 8 to 11 are quoted in Acts 2 by Peter and in Acts 13 by Paul. Acts 2 and uh Paul and Peter both ground verses 8 through 11 directly in the resurrection of Christ. So they quote these passages and say, see, Christ is the fulfillment of these things. A resurrected Christ is the fulfillment of these things. And if you're not paying attention, Acts 2 is the Pentecost, the outpouring of the Spirit. It's the power of the resurrection poured out in this world. It is all that was waited for up to that time in history, poured out and satisfied and fulfilled. Right? So it's amazing that Paul and Peter take this psalm and move it forward to begin the pouring out of the of the power of the Spirit. To begin the pouring out of Pentecost Let's just read it. If you don't have a book, read off the screen. Uh I'm literally just going to work around the tables here, okay? So Doug, could you pick up verse one? Keep me, O God, because I have taken refuge in you. I said to Yahweh, you are my sovereign one. My good is not additional to you. Regarding the holy ones on earth, they are indeed the mighty ones in whom is all my pleasure. Yep, yep. Okay. So I'm sure I had I don't know why it looked like a partial hand so So you see in 8 to 11, I put Yahweh in front of me continuously, indeed at my right hand, at my right hand, right? What's significant about the right hand? Hand of authority, hand of action, right? Um God is at his right hand, right? That's that's the place where I I don't try to solve my problems myself. I was sharing with somebody I think last night Um I'm reading several books right now that are on the uh uh biographies of notable Israelites Israelis would be a better way to say that. They're contemporary figures. Super annoying. Um and from Saudi Arabia no less. Um I was sharing that I've been reading these several books and it's amazing to me that Zionism, modern Zionism, this call for the diaspora to return to the land the modern day land of Israel has really picked up the the language of Exodus and Passover and and owned it. I mean it's it's tremendous how they've owned it. But they've owned it without God. They'll say that. They have owned it without God. They're all about their traditions. They're all about the culture. They're all about the nationality. But they've owned it without God. And they've decided to build a nation. Right? God hasn't come. God hasn't fulfilled his promises in the way they expected. So they will build their nation by the strength of their own hand. And I have to say I think God has really blessed somebody. God is still being very merciful on his people. And I love to watch God be faithful. Even in the midst of a bunch of people that are acting like it doesn't matter whether he's there or not. But not so with David. David is not interested in solving his own problems by his own strength and by his own wisdom. David has said, I will use The one resource that will never fail me, and that is God. I will not trust in my own wisdom and my own strength. God has given me great gifts, a great land, great promises. But I will not attempt this without God. Therefore, my heart rejoices, and my glory delights. Yes, indeed, my flesh too will reside securely. He didn't try to make this a a spiritual psalm. Oh yes, Lord, I I know that one day I will be in eternity with you and it will be awesome You never see that in the Psalms. I don't mean that you don't see that they have a hope in a in an afterlife with God that will be better than this one. You do see that. But you never see it alone. When a psalmist prays for help, he or she prays, sorry, of course I have it, right? You always add the women now. He Always prays for God to fulfill his promises now and then. Now end then Therefore, my heart rejoices and my glory delights. Yes, indeed, my flesh too will reside securely. It will live Securely. It will stay secure, by the way. Not dwell. Dwell's a temporary word. Reside means I'm permanent. It will reside securely. Is that a stretch or an interruption? Oh this stretch. Okay. Because you will not abandon my soul Sashul, you will not give over your beloved one. See the chasm. You will make me know the path to life. Abundance of real joy comes with your face. Now we know that was said in Acts two of Christ, specifically of Christ's resurrection. You will not give over your beloved one to see the chasm. You will make me know the path for life. Abundance of real joy comes with your face True delights are in your right hand in perpetuating I spend a lot of time in Scripture And I I love it. I really do. I I can tell you unequivocally that I I I just love God's word. I love to discover it. I love to enjoy it. I love to but I'll tell you what I watch my wife and my children respond to me when I come home from work in ways that tell me that I'm clearly acting in a broken way They suddenly speak soothingly to me and gently to me, like dad's imbalance, right? And while I appreciate it, I appreciate their kindness to me, I appreciate their patience with me, I realize that what that is testifying to is that I'm unsettled. I I do not look like this. I do not look like the man who is acting wholly dependently on the the amazing promises of God for my life. I do not act like a man whose heart is rejoicing and glorying in delights, and who is experiencing the true delights that are in the right hand of the Lord. I'm acting like a guy that didn't get what he wanted In the way that he wanted it, at the time that he wanted it to be a good idea. And whether I like to admit it or not, what I'm ultimately doing is doubting the goodness of the Lord. I'm doubting that what God did accomplished on that cross So that he could build a perfect he could bridge the broken relationship with me, so that he could pour out all these goodnesses upon me, which ultimately stem fundamentally from his ability to be present with me in relationship Right? All those things that the Lord accomplished, I am denigrated with my fears and my doubts, with what I want instead of what he wants. But this isn't double speak either. I still need things to happen. I need to be successful at work. I have 40 employees. I gotta pay them. Right? And a company that doesn't grow dies. So I need to be successful. I need to be growing. My family's bought this property. It's quite an investment. We're trying to figure out how to build on it, right? I I need I need to either get out of the property or move forward with building it, but staying in the middle is probably not a good transaction for me There are real things that press upon my life. Does God not know that? Gagan makes no distinction between the requirements of his life as king, as general in battle As a representative of Christ to the nation of Israel, he makes no distinction in his practical life, in his regular life. To that which he has in Christ. They are fundamentally limited. And they are fundamentally good. I'm so glad you asked. That question bothers me too. And so Psalm 34 addresses the apparent paradox. And that's where we're going next. So I I am I am so with you on that, and it bothers me so much that the next Easter Psalm we're going to look at is Psalm 34. Real quickly before we move off this. Let me uh let me don't touch that. Let me flip over here to you just a second. In Psalteen, there is a confidence In the goodness of God, in the face of a life that we know was filled with trial. Right. And that that is exactly the point that I want you to see here. Right? David is not some idealistic philosopher or some You know, teacher trying to make a point. He he's a a shepherd, turned king in the most unusual way that anybody would ever expect An amazing sinner. And a type of Christ, all in the same life. And so I want to just super quickly, if you don't have it memorized, you should memorize it. But if you don't have it memorized, turn over to Hebrews 12, 1 and 2. And then we'll go to Psalm 34 and I will try to answer more directly Colleen's really good question It's gonna be hard for me. I memorized it in the KJV and I'm reading it in ESV. That's always difficult for me. It says verses one and two. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight in the sin which clings so closely and run with endurance the race that is set before us. Endurance, right? The very presence of that word there suggests that there's a trial that we need to endure. And I think that most of us come to this passage and we read that the sin which so easily clings to us and we're like, oh well that's that lying and the cheating and the tax fraud and the sexual sins and all that other stuff why is it not counting the goodness of God as nothing? Why is it not ignoring the fact that the resurrection guarantees us the presence of the Lord? Do you do you know that one of the questions that is asked Of people in the judgment is, why is it that when I gave you my son, you decided you'd sit on your own throne instead? And so here he says, you have a great cloud of witnesses like David, or all the other ones that came previously in the Hall of Faith, right, in Hebrews 11. You've got all these great people. None of them lived insignificant lives. And when I was talking to the people at the table with me at the Passover the other night, sorry, I got like a wheel stain on my glasses. Half the room is smudgy Um when I was talking to the people at the table the other night, I was like, look, you you want a life without trials, and I'll show you a life without significance. I do not want to be insignificant I know something about young men having been one of them. Not one of the best ones, but having been one of them. You show me a young man that isn't raised to be a hero, and I'll show you a young man that's useless. And unhappy. Young men that are raised to be heroes in Christ whose right hand is empowered by their Lord, not not their own strength, not their own brilliance But that honor and that valor and that integrity, all words that are used by David of Christ, by the way. That's why I'm picking those words specifically. When you teach a young man to walk in that valor, in that integrity, to attempt great things for God. I'll show you a satisfied young man. I'll show you a useful young man. I show you a young man that knows how to rejoice. I show you a young man that knows how to care for people. I show you a young man that knows how to be humble But a young man that is fundamentally confident in that and steadfast in the midst of all of it, I I want to be that same man Now I don't know how to make that analogy work for women, but I know what a beautiful woman looks like. I have seen Women that are adorned outwardly and the moment your eyes pass them, y you return to them, right? They catch your eye. And then they open their mouth and they say something And it's offensive. I don't mean that they say something offensive, I mean the foolishness that exits their mouth somehow makes their attractiveness doubly ugly You say have you actually had that experience many times? And I have also met women that I think people would classify as less comely And the moment they open their mouth, they are beautiful. They are women filled with grace. They are majestic somehow. They they inspire something in me which is wholly innocent and wholly wonderful And they do away with all that other garbage that complicates the relationships between men and women. And I just see God in them. Full and amazing and untouchable. Right? Who would think of of interfering with something that God has imprinted himself on in that way? Say is that possible? I I see it in my own wife on a lot of days, and I have seen it in others So I don't know how women get to that stage. I'm not a woman. I had sisters, but I tried to ignore them as much as possible growing up. But I know that that's possible in women. Where am I going with this? What happens when you teach men and women to live In the truth, beauty, and goodness of the resurrection. That's what I'm talking about. Just got lost in the midst of my story there So you look at the testimony of those men and women just like the ones I'm describing in Hebrews 11, and it says, that's your cloud of witnesses. So lay aside every weight, all this foolishness we bring to the table. And sin which clings so closely and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, and then the preeminent wistness. Looking to Jesus. The founder, right? The one that was first took up the cross, the one that first understood that the cross was was nothing to be feared. Was nothing to be eschewed? That the cross was only an entrance, a passageway to that greater glory? Looking unto Jesus, the founder or author, depending on your translation, and perfecter of our faith, our confidence in the promises of God. Don't let that ordinary word. Numb your mind, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Which is exactly where he calls us to as part of our adoption in Christ. So I just wanted you to see there that there's a pattern for this very topic in Hebrews 12, 1 and 2. Now we've got to pick up some speed here. Psalm 34. We're going to focus on verses 18 through 22. I'm here because I see this paradox. It's apparent For some reason I can't turn pages in my Bible and speak at the same time. I apologize. It's apparent paradox, right? This goodness of God, but we still feel the pains of this life and the trials of this life. And how does that work? And how was David able to do it and not just be like a liar, right? Making it up Talking about ideals when he lived and lived in a real world. I need to read the first few verses just so you understand the tenor of this. Taste and see that the Lord is good By the way, this psalm we believe to be written in the midst of David's running away from uh Saul. Right? So that's the context for this. He's in the deep trial. He has been promised that he will have the kingdom. And yet Saul has communicated to everybody that he intends to kill David, and Jonathan has told him that, and he's now running for his life. Didn't even have time to pack lunch. Right? Literally. So that's the context for this. This this very real trial that David is in the midst of, and his circumstances Would seem to contradict the good promises of God at this very present moment to the degree that I'm gonna die I'm not gonna get the promise, the good promise you gave me. I'm just gonna die And then he prays, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord. Let the humble hear and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed. I will not be able to satisfy Colleen's question wholly. I'm going to take a good shot at it, but I'll just tell you before I even get it to it, I will not be able to satisfy her wholly. This problem of pain is is old and universal. Why do God's people have to suffer these things? Because it's God's plan and God's purpose. But I'll tell you what I see of men like David that suffer these things, they seek the Lord. They remind themselves of the resurrection, truth, beauty, and goodness of God. It's easy to despair. Sit in a dark room, a cold dark room, with your own thoughts. You will despair. It's called torture, by the way. We actually torture people by putting them in situations like that. David goes outside and looks up at the sun. David goes outside and finds the fingerprinted beauty of God all over creation. No, I absolutely do. Let me correct my previous statement. Well no, I want to correct it based on what you said. I didn't mean that God is torturing us. I meant men do that. Your statement actually plays out really good in verses six and following. This poor man tried, meaning I, David, tried. And the Lord heard him and saved him out of all of his troubles. The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him and delivers them. And if you're interested, you should go look up Sorry, I wrote it sideways. Joshua 5. 14, where you see the angel of the Lord or the captain of Jehovah talked about. And then you should go look up 2 Kings 6, 15 through 17, right? We're Elijah. Oh why do I struggle with Elisha versus Elijah? It's Elisha. Okay. Sorry guys. Where he he prays that the people around him would see God's heavenly host surrounding them in the midst of their trouble. Right? They are surrounded by enemies, but he's the only one that sees the heavenly host. You have the ability, give me just a second, you have the ability at all times and in all circumstances to see the heavenly host. And the Lord promises that he will give you insight into these words such that you see it clearly and applicable to your circumstances. Two quick additions to that. When the psalmists are extremely consistent in the midst of their trials, doing exactly what you just described, they always avail themselves of two things. God's word and God's people. So just make sure that when you're talking about clinging to Christ, that you're doing it the way the psalmists gave evidence of. They are clinging to Christ, maybe not seeing an answer to their prayer request, but they are doing it with God's word and God's people. It is always the mechanism by which God makes his light manifest in the lives of his people. Absolutely. I wanna uh uh these are bold generalizations, so I reserve the right to have to apologize to somebody at a later date. But I have thought about it for a bit and I'm gonna make this statement There are really two kinds of people that suffer. There are those of us that I think this is actually the majority of us. There are those of us that read the promises of Scripture, we know that suffering is coming, and we kind of hunker down and we're like, all right, I I'm gonna do my best. When the hit comes, just be patient and stay and and Well, really say the right things. I'm not sure if we ever feel or or do the right things, but we're gonna say the right things. Right? And it's this kind of besieged mentality. Now the Lord brings persecution, the Lord brings trials into that life because he's constantly trying to knock you out of that place where you y you you do realize that's that's self-dependence. I'm gonna make it. I'm gonna be good enough. I'm gonna be strong enough. I'm gonna accumulate sufficient resources so that when the hit comes, I can absorb it And praise God, because that's what I'm expected to do. There are a lot of us, I'd say most of us, that are in that category. And I want you to see the abundant Truth, beauty, and goodness of God's resurrection. Get out of that. There is nothing about Christ's resurrection that gives you a warrant to retreat from life in any way. And that's a retreat from the life, the fullness of life that called you God called you to. Your life should be more vulnerable At least in an earthly sense, right? Because you love and you have joy, and I mean all things are now open to you. All liberties are yours because of the resurrection. Because of the resurrection. But there's a second kind of person that also suffers, and that's the kind that David is more more often than not, although I would argue that his spint with Bathsheba was that first one. But I would argue that there's a second kind of person, and it's the kind of person that attempts much for God's glory Attempt much for God, and you will struggle with the world. That's the whole point You are volunteering for the lion's den. You are volunteering for that hot oven. You are volunteering. I see you give me a second. You are volunteering for those things. But what a joy to be able to have that kind of confidence in God That says, yeah, I see everybody else around me bowing down, and I know that there's a a royal victim that says, if I don't bow down, I I'm going to the lion's den, I'm losing my life. I don't care I am so confident in my God. I am so satisfied in his goodness. I can't imagine getting rid of that. I am so confident that death is only a door to the very chamber of God that you cannot scare me with it. You cannot intimidate me by saying, oh, I'm going to open the door to the very chamber of God. Okay. Which are you? Don't don't answer it out loud. But please consider which are you? I'll tell you which one I am too often. The first Too often the first. I even find that sometimes my motivation for all of my studies and my work that I I hold up is here's my obedience to you, God Is really just meaning on, hey, if I do these things, could you spare me some of those trials? That is not what we have in Christ. That is not the resurrected Christ. Please don't waste your life like that. Because you have hope. Hope? God's power in me? The Holy Spirit? The example of all of it. That's right, all of it. say that not only is there like a sense of confidence when you give those things to guys and you have to employ, but there's like a sense of peace. You know? Um when you go to sort of things like not even just like huge challenges, but like little things that like you're afraid of Or that you're anxious about. If you just go out and do them, they seem so much smaller. You know, once you actually sit down in front of the essay and start writing it, it feels like a lot less of a weight then when you're thinking about having to run it and when you're thinking about all of these unique values they only seem to grow. And when you're able to just like give that to him and you're able to give him that sense of Um track then you can pull into your feet. That's fantastic. Psalm eighteen Psalm thirty-four, verse eighteen clearly recognizes this apparent paradox The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous. Right? David is not being foolish. He understands exactly what Colleen said. The same psalmist that can start with, I will bless the Lord at all times, his praise shall continually be in my mouth, my soul makes its boast in the Lord, let the humble Hear and be glad, O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Also says the Lord is near to the brokenhearted, and he means himself here, and saves the crushed in spirit. Those are strong words Many are the afflictions, even of the righteous, even as in in there, but you get the point, right? But the Lord delivers him out of them all. How many of our sufferings are actually and there are real sufferings. There's real sickness, there are real trials with loved ones. There are there are real things But how many of our trials are really the result of I want it this way, Lord? I don't want and I'm picking on myself, not you, although you're wincing, right on cue. Good job. My shoulder is big all the way down. As I sat studying this morning, I had an electric pain at the base of my bicep because of something in my shoulder. Right? I don't want it that way. I want to go back to climbing. Right? I don't want to be 50 and hurt. I want to be 18 and strong again. Right? And this is a silly example, but how many of our trials are actually just us telling God how it's supposed to be? Because gee, if if you did it my way, it would be good. No, it wouldn't. Find me an example of Scripture where a man or a woman did it their way, and it turned out good. The first example of that, the whole world got cursed for all eternity. Because she did it her way and then handed it off to her doofy husband The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. And then you know this is a messianic psalm because it says he keeps all his bones, not one of them is broken. The Exodus lamb, right? I will take you out of that slavery and I will deliver you So that you can be with me, and I will give you my word and my presence and my provision and my promises. I will give you all those things. But the land that you sacrifice, you may not break any of its bones. And then we know that Chr Amen. And then we know that Christ is the same, right? Not one of his bones was broken. And the same passage is then quoted again in the New Testament. Affliction will slay the wicked and those who hate the righteous will be condemned. I do want to flip over real quick. It's important here, Luke 21. It's such a weird verse. That I just have to share it with you. And this is the I I know it it's not the most satisfying answer, and I apologize for that, but this is this really gets it to heart. Of Colleen's question, verses 16 through 18. Luke 21, verses 16 through 18, you will be delivered up even by parents and brothers. In other words, by your closest relationships. You you will be delivered up for trials and persecutions. And relatives and friends will also do this thing And some of you, they will be put to death. Okay, that's what we expected, right? Oh yeah, that's what we expected. That death trial. Read the next verse Uh next two verses, sorry. You will be hated by all for my name sake. Again. Oh yeah, that's what we expected. Yeah, yeah. That kind of trial. That's kind of the Christian life right there, right? Hated by everybody. But not a hair of your head will perish. What? I thought we were getting delivered up to death. I thought we were getting delivered up to death, and here we have not a hair of your head will perish. By your endurance, you will gain your lives. Back to that endurance thing that we saw in Hebrews 12 God's promise for goodness is not limited by our trials. Our circumstances lie to us And I do not mean that they are not hard, that there is not a crushed spirit and a broken heart. That's right here in the Psalms. We must recognize that and we must comfort and care for and pray for and provision those that are in this role because that is our jobs. That is our calling to be in a body of believers. I also want you to see there is a s a huge part of this that is the evil one whispering in your ears. Oh, if God does this, he's not really good to you. And yet in Luke, he can go all the way to the core of ungoodness, the insult to God, which is death. Death is an ultimate insult to God. He created you for truth, beauty, and goodness and to enjoy Him for all eternity And to reflect his glory and his goodness, which I make no distinction in, by the way, neither should you, neither do the scriptures, I would argue. He made you to enjoy that for all eternity without any fear of death. Death is the great insult to God. It is the great paradox between God's goodness and what we experience. But Luke tells us your experiences and the way you look at them are not they're not true. I will be good to you in life, in trial, in death, and everything that comes after it. And you say, I don't understand how that works when my shoulder hurts so bad that my bicep feels like it's being electrocuted. And that's a stupid example because it doesn't insult anybody. I know many of you have have burdens that are much, much more serious. They hurt in a place you can't describe in a way you wouldn't want to describe I I get that. I'm not trying to make little of that. I am asking you to look at the beauty and goodness and truth of Christ's resurrection. I am asking you to fill up a place of doubt and fear and coldness and uncertainty with that certainty, with that goodness, with that truth. I want to hit Psalm 113. I know we're short on time. Psalm 113 through 118 are actually called the Egyptian Hillel Psalms. That's significant because they were the Psalms that were written into the Haggadah. I don't know if I'm saying that right, but hopefully none of you know better, so I'm just going to go with it. Say it confidently and go with it. Right? The order of worship surrounding the Passover, the Jewish Passover feast. Psalms 113 through 118 are the hymnity, if you will, of the Passover feast. We believe Psalm 113 and 114 were sung before the meal. We believe that Psalms 115 through 118, if you do that. Psalm 115 and one through 118 were sung after it. And I love that um Christ had Passover meal with his disciples on that last evening before his arrest, trial, crucifixion. And he institutes the Lord's Supper there. And it says, and then when they had sung a hymn They went out to the Mount of Olives. And he wrestles with the Lord. Are you really good, Lord? Right? You want to know what the context for Hebrews 12, 1 and 2 is, God, are you really good enough for me to have to drink the cup of crucifixion? That's what Christ is praying. Go back and read the prayers. I love it. I love it Can't even think of any better words than just to repeat myself multiple times there. I love what Christ does in that garden But I also love the Psalms, these Psalms are what he was singing right before he went. And we were talking about all this trouble and the turmoil and the apparent paradox, and where does that leave us here Well it has to leave us first and foremost with Psalm 113. Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God? Who is seated on high? Who looks far down on the heavens and the earth? Do you see the condescension of God there, by the way? God is so transcendent. So far from us, it is so unnecessary for him to look down here. But he does all the time. There is not one tear that falls from your eye that is not caught In the bottle of the remembrances of the Lord, and that he will redeem. He will show you his beauty through those tears. He looks far down to look at our heavens and our earth and to see what we are doing down here He raises the poor from the dust and he lifts the needy from the ash heap. That is a promise. I am infinitely concerned with your trials. That's one sentence. On the other side of that, I don't care what your experiences are. And by that all I mean is your experiences would suggest to you that God is not infinitely interested in your life. And that he is not pouring out his resurrection goodness that he secured on that cross each and every day in all of your life, despite your sins. Because it says right here that he raises the poor from the dust and he lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes. with the princes of his people. Isn't that the same as the promises in the New Testament, the inheritance that we have in Christ? Isn't that awesome? It's the same promise, just repeated new for us in the New Testament, so that we can see how more secure it is because of Christ than it was for David as a result of the tabernacle in the temple. And he gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord. So that would have been done before, and then my remaining moments, ah I don't have the time to do 118, so I'm gonna do it differently. Psalm 186. So the Halal Psalms start there with that great praise of the Lord. And then they really take you through a lot of the Exodus experiences, the slavery and the downtroddenness and the trials and the persecutions and the 400 years of, I thought you were going to be good to us, God. Why are you good to us? And yet you read the testimony in Exodus, and she's good to them. Women having children under groves of trees because their children were under a sentence of death, and how did that work? But they were able to do it And God saved those children. There were glimpses of God's goodness in every single day of the lives of those that spent the 400 years, obviously not the whole 400 years Those 400 years in the bondage of Egypt. And so Psalms 113 through 118 start with this praise, they take you through those trials and they end in 118. And guess what? It's a great glory for the Lord again. It says great praise. Yes, we see what you did. We see that our experiences incline us to despair, but we see that your truth and your providential history say otherwise. They contradict our experiences and the things that we think is a result of them. They are so great and so good that we are left with nothing but a psalm of praise. A song of praise. I am not a person much moved to songs. I sing because my wife made me move uh join a choir after uh We got married, that's what I was trying to say. After we got married, and I found that I liked singing the bass in a a four-part harmony. But I'm not the guy that, you know, like Starts up a song in the morning. That's my youngest son. He sings in the bathroom. He sings in the shower. He's always singing. I'm like, shut up, stop singing. I can't hear myself, right? He's always singing But when God moves in your heart to see his truth, beauty, and goodness, you can't help it. It comes out in song. It's in your fiber. That's how God made you. And Psalm 118 is that, and I don't have the time to do it, and I want to leave you with this really awesome prayer called the Love Lusters at Calvary. It's from the Valley of Vision, a book of uh Puritan prayers. And we'll end here. My Father, enlarge my heart, warm my affections, open my lips Supply words that proclaim love lusters at Calvaries. Everybody understand lusters? You all know what lusters mean, right? Lusters, the brilliance. You want to talk about a hunk of gold that's been polished or a diamond that's well cut and well polished, it's lustrous. Okay? It that bright beauty that attracts the eye and and just speaks of beauty and value. You've got to know that or you're going to miss the rest of the prayer. Supply words in me that proclaim love, lusters at Calvary. God's work at Calvary. Lusters. Put that in me, God. There, grace removes my burdens and heaps them on thy son, made a transgressor a curse, and sin for me All of the perversion of the curse, all of the sorrow, all of the pain, all of the death, all of the insult that happened as a result of sin was taken from you and placed on Christ. That is why I know with confidence that you can live in the glory of Christ's resurrection and it will always be good, even in the midst of difficult things. There thy infinite attributes were magnified, and infinite atonement was made. The infinite punishment was due, and infinite punishment was endured. Christ was all anguish. that I might be all joy. Cast off, that I might be brought in, trodden down as an enemy, that I might be welcomed as a friend, surrendered to hell's worst, that I might attain heaven's best. stripped that I might be clothed, wounded that I might be healed, a thirst that I might drink, tormented that I might be comforted made a shame that I might inherit glory, entered darkness that I might have eternal light. My Savior, my Savior, wept that all tears might be wiped from my eyes, groaned that I might have endless song, endured all pain, that I might have unfading health, bore a thorny crown, that I might have a glory diadem. bowed his head that I might uplift mine, experienced reproach, that I might receive welcome, closed his eyes in death, that I might gaze on unclouded brightness or luster Expired that I might ever live. O Father, who spared not thy only son, that thou mightest spare me. All this Transfer thy love designed and accomplished. Help me to adore thee by lips and life. You get that? Help me to adore thee by what I say and what I do. Oh that my every breath might be ecstatic praise, my every step buoyant with delight. As I see my enemies crushed, Satan baffled, defeated, destroyed, sin buried in the ocean of reconciling blood, hell's gates closed, heaven's portal open. Go forth, O conquering God, and show me the cross, mighty to subdue, comfort and save. Amen