Psalm 120 through 134 form a section of the psalm which you can see in the superscriptions. They say a song of assent. for a song of great ascents. Oh, come on. There you go. A song of the great essence. The great part in Motyr's translation simply comes from the use of a plural for a sense. It's a single SN here, but the floral is used nonetheless, and the floral is just intended to Is this a Hebrew way of making the word bit, right? So it's like putting an exclamation point um after it, or in this case saying a great ascent. And so you'll find that superscription on all of these Psalms 120 through 134. And then I uh again the order of the Psalms is uh not inspired um, or at least not in the way that we say God's scripture is inspired, or maybe that's a better phrase there. What I'm doing there is just opening the door to the Lord, having influenced the people that ordered the Psalms, but again not in the way that we say he inspires his individual words. Um but uh somebody thought long and hard about this. Uh 120 through 134 are these great uh you know five groups of three psalms um each which have a structure which I'll share with you in a minute. And then Psalm 135 and 136 are like this. Crowning Capital, in conclusion of the these great Hallel Psalms. So it's really a beautiful uh set of passages, it's I would highly recommend you actually just sit down and just read it. They're all super short Psalms. Um some of them are only like three verses so you can get through it pretty quickly And um and they're just they're just magnificent. They were used um as part of these pilgrimage feasts and since uh Jerusalem is set on a hill, um Since Jerusalem is set on a hill, there was always some aspect of ascent to it, um, and so that's why they're called the Great Ascents. Um They were sung, were recited as part of the um journey to Jerusalem, and although I'm not sure I would be willing to uh stake my reputation on it not that I have one, but get the idea. Um in general it's believed that Psalm one twenty was kind of the the first in the order, so people would have been farthest from Jerusalem when they started one twenty and then uh one 32 through 134 would have been the last group uh which actually would have been as close as the people were able to come uh to the tabernacle, or maybe even sung by the priests And so this is just a really pretty word picture there. Please don't lose track of the reality I touched on it already. I want to keep moving pretty good, but um Um people regular people, right? Regular people walking away from their farms and their mills and their homes, sometimes fairly close, those in the surrounding areas. Uh we'll we'll touch on a reference here. Uh some pretty far away. Some pretty far away and pretty hostile lands, which meant that leaving their land and their home uh posed significant risk to them. Um not a wealthy people as a general rule. Um walking their way through difficult lands uh with young ones and everything else. Right these these people had all of our cares just in a different context And so I hope you'll just kind of keep that in mind as you're thinking through this. These are largely the words of people like us Five groups of three. I'll give you a quick structure for that and then we're really just going to dive in. I want to talk to you a little bit more about the people. We're going to do And then I'm going to really so it's a three-point structure to the Psalms, 120, 121, 122. Each of them touch on one of the points of the structure. So we're going to do those three just as an introduction, and then I'm going to start skipping, right? So 123, 126, 129. I want you to see all the uh problems that are exposed. That's the first part of uh each of the triplets Each of the first ones exposes a problem of some sort. The second psalm in each group focuses on God's power to keep And then each of the the third psalms in the group uh focuses on the security in Zion, security in Jerusalem. meaning in God's presence with God, right? What what is the security that we have uh with God And again, these feasts would have been at least three times a year, these pilgrimage feasts would have been at least three times a year. So just consider the frequency and investment that were required here um in order to have the people uh thinking and living rightly um with their God Alright. 120 is easy for the exposes of the problem. Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue, right? So he's got that here in verse 2. My ears good about using God's covenant name, Yahweh. Oh deliver my soul from the lip of falsehood from the tongue of deceit. So there's a a problem that gets fleshed out pretty good as we go through the whole thing. We do get some sense of how far some of these people go to or come from, excuse me. They sojourn in Mesek, which is in verse 5. Uh in verse five, and they dwell among the tents of Kadar. Um If I don't get this backwards, uh Meshech is up near the Black Sea, so that's considerably north of where they are. Um There are multiple references to that place in the rest of scriptures. For instance, instance uh Genesis 10-2 tells us that these are the sons of Japheth. What I found more interesting is that they are uh the prince of Meshach is Gog, as in Gog and Magog, and he appears. It must be a a reference to the people and not the guy, because that was an Old Testament reference to God. But in Revelation twenty verse eight Gog shows up again in the context of being a part of the armies that Satan gathers to go and destroy God's people. And uh so what am I trying to get at there? Then the number of the people that were traveling on these pilgrimage feasts lived in areas that were known to be very hostile toward God's people, and that has been true throughout history of Meshech. Kadar is actually down in the Arabian Peninsula, and they were known as a not only a very warlike tribe, but a very proficient warlike tribe and they were specifically known for being very good uh with bow and arrow, right? So their archery skills were tremendous And that might not mean anything to you today, but in the time that they lived, the ability to throw deaths accurately over an extended distance made them unbelievably formidable And so the the second group comes from there. And no shock, uh 120 ends with verse 7. I am for peace and when I speak They are for war. So we have a a fairly juvenile interpretation or a fairly flat interpretation of peace. Does anybody know what Hebrew word facts that word here I heard it whispered. I never know why you guys whisper right answers. Shalom. Shalom, thank you. Um You whisper wrong answers, guys. You say the right ones out loud. Um Yeah, it's Shalom. And why is that word significantly different from our word of peace? I just didn't hear what you said. Welcoming word. Oh it is. We we do say that. Yeah, yeah. You're right. It does it it is used as a greeting or a welcome. Yeah. Yep. Um one author actually commented that um If I could read my own writing. Define shalom as hopefulness and wholeness of life. when living is knit into the fabric of relatedness to God and others in the world. Right? The wholeness of life. It doesn't just mean that we aren't in active hostility with each other. Right? It's it's uh if Johnny and I aren't punching each other, then we're we're we're we're relatively at peace, right? Well that clearly is not the right answer. Um this is a wholeness of life that's characterized by being And recognizing that you are related to the Lord and having that permeate itself out into the fabric of your life, right? Um and so We are, or I am, the psalmist says, for peace. I want a relatedness to God that permeates all aspects of my life. But when I speak that or when I play that out in my life, the people I live around will not have it I don't really think you have to use your imagination too hard to think how much that describes our present age. Um let's move on to one twenty-one versus one and two. Too many footnotes So remember we're now focusing on God's power to keep. I keep raising my eyes to the mountains. Where will my help come from? And then he even repeats that statement in verse 2 when he says, My help comes straight from Yahweh, right? Where will my help come from? Verse one, my help comes straight from Yahweh. And then the theme that shows up multiple times um in actually in all of the Old Testament, but particularly in Psalms, this maker of heaven and earth. And in the Jewish mind If God did not create the world, then he's unable to help me in the midst of the circumstances that I face in the world. So in the Jewish mind you must necessarily worship a God who made the world because he is the only one able to orchestrate it successfully, right? And and so that that is just that's one for one in in the Jewish mind. And so you see here, my help comes straight from Yahweh. the one who made the heaven and the earth. He will not allow my foot to slip. He who keeps you does not become drowsy, verse 4. He does not become drowsy, verse 4, and does not sleep. In other words, God never forgets about you. He never gets bored of watching the things that go on in your life. He never requires rest from that activity. Right? The the reason for repeating that three times in those two verses is is that they were cementing in their minds, the Lord's attention is constantly on me. There is never a time when the Lord's attention is not on me. Keeping is another aspect that you see here multiple times, right? The keeper of Israel, the end of verse 4. 5, Yahweh is your keeper. Right? Um verse eight uh seven, he will keep your soul. Yahweh will himself Keep your going and your coming from now and for forever. So remember, exposes the problem, focuses on God's power to keep. That's the Psalm we're in now And then we're moving to security in Zion. 122, as Matures so nicely puts up there, right, is as though they have arrived. So in 120, they're considering their circumstances. They are far from Jerusalem, they're setting out on their journey, they're looking around. And they're going, man, I need the Lord's help. Right? I need the Lord's help to live in a way that reflects my relatedness to Him. I need it to I want it to play out in all of my life But I am beaten upon by those around me. They would push a lie at me at every turn. Everything I see around me is a lie. Right? How to fix my problem, how to be successful, how to to live in peace and joy. Those all those lives. If you watch the news, you know what I mean. Because from start to finish, I don't care what station you're on, they're lies. You should stop watching the news by the way. Um 122. They finally arrived in one twenty-two. Our feet have been actually standing within your gates. So our our feet have not slipped along the journey. Right? But we are actually standing in God's presence. That's that's the sense that you get here. And Motyr does a good job playing it out. Our feet have been actually standing in your ESV, which most of you read from, it actually says our feet just have been standing within your gates. But they miss the impressive sense of that that they're actually standing in in your presence So they've arrived. There's a bit of Jude 24, kind of the um the great benediction there to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you. Uh without blemish before the presence of his glory with rejoicing. That's Jude 24. I mean we hear that all the time. It's a benediction, right? Really comes from Psalm 121. 3 and 122. 1. I just wanted you to see that real quick. And again, we're in the section that's there is security, right? So I had a problem. I focused on God's power to keep And now I'm recognizing the security that I have in this. This this pinnacle of God's power to keep is not shaken in any way. It is steadfast And there's this there's this experience of, oh, look at my child, Lord. I'm struggling, I'm stumbling, I'm I'm I'm craving justice. I'm afraid of the circumstances that I find myself in. I'm worried about fill in the blank, right? And then the second one is is like this totally separate experience almost. There's this is my experience And the second psalm is this is what I know and have learned about the Lord and I'm holding that true. And this third one is bringing the two together into this yes It's an amen that says, yes, these are my experiences, and I will go back to this country, this land with these Warlike people. I will continue to live in the battle that the Lord has put me in, the struggle that the Lord has put me in But I have remembered the goodness of the Lord and his truth. I have seen his promises played out in the because they're seeing this and walking with this together. So you asked me, why did I start with that long diatribe that seemed like it had nothing to do with the Psalms? I wanted to give you some sense that we can do this very thing today. They met each other on the road and traveled in groups because there was safety in that And because they didn't get lost, and because they could share provisions, and because they could share support for each other. And as they're traveling along the way, they're sharing the hurts and and frustrations and sorrows, so much so that it's inscripturated Right? Meaning it's approved. Think lament songs. Right But there's also that remembrance of all that God is. Let's remember the promises. Let's remember God's goodness. Let's remember God's paste deeds, how He did these things for us. And if you can't see it right now in your own life because you're drowning in the trouble of your own life, look at that other person It it it would not be appropriate, but it it would be so wonderful if I could just share some of the specific purse personal stories of some of the people that I was alluding to earlier to you. And I don't think it would be appropriate, so I'm not going to do it. But I just wish you could see how real it is. And and how wonderful it is. And this third one is bringing those two together into a settled conviction. There is no longer the doubt that started in the beginning one. And the battle is there, but before I was worried about the outcome of the battle. And I wanted release from it, frankly. I want you to see that too. I wanted release from the battle in the first of the group. And then I saw God's promises and God's goodness and God sufficiently to interact with all of my circumstances and the fact that He's the maker of heaven and earth and put me In those circumstances. That is undeniable for a church that so lauds the sovereignty of God. You are in the midst of God's activity for you. And I don't know how it works. I really don't. But in the midst of the hottest points of your battle, In Christ, you have the capacity for overwhelming joy Joy that can't stay quiet. Joy that will sing while it swings a sword. Joy that praises as it accepts a blow. Here's a conviction for you. You want to know why most young people aren't interested in Christ? They view it as pale and pasty. They view it as meek and cowardly. And so they distract themselves with the foolishness of this world. Right? Because that feels more real to them somehow, more gritty. I wish we would show them what it takes to be a Christian I wish we would show them what it looks like when you can face the trials of your life with joy, praise, and thanksgiving to your sovereign God. I wish just once we could stand up as a full body of believers, a full community of believers, and show them what it looks like when God's people rejoice in the midst of his duty for them. is is an unstoppable army. And those aren't even my words. You know that. You know you've read that in a book somewhere 15 times over the years. Where am I? This third of the three Psalms is bringing together the expressed trouble or pain or trial. with the the truth of God certain keeping. Keeping doesn't just mean like on the end of a leash. It means like keeping I got you. There is nothing that will take you from me. There is no trial that I will let slip through my hands and my arms and my fingers that will touch you unless I deem it necessary. And when I deem it necessary, I will make more than sufficient strength, more than sufficient wisdom, more than sufficient ability to bear fill in the blank. I will do all those things And then this final one is us actually just recognizing that and going, oh yeah, I can go back to my my trouble. I can go back to my battle. I can go back and face what it is I need to face. Um I would love to go on, but I got a lot of songs to cover, so um I'm gonna just focus now. I'm gonna Stride through this by threes, right? So we did 120, 121, 122. I tried to flesh out kind of what was going on there and how that played. I hope you have a sense for that. And now we're just going to touch on some of the distresses And we're going to touch on some of God's power to keep, and we're going to touch on some of the security in Zion. So in one twenty three In 123, verse 4, the scorn of those who are at ease. That's the challenge there. Our soul has been more than stated on the mockery. of the complacently at ease. Now, you know, Mot chose this very literal translation, but it's actually a little hard to track there, so I'm going to read it to you out of the ESC. 123. 4 Our soul has had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease, of the contempt of the proud. Right? You think it works, living for Christ? I I'll say how it works. When you recognize that you are the man, you are the woman, and all you have to do is self-actualize, right? You are great. It's just hidden inside of you. Right? Some of you it's hidden deeper than others. That's why you haven't figured it out yet. But inside you are you are the center of the universe. I always wonder what happens when you get a room full of center of universes. Black hole, that's exactly right. Just a large sucking noise, right? Um the scorn of those who are at ease. But but it is hard, isn't it? It is hard to name the name of Christ. And then feel like, wow, why do I have to carry this burden? I thought I had Christ. I I thought I had the guy that that made all things and resourced everybody and like the the the healer and the peace giver and the praise bringer and the Yeah, wha what happened to all that I think there's a lot of us in the room that should write that at the top of our Bibles and look at it, pray at it, every morning. Lord, I am struggling. I don't much struggle with this, but I will tell you it occurs to me a lot. I I think I've shared with you b this one's for you, Sean. Um I I struggle and Sean and I were talking about this last week, two weeks ago, that's why I'm I'm saying it. I struggle with this idea. I'm in business, you know, in the community of small business owners that do defense contracting and they are a bunch of lying, cheating Stealing, no good, profane, vulgar men. And some of them have money just dripping out of their ears. I I don't understand how they're successful. They are so Ugh. And there are occasionally times when I'm like, Lord, I am trying to do the right thing here. Could you make a little space for me to breathe? I'm tired of stretching pennies. I'm tired of being afraid of the future Pretty sure this is gonna be the last quarter I get to teach. Jazz is gonna be like this it's on recording, just go listen to his lessons. I I am I am not as faithful as I wish I was. I love God's word and I love to share it with you and I love to encourage God's people. I That word isn't even sufficient to describe how excited I get when I get just some small opportunity to encourage one of you in Christ But I'll tell you what, I identify with all your sins. Every time somebody shares something with me, I'm like, yeah, that's me too. And it does make it hard on mornings like this one to stand up here and not feel like a hypocrite. Our soul, my soul, has had more than enough of the scorn of those who are at ease, of the contempt of the proud. That's the challenge discouragement in the face of the apparent ease of the world in the context of our struggle in those different situations. That's the challenge. One what's the next third? 123, 126. I can count. I can do math. Uh 126 Restore our fortunes. That's verse four. It's a little hard to understand that. Verse 5 We sow in tears in six. We go out weeping, bearing seed for sowing. I love this one because it's super practical There are a lot of times when we're in the midst of the struggles, that battle that we're in, and we just don't see the end of it. We don't see the light. We don't we don't know the grand strategy. That's got in God's hands, right? We don't we don't understand why our how our pain Which feels very significant to us, is supposed to work to God's honor and glory at all. And that's fine to talk about those things theologically, right? Theologically, we believe that God is going to work in our circumstances. Well what do we do now In this instant, what do we do? Wait. We do wait, but we do more than that. From Haggai, which I was just in on Thursday night with my small group. We trust. And you want to know what the second thing he says we do is We we work. Literally the word is work. That's exactly right. We trust and we work. We put one foot in front of the other toward the task that is at hand that we believe honors God, and honoring God may just mean being faithful to the duty that you are currently appointed to. And you cannot figure out how putting one foot in front of the other makes a difference. But you have faith, and that necessarily means you're laying hold of those focuses on God's power Psalms, right? If you put one foot in front of the other in with morbid stoicism, you're not you you're not having faith. But to wash myself clean, to refresh myself, to sustain myself with the nourishment that God allows for a day And to step out in the best that I can, rehearsing in my heart and mind the promises of God. And to interact with people with the best delight that I can. I'm not talking about hypocrisy here. Don't don't be a liar. Right? Nobody likes a liar and they can always see through it. You know those people that you've met that are like stacking sweet and you know they're putting it on and it makes you want to gag the moment they walk up. You're just like Don't tell me you're happy all the time. Right. I'm not talking about that. Just the best you can That's what it means. Restore our fortunes. Lord, we are not seeing the blessing that we had hoped for. And as a matter of fact, the seed metaphor, if you look at a bunch of the commentaries, it may go a little far with this, a little dramatic, but I did like it. It was the idea that at this day and age, you don't go to the local farm store and pick up a new packet of seeds Your seeds are from the harvest from the previous year, and if you put them in the ground and you do not get a harvest, where do you go for next year's seeds? You go pay money that you don't have because your harvest didn't come off. You go pay money that you don't have from somebody else that happened to have had an abundance. If you can find such a person. So in an agrarian culture it's literally saying I've worked, I've worked, I've worked, and I'm not seeing the reward of my work here Lord, restore our fortunes. And it's literally a prayer to say, do something that we don't understand how you can do it, because I put my seed in the ground, the crop didn't grow, and I do not have seeds. And as a general rule, seeds don't pop out of nothing. Right? We don't get ex nielo seeds. I mean I I guess we do, but you you know what I mean. Lord, restore our fortunes like streams in the desert. Those who sow in tears, and I'll have you note this, there are such a thing as faithful tears. Tears that are grasping a hold of God's promises, and in the midst of them working, being faithful in that next step. That's a thing. That's a thing. Shall reap with shouts of joy. These are promises, by the way. Notice we're in the section that's focusing on God. No, it's not. We're in the focus. We're in the need part. I lost you. We're in the meat part, right? So restore our fortunes. We we don't see how it can happen. We're pretty desperate. We need you to restore our fortunes to be able to rejoice in you. And if you're picturing the the journey here, you know, kind of getting closer to Jerusalem as they get through the Psalms, 129 is a great kind of last one in the section. 132 through 134 really follow a a different pattern, so we're only going to go up to this fourth uh set of uh um fourth group of psalms. But in 129 More verse one. Right? Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth. Where am I? 129? Greatly have they afflicted me from my youth. Let Israel now say, greatly have they afflicted me from my youth. Right? So these are people that have had more than enough trouble. And it's been a long-standing trouble. Some of us believe that the Lord might put us in trials and circumstances that lasts a year, maybe. Or maybe two years or or maybe three years, a bad job experience or uh a difficult relationship or something, right? And that lasts for a few years, but it it's From my youth, if it's twenty or thirty or forty years, well God can't be in that GREATLY they have afflicted me from my youth. And I like Matyer's translation here more than enough Somehow it it has a different sense. When I just say it's great, you just picture this abstract abstract big thing. But when I say more than enough, you get the idea that somebody is overwhelmed The amount of trouble that I can endure has been filled up and is now overflowing. And I'm in trouble. I was treading water under the greatly potentially under the greatly one, but in the more than enough or the overwhelmed one, that's a different situation It literally has the sense this more than enough or greatly is is really literally from an idiom uh that's used in the Old Testament m more frequently that means to be stretched out were made long. And so this last uh set of uh problems we see is that the trials uh of the previous ones are not only true, but they've been stretched out over long periods of time In verse three, you see that this is uh I want to be careful here. It's not clear whether this is some sort of a physical violence. Uh you know, like murder, theft, you know, like some sort of a physical violence here or or different, but they relate the enemies of these people, the the trouble, the affliction that these people have, to plowers And you you get that idea, right? Just uh cutting up the earth, cutting up somebody's life. But but there's also a sense here that it's effective in the lives of the individuals. The plowers plowed upon my back, and they made long burrows. There was an effectiveness to the affliction that these people had. And a prolonging of the affliction that these people had. So there you see in those groups 123, 126, and 129 uh the situations of difficulty or the problem being exposed. And then you have God's power to keep in one twenty-four. Verses one and two. Yahweh is on our side. And in verse eight, our help Is in the name of Yahweh, and notice the second phrase there. Maker of heaven and earth. Right? That syllogism in the Jewish mind again, that because God is creator, He is able to control all circumstances according to His will. Our help is in the name of the Lord Jehovah or Yahweh, maker of heaven and earth. 127. Yahweh builds a house, for it is vain. Yahweh watches a city, for it is in vain. My daily activities that are not dedicated to God are in vain Right? If it is not Yahweh who is building a house, its builders have toiled for nothing. You get that, right? If if if the if the work of your life is not focused ultimately on your relatedness to the Lord, then then everything we're working for is vain anyway. And this is where I want to really caution you about these escapist prayers that we often find ourselves praying, which by the way are extremely normal. Right? It's just so easy. You're in the midst of a crisis and it's like, Lord rescue me from But I just want to caution you about that, right? It is the Lord who put you into that circumstance. And you can phrase that however you want. Well the Lord allowed it, or the Lord permitted it or the Lib caused it. You can fill in whatever circumstance you want. If you believe in the sovereignty of God, He's responsible for where you're at. And it's easy to get caught up in that and ask for rescue, but he put you there. Would it not be better to pray for victory in the midst of the circumstance? Do you want the house built according to your plan or according to his plan? If you build it according to your plan, it will be in vain It will be in vain. Its builders have toiled for nothing. If it is not Yahweh who is keeping a city, its keeper has stayed awake for nothing. I want you to notice that the one is personal and the other one is corporate. So I would submit to you that if you're building your home, Instead of cooperating with God in the circumstances in your home to build it, then it is in vain. And when we gather as a corporate group, we are more like the city And if we are trying to build the identity of our group outside of this context relatedness to God, then that is in vain as well. Its keeper has stayed awake for nothing You gain nothing, you who are getting up early, delaying to rest and eating the bread of pains, right? That's the daily busyness that we have Get up early, work hard, stay up late, and and struggle with fatigue and discouragement and all the other things along the way. Now, don't get me wrong, we get evidence of people doing that all the time. Christ did it for heaven's sake We're always reading about him being pushed beyond the limits of of his abilities. That's not the right way to say that. Pushed beyond the frailty of his humanness, is a better way to say that. And needing rest. Right? Needing time with the Lord, needing time with his close circle of disciples. You're needing time to be restored and renewed. You gain nothing. Exactly so he gives sleep to his beloved ones. And then he goes on to talk, I uh I don't have time, otherwise I would touch on it right, but He he goes on to talk about ways that he blesses the home and the city and the family in in what follows there. My sons like to misquote this passage where it says, Blessed is the person whose quiver is full of children. It says uh like arrows in the hand of a warrior and my sons always say arrows in the backside of our father is what they uh end up uh mistranslating that. And I'll tell you there are days when I think maybe their translation is more true. That that was free. Certainly not inspired. I just thought you'd like uh to know that I get no respect in my own home. Um 127 We just covered, right? So uh one thirty. I love this one. I I think I I know I do. I don't I don't know if other people do. I struggle with the I'm having a hard time, and and frankly I think I'm having a hard time because I'm a rotten sinner and the Lord is just like, keep you in that pit of despair, right? You don't deserve to come out of that And I love one thirty. I I don't know why Old Testament believers had such confidence in the mercy of the Lord given the situation and how we talk about them not having all that we have in the New Testament. But Psalm 130 is wonderful. Verse three. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you Right? The big but so important, right? That's a theological but just to be clear and I'm not being crude. I uh it's a theological exception to what came before. That's what I meant With you there is forgiveness. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I hope. You understand that waiting is an expectant waiting It's not what I just described. Well I know I'm a filthy sinner, so the Lord's just gonna lead me in here. What I'm really waiting is for him just to get tired of beating me up, to decide I've had enough. And let me up, right? The punishment will be over and he'll eventually let me up. Because you know, generally that's what we think about God's character. That is not this. That's having a right perspective on God and lifting your eyes and saying, oh Lord, if you're going to mark my iniquities, slay me now. But you are a God of mercy who abounds in steadfast love and forgiveness. And I will wait for you to restore me. I will wait as one who is receiving the fullness of your blessings in the midst of my trial. I will wait as though this were exactly the place that you wanted me, with courage and with strength. And with joy and with thanksgiving and with an abundance of testimony to give glory to who you are. That's how I will wait right here. I wait for the Lord, I wait for Yahweh, my soul waits, the essence of my person is now transformed from one of discouragement and despair to expectant waiting. That's that soul idea. My essence is convinced that you are a God of forgiveness that wishes Wishes is a foolish word when you talk about God that intends to have his people be a people of rejoicing and joy that they might give glory to him I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word, in his promises, I hope, my soul again waits for the Lord, more than watchmen for the morning. Right? Looking for the warmth and the joy and the visibility and the the the running away of the danger or the sense of danger that you have as a night watchman, all of that will be burned off by the rising of the sun, and the beauty will replace that which was previously dark and foreboding. And the warmth will chase away the cold. More than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. All this repetition, right, is just meant to magnify and magnify the idea. Oh Israel, hope in the Lord. Because it's justified. For with the Lord there is covenant love. Go back and look at the notes on the suzerainty treaties. that I covered out of Psalm 89 in the lesson on Psalm 27, I think. That I'm old and my memory's not good, so check me on that one. But there's a whole page or two. Go look it up. It's good. With the Lord there is steadfast love and with him is plentiful redemption. Plentiful redemption. And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. And by the way, that word iniquities is wonderful there. There's three, I know I've said this before, but I'll remind you And then I might retreat, see we can get to Sunday or uh church service. Three words for sin in the Old Testament, sin, homarchia, iniquity, and transgression. Iniquity is the word that actually reflects on the the brokenness of us in our nature. Our inability to live according to God's rule and God's word, our inability in and of ourselves to be righteous, right? It's it's the infection of Adam and Eve played out into our very natures. It's the consequence of the curse played out Right? And what I like about its usage here is independent of how we're doing on the do's and don'ts of of religion, I guess I'll say, right? This iniquity permeates our lives and makes us unable to ever stand before the Lord without Christ's blood and say I'm without fault. And it's in the midst of our lives where that iniquity plays out in different ways, particularly as it collides with challenges in our lives, right? That that tends to hot water of life tends to bring out what's in the tea bag, one author. said, right? You should know that by the way. It's the uh Jim Burton book. The hot water of life tends to bring out the color and flavor of what's in us, right? It brings out that iniquity And I love here that the Lord is saying, yeah, even that, even that stuff that you have a hard time controlling because you're still under the curse until I finally redeem all creation around you He will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Just love that. Alright. I am going to do nothing more with the last three than read them to you, and then we're done. Remember, O Lord, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured, how he swore the Lord and vowed to the mighty one of Jacob I will not enter my house or get into my bed. I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids until I find a place for the Lord. a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. Behold, we heard of it in Ephratha. We found it in the fields of Jaar Let us go to his dwelling place. Let us worship at his footstool. Arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might. Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy for the sake of your servant David. Do not turn away the face of your anointed one. The Lord swore to David a sure oath From which he will not turn back. One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne. If your sons Keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them. Their sons also forever shall sit on your throne For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. And I just need you to understand they've finally gotten there. They're standing in front of the very presence of the The Lord that he um he filled the temporal, he filled the tabernacle with his presence and very visible, very um sensory ways and they're now standing there after this long journey having recounted the trials, having recounted the promises, having the the conviction of those two brought together in the reality of their lives And they're now mostly focused, or or singularly focused, if you will, on the Lord keeping covenant with his people I will remain in your midst. I promised it to David, and I promised it for all time. And just so you know, even in the Old Testament, in case you're forgetting, he promised it to the God fearers. Which are the Gentile people surrounding the nations of Israel that saw God work in the nation of his own people and feared God and aligned themselves with God. So even in the Old Testament, this is a body of people that is mixed. For the Lord has chosen Zion. He's desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. What's the temple? What's the tabernacle today? I think I heard it, but us, yes, yes, us This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. I will abundantly bless her provisions, I will satisfy her poor with bread, her priests I will clothe with thou salvation, and her saints with shout for joy. There I will make a horn just rout for David. I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. This is the gathering of these people together. We were far clung and it was hard. And then we came together and recounted our trials God's promises and our conviction and faith in those promises, and now we celebrate together in the very presence of the Lord where He has promised to never remove His presence from us. How how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell together. Picture this. May be magnified, but picture this. Brothers dwell in unity. It is like the precious oil on the head running down on the beard on the beard of Aaron. So just so you know, that was a special preparation of e very expensive oils and spices that Moses was commanded to make for the anointing of Aaron and the other priests, and it was forbidden to use that recipe for anything else. I love that, right? Do you understand that the the precious and costly recipe for encouragement for our our uh what's the word I'm looking for when somebody gets What'd you say? No no no. Commission it wow Scott. This is this very costly precious ointment that commissions us into the body of believers. You do understand And and nobody else has it. Matter of fact, they're forbidden from having it. They're forbidden from making it or or making an imposter of it That is our unity in Christ. That's our fellowship as a body of believers. By the way, sharing the hurts sharing the promises, and from time to time when others are weak, overflowing in the conviction of God's goodness so others can see it. Again, I hope you're filling in the blank on that what probably seemed like a crazy diatribe at the beginning. It is like the precious oil on the head running down on the beard, on the beard of Aaron, running down on the collar of his robes. It is like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there the Lord has commanded the blessing The blessing, life forevermore, and then three more verses. Come bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night in the house of the Lord Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord. May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth. And you see that made heaven and earth. But notice the blessing. How many times was it repeated there? When God's people come to meet God, being very real about their challenges, Remembering God's good promises, being convinced of who God is and what he is for his people, there is abundance Blessing. And then 135-136, which we are not going to read anything but the titles on. Your name, O Lord, endures forever. That's all of Psalm 135 And his steadfast love endures forever. That's all of 136. What a great way to end that section of the Psalms. I hope in my own stumbling way, I encouraged you this morning in your particular battle. I long for that. Lord be glorified in us a body of far flung hurting troubled busy people because we long to see you and even if it's infantile, we have made our efforts to come together and be a part of your pattern of worship this morning. And so I pray that you would be pleased to show us this great blessing that you promise in your word. In your name I pray, Amen.