In Psalm 31 today, um if you'd like to open your Bible up to Psalm 31, probably uh now's a good time to do that. Psalm thirty one, uh Scott Scott was uh Scott's not able to be here today. He asked me to uh to bat uh for him today. Um if you're disappointed about that, there's time I I won't look if you want to leave and go to Pastor Gage's class. Um and I completely understand. Um I appreciate you guys being here and uh And the hunger that you guys all have for God's word. It's been, for me, it's been a joy to be a part of this class and to hear the thoughts and and questions and ideas and concerns that everybody has here in this class and a study. I'm gonna ask, let me ask a question real quick. How many of you all knew before this morning that we were doing Psalm 31 today? Okay, fantastic. And of you how many of you had spent some time this past week reading Psalm thirty-one? Okay, that's a smaller group, but that's kind of what I expected. I want to encourage you to be in the psalm ahead of time that we're going to be studying next week. Scott's published the schedule and I think there's a deeper, uh deeper uh time that we'll have together as we prepare our hearts, even in studying the psalm ahead of time. Um just a a friendly, you know, brotherly encouragement. to to prepare even in in reading ahead of time. That being said, it's also good for me to know where we start off. Have you ever been in a situation um where you've been tempted to think God doesn't hear you? That's the echo that we're going to hear today in David's song. Um King David, man after God's own heart What we read in the life of David is somebody who was quick to praise God, who when you read Psalm 23, you're like, oh wow, God is his shepherd. That must be what he's like all the time, right? He's walking with God. He is like right there. Him and God and and he's got his harp on one knee and and songs are pouring out of his and And he just happened to record for us about seventy or so of them that we have here in the Bible. But you know, he would do that for Saul, right? He'd be in David Saul would get a little bit upset and David would rip out his pocket harp and he'd be just like, go on, all right, here we go, Saul. Let's sing a s I'm going to invent for you a new song today. Praise God, praise God, praise God But what we see here is in this psalm is David had ups and downs like we do. And and there were days where David's prayers felt like they were hitting a ceiling and weren't reaching the heavens. Do you know what it feels like to be in a time where you're overwhelmed and and spent? And and you've just been been given and given and given and given and all you want to do is just curl up and watch some stupid Marvel movie or something like that at the end of the day. None of y'all. I that's where I get I get that. Um Maybe it's not a Marvel movie, maybe it's Downtown Abbey or something instead. Have you ever been in a situation where you're in the midst of a trial a desperate trial. And when we read through this psalm, we find out the desperate trial that David was running through was multi-level. It wasn't just one thing It wasn't just that, you know, his kids were choosing something that he didn't agree with, or that his his job didn't agree with him, or his boss didn't agree with him, or that he burnt his sweet potato fries, or you know, it wasn't that It's people who are slandering him. It's people who are plotting his death. And David is suffering because of his own iniquities. One of the greatest pains that I have, for me at least, and I don't know if you can relate to this, is thinking back to the shame of the sins that I've committed in the past. And the things that I said that I wish I could stuff back in my mouth. And the embarrassment from that And David's in a position where he is suffering physically because of these things. That's where we are with this home. And so if those are are are feelings that you know and understand, here's a psalm where we can go to. and understand and see what's going on. Can I a can I ask a question if if anybody would like to share some of those as I was asking those questions, maybe an experience or something like that. that you had where where you faced those kinds of difficulties. I painted a broad broad spectrum there. And so it may be that you're thinking about one thing and somebody else is thinking about something else. If you'd like to share uh You'd be welcome to do that. What do you do, if you don't mind me asking one more question? What do you do in those situations where your heart is And what's interesting w if if I and if I'm wrong about what I just am about to say, you correct me is it sounds like that there's in the midst of that, there's a midst of of sorrow and pain that's desperate, but there's also a an acknowledgement of the truth that God's in control. And so it's swirly and it's all over the place a little bit between trusting God and being scared about the future and and not knowing and the shame and and all of those emotions are kind of Oh, it's it's like a salad of emotions. How's that? Yeah, for me I when I studied this psalm I was thinking a lot about my work experience because there's a lot of times where I go to work And I pick up P uh to do. And I'm about a third of the way in, and I glance over my email and three more to dos have showed up And one of those is more important than the to-do I'm working on, so I stop this to-do to go work that to-do. In the meantime, I pick this to-do up. I get three more to-dos and somebody knocks on my door and complains about somebody else in the office And I'm probably the guy who's supposed to take up and mediate over there. But I'm trying to do my to do. And and then people look at me and go, like, Doug, why can't you get your to-dos done And um and and I feel like I'm in a moment of desperate. Desperate Uh I you know, the I I like am am I outside my league here at work? Should I get myself another job? And stuff like that. God rescue me But I know you're in control of every situation and it's that emotional salad it's that swirliness that's that's going on in my life And and I and I'm over here minute one minute I'm like, I'm trusting you God and then I'm over here not able to sleep at night because of the pressure that I'm under at at work and it's something that I wrestle with. Um it's a combination of stuff. Any I don't know is anybody else and I don't I'm just gonna tell you right now, I don't always do a very good job of I'm gonna just take this and put it on your throne, God, and and I'm going to forget this and I'm gonna have peace that passes understanding. Anybody else relate to some of these things? Yeah. God's good. God's good. And And for his sake. Yeah, for his name's sake. And and wrapped around his name's sake is the idea that he's a covenant keeping God, but he's also God who loves us. Right. And and this is something else that we see in this home. Anybody was late? I'm about to put my hand up, but I don't know if I want to Yes. Um Yeah, and and I I'm glad you brought that because one of the lessons that I want us to see from this song I I think is that every human weakness is an opportunity to trust God. And by trust God is is to be like, God, I can boldly take this to your throne and I can say, see this See this? See this? And David says in this psalm I did that, and at first I wasn't even sure God saw it. And one of the themes that you see, a thread that you see run through this song is God It is a prayer, God, please see this. And then an acknowledgement, you saw this. And when God sees our difficulties at our trials, it's not an aloof oh yeah I see that. It's a I see that And I can remedy that, but maybe not today is the right day to remedy that, but I see that and I care for you. My heart inclines to you. And I know Even if the slander doesn't stop today, I know. I jump ahead on myself for a little bit. If you remember back in the story of Exodus in chapter 4 God sends Moses and Aaron to the people of Israel. And before he talks to Pharaoh at all, he shows up and he gathers the leaders. And he basically says to them, God's heard you. And nothing's changed. They're still in prison. I'm sorry. They're still in slavery. They're still in bondage. They're still having to go make drinks and stuff like that. But they rejoiced Because God knows. That's the spirit that we have in this psalm. I think. Let's read the psalm. If you don't mind, I want to read from the Legacy Standard Bible because it's new and because it says Yahweh. Um And uh and if you have the Legacy Standard Bible, you can follow along. And if you don't, there's an app for that. Um there is actually a Legacy Standard Bible app that you can download. Don't do it now because we're reading the Bible, but put it on your to-do list. And it's got Psalms in the New Testament, maybe Proverbs 2. Psalm 31. For the choir director, a psalm of David In you, O Yahweh, I have taken refuge. Let me never be ashamed. In your righteousness, protect me. Incline your ear to me. Deliver me quickly Be to me a rock of strength, of fortress to save me, for you are my high rock and my fortress. For your name's sake you will lead me and guide me You will bring me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me, for you are my strength. Into your hand I commit my spirit. You have ransomed me, O Yahweh, God of truth. I hate those who regard worthless idols, but I trust in Yahweh. I will rejoice and be glad in your loving kindness because you have seen my affliction. You have known the troubles of my soul, and you have not given me over into the hand of my enemy. You have set my feet in a large place. Be gracious to me, O Yahweh, for I am in distress. My eye is wasted away from grief. My soul and my body also, for my life is worn down with sorrow and my years with sighing. My strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones waste away. Among all my adversaries I have become a reproach, especially to my neighbors, and an object of dread to my acquaintances. Those who see me in the street flee from me. I am forgotten like a dead man, out of mind. I am like a broken vessel For I have heard the bad report of many. Terror is on every side. While they look took counsel together against me, they seemed to take my life But as for me, I trust in you, O Yahweh. I say, You are my God. My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those who pursue me. Make your face to shine upon your slave Save me in your loving kindness. Oh Yahweh, let me not be put to shame, for I call upon you. Let the wicked be put to shame. Let them be silent in Sheol. Let the line lips be mute, which cannot which speak arrogantly against the righteous, with lofty pride and contempt. How great is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you, which you have worked for those who take refuge in you before the sons of men. You hide them in the secret place of your presence from the conspiracies of man. You keep them secretly in his shelter from the strife of tongues. Blessed be Yahweh For he has made marvelous his loving kindness to me in a besieged city. As for me I set in my alarm, I am cut off from before your eyes. Nevertheless, you heard the voice of my supplications when I cried to you for help. Oh love Yahweh, all you, his holy ones. Yahweh guards the faithful, but repays fully the one who acts in lofty pride. Be strong and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for Yahweh. What does David do in the midst of his anxiety? In the middle of his trouble? What does David do? What What else does he do? Yes. Praises God in the middle of the trouble. Is there anything as we read through this psalm that you noticed? David admitted that he felt very remote. David admits that he felt very removed, yeah. Anything else you noticed as we read through this psalm? Yes. There's a bunch of refugees references to refuge. Yes. She cries out and he crazy the same thing. Yeah Yeah. When I hear the word complain I think of a negative thought. Right. Um and I don't know that scripture is implying that what David's doing here is a negative thing. Crying out. It's crying out. I don't want to be, you know, critical about words and stuff like that, but the concept or the meaning that might be behind those words I wanted to think about and inform because when David does this, we might and we might Here we have a scripture, a model for us. And we might be thinking, all right, I'm going to complain to God, because David does. But I don't see that necessarily in here. And I gotta be careful about this because we don't know what this song sounded like. We don't know what part of this song was in a minor key and what sort whether whether this was in a triumphant major key or not. And and so we've gotta try to insert and understand the spirit in these things and the problem. You're playing it in that problem. But maybe it is a open honest God, look at my situation. I don't know. I don't know. But it's very honest. Look, when I look at this psalm, and and commentators talk about this a lot too, that the flow of thought seems like it's coming from one of glorious trust into despair and back into glorious trust again. And a lot of folks see this as and it's kind of interesting because there's a lot of different outlines that are proposed for this psalm. Most of them pick out verses 9 to 13 and put them in a section somewhere. But then they don't know what to do with the rest of this song. And they carved it into two sections or four sections or three sections. And and there's a lot of opinions about where to slice it. And I get that. I tried to do the same thing. When I first read this psalm, I think of the first section there, those verses 1 to 5, maybe 1 to 8, as being in a in a triumphant kind of, I trust in God, but I wonder about that. Because when you think about it from that perspective, I don't know it it's a it's jarring almost to think about it that way I think potentially what might be appropriate for these first sections is to be thinking about I'm terrified. I'm worn down. I'm frustrated. I'm at the end of my rope. My body is fading away because of the trial that I'm in the middle of. And I trust God. And it may be. Jan and I we're she was over at our house and we were playing through all the different Psalters. Uh song all the different Psalms that are in I got four different Psalters, we pulled them out. We just went through one to the next to the next. And verses 1 to 5 are all in this major key. And verses 9 to 13 are in these depressing minor keys. And dun dun d and you're like, oh, we can't all say we don't want to sing that on a Sunday morning And but but it it may be that this whole psalm was in a minor key when David sang it Another observation in this psalm is the transitions between when the psalmist, I could just say when David is speaking directly to God, you, Yahweh, you I trust in you. You, you, you. And when he turns and he's speaking not to God, I'm going to say to the quote congregation. Which he does a little bit every now and then he splits off and he talks to the congregation. Which is another way of thinking, maybe another i idea for an outline, right? Maybe So you got an outline that might be driven by our perceived mood that David's speaking in. Maybe there's an outline that's driven under the idea of his praying phrasing and and speaking to God and the times when he's then bring bringing it to the congregation. It could be that would make sense to divide it differently. Whatever. Um But we also don't know the c the occasion of this situation. Some people say it's when he's running from Saw, some people say it's when he's running from Absalom, some people say it's a thing that we don't even know about, but But what we do know is David's experiencing a difficult trouble, a difficult trial, a test, something that that is yeah And the theme of this, I think, is to trust God in the midst of trouble. And we're having difficulty trusting. So it's it's not just be in the middle of a difficult situation, but I think in the middle of this is really challenging our faith. Um uh just an interesting thing too, I don't know if you guys picked this out as we were reading through it. Verse five is the one is the last words Jesus says on the cross. So it's good to have this around Easter time. Um Happy Fall Sunday. All right, so um You may not have caught this. Uh I didn't. Jeremiah uses um verse thirteen six times. He uses what's in Jeremiah. Jeremiah uses verse 13 six times. Jonah uses verse six when he's praying in Jonah chapter two. And the first three verses are repeated in Psalm 71, the first three verses. They're the same. Interesting, we don't know the author of Psalm 71. Maybe it was David. We don't know. Just some things to be aware of. I'm going to break the outline like this. I'm going to break it from a standpoint of trust in verses 1 to 8 And the trial in verses 9 to 13, and a return to trust in verses 14 to 22, and then the application in verses 23 and 24. That's how I'm going to break it down. Whatever. If you have a different outline, that's cool for you. And really it's this the reason why I have this outline is to help us to to think through the flow of thought To help us organize our thoughts a little bit about it. Um but it's difficult to put an outline on this song. Um In the first section, let's just kind of like work our way down through these sections real quick. In the first section of the psalm, we're going from verses one to eight. It starts off in verses one and two as a prayer that's founded in the idea of Yahweh, I take refuge in you. I take refuge in you. And then there's a list of prayers. In fact, there's an interesting another idea for an outline. You can think about it this way. There's at least four proclamations in this psalm as you move down through it. In verse 1, I take refuge in you. In verse 6, I trust in Yahweh. In verse 7, I will rejoice and be glad in your loving kindness. And in verse uh There's another one. I didn't write in my notes. Yeah, I th uh we'll go. Darn, where is that? Anyway, the it's a start, it might be fourteen. Um you want to make a yes. Yeah, I I I thought I'd written these things down and it got probably erased. Anyway, look for that. You can take that as an assignment. Um And those those personal proclamations that David gets kind of almost hang in there as signposts as you move down through this psalm. But in this first section Oh, there and by the way, there's an application there for us. And it's an application that I think we see echoed again and again in this psalm. And that is Remember, in the middle of your trouble, proclaim to yourself and to God the things that are true about God That's a that's a I'd I'd like to just show that as one of our first examples here and applications we can apply in our lives. When we're in the middle of the storms of life are raging, right Those are the times for us to go, God, you are my rock. I take refuge in you. You are my salvation. I praise your name because of who you are and who I know to be true about you, even though I'm in this midst of this difficult, difficult situation. Sometimes of the schemes of others, sometimes of my own making. I'm in a difficult situation, God. But I'm going to rejoice in your loving kindness. David doesn't blame God for his situation. Yeah. But God is sovereign over the situation. But yeah, we yeah, yeah. Not in this home. Not in this home. The um So there's a quick list of prayers in verses 1 and 2. Let me never be put ashamed. Deliver me. Incline your ear. Rescue me quickly. Be a rock of salvation. Be a stronghold to save me. And there's these prayers. You are my rock and fortress. You will lead me and guide me. You will put me out of my pull me out of the net. You are my strength. In the my my I put my spirit into your hands And you have ransomed me. Boom, boom, boom. So what you see here, and you can actually do this, you can start to marry these things up. And what you see is David prays these things, and then he asserts these things are true about God. And so what we see here is right off the bat, David is praying for things that he knows are already true about God. What's wrong with that? I know God's going to answer my prayer. If I pray for things that I know already too about God. But think about that just a little bit deeper. If you're in the middle of that difficult trial, you're not even sure God's hearing you. God hear my brother. prayers. I know you do. And that's an act of saying, God, make real to me the things that are already real. Because I'm believing a lie right now. They don't feel real to me. He's our loving father And whether you've experienced a loving father or not, he's God who will listen to you and know your heart. And hear the tenderness of your pride. And accept that. When I was going through this, the thought that came back to my mind was the the man who had the the boy who was possessed by a spirit. And he says, I do believe, help my unbelief. I know you are God, help me know that you are God. Which is a a as a humble spirit. It's like, yeah, I know I got I I'm uh I'm not there yet, but God help me. In the difficulty and in the pain when things are dark Sometimes it's hard to remember what's true. When all we experience is sour, it's sometimes forgetful what sweet tastes like. But God doesn't stop being sweet You know, Psalm si uh verse six is a little bit challenging to us when we read it. It doesn't also seem to fit in the flow of thought necessarily. It's kind of like, wait, what just happened here? I hate those But but here's David, right? Here's David. And and remember where he's going with this. He's got difficulties with these people. These people are plotting his downfall And he says, I hate them, but I trust in you. I'm going to agree, God, with the people who agree with you. I'm going to support the people who honor you, God. Because I love you. And the ones who hate you, I hate also. Yes, Jen. Yeah, and and in fact what we see about them is that they're people who are acting in their vain pride. They're people who are acting out of their for their own glory. In some ways, maybe their idolatry is themselves, but we also know in David's day there were people that were worshiping idols, and some of those were outside the country that were opposing him. And and like I said, we don't know the circumstances of this song. It just opens that as a as also as a possibility. There was idolatry inside the country and outside the country. And this psalm also has a number of contrasts like that. As you read down through there, you can see those, the contrasts between the righteous and the wicked that are laid out here. The basis also here that David has for his praise is that he trusts that God has seen what's going on in his life. He trusts that God sees and knows and cares for him. And you see that as you move through this section. Um God knows his affliction, God knows the trouble of his soul, and he's not given over his Given him over into the hand of his enemy. And there's an interesting the word there hand, at least in an NASB, is used four times. And it's contrasted You can either be in the hand of God or you can be in the hand of your enemy. And David here is praising God later on when we get to it that my times are in your hand. I'm not only am I in your hand, God, but my future and past and right now is in your hand. And you've rescued me from the hand of my enemy. That's the place I want to be. You know, David, when he had to choose between plagues, he said, I'd rather fall into the hand of the Lord. Another lesson slash application that we have here in this song And we know this in our minds because we know God's omniscient, right? God's omniscient. He knows about all the molecules, the lap is in the cast in the lot. God knows. He's in control of that. But there's a personal reality of knowing. Knowing that God sees my trial right now. God sees my suffering. And He's concerned about that. That's such a comfort. I am not outside the bounds of God. I'm not off the range. I'm not out there in some weird, I haven't left the God sees and He knows this trial that I'm in the middle of right now Um let's move on a little bit. Uh because I do want to end at quarter out, but I don't know. We might stretch that definition of quarter of for a minute. But but I want to be realistic about our time. Um look at verses three to nine nine to thirteen. This is where David is is getting to the the nuts and bolts of his trial He is he is laying it out before God and it's it's a list. It's not a one thing. It's a list. And I like to divide this into two sections because I think there's two groups here of lists. The first list, I think, is a list that comes from his own doing. And the reason why I say that is because when it points all the way down to verse 10, he says, this distresses from my iniquity. And when you look at verse the rest of this passage, 11 to 13, this seems to be trouble that's caused by adversaries. He's got problems from inside and he's got problems from outside. And it may be that his iniquity is something that came from the fact that his adversaries secretly laid a trap for him, which he talks about earlier in his song. They laid a net for me And maybe he fell into that net and he's still reaping the benefits of the sin that he encountered after that situation. Maybe I want us to notice, too, that the trouble and the difficulties that David has in this psalm were all troubles and difficulties that Jesus experienced, except for the iniquity part. Jesus knows our trouble. He understands our difficulties. And as you read in the book of Hebrews, that means that he can understand them And he can deal with us like a high priest. But first lesson from this is look, our sin it's got consequences and it hurts Because tied in with the iniquity section of this is the fact that his eye is wasted, which I think means he's been crying until he can't cry anymore. His body is shook from his grief. He is he is hurting. This is this is deep Deep sorrow that he's in the middle of. And look His friends or his acquaintances who are enemies really I should say his enemies his adversaries have done a good job opposing him. People don't even want to cross the same side of the street as David. They see David coming and they turn around and go the other direction. David's marked out as somebody I thought when I read this because when it says I'm like a dead man I wondered if what David is saying there is people treat him like he is unclean. I couldn't find a commentary to back me up, so that might be a crazy thought. Um Uh-huh. Um Because they have set a trap for him, they have slandered him, they have plotted to kill him, and they have caused him to become a reproach. I want us to remember again, and this is worth repeating, these are the same things Jesus suffered. They laid a net for Jesus. They caused him to be a reproach. They slandered him. They plotted his death. When we're in the midst of suffering, we're not alone. And one of the things that we can tend to believe is I'm special and I'm alone. Nobody knows this trouble. But the reality is is Jesus knows that trouble. Look at verses moving along, I'm sorry for speeding up on us Look at verses 14 and 22. And in this section right here, the application that I want us to hold on to Is that we should be trusting God. There's no other. There's no other refuge. And what we see as we move down from 14 to 22 is David asserting These truths in the s in the light and the in the presence of the difficulty. And what he's asserting is that God is his deliverance. And that's in verses 15 and 16. And that God's going to bring about justice in verses 17 and 18. And that God is his refuge in verses 19 and 20. And that God is his praise. Right? In verses 21 and 22, where he goes, bless the Lord. He shows his loving kindness, and he hears a cry for help Isn't that precisely the stuff that we need in the middle of a trial, in the middle of trouble? I need deliverance. I need justice. I need a refuge, and I need to be praising God in the middle of that. One of the things that's so sweet and tender about this passage is David's in a trial of his own making, and even that God's delivering him from. Don't forget that we have a Savior who's bore our transgressions and he carried our sorrows He's made it so that we can come into the presence of God. That's why the veil was torn into. To demonstrate to us that we can Boldly come into the presence of God because of what Christ has done. You've been declared right. You have deliverance from your iniquities. One of the things that we can be tempted to think is, I'm not sure I'm ready to go into God's presence. That's not what David taught. God, I've sinned against you and you only have I sinned. He's in God's presence right after he sinned, then he's called out. We know Christ. We see what he did. David had to see that in the distance by faith. We know it from Scripture. God, I sinned again. Be my deliverance. And again, remember, this is the prayer I know has already been answered. This is a statement of faith that I know is rooted in what Christ has done in his completed work. Be my deliverance. And David, look at what's happened to him. I mean that list of what these guys did to him. I've been I've been wronged a little bit by people, but not like that. I don't know anybody who's plant my death I've had people slander me a little bit. I made a few enemies. But not like that. Not where my yeah. Mm-mm. His prayer in the midst of that contrast. His prayer in the midst of that is to silence their lips Don't don't let me be put to shame. Let them be put to shame. And there may be two aspects, by the way, here when David is praying for shame. My first inclination is I do shameful things. Sometimes I say things are a little awkward, and I'm ashamed about those things. But there's another aspect that may be here as well, and it may be that he is proclaiming his trust in God In the midst of me per standing up, riding high in the saddle, and saying, God is my trust. Don't let me down, God. Don't don't let me be put to shame as I proclaim your faithfulness. I want the thing that I proclaim that I know is true about you to be shown to the people so that they can see that the things that I say are true. And think now back to what we've seen in that in in the entrance of this psalm. It could be that all those things that David is proclaiming, he's he's he's kind of desperately clinging on to these things. I know this is true. Don't let me be put to shame about this And there's a it's a salad of emotions in this song And as all these things are going on around here, David kind of he gets to finally to this conclusion where he starts to praise God and he kind of lifts his head up from this for a minute And it's like it's like after that rainstorm when the air is sweet, you know, everything's been knocked around, there's branches on the ground and leaves torn out of the trees and stuff like that, and the clouds park And it's crisp and clear. And it's it's like in that moment where you can actually see, you can kind of look back at all the stuff that's been going on around you. And you can see with a little bit more clarity, you can smell the freshness again, you start to remember the goodness of God, and you can look back, and I think that's what happens in verses, these last two verses And he looks up at the congregation and he gives them three gives us three commands in that last section. Do you see those commands? Well, it's really a command and an exhortation and a command. Love God. Love God, which is what God's already told us to do. It's the first and greatest commandment. You can read about it in Deuteronomy. You can read about it throughout the Old Testament. Jesus said this is the first and greatest commandment. And here it is at the tail end of this song. Do you guys know that loving God is medicine? In the middle of our difficulties, love God. Love God And then he gives us an exhortation, God is just. When you're in the middle of being slandered, you might be tempted to be, where is my justice? Because I don't see it today. It's not here. But God is just The psalmist tells us this, and God's inspiring him to tell us that. And the last thing he says is the same thing that he told uh Joshua again and again. Be courageous Be courageous. Yeah, in the middle of that, in the middle of that, be courageous And you're at first you're like, do you know you know what's going on in my heart right now? And David says, Yeah, actually I do. And Jesus says, Yeah, actually I do. And he still says, be courageous. And I think it's a tender. That last exhortation is a tender exhortation to be courageous in the middle of what's going on in our lives. I want to say this again. Every human weakness is an opportunity to trust in God's strength. Every trial, every trouble, every difficulty. When your friends betray you, when your family betrays you When people in a church don't aren't nice to you, those people in a church are just people and sinners like all of us. When your own self portrays you as an opportunity to trust God and His goodness and to strengthen your faith. And to cast your cares and anxieties on Yahweh. And it's normal to have these things. If you're not in trouble right now, you're getting ready for it. Let's pray