So as I alluded to at the beginning, Psalm thirty-two, right, teaching right out of my notes there. Psalm thirty-two is um the second of seven penitential psalms or I should say traditionally penitential psalms that are in the Psalms. So 6, 32, 38, 51, 102, 130, and 143, two of them have largely been reclassified away from penitential psalms to um more individual laments and I've commented on that as we go through here Um but I don't think it it's relevant. That's just the way commentators choose to classify them. Um Uh Psalm 6, as I commented, was one that's been reclassified as in as an individual uh lament. There's really no expression of uh of repentance in it at all. It's an expression of deep personal anguish. uh but also a confidence in a very similar way as the other penitential psalms that God will do a work. Um and I kept it in here in addition to the other one. Um I I love the honesty of this psalm these psalms Um I I don't I don't want to belabor the point and I don't want to make too big of a deal about it or be too specific about it, but I I think we have too long been told how to worship We've been told for too long what what that looks like. And I mean if you just look at me you should know that I'm not trying to step off the ledge here, right? I'm a uptight and pasty as they come. I I like ordered liturgical, you know process driven, right? So I mean don don't assume I'm I'm talking about handling snakes or Something else like that, right? But when it comes to expressing what's actually in our hearts, we have gotten it wrong. I I abhor emotional worship, and by that I mean worship that is first trying to work through the emotions and then trying to get to some sort of a truth. I shared with you uh, you know, the my teaching when I was in teaching youth group on and what I've continued to teach my own sons on how we approach the Lord. And it always starts with knowing who he is and what he's like, his character, his nature. That's the absolute truth And then through the work of the Spirit in his scriptures, he illuminates our mind with that truth because we're not sufficient to approach those truths by ourselves. He then works in our hearts. It says he writes those words on our hearts, right? That's that's the new covenant that he promised in the Old Testament and this is the new covenant that he gave in in the New Testament. That he would write those words on our hearts. He affects our hearts. And when we realize the value of those things, we respond volitionally. And when we get all wrapped up with forms of worship that first entertain us and first excite us and first do things that are not fully based on his truth And how impressed we are by that truth, and how obligated we are to respond to that truth. We get into false worship. But no less so when we hide what's in our hearts When we decide that we're too spiritual and we're too reformed and we're too knowledgeable to go ahead and express the absolute anguish that is in our hearts over our sin, over our frustrations, over our fears and doubts, over our boredoms We teach young people to act as though they're interested in Christ, whether or not they are. Why do we do that? We teach ourselves to come in here and praise God and give thanks when what's actually in our heart is a heart of grumbling over our our experiences, our situation, our health. And I love these Psalms, these penitential ones in particular, but Psalm 6, like I said, I left it in there because it's just it's just an honest dialogue with God. And as you get going in some of the later ones, 130 and 143, some of those some of those, 143 in particular, I remember a young man, twenty-two or something I guess, in uh uh our Sunday night small group, we got to 143 one year and he goes, I I don't think I can pray that psalm. Meaning it's too honest. It sounds like complaining. It sounds like the psalmist is angry at God. And I said, Well what if he is? What do you mean? I said, you think it's somehow better to sit in your room at home and not give voice to the anger in your own heart rather than to take it to the Lord? Now look at the way the psalmists end, right? The psalmist ends, he always ends with a knowledge of God. He always ends with this is what's in my heart This is what I know is true about you. This is what I would require of my response. But it starts with the honesty of the heart How many of you done have done that? I gotta ask you, I didn't uh maybe raise the hands, maybe not, I don't know, I'll leave it to you. But how many of you have actually just taken the things that you are are thinking in your In your honest mind and in your honest heart, and just express those to the Lord. You kinda do that all the time, is that what she said? That's fantastic. I mean, always like, you know with never not acknowledging the truth. Always overwhelmed by what was But only um you know, I can't do this down to I I I I personally uh one of my personal struggles has always been anxiety. Um and so I'm always acknowledging it, knowing that he said like what three hundred and fifty times do not be afraid in the between the Old and New Testament and I struggle with that. And you know, um I'm I want to repent from it but I I I I it's there and so I can sense it. Um so, you know, um begging for you know, the consideration to safety children You know, um, stagging to that. Oh so this will buy and then again there's so there's a lot of emotion that goes with that But it's never a motion that is dismissing or rejecting Yahweh. But there's I do struggle with that so I guess that's where my all this time is. Does that make sense? It does. Okay How do you not find that the normal experience stuff? Which doesn't mean there's anything wrong with you. I praise the Lord that if particularly if you're challeng well, that's not what I was suggesting. Particularly if you're challenged by fears and anxieties. What a wonderful remedy to those, to be able to just know with confidence that you can take those to the Lord. Lord, you are gonna deal with my fears and anxieties. I'm gonna bring to you an open heart. What a wonderful remedy. Yeah, praise the Lord. I can't either, but I'm not always smart enough to know that. One of Angela's favorite recommendations for over the last several years. I'm the guy that will stand up here and I will in a few moments and tell you that it is an absolute obligation. It is a a a matter of fundamental obedience to the gospel message for you to rejoice in Christ. I'll also tell you that that's not possible unless you're being honest in your expressions to it, Lord. Until you bear your soul to the Lord. Not because he doesn't know, but because it's your honest obligation, right? It gives you a chance. He already knows, right? It gives you a chance to hear your own thoughts. It gives you a chance to respond to those thoughts with the truth. I gotta keep moving. We could spend the whole time on that one, I think. Psalm thirty-eight is another one. Um I can't tell you how many uh I'll say m men mostly 'cause obviously I only would do this with men, but you know with regard to a accountability relationship of some sort And I listen to them talk repeatedly over and over again as they struggle with you know whatever particular thing that they're dealing with. And uh And and I just I hear this hurt and I I I always take 'em to Psalms like this one, Psalm thirty eight. It just expresses that that low point. Will you see Will you please see what your sin is doing to you? Read these Psalms. Um Psalm fifty one is a favorite, but I wasn't going to touch it because we uh we just heard a really good lesson on it. And Um so I'll leave that one mostly alone. I will comment that it was called Surely the Greatest of the Penitential Psalms by Kitner. Um just every commentary I have uh makes a similar statement to that in some way. I'll also make the statement that Psalm fifty one is unique. It's not uh It's unique in how clearly it makes this statement. It's not unique in the body of penitential psalms or in the Psalms in general. I love that Psalm 51 has an instantaneous transformation from forgive me from this horrible sin. to make me useful to your glory. I think we have it in our heads sometimes that if we have a a pattern of sin or an experience of great sin in particular and the Lord forgives us, we need to kind of get some warm-up time. We need to get back up to speed. We need to get to a place where we're, you know, we've been forgiven, but there's some sort of cleaning process that still needs to happen, and we've got to give it time before we can step back into it. One of the other things I ask men that are struggling with things all the time is, what are you doing to be useful? Don't don't talk to me about hiding in a corner from sin. Anybody can hide in a corner and be sinless. All you gotta do is stand in the corner and do nothing Right? And that's why if you remember from last week I gave you a definition of holiness, it said separated from sin. Could say that's hiding in a corner, and passionately pursuing the honor and glory of God. If you miss that second piece, which most of us do by the way, or we feel like there needs to be some long separation between separated from sin and passionately pursuing the honor and glory of God. You do yourself a disservice. One of my favorite passages in the New Testament is 2 Timothy 2. 21. He that would cleanse himself from what is dishonorable, he shall be a vessel for honorable use. Set apart is holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. Those two separated from sin, separated from dishonor, and and fully useful, fully set apart, fully working for the glory of the Lord, those two always go together. Psalm 51 makes that statement clearer than just about any other psalm I can think of, but certainly in the context of a penitential psalm, uh it makes that statement more clearly, although it is implied in several of them. That said, I think I'll let you read the rest of my notes on the introduction to the penitential psalms rather than go through them directly. I want to spend a moment here right after we read the passage discussing sacrifice for sin in the Psalms, because I think you're going to learn something about the penitenti I hope that you'll learn something about the penitential psalms, which is a little surprising. But first we'll read it. So I put it up here this time. We'll go ahead and read it off of this. You don't have to read the uh the outline marks, which are the the bold ones, just the verses Um and so if I can I'll just start with you, Doug. I think your voice was tired. So you just start with one and we'll go from there David's a mascot. Blessed is he with iniquity, borne away with sin covered. Blessed is the human who Yahweh does not reckon iniquity, nor is there in his spirit deceit. When I kept silence, my bones wore out through my roaring all day For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, and moisture was changed right round, as by all the all-consuming heat of some eat Not be as of course as a mule without descendants, with bridle and altar and ornament with training. No approach to it. Many are the pains of the wicked, but whoever is trusting in Yahweh, witted love surrounds them. Rejoice in Yahweh and exult to righteous ones. And shout aloud all you who are upright in heart. What so Song of Penitence or Song of Penitence, right? Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, covers his sin, and forgives his transgression. And in five, he talks about how he deals with those sins. He says, I acknowledge my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. And you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Anybody that is conversant with the Old Testament should find those first five verses slightly confusing. What is conspicuously absent from those first five verses? As far as we know, there was a single method or mode for seeking forgiveness of sins in the Old Testament, right? And what was it? Did you say that? I heard I heard it. I just didn't say who was talking, so the shedding of blood, right? A blood sacrifice. Um Conspicuously absent from all the penitential Psalms. I'm glad you think so. I want to look at some uh just to prove that point, I think it's worth looking at a little bit here. There are five primary uh words for offering and sacrifice uh that appear in the first seven chapters of Leviticus when they instituted the offering and sacrifice system. Four of those words occur in Psalm 40, so it makes a good place for us to kind of look at the the spectrum of words that are applied to sacrifice or offering in um Uh I I'll say it in Hebrew because obviously Psalm forty was written in Hebrew, but it was translated into Greek through the Septuagint and I've actually used both sets of words there because the Uh Septuagint provides a nice bridge for us. Those people understood the Hebrew words to be able to be transliterated into Greek like this, and then we pick up Greek in the New Testament. So it allows me to track these words for offering and sacrifice. from Leviticus all the way through the end of the New Testament, if I take first the Hebrew word, get the Greek translation, and then track the Greek translation into or the Greek usage into the New Testament Psalm 40 says, sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the scroll of the book, it is written at me. I desire to do your will, O my God. Your law, your Torah, is within my heart. And you can see in the notes there, uh the maize or gold or yellow or I don't know, whatever color you want to call that, right? Um, are the Hebrew words that are used there for sacrifice offering, burnt offering, and sin offering And I'll have you note in Psalm 40 at least, and this is true elsewhere as well, but it says, sacrifice an offering you have not desired. Burnt offering and sin offering, that's the one we, sin offering in particular, is the one we would have expected to see in the penitential psalms. Right? I've done these things wrong. I've confessed my sin. I have offered my sin offering. I have placed my hand on the goat. Right? And separated, transferred my guilt to that, and now I am in right standing before the Lord. But you do not see that in the Psalms. Now that does not mean that's okay, I'd you raise your hand so I can come back to you, but um it does not mean that that we're supposed to abdicate Leviticus It does mean that when the psalmist understands the teaching of his God about sin and about obedience and about right fellowship, this is how it plays out, right? So this is the magic, if you will. That seems a strange metaphor to use for the Bible, but you get the idea Right? This is what is so particularly valuable about the Psalms is it teaches us as individuals in the midst of our regular lives how to interact with the theology that we find. In the New Testament. Where do we usually turn for that? The Gospels. And my issue with that is that we turn to the Gospels and we find uh a rendering of the Old Testament theology through the eyes of a small group of people during a small window of time called what? What are they called, those people that we we get to view their view of the law, the Torah, to through them? Pharisees. Pharisees. Right? Kind of like our modern day scholars, if you like, right? Textual critics. I don't want to see the world through textual critics. I think they're a bunch of sophists Guys so impressed with their thoughts that they can't see outside of the confines of their own skull. That's a pretty narrow view of the world. Now with that tire finished. Colleen, you have a comment For sure. Right. The insights that we get from these very human um Uh when God's theology is cast onto the life of man, uh a man, it would not be significant to us, at least not worth studying like this, unless we understood that that man was blessed by God with a a capacity and an understanding for responding to God in a way that was pleasing to God. In other words, a man that had God's heart That is why these are significant to us, right? If if that man can respond in that way, then we can find good example there, good treasure there, right? Good wisdom from those. Good point Not desired, not required. That's super shocking. Because it was required in those first seven chapters of Leviticus, right? Not desired, not required. But if you back up right to the end of that that first line there, what did God give the psalmist instead of Telling him that he had a desire for sacrifice and offering. An open ear. Gimme give me some idea what you think that means. Wait a minute. Who has the you're not wrong, but who has the open ear? Nope. Oh, wait. Okay. It's important to see who has the open here here here. Oh, you mean you give it like Yahweh's giving David an open Do you hear this for it? I would bring you sacrifice and offering, Lord. This is a paraphrase of verse 6. I would bring you sacrifice and offering, Lord, but you have not desired that But you have given me me an open ear. Oh, I thought I took it as valbling was giving Right. Now it it actually i if you dig into it a little bit, this phrase and one in Isaiah, um and then there's uh a quotation of it in the New Testament as well It actually has this sense of you dug out an ear for me. Like in my thick skull, you dug out an ear for me so that I could actually hear you. And that was the point I was getting at here, right? I did get it backwards because I was thinking that with God not hearing the prayers or separations of those who do not That is in the Psalms as well. That's why I said you're not wrong. That also is in the Psalms. That's just not what's being brought out here. But you are absolutely right. There are several times when the psalmist is extolling the Lord for presenting an open ear like the Lord's open ear to his prayers. An open ear, an ear that can actually hear. Not an ear that's just penetrated by sound waves, but an ear that actually hears. Isaiah sixty six speaks to it says my hands made all these Sayings thus these things came into being, declares the Lord, and here's where it gets juicy, right? It says, But to this one I will look, to him who is humble and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at my word. And that what what I was thinking here as Scott was talking about having an ear dug out is that open ear goes straight to a humble and a contrite heart. And they're linked together because if you can have Sky was starting to make that point too, you can have an ear that hears noises, but unless it gets into your heart, it's not really that idea of a open ear It's like yeah. It's like when when your children are hearing what you're saying, but it's just like right. Yeah. They're being blocked Right, and uh the or for even myself, right, when I do that, uh my heart's not contract open. Yep. Now we're starting to warm up in this class. You guys shouldn't actually need me. You should just need the really good resources I recommended. Egg yourselves. I like this. This is fantastic. Yeah, please. Okay. Um just to jump off of what you brought up, even in Deuteronomy when Right after Moses gives the iteration of the law, he says, Your eyes have seen all that God has done, but to this day God has not opened your eyes, he has not opened your ears to understand all that he has done. That's fantastic. You see a similar thing that ends up uh at the end of Psalm forty, which ends up being quoted in Hebrews and ascribed to Christ, but it says, Behold, I have come in the scroll of the book it is written of me I desire to do your will, O my God. Your law, your Torah, your teaching is within my heart, right? So that open ear and this willing heart is is the idea here. Um and I just I I again I just love this idea. I I did something wrong. I confessed it to Christ. I got forgiveness. And so how many of us stopped there? But do you not understand that the conviction of your sins is intended to to drive you into service for the Lord? Drive you into obedience. I I cannot I cannot bear I'm not gonna get in trouble for this, but I'm I'm just gonna say it anyway, and then it'll create great opportunities to have conversations later when you come at me and tell me I'm a heretic. I am tired of people talking about the gospel as forgiveness only. 'Cause they use it to pressure everything. Well don't don't don't dive into my despair with me. Just you know, well Scott said it, I might have agreed with him, but it's his fall about mine. That's how you're supposed to play that one. Um I I I just I guess the part of it that bothers me the most, and you touched on it, right? The part of it that bothers you the most is that that kind of that use of the gospel leaves people Purposeless, helpless, still in despair, still without right, still without all of the significance of being drawn up into a useful and full relationship for board And I love here that absolutely there is forgiveness of sins. Absolutely, right? Christ fulfilled this in Hebrews 10, 6-8. That's where this is quoted, word for word. And we'll even get we'll add some fullness to it in a minute. You know, it it's uh it's an extreme forgiveness. It's not just a flat forgiveness. And the Bible actually draws that out so that we can see how forgiven we actually are. But do you see that a forgiven heart The sacrifice of a forgiven heart is a surrendered life. I am listening to you, Lord. I see my sin as the frustration that I have about circumstances, experiences, people, whatever it is. And my anger or my desire to soothe my frustration with some uh distraction or entertainment so and all sorts of other things, lust, read, lying, stealing, cheating, right? That is me trying to replace you as the satisfier of my soul. And so I open my hands to you, Lord, and I say, where do I go? What do I do? Isaiah 6 again, right? I am a sinner with unclean lips. And then the very next statement was, send me. Send me. Some geeky stuff on the next page. I don't want to spend too much time on this table. I just want to explain it to you real quick. So I took the first four words that were in Psalm forty, and I gave you the you know kind of an English rendering for them sacrifice of well-being, grain offering, burnt offering, and sin. slash purification offering. Those are the four that are in Psalm 40. Gave you the Hebrew transliteration. I figured it wouldn't be helpful to spell it out in Hebrew. The place in Leviticus where those sacrifices or offerings are prescribed, and then the Septuagint Greek translation, both in the Greek and transliterated into English. Um a a total side note, which I don't think means anything. I just didn't know it previous. Did you notice that the burnt offering one is actually the word the the Greek word that we get Holocaust from? I didn't know that until just this week. Um I I don't think that's significant were meaningful in the context of what we're studying, by the way. I'm not trying to draw an analogy there. I just didn't know it. Um and then I also gave you um In the penitential Psalms, I referenced where any of these offerings are mentioned. And I'll have you note that only in Psalm 51 Where it's referenced in terms of the same way it is here in Psalm 40, you do not desire those things, and then he lists what are not desired, instead a broken and a contrite heart. That's what you desire Right? So only in the negative sense in Psalm 51, with the exception of Psalm 32. 1, blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Now it's not sin offering, it's sin in that particular case. And that's that that's that word here for sin or purification uh offering. The word can legitimately be used of either the sins that we do or the sin offering that we surrender. And in every version of the scriptures in Psalm 32. 1, it's just Translated this sin. So you will notice that there are no references to offerings in the penitential Psalms except in the negative sense. That's what I really wanted you to get from that. And then the last one, I just added the fourth offering to be complete. It's found in Leviticus. That's that last one, the guilt or the trespass offering, meaning if you had done something wrong to somebody, broken a vow or something like that, this is the offering that you would provide. And I do not believe that word is ever used in the Greek in the New Testament at all. Uh whereas all these other words are. And then I mentioned to you already, these verses in Psalm 48 are directly applied to Christ in Hebrews 10. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sin offerings, you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book And when he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings, and then he goes on, but I just wanted you to see that all four forms of offerings that we've studied out of Psalm 40 are being referenced here. All those different kinds of actions that we people would do to restore a right relationship with the Lord, Christ fully satisfies Alright. I think that's Yes, please do. I I'm trying to put your own hand too quick. So these songs, these tenants transmentral songs, um All written by David? I think they might be, but I would have to go double check. Okay. So in the other Psalms though, there is there is talk of sacrifice. There is also correct? Um so there there is but not in the context of That is our duty and we will go do it. So in my own notes it seemed abusive to you. I wrote down every place in the Psalms that they occur. And they occur if I add 'em all up without actually counting them. I'll say twenty different verses. reference the four different kinds of sacrifice. Only Psalm 6821 references the fifth kind. And like I said, that doesn't occur anywhere again in the New Testament. Of those references in those things, they might recognize that the thing exists. They might recognize their obligation to it, but you never read that the psalmist is rendering those offerings I mean it it it is unique in in how bold he is in addressing it. Only David's statements are so clear to say, you don't want it You don't require it. You don't desire it. David takes it to a whole new level. But there is no place here that goes back and pulls in those first seven chapters of Leviticus and says This is how we pursue a right relationship with the Lord. We've numbered the Psalms ourselves. So they're modern numerical or written order. So is it possible that the psalmist I have no idea, I I'm sorry to say, when the psalms were written as far as Psalm Psalm and Written this day's psalm five is written. I don't know that. But is it possible that they read David's Psalms, that they knew of his song, and and Certainly you're making me want to go pull up my chronological Bible and see which ones were written first. But I mean I mean David would have been an early psalmist and I don't know I I have to go look to see which ones preceded that. But not only would he have been an early psalmist, but as as you know, right, these psalms would have been the the currency of worship, right? Un unlike us where we use them kind of infrequently, it would have been the current currency of their worship. And let's not forget he was king. Right. Very influential on top of it. Right, exactly. That would have been huge. So these would have not been little songs that Joe Smith wrote in the corner, beach of the king King the Psalms, these are huge, right? Absolutely. Yeah, but that's wonderful to see what God did in their heart. Yeah. As they read those Psalms as they believed what He was saying and they trusted that What I saw you, just give me a second. What I think is really interesting is that while this is happening at the time of David, right, and in in the following, let's say, sixty to a hundred years The temple was also being built. And by the time you get into the New Testament, you see that Pharisaical view of what the temple is and how it is and how people approach the Lord. And yet, even in the Psalm of Ascent that is in our penitential psalms. They they do not use they talk about coming before the Lord and it's this very visual thing with people traveling from other countries to come back for one of the great feasts. And as they're walking there, they're praying this Psalm uh 130, right? And it's it's all about we repent, but there is no trace of the sacrificial system in that thing. Penitential song thing. What a what's the thing? Um now again I I am not suggesting to you that there wasn't Still um a use of the sacrificial system. I am more suggesting that these people that understood God God's rule and God's teaching seemed to understand very clearly that there was nothing in the symbol of sacrifice that actually imparted forgiveness of sins that it was God and his good grace and his mercy and his love of his people, particularly his covenant love of his people, which we may get to this morning. that were effective in in providing um forgiveness of sins. No wonder Jesus is still angry that they're even on Well as you should with any leader, male or female in the church, that decides to take up a private theology, right? One that is not faithful to the scriptures. Just two two quick points. Uh one interesting study for you, it doesn't invalidate anything you said. Job offered sacrifices for sin. Very interesting. Like you said though, pre-Exodus, pre-giving of the law. So not not sure where he got that. I think it makes an interesting study for you right there. The second one is I I want to be clear that it's wonderful to look at the forgiveness of the Lord through grace and mercy, which has always been the means by which we escape his judgment. It has always been grace and mercy, right? And that's that's wonderful and it's encouraging. Please don't miss that every one of the psalmists that says that through grace and mercy that we get forgiveness of sins is also talking about hearing God's teaching obeying God's teaching, that that is the desire of the heart, that the enabling mercy, you brought up God's mercy in opening our ear and giving uh His putting his instruction on our heart. That was the mercy he imparted to Israel after the Babylonian exile. Please don't miss the un indivisible truths, God's grace and mercy enabling our obedient response to Him, our sold-out, fully surrendered response to Him. Please don't separate those two. Uh hold on. Doug was next, and then I'll catch you. The thing that you're talking about is reflected in David's experience though Because in in 2 Samuel twelve thirteen after Nathan says, You demand, David says I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, The Lord also has taken away your sin. You shall not die. Because what he did deserved death. Take him out and stone him. Right. Uh and and not just for one sin. I mean And God says right there, I mean there's no dance around in circles, you know, say a prayer, offer a sacrifice. It's just like you're forgiven Now there's there's penalty associated with that, but but you're forgiven. And I think that's the driver for what we see here in these first two verses. I was gonna say that one of the things that you when you were talking about the gospel and one of the things that's frustrating, and then me of course being safe later in life, was that so many professing Christians are real quick to talk about their forgiveness But they you know, I'm forgiven. I I believe in Jesus. He's like it's in my back pocket. I'm I'm good. And i they don't understand that that forgiveness or the reality of all of that is supposed to conduct to your course. It's supposed to have you it it is the reality of that. And then because you're so convicted and you recognize because the spirits come into you that you are actually forgiven, you you are a new creation and that's where the obedience comes in. That's where You know what? I'm d I'm done. I'm done. Like I say, I'm I'm I'm I'm done. I I there's nothing else. Nothing else, there's nothing el And that's where the surrender and the obedience comes because you can't take that forgiveness as as lightly as so many men do. It's that second it's that second step in your I I am happy to say amen to everything that you said. Exactly. No, not except. Um if we if we add to it I hate this word. It's such a useless word, but it's the only one I've got right now. If we add to it oh, I will replace it. I'll replace it with the word that's in the Psalms. If we add to it the blessedness. Right? Conviction by itself is as equally likely to be from a sense of legalism, and I don't want to have to be accountable for So I'll just follow all the rules so that when you come to me I can say, I never crossed the line. You got nothing, you got no suit against me. Right? That's what legalism is. Legalism is self-idolatry, self-service And a lot of us fall into that for various reasons. So some of us are even inclined to it, right? So as long as we add the blessedness as well I I can teach, preach, and convict myself to the utmost every day and enjoy the tremendousness of the conviction, just as you were talking about. But if I am not doing that in order to live in the experience of blessedness that God promises as a result of this, the joy, the freedom, the liberty, the service, the all of it, right I I do what you see. You see it? Good. Good. Uh set. Um I got two things I want to touch on. The the notes I think should stand on their own. I got two things I want to touch on real quick Um three. One, please don't pass over that word blessed because it's a common word. It is a common word. It occurs all the time in the Psalm, but there's a reason for that. It occurs all the time in the Psalms and it occurs in Christ's teaching in the New Testament, uh to a to a excessive degree, it occurs because that's what the Lord is trying to draw you up into. Understanding the Psalms correctly, understanding God's revelation of Himself through His teaching and through His name-giving and through His covenant promises. Provide us a means of blessing. A better word that is often used in some of the translations is maybe happy, except that we we've ruined that word too, right? But But please don't miss the necessity of penitence in the life of a person that wants to live blessed Right? Even as we started the Psalms in Psalm 1, blessed is the man, right? And blessed is the man, right, whose iniquity is taken away So one is blessedness. Two, I I how many of you know that there are different types of words for sin in the scriptures? I don't mean like, you know, like specific sins. I mean specific types of sin. It's actually my goal to like get you to say something in this class. This is awesome. Do you know what they are? Well lay it on me even if you just read the notes. Uh send iniquity and register. Alright It was good. It was good. Thank you. And I I've been thinking about you for several weeks. Answer said you tried to say something the first day and I somehow quelled you and I was like, oh no. So I was like, how do I provoke her to say something again? Um so fantastic. Answer prayer. Um sin, iniquity, and transgression. Those are three unique words. They're used all the time in the scriptures. You'll find them in groups a lot because the psalmist is reflecting on the sin that has actually been accomplished. Sin. Right? That's the word sin. That's how we translate it all the time. This is what I actually did. I actually committed adultery with pet I didn't, but did Uh adultery with Basheba and I murdered her husband and I told lies along the way and I compromised the um integrity of generals and I mean I did all this list of things and I lived in this in for at least a little while, right? At least at least nine months. F sync. Transgression, you, it's your lawless deeds. I see the law, I see the line, I see what I'm supposed to do, and I will not do it Right? Obviously that one leads to sin. Transgression leads to sin. Both of those come from iniquity. Ecclesiastes uses the phrase that things are crooked, man is crooked, and nobody can set it straight. That's a great definition for iniquity. It is what you are under the curse. What you will always be until the Lord fully renews and redeems you. Now He can take away the guilt He can take away all of you know the the uh judgment that will come on all three of those, including the very twistedness of your nature, which is uh suggested by that word iniquity And he can give his teaching and his Holy Spirit, right, to enable you to not have to live under The penalty of those things, the hurt, if you will, of those sins, because they always hurt. Always hurt. And the Psalms are good about depicting that hurt. I am hurting Right? And don't go too far with this. But if I'm faithful to the Psalms, I am hurting. Forgive me of my sin and restore me. That's a syllogism in the Psalms, right? You say, well, if you're hurting, are you always in sin? Clearly not. Christ on the cross would be my principal example, right? But the psalmists always put those together. Sin Iniquity, transgression. I've given you some references for that here. Forgiveness Covered and counts in that same those same passages give you a an interesting way to think about what Christ does. He he takes away The judgment, forgiveness is the idea of lift off or take away. He takes away or lifts off the judgment that you are due as a result of shaking your fists at the Lord. Think Romans 1, 20, and Twenty twenty-through twenty-two pretty much. And your sin, right? The particular thing that you did is covered And the Lord does not count your iniquity against you. And then the third thing in our remaining moments I want to touch on. What was the third word? You said forgiveness, comments, and what else? Count. Against whom Yahweh counts no iniquity, right? So he forgives transgression, he covers sin, and he does not count iniquity. Oh, here we go. Verse 10. Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in Yahweh. That word steadfast love there is uh pessive. Although you should say it a little bit more gutturally if you wanted to. And we are actually going to touch on that next week because I'm going to sneak Psalm 89 into our study of Psalm 27 to talk about God's covenant love with his people. It is the character of God that whether we know it or not, we most focus on in the New Testament. It's often translated mercy, but I do not like that translation. I do not agree with that translation. Hesed, God's steadfast love, occurs about 248 times actually not about, it occurs 248 times in 241 verses in the Old Testament, starting in Genesis. It occurs over half of those times, uh meaning 127 of them, um it occurs in the Psalms. So I just want you to see how much the Psalms focus on this Hesse, this steadfast love of the Lord, this covenant love of the Lord. And then in the penitential psalms that we were looking at, I wanted you to notice that it occurs in most of them. Okay? And that's that little table there in the bottom. In Psalm 6, it occurs in verse 5. In Psalm 32, it occurs in verse 10, and so on. And I thought very interestingly it occurs seven times alone in Psalm 119. Why is that slightly shocking? What's Psalm 119 known for? Being the largest Psalm. Well that's true. That's true. Well, you got one of the right words in there, I was hoping you'd say. Psalm 119 is all about what? Yeah, it's got like every different word for the law that you can think of Right? And sometimes multiple times in the same verses. It is the law psalm, or said differently, the Torah Psalm, which is the word that's actually used there. And yet, seven times in Psalm 119, a psalm dedicated to the majesty of God's law, seven times It references his covenant love. And whenever we find his covenant love, we find God meeting a sinful people on terms that we would not expect. drawing them back to himself, forgiving them of their sins, often with no clear participation on their part, by the way I'm not saying that they aren't participating. I'm just saying when we read about it, there's often no clear participation on their part. He just does it And then them following him in a blessed relationship, a blessed fellowship as a result of obedience, as a result of listening to him. Okay, I spent it I didn't have time to develop it and I'm sorry, but I did spend some time back up in verses one and two bringing some New Testament passages with talk about blessedness or rejoicing of the goodness of the Lord. Um and I'll also draw in that it's often in the context of of trials. Um and so I have some uh notes there I I hope that you benefit from. I would challenge you to go through the notes this week, but I would challenge you to look at some of the other penitential psalms. And find the ones Psalm 51, for instance, is my communion psalm. I I will not take communion, I and I realize I'm adding laws to myself, but I will not take communion without praying through Psalm 51. lest I be guilty of taking the the the bread and the juice Um it's always hard to know how to say that, right? It's it's a symbol for the body and the blood, but I don't want you to I don't want you to mishear me how I say that. The bread and the juice, unworthily, right? And so I say I praise Psalm 51. It's hugely important to me Which one is for you? Find one of the penitential psalms that expresses your heart in that your heart, period, right? And uh write it down someplace that you can access it readily. Or memorize it so that you can pray it readily. Alright, let's pray and we'll be done