We are gonna close with um I guess a collision of a bunch of different things that I've been studying over the last months, actually. So we're gonna hit Genesis We're going to hit Malachi. We're going to hit Psalm 77. And we're going to hit 2 Peter. Uh Second Peter, you guys know I've been uh helping uh helping out with the first Peter study for the last several quarters. So Second Peter was kind of a logical one. Actually my family's working on it for uh Just uh kind of a family devotional. Um Malachi is the uh book that my Thursday night small group is uh decided to take on and by that I mean I forced them to take it on because that's what I want to study. Genesis had popped up and uh don't know if I'd done it in here or done it in a small group, but was just talking to some people about really wanting to engage with Jacob's wrestling with God out of Genesis just to understand that better and to get a better picture of it. So I don't know that I've accomplished that, but I'm going to take a swing at it this morning. And then obviously the Psalms with you And so it it pulls together a bunch of different things, but I think it brings me back to the purpose uh that I had in mind when I first uh asked if we could My r my thought was that we were gonna do a discussion group around the psalms. I expected like five people, or maybe ten, not thirty or four But nonetheless, I just copied this first section here right out of the first day's notes to let you know that I'm still intent on this purpose And that is that I primarily had hoped that by studying the Psalms we would find good comfort for the people of the Lord. Um I have come to an increasing conviction that the Psalms are in fact the daily prayers. and songs of God's people in the midst of their lives. They are the intersection of all the things that are grand and good and true about God as they collide with our often contradictory circumstances, meaning circumstances that seem to to contradict the good truths that we know about God and I I rarely find that contradiction played out on the battlefield of life in the way that I do in the Psalms. And so I just thought, what a great, a great way to study Um I think it was Dave Doyle actually, the the new elder that is going to be showing up. We were at uh uh a dinner that we were engaging in and uh somebody I don't remember who it was. I think I've shared this with you. I don't remember who it was, but they asked Hey, what kind of church do you think we are? What do we need? Or something like that. I can't remember the exact question. Um it it it came out a little awkward and I wasn't sure where it was gonna leave Dave. Um room to answer honestly without potentially offending somebody in the room. So I was curious to see how he was going to answer. But he did a great job. And he just said, you're a teaching church And I thought, huh. I like that on one hand, right? You know, if you want to be a teaching church, that's great, right, you're in the Word. And on the other hand, I was like, huh I'm not sure if I want that to be the first thing that somebody says when they see it. How about a serving church? How about a praying church? How about a loving church? And I'm not criticizing the church. I just I'm just telling you what was going on in my head at that time, right? I was On one side I was like, wow, that's fantastic, right? We we are known for digging into God's word. Maybe a Berean church if you want to use a you know kind of a scriptural reference. And on the other side I was feeling cautious about that. Are we an academic church? Are we a church that spends so much time around God's word and holds up the meaning of each word in in the way that it should be, by the way? And then we forget to play it out in our lives. And I I am maybe one of the chief culprits when it comes to that. I love to study it So that I can study it more. We have this conversation regularly When the Amazon packages are showing up at the door over and over again. Sometimes on the same day. Um But man, I I would so much rather be characterized By something that shows that I'm demonstrating the truth of Christ in my life more than knowing the truth of Christ in my life. And obviously I'm drawing some fairly fine distinctions there. Please don't keep Carried away. I want to consider to hold up the wonderful inspiration of God's Word and its plenary truth for all of my life. But I want to engage with God in a way that plays out in everything that I say and do. Sundays Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, all those days. I want to I wanted to study the Psalms to make sure that you remembered that you serve Yahweh A personal God who gave his personal name to his people, to manifest his personal presence with them, to distinguish them from the rest of the world as those upon whom the personal favor of God was promised and was provided and was set aside as that which would be magnified in the coming redemptive history or redemptive events in uh Christ Jesus, both in his earthly ministry and his second coming and his eventual reign And you see that even in the number of times it occurs, seven hundred times in the Psalms, the name Yahweh. Do the math, that's a a considerable number of times in each psalm. I wanted to remind you that you are distinctive in Christ, that even though your circumstances Maybe like the wilderness wanderings, or like the difficult battles in the midst of the promised land, or like them in their exile, if you want to pull in some 1 Peter That despite your circumstances, I wanted to remind you that you are a people distinctive in all of history, in all of the world, set aside, marked out. And so again, in short, I just wanted to remind you the Psalms are where God's truth and our lives find unique intersection They give us a pattern for engaging with God. That really sets the theme of this last one. I'm going to take you to Jacob wrestling with God. I'm going to take you to Malachi to show you some cautions and some challenges. We're going to look at how Asaph wrestled with God in Psalm 77 and we're going to conclude with some words from 2 Peter Psalm 1 is all about this blessed man who delights in the Torah, the teaching of Yahweh. Your Bibles mostly say law, but that word carries so much baggage for us. I've chosen not to use it here. The blessed man's delight is in the teaching, the direction of Yahweh. And in his Torah, in his teaching, he meditates day and night. In all he does, he prospers. In all that man does, he prospers. The happy man or woman lives a life that is maximally engaged with God. You cannot meditate on God's teaching and his direction. What is God saying? What is God doing? How is he directing me in this way? Right? You get a better s well, we we did the study on Torah. I don't have time to go back, but you you should remember that from the previous notes that it relates to a New Testament idea of teaching. I showed you a three-volume set that I had brought in, a very esoteric three-volume set on Pidea. the Greek concept of teaching, and I explained to you how Torah and Tidea went together in the Greek translations of the Old Testament, they sometimes even use that word. To describe God's teaching, God's direction, God's Torah. And day and night, the blessed man is wrestling with God's Torah, God's teaching. God's general, specific, and applied teaching. I have the word Hidea in your notes, and I've defined it below for you there, just to make sure you're tracking. We'll come back to that at the end. Is the entire dynamic of the lives of the blessed man. And leads to right thinking, right being, and right doing. In short, prospering. So I don't know what you thought of when I said prospering earlier, when the scriptures say in all he does, he prospers, but it means right thinking Right being and right doing in all he or she does. Jacob provides an interesting physical example of what it means to wrestle with God in Genesis 32. We get a little context for it in Genesis 25, and you guys are so familiar with this story, so just just hang in there with me Genesis twenty-five, Jacob is uh uh Jacob's mother is engaging God about these two children in her that she can feel engaging each other, you know competing with each other in her womb, and she asks about it, and the Lord says, Yep, sure enough, you are gonna birth two nations that will be forever at war And that has always been the case. As a matter of fact, when God we just did this in Malachi on Thursday night, when God wanted to tell of the nation of Israel, how much he cared for them, he made it clear that he had destroyed their enemy. Have I have I not destroyed Edom? And although they say that they will rebuild, as you uh as I have helped you rebuild the temple and the wall around the city. They say they will rebuild, but I will guarantee you they will not. I will not allow it And so you see somewhat of the momentousness if you of you will if you will, of the competition between Jacob and Esau here. And Jacob comes out, the supplanter, right, the heel grabber, right? The one holding on, trying to get what he wants in his way, in his time, by his own actions, according to his own plan and by his own strength. The supplanter is born. And later, supplanter gets replaced really by deceiver because everything that he gr gets for himself he gets by way of deception And toward the end of that section, Esau seeks to kill him. Esau wants him dead And he's just gonna wait till the mourning period for his father has passed and then he's gonna kill him. And so he has to run away and that's that's not the end of his trials. He needs a a real piece of work for a father-in-law. And uh you guys know the story there. But in Genesis thirty-two, the Lord is doing something. He's he's done teaching Jacob and he's about to transform Jacob. He's given Jacob enough time to to try to figure it out on his own and it's not working as well as I think Jacob would have liked. He doesn't leave him, he keeps interacting with him, but boy If you wanted a a life that was slightly different than prospering, uh look at Jacob's life. He's achieving things, but I would not call what he had prospering. Not at that point Jacob is about he's been told that his brother is coming with four hundred people, four hundred men, it doesn't look good. Um and he's afraid, he divides his families, he sends uh an amazing uh I mean an amazing amount of wealth forward to see if he can appease the anger of his brother. He's afraid His circumstances are in contradiction to the promises God had made to him And he sends everybody else ahead, he stands back. And the sequence of events is kind of interesting here. Jacob wrestles with the Lord. Jacob is maimed by the Lord, hobbled by the Lord, and then Jacob refuses. to disengage from God. And I just have this amazing mental picture of Christ trying to walk away from him. And him with this busted leg and a new injury that's probably too painful for anything, right? Just grasping at his at the lower part of his legs, just just hugging the lower part of maybe even one leg, as he gets a drug on his face through the dirt. And I have it quoted for you there, except I missed uh the letter of my first word, it looks like Then he said, Let me go, for the day is broken. But Jacob said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. And then he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed. He renamed him as one who had striven with God and prevailed. I love that I know a lot of scripture. I know a lot of theology, some relevant, some less so. I struggle. And I've confessed it to you a hundred times in this room over the course of the last thirteen weeks. I struggle with work. I struggle with the discouragement. I struggle with the busyness. I struggle with right relationship with people. I struggle understanding why I have to be stuck in a rat race. Like, Lord, come on. I'm doing my best. I struggle with the small amount of sleep I already get and the feeling that I should sleep even less because there are so many important things I leave undone in almost every single day. And I have to say, over the course of the last thirteen weeks, and I've never I I'm not gonna say I've never had this experience before. But I've I've mentioned to her to my wife, I'll mention to you in a a more cursory fashion. But I've mentioned to Angela several times, I truly feel out of breath. I I I truly just feel tired. I I'm just done. I have nothing less less left. Wow. I have nothing left. I feel weak and frail. I feel touchy and and annoyed. But I mostly just feel like I'm at the end. There's there's nothing left So what then? So what then? Is God a liar? That does not characterize God's people. That kind of despair does not characterize God's people. God's people are characterized by joy. Deep joy. Joy that manifests itself so clearly as that which is not artificial, not put on, not active, not intellectual, or at least not only intellectual. It is richly coupled with a peace and confidence With a delight in all that God is, and all that God says, and all that God will be, with an expectation that is eager and ambitious With patience abundant. Because you're spending from a treasury Morning. Because you're spending from a treasury that you can see that has a a tangibility to it that makes the spending immaterial Jacob reached an endpoint here, right? He thought he was gonna get set upon by a a really angry brother who had a right to be angry, by the way. I think that probably made it worse There's no way for Jacob to stand in front of Esau and be like, but let me believe my innocence. Right? And I think that made it worse. I think he felt like he deserved this. I think he probably felt like God was going to allow it because he deserved it. Or allow something that was so bad And so he just grabbed a hold of God and said, I will not let you go. I get it. I get a picture, instead of that, I get a picture of how I think we generally respond to God when we get into the deep water of our lives out of Malachi and Peter. And so I'm going to mess up my own order here a little bit. But I I want you to flip the page over there. Um the Book of Malachi is the last book in the Old Testament, and in fact we do believe ordering is not inspired in the scripture. The order of the books is not inspired, or we don't believe it to be inspired. Maybe influenced by godly men, but not inspired. But Malachi is in fact the last word The last oracle of God to the people of Israel before a 400-year period of total silence. The messenger, which is what Malachi means, that's what his name means. The messenger was the last one to bring a word of w of caution or warning or encouragement to God's people before John the Baptist, called the messenger in the New Testament, breaks the silence and prepares the way for Christ. That's probably not relevant to our lesson, but I just love it so much I wanted to say it to you Love how God works like that. And one author describes uh Malachi. As an autopsy of dead religion And he goes through the six disputations, the six things that God tells Malachi to dispute with the people about. He goes through those six and he describes them as six incisions of the autopsy. And I think the first one is the most important, but I wanted you to see them here. And and actually before I say that, I want you to get context. There's about two, well I mean there's a lot of hundreds of years of context here, but there's two hundred years of Particularly relevant context. God had taken the nation of Israel through a golden era, kind of starting with David and moving into Solomon, and then things had begun to wane. And the all the promises that were realized and and the extent to which they were realized in in that golden age had begun to dwindle. And the people uh it's always funny to me here uh Part of the reason for the dwindling is the the wickedness of the people. Just they're you know they became self-sufficient and and arrogant in in themselves. They began to look to themselves and look to that which they had and look to men and look to riches and look to other nations And so some of the despair was really replacing God with self. But at some point in time, discouragement took over in the frustration of that circumstance, because God did not bless them in the midst of those bad experiences. And at some point in time, frustration and despair took over. God, you said that these things were going to be true. We have biblical expectations. We could turn to the passages in the scripture That describes some amazing biblical expectations. And we can go all the way back to early scripture, right? We can go all the way back to the Pentateuch to find the foundation of those biblical expectations. And what you begin to see in the prophets, in the minor prophets in particular, right, the prophets came and said, You guys screwed up, and here's what's going to happen, and it's going to bad. But there will be a time of redemption. Right? Gave them a hold. I'm going to punish you. I am going to show you that I am your God. And that you have always been in the palm of my hand, even when you have denied it. When you denied it by rebellion, and when you denied it through desperation, despair You were still in my hand in both situations. That's the prophets. The minor prophets come back to say, Come on, come on, let's think right about this now. God is restoring you out of the treasuries of the very people that slaughtered you and took you away. God has done an unbelievable work here, an amazingly unbelievable work. The very kings I used to subjugate you have now lifted you high and held you against up uh uh up above all those around you. But be careful. Just because you don't see the blessing in the way that you want to, because you don't see that these very biblical expectations have been satisfied in your time, in your way. When you want it, how you want it, be careful what you do with how you think about man. And I think it speaks well to where we we live Right here, right now, in this church, in every church potentially, but I don't know every church. I just know this one. And maybe I know this one mostly through the lens of my own experience, meaning me, how I think about things, right? As opposed to how I think you think about things. So I'm trying to be careful here. Uh I'm not looking to create insult I'm looking to make sure I'm directing all of our eyes at the Lord in the right way. I'm looking to make sure that our thinking is set on Christ in the way that He would have it set on Him, rather than how we would have it set on Him What he thinks of us and our thoughts is more important than how we think of him And in Malachi, he brings these disputations, and the first one is just so relevant. It's worth looking at if here it's not in Malaka go to Matthew and just back up. Chapter one, just verse two. We're not going to spend a lot of time here. I have loved you and I spent An hour and a half on Thursday talking to my small group about the significance of that word. So there is no recording and there are no notes. Ask somebody in the small group. But it's an amazing word and it's not the word for covenant love. It's not the one that says, Yeah, yeah, yeah, we have a covenant. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're in relationship. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, you're my wife. There's a there's a a license for that, right? There's a a a covenant commitment to that. You're you're you know it this is not sort of that word. That's a great word, by the way, when you're in trouble with the Lord And you want to know that you can go to him in safety and get restoration. That's a great word. I am not dismissing God's covetous love But thankfully the Bible uses a completely different word for that than is used here. This is the word I cherish you. This word love is the word that is used when God said, I made a covenant with you because I first loved you. I entered into covenant love with you, that second word, because this first word was true. You are that precious to me. And he's really going to him and saying, look, this isn't just this isn't just a marriage that I got stuck in. This is a marriage I love. This is a marriage that It is the joy of my life. This is a marriage that I am so wholly invested in because I delight in it abundantly. I have loved you like that. And and and listen to their response. Oh yeah? How's that? How do you want to stop? When you're being honest before the promises of scriptures, Does your heart well up with an amen? When the Lord is describing all that He is and does for you and all that He intends for you, when He is describing how He I say feels about you, but you guys understand that's kind of a a stupid uh what do you call it? Make something like a man. I heard mumbling, but I didn't hear the word. Yeah, that's before I find it. Thank you. Um Does your heart say amen? When when you see the goodness of God written about in the scriptures? Or do you really say, I I I wish I got to experience that What ends up happening is because the people don't see the love of God played out in their circumstances. Their circumstances and biblical expectations they have collide because that happens over and over again. They become insensitive to God's love. They don't feel it, they don't see it, they don't know it, and they're they're despairing or angry. It's hard to know exactly what the tone of Malachi 12 is. Is it is it really? Do you love me? Is it that impudent kind of tone? Or is it is it a broken heart? Is it a hurt person? Is it how, Lord? How? I hurt from head to toe. How are you loving me? Could you please show me? I don't know what the tone is. And potentially it's both. Maybe maybe it's not made clear because these words are meant to appeal to both The impudent heart and the wounded one, the broken one. They're insensitive to God's love. But he says I loved you with that deeply affectionate love, with that delighted love, with that supreme love And because I did that, I also entered into covenant relationship with you, that covenant love as well. They're insensitive to God's love. They are insincere in their worship. How do you worship somebody? I mean that's like saying my marriage is the best thing in the world. Well what's good about it? Well I have a document that says we got married. Twenty-five years ago. It's an awesome relationship. Well what do you guys do with your wife? Well we don't do anything. She's got her life, I've got my life. It works, we're happy. There's no fighting What does that lead to? Insincere worship. You say the right words, you live according to the law, you meet expectations for a married couple But but there's there's no richness. It's empty. It's insincere worship. How do you worship a God who is not good to you? Now come on. Some of this language bothers a few of you. Yeah but, yeah, but yeah, but is in the back of your head. No, no but How do you worship a God who is not good to you? Not as a group, but a specific person. So your worship is insincere. You are instable. It's actually unstable, right? But I was trying to con conjugate instability just so you know. I I got that I made an English arrow there. Somebody you know flinched. Um There's instability in the family. And I would argue not trying to teach Malachi here this morning, but I would argue that's not just the immediate family, the biological family, but the family Inaccurate views of God. We have to start covering up for that. Right? We have to start covering up for a God that doesn't really love us. Who we really can give sincere worship to. Insufficient giving. Hate to tell you this, but Malachi is actually talking about the tithe. Is it 316? Bring ye all the tithe into the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith.