Okay. Um bit of an odd selection of a psalm today. I actually threw it in there because I expected some of the feedback that I got on yesterday's uh last week's lesson on uh lament. And I wanted to make sure that everybody understood that lament is for you Um and so I picked a psalm that's really just kind of an old age lament. Uh it's, hey, I'm I'm getting old and I'm getting weak and uh I still got trials And uh the the psalmist wants the Lord to work in that situation. He wants the Lord to make the sunset of his of his life just as good as the dawn of his life and in the high noon of his life, if you will. And uh so I thought, man, if I can't get people to understand that laments are for every period of life and for every situation in life uh after Psalm seventy one then uh that's clearly my fault and and not theirs. So um I'm gonna start with a second set of um I'll just call it academic teaching on laments. And then we're going to try to apply some of what we learn in brief in Psalm 71 uh while still being uh I hope faithful to the scriptures and enjoying what we learned there. So with that said, I really want to poke at some of the structure of Lament, even the word Lament. bothers to some people. They just feel like it's extremely non-Christian. And so I just want to I want to uh tease that out a little bit. In and of itself, there are no superscriptions that I can think of right now. I did look, um I didn't look exhaustively, but that say something like, you know Hey, uh this is a category of scripture or psalms called foment. Um and as a matter of fact, as a formal genre, it doesn't appear to have popped up widely until either the late 1800s, uh, or even the early 1900s. Now, uh you can go all the way back and and read uh about many people talking about laments, but as formal categories or genres They appear to be fairly recent. Maybe one of the few beneficial things that has popped up out of this era of textual criticism. But it is now a prevalent category of the psalm or genre of the psalm. And uh like I said, though it's not inspired, I don't think it's in any of the superscriptions It does facilitate our understanding of their structure and function and also their use. How are they used? And so there's a whole category of these psalms that we can look at how they're built, we can see how they function in the context that they were in. We can see how they you were used in the context that they were in. We can see that they were adopted by New Testament authors to describe uh trials, temptations, difficulties specifically related to Christ, but also in their own lives in the New Testament And from that, we could draw a conclusion that there is in fact a mandate that we continue using this form of psalm in our current lives. and and specifically about one of the hardest areas of our lives, and that is what do we do with the problem of pain as New Testament believers, pain being a very broad sense, trials, tribulations, difficulties. So I have, you know, just gonna work through the notes here. Modern scholarship has settled on two principal genres for the psalms. Um I I did a bit of reading around it, debated Elaborating on that comment a little bit. I I know somebody in this room is going to pick up a book after I'm done this lesson and go, well I found six categories, six genres of psalms. Yes, you are correct. There are a number of different nuances. But even the royal psalms or the Halel Psalms or uh these other categories of Psalms that I've even mentioned but are often uh talked about uh actually more often than lament psalms are still categorized as praise and lament psalms uh again by by the people that are doing that kind of categorizing So the two principal genres are praise and lament. Klaus Westerman. It was worth mentioning him to you. If you're going to study Lament Psalms, you are going to run into him. He started writing as near as I could tell, right after World War II, um and uh German only. Um and then his works were translated into English. Um and assembled differently after they went out, but you really cannot study uh the classification of the psalms um in genres or categories or the specific category of praise and lament without running into Klaus Westermann. And so I put a very readable translation of his work in the footnotes there at the bottom of your page. I enjoyed it a lot and it's a safer reference than a lot of the other ones that I have found and looked at. Really good work by the way there. Um he helps us understand this uh graph, he doesn't have that chart. I drew that for my own edification. But uh he helps us understand that the laments and the praises are really concerned with three principal subjects And these begin to speak to the structure and use of the Psalms and really some of their value for us, the laments in particular. But the three subjects of the Psalms are God the person, which is often the psalmist, or the congregation, if it's a congregational element. And then I have enemy here because that's what I spoke about last week, but many other texts Talk about neighbor, the idea of that person, that other person, right? And how do we interact with that other person? And so that's why neighbor is in quotes there. And for those of you, um, I heard a bunch of chatter after class and even I think at the beginning of this time, you know, a number of you talked about not really knowing whether or not you've ever had an enemy or not really having a distinct, uh clear experience of having an enemy. And so I just wanted to throw out to you there that in the New Testament context you you very much do, um and he's called Satan, uh or the deceiver or the discourager, right? And so a little quotation that you're all familiar with there from 1 Peter 5, 8, that I just wanted you to hold that in your head a little bit. Um even if you don't have a a person whose face you can picture there, um each of us um endures deceit, discouragement, and uh trials in the way that Job did, I'll say, um, at the hands of the evil one More than a third of the Psalter consists of lament somes. I mentioned this to you last week. I said it was a significant number. That third are really the uh a subset of the overall laments that are clearly classified at the highest level as laments. I mentioned to you the royal psalms, the holelps There's a number of other types of psalms and they contain praise and lament in in very clear patterns. a pattern that we're going to look at in just a minute. So they contain lament. And in in almost two-thirds of the Psalms, as near as I can tell, I had a hard time finding a discrete count. But in about two-thirds of the Psalms, Lament is the principal theme. It's the primary substance of the psalm But in a in a third of them, they are dedicated to lament, and they follow our lament pattern that we're about to look at very clearly. Forty-two, so it's uh fifty-eight of the Psalms is you know just a little over a third of of the hundred and fifty, right? Forty-two of them are individual laments, and so if you look back at that figure there, that would be I, right? The lamenter is saying I. And in 16 of them, there's a we instead of an I. So 42 individual laments, 16 corporate laments. The lists of psalms after those are not exhaustive, obviously. I just was trying to give you some examples if you wanted to page back and forth between a few of them to see what the difference is between individual lament and corporate lament is. And then this quote by Moberly in somebody else's book, Waltkey's book, which I have Waltke's book as a footnote there. I think it's actually only like five dollars on Kindle. I enjoyed I have enjoyed it a lot. I only got it recently, but I've been enjoying it quite a lot. So Moverly says the predominance of laments at the very heart of Israel's prayers means that the problems that give rise to lament are not something marginal or unusual, but rather are central to the life of faith. I would scroll you forward to the New Testament where Ephesians 5 and Colossians 3 Paul talks about teaching, admonishing, and addressing each other, and he always mentions the Psalms. Well, if the Psalms are two-thirds lament, what do you think a lot of that addressing, teaching, and admonishing is going to look like, right? Even the psalms that are not lament are praise, and it's I'll say amusing, maybe ironic, is uh Well maybe neither of those words. But you'll get the point in a minute. Even the praise psalms follow almost the exact same structure. as the lament. They just don't have front and center the distress factor. So if you took the structure of the Psalms, which is in that table that starts on the bottom of your first page and goes into the second one. If you basically took out two, right, row two in there Most of the praises follow the exact same the exact same structure. And in both cases, they are extremely honest language. And I think more than anything else, that's what I'm hoping to get you to appreciate about the laments. And I'll touch on that some more as we go. But your honesty with yourself and the Lord are principle. In what I'll call the priority of the laments, and the reason I I'm spending two weeks on it, um I cannot emphasize enough That the laments, as structured in this table below, are a discipline Which nurtures, facilitates, provokes, I'm not sure what the right word is there, but you being honest in an unusual way. To come to a knowledge of yourself and the Lord without the cloud and fog of I'll call it fake religion, and I want to be gentle in the way I say fake religion, but anytime we approach the Lord according to expectations that we have. And I'll show you this in a little bit. You can actually see this very thing patterned in the way the Old Testament uses laments. There's several uh historical phases for lament. When you see an early phase, you see a psalmic phase And you see a prophetic minor prophet uh type phase as well. And there's a progression through through there as the people begin to adopt, well, we think this is what it should look like when we serve the Lord We think this is what it should look like for somebody that is being faithful and honoring the Lord. We think this is what a religious person speaks like, acts like, wears, talks, does those things. And they begin to read things into that based on their own expectations. But all you have to do is look back, in this case, at the Psalms. And you get an honesty that we're uncomfortable with You get an honesty that wrestles with the Lord in a way that we deem so demanding that we literally refuse to do that I always get gentle feedback from you guys. You guys are are very kind to me. Sometimes I I think you're actually being dishonest. You're so kind and gentle. I keep waiting for that. Could you just give it to be straight type moment? So all the feedback I got was was gentle and was kind and and was nice. But I I'm I'm reasonably convinced that a few of the people I got feedback from pretty much told me flat out, we aren't gonna do this on that thing, stuff It's not for us, right? We don't have trials in our lives that are sufficient to provoke us to that kind of language with the Lord. I don't really have a great response to that kind of an attitude. You have to wrestle with the fact that two-thirds of the Psalms which figure significantly in the New Testament doctrine, New Testament theology, New Testament orthopraxy Yes, get that word, right? Right actions as a result of orthodoxy, right thinking about God and about ourselves. You have to wrestle Wow. Are you making that face at me or the the thing I'm talking about? I can't quite tell. You're really scowling. Like how How can someone think that they don't have a trial bad enough to run to the Lord and lament Yeah, I was just thinking about, you know, uh is that because we are such a people of comparison and judging. Um, even to the point where it's like, you know, I have pain but oh I don't have that person's pain. for that person's trial. Well, the reason you don't is because God chose to not allow that in your life, because perhaps you couldn't handle it. But He did allow this particular thing for you because he knows that you need it. So it doesn't make it less hard than what that other person is going through. It's equally hard because you are an individual. Therefore, of course, from to the word has it's not a scowl, it was a very container He was like, why would you not? I guess we're gonna stop nasty getting sour and I was like, Well, I mean I know that's going on if I lost her. It it was why what makes you feel like you You can't run to God for anything. I I think I think what you said was royal, first of all, and I have no desire to mitigate it in any way. My next comment is not intended to do that I I think a lot of people, I think I actually get that statement more from the well study So the people that have really studied hard and really know their theology, the guys that I love to have good guys and women, that I love to have good you know, Bible study discussions with, right? They're the ones that that are sharp. They're the ones that are insightful. They're the ones that know the scripture, right? They handle it expertly. I actually feel like I get that comment from them more. And again, I'm going to touch on that. Hopefully a little gently But I I think I get that comment a little bit more from them than I do with I'll say Joe Schmoe with with with no intention of denigrating Joe Schmo there. Hundred percent Agree. Because a and again, I know I often reference things like changing. Being removed from Not necessarily the American Church, because the American Church as a whole has its own issues. But even to bring it in a little smaller, there are certain circles within the evangelical world that Shaw remains nameless, uh even though we happen to be graduates of that circle. Uh except for these circles. Where it's so academic. And that's what you're talking about. It's so academic. I was raised with Steve Lawson as my pastor, Lance Quayne as my pastor, John MacArthur as my pastor, and then Tom Lee So I have always been in that circle. Um and so I was raised in an environment in a nutrition where everything was always academic. Learn scripture, learn doctrine, learn theology, which is all good, but what does knowledge do? Pops up, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pops up. I think it's what you were going for. It it not only puffs up, but it it almost desemitizes you to the softer side of God, and that is what England did you know, being removed from the bubble, as some of us call it, and seeing what it's like to be a believer who's not in the academic religious world was incredible. And that opened up a whole side of the Lord that steadfast love is everywhere. Everywhere. Steadfast love. And I never saw that until the last couple of years. you know, refuge, strength, it's everywhere. But where is that in the academic world? It's all doctrine, it's all theology, and there's not enough emphasis on the love of God, what Christ has done and who you already are trying to make, I need to go first. Great comment. One caution I do not suggest uh taking on the laments. If all of you when you can say this, I'm just making you just point clear If all you want to see is the softer side of God, you may get that. You may find that your God is infinitely interested in you. right, which some would call a softer side, then how we over-magnify his transcendence and make him entirely out there, entirely sovereign, but entirely separate But you also may run into a God like Job did, and that was not a softer God. What I will suggest is you will learn something about your abord. And even if you learn it in the way that Job learned it, which seemed to take on the form of rebuke, his conclusion, and so I will just follow him in his own words, is that these things are too wonderful for me. And so, I mean, a lot of people are very I mean, 'cause it's fairly suggestive, it's it's less indicative, it's more suggestive in uh in Job that Job screwed up with some of his last addresses. But we read that into Job, and we read that into the rebuke that God gave him. I don't know if I said this last week or not, but um after discussing must have not said it last week, because after discussing this Issue with somebody else. I've made I've gone back and reread the end of Job before I replied. God requires Job's friends to offer sin and recompense sacrifice for their words. He does not ask Job to do that. Now Job sets over the mark, right? He calls God to stand in the dock and he puts himself in the position of judge and God appears and he uses that exact courtroom references. Those exact courtroom references he says. You stand in the dock, and I will speak to you as the judge. Except I'm not really going to ask you any questions. I'm just going to tell you who I am. So I don't call that the gentle God, but I do call that more wonderful than Job ever expected. And it transformed the way he looked at his sufferings and his world and his God. So if you look at this graph, it changed how he looked at himself by changing how he looked at God first. And then it changed how he looked at his circumstance, the other outside of either of those two. So it looks like her job, she needed to step outside of self-based one came in my life coming from the opposite side, I needed to step into. I needed to have of what it doctrine. So I think there is that balance. But I think also it's what what is it that the Lord is teaching and getting into the scripture and also it's just the idea of we are all going to And you may not have gotten to that trial deep enough to where you need to live in. But this would even point back to last year who were able to take off those how do we look at how do we even like bringing up that subject as a church as we actually lamenting together and maybe that's just the building he helped like I would think that brings that up in Jeopardy with it um so but um As I was thinking through this and just trying to anticipate discussion in the room, I anticipated that my comments that Dawn and I were playing tennis with there would potentially alarm some people about well what do you mean we're not supposed to study? I'm not saying you were saying this. I'm just I I'm I'm saying I really appreciate what you said. I anticipated some dialogue there And so I just stepped back. Most of you that know me know I love to study. I study all the time. I study a lot. But I thought, well, some of you may not know me, right? So this is how I prepare Right? Coffee and bacon are key to my preparation. And I I couldn't get the books that were farther down the counter there. And I did not stage this I was working through this and I smiled to myself and I said somebody's gonna think I don't wanna study, right? Like I'm against studying. I'm against really pursuing structure and framework and and academic excellence and the pursuit of the Lord and you know, canonicity and historicity and so, you know, systematic theology. And so I thought, you know what? I I'm just gonna I'm just gonna take a picture of my study Right? There is nothing about this that is intended to be anti-academic. But if my study is limited to that Without understanding the wonder of my God and the depravity that is continually working in my life and my need to have more than just an academic apprehension of God. Right? I I would argue that Christ oh Do I want to say this? Yes. Okay. I I don't think I do. I I think I want to think about it a little bit more first. Can you go back to uh I'll modify my statement to give you hopefully a little satisfaction. Christ could have called himself anything he wanted when he came. He did not need to call himself Emmanuel. He could have called himself just Redeemer or just Jehovah or just all sorts of other things which focus exclusively on his role in redeeming his people to a perfect sacrifice. But he introduces himself Is it manual? God with you. A God that is stepping across that boundary that is always there by nature because he's transcended. And he is transcendent, right? Go study the attributes of God. Two, actually there's many of them that relate to each other, and if we get them out of balance, we end up with a heresy. Literally, and it's happened throughout history. But you study his transcendence, his otherness, totally separate from us and our experiences and our world. and his imminence, right? Him being present with us in a in a pressing and real way. And we're really talking about that challenge right here, right? Lament bridges that divide. So does praise, but lament does it in a particularly human way, which forces us to think about our thoughts and our circumstances in a way that we express them. You can have all the emotions in your heart that you want. Sitting down and attempting to vocalize those to somebody is a very clarifying experience. I often am upset with myself after I say something, you know, like I'll hear myself say something to Angela And I think to myself, what a jerk. Like, now that I've said it, I am wrong. It's clear that I'm wrong. I can tell that I'm wrong. Because I know it's in my heart when I said it. I hear the words. I see her face. I'm wrong. And a lot of times before she's even started back at me, I'm like, I'm wrong. I'm sorry, I'm wrong. Will you please forgive me for these things? But saying it Is what clarifies it. Saying it helps me understand my sin. Saying it helps me understand what my expectations were. I wanted this. I wasn't getting it in the way I wanted at the time I wanted it But when I say it, I understand the selfishness of it. I understand the exchange of value. I have an opportunity to endure something, to serve my wife, to build relationship, to value what's most important to me, to continue in the experience of the blessing that it is to be married to her in good relationship And I'm throwing it all away for what? And if I told you some of the stupid things, you would be like, who even thinks of things like that, guys? But I'm that bad and I know it when I open my mouth to vocalize what's in my head and my heart And that's a foolish trivial example potentially, but I think it is demonstrative of what I'm calling you to implement with foot forward. You do not capture the substance of your heart, your thoughts, and your feelings until you go to speak them to the Lord. And I hope that you will do that with some understanding of His holiness and His transcendence, but I also hope that you will do it and do it and do it. I think sometimes we don't obey this and we want to believe that God is calling one to believe And that is and when you lament you sort of like extract the liquid. And if you don't get it, it's a way of disappointed with and then you don't want to be getting disappointed over and over and over with God. You won't believe that He all that he says. And then you just don't I said that my own spirit Like I have a lot of health problems and I had a really bad marriage and I've been for twenty nine years I pray that God would change my heart. Ayy, last year my husband. So I still won't believe that God is all that anything. And if I put all this stuff at his face and I beg him to believe and he doesn't ring Because I I have the right to think I don't I want my husband to change. I want him to come to the Lord and be the person that's the warrior. Isn't that a whole lot easier for God to do than just Let us stop into a divorce or separation. And he actually went. He left. The husband left. So But I I I need to believe that God is all that his babies because without that I have nothing to live It is easy to make some comments. It is often nearly impossible to live those comments out. So I'll share with you an easy conviction. It's easy for me to make this statement as a conviction, but in my own life I find it nearly impossible to play out, which is part of what we're talking about this morning. My conviction from my study of Scripture is God always delivers. What He doesn't always do is deliver in the way I want. And that is part of the benefit of lament, is that I realize that I'm going with my lament, my problem in my hands. And I am often demanding the solution. And what I'm doing when I do that, I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about me, right? What I'm doing when I do that As I'm I'm telling God, I know what's best. I know what's right and what's good and what's honest and what's fair and what's permanent and what's lasting and what's true and what's valuable and what's joyful. And I often find exactly that in the laments When somebody like Job goes and and tries to solve their own problem in the lament, right, that does not get responded to. But I I have not yet found And I'll I'll add a caveat, so let me finish all the way through before I I get choked here I have not found an example in Scripture where the Lord does not deliver. Where he just responds to a lament and says, Nope, sorry. I've never found one, or even close suggestive of it. Now, what do I do That's a truth that maybe we could put on the shelf or put on a poster, right? God always delivers. And can you hang that on the wall someplace and you maybe cite pages of scripture references next to it, which I think you could actually do The challenge becomes, how do I map that onto my experiences? And that's where I just fall apart. As a person, I fall apart. I don't know. I think that your story is is hard, just the little that you told me about it. And you are not the only woman I know that tells me stories like that. And so the question is, how do I synthesize the two? It's a difficult question. Two quick responses, and then we have to move on. One, I do not let go of the truths that I find in Scripture. People with challenges in life go to the Lord, speak honestly, with a grammar of lament. With a structure for lament, it even shows us how to do it to make sure that we say those hard things to the Lord and engage him in that, right? So we do that because that's just obedience How the Lord blesses us on top of that is his business. It's our business to obey the pattern that we find in Scripture. That's one. Two. Others come alongside, right? The body of believers functions as the body of believers is supposed to and comes alongside people that are in the midst of their trials waiting for the Lord to respond in deliverance. A failure in that area, I would argue, is often Largely, I'm having to use these somewhat squishy words, I apologize, largely to blame for why people feel destroyed in the midst of long-term suffering, whether it's health or relationship or financial or children or occupation or you fill in the blank, right? Many Christians feel destroyed and unresponded to in their lament because the body of believers refuses to act in the way that we're supposed to. to encourage those people. And I think I need to stop there. But there's so much to be said and I have no ability in this one hour to address the larger question, but I hope that that helps just a little bit with what you asked. What I would never be afraid of. I cannot I cannot condone is a fear that the Lord will not deliver. Period. I I cannot get there from scriptures. I can get there in my experience, but I I would argue that my experience doesn't get to be the litmus test for truth. God's word does. No, I've got to move on. Types of lament. And maybe this even plays into what you were just saying. I just want you to see that there are several types of lament. There's not a single category. You're allowed to lament like this. You're not allowed to implement. Lament like this, these really represent the lion's share of laments. They are complaints to God about God. Very interesting, right? Those would be the kind that most of us would say, I don't think I can do that. I don't think I'm supposed to do that These are complaints to God, about God. They make up a huge portion of the laments in the overall scripture. They make up the predominance or the lion's share, the majority of laments pre-psalms. So if you look at laments in the early part of the scripture, the Deuteronomic that's a hard word to say for some reason The Deuteronomic portion of the scriptures, the laments that you find in there are to God and about God. They are complaining that God didn't live up to his end of some way of thinking that the lamentor has. And it's interesting to me that the Lord engages those people. Now sometimes he engages them like Job, but he engages those people See Jacob. I'm fascinated by that. Right? Lord, you haven't lived up to your portion of the covenant. I'm going to wrestle with you on this one, and I will not let you go until you give me what I want. Right? That's a good example of a lament that was bringing complaint against God to God. I don't have time to dig into any of these too much too too much deeper, although I feel like I could and want to. There's also a complaint to God. Notice it's always to God, by the way. A complaint to God about others often with imprecation. Psalm 69 and 109 examples. And then a complaint to God about self. And that's a that's a Psalm 71, but there are others as well. The structure of the psalm is pretty simple. Westerman, the Klaus Westerman guy that I mentioned to you earlier, is largely responsible for form m formalizing the structure of Praise and lament and again I I told you the structures are very similar. I only gave you the uh the the lament uh structure here. Van Gemeran is uh um another one that is wrote the psalm section of a whole commentary series. I really like Van Gemerin. He's also in the references I gave you earlier. In interacting with Westerman's outline, he fleshed it out a little differently and I found it helpful, so I just wanted to put them both here. But Van Gemeren is really trying to talk about Westerman's structure. He just uses some different phrases. So there's the address, and we'll touch on these again, so I'm going to fly through them pretty fast. We'll touch on them when we touch on 71. There's the address, and that's an address to God and a cry for help. It's also a reference to God's past mighty acts. There's the lament itself, or a description of the distress, concerns with others, concerns with self, or complaint with others, complaint with self. or complaint with God. Complaint is a key word there in lament and on all the lament writing, you're you're bringing something that you are you feel is not right There is an injustice. Somebody has done me an injustice. I have done an injustice. Usually that lament goes something like, Lord, I know I have really screwed this up, and as a result I am reaping the harvest and I am begging you to have mercy. You said you would forgive. Forgive. So that I can get past the harvest of that I reaped from my sin. So that's something what the the self- that's kind of what the self-complaint is. And then obviously complaint against God. God, you have not done What I told you to do, what I asked you to do, what I need you to do, without which I cannot believe in you, cannot trust you. There's a turning toward God. This takes various forms, this turning to God and the vow of praise. By the way, not every section of this is so clear in every lament, so it works real well in the lament we'll study today and others that you'll study you'll find that mmm not always there. What is always there is the address, the lament And the vow of praise. It's always there. I I cannot find mm One or two of them are challenging, I'll confess. I cannot find a psalm that does not include praise Like Job, right? You bring the challenge, the Lord replies or responds or teaches or influences or does whatever he's going to do, and the psalmist's response is always that of praise. as a result of that which was accomplished. Tangentially hearkening back to my previous comment about I do not see ever in the scriptures where the Lord does not deliver, and I should have added his people, right? Because that's key. His people is key there. There's a turning toward God, a confession of trust, a confidence that is gained as a result of that There's a petition, a specific ask, right? Petition to hear or deliver or vindicate. There's some questions or additional asking that goes on there. That's always a facet of it. And then there's a vow of praise. This is what I will do, right? The psalmist always makes a vow of praise. It's really clear in today's psalm. Again, it's a little harder in some of the psalms. I mentioned this earlier, T. I just want to point it out real quick. periods of lament that Westerman actually studied through and and writes about in his larger um his larger work. There's an early, middle, and late period of lament structures in historic specifically Old Testament writings. The early period is characterized by laments like Judges 1518 or that which is seen in seen in Psalm 88. It's directed at God and it's a complaint against God. It's just that's the lion's share of those older ones, right? Job is a perfect example, uh, just to give you an idea of what that looks like. These people felt an amazing, uncomfortable in my mind, liberty to engage God with their circumstances. This isn't working for me, Lord. This seems inconsistent with everything that I think is true about you. Further, I expected you to be a good God. Like that was the point of this transaction. Now, notice the transactional nature of that language. I apologize for that a bit, but I think it It gets to the point quickly, right? God isn't calling you to serve what's second best on the shelf Right? That's never the transaction in Scripture. He is the greatest. He is the most valuable. He is the one that offers deliverance. And he's the only one that offers it. All the time, in every way, for his people, without risk of any sort. The early lamenters lamented boldly. And since there was little context of law early on and you know formal religion, it would have been difficult for them to engage in this idea of lamenting according to self. And anytime there was lament against another, they usually went back to God and blamed it on him again. So you you get back back to complaint against God. So they kind of wiped out our three categories and focused on complaints against God In the middle period you read the Psalms and components of God, self and other are held in in uh a a pretty good balance. Uh there's the complaint against all three is in there and sometimes even mixed together a little bit. And then you see a late period during really the exilic and post-exilic time. And I threw a quote in there, right? It's a it's a history of an established Israel. that there was a structure, right? There was a way of thinking, there was a way of doing religion, there was a way of doing nation, there was a way of doing government. But it included a history of disobedience that the people could see where they had Messed it all up, right? This is the structure God gave us. We keep messing it up. And you get the exile. You get national destruction And it proved that political annihilation, political meaning as a nation, right, the whole build-up was to be a nation, and as a nation they were destroyed. It proved that political annihilation was the righteous judgment of God. And therefore, complaint against God was absolutely disallowed. in their minds, right? There was no rule or law necessarily, but in their minds it's like, how could we do that? And do we see our sin? Yes, we see our sin. And as a result of our sin, we are no longer able to engage God in accordance with the other two-thirds of Scripture that come prior to it. And I argue that we suffer from that same mindset all too often. Which is silly, right? Because we have forgiveness in Christ. We are the only people that are prepared to engage God in that way. And maybe we do it like Isaiah does first, where we go and we engage him significantly. And we say first, I am unclean. But there is no point in stopping there. There is no point in stopping there. Your redemption was intended to restore a kind of close engagement and relationship with God. And it is the very thing you set aside when your sin is what keeps you from being honest and engaging with the Word. And besides that, you're thinking it anyway. Those gripes and complaints, those frustrations and sorrows, that desperation, real or believed, it's in your heart anyway. So all you're actually accomplishing is some mock, foolish humility. It's foolish because you have redemption in Christ. Covered, no judgment, no barrier. It's mock Because you're it's in your heart and you're just saying that you somehow get some pluff up because you didn't speak it. And I'll argue that if you just spoke it, you would have the benefit of an analyzing it, hearing it come out. Structuring is words. What kind of complaints? Three major ones. Why? How long? And change my situation. Why won't you change my situation? Whatever it is Key features of Lament, a series of quotes largely. I'm going to race through these because you can read them later, and I do want to touch on this all. Getting really late on time. In the Lament and Praise Psalms, the enemy is always on the periphery. In the center is the psalmist and his guide. And I would just remark that sometimes our circumstances are the enemy to us in in that in that figure, right? You need to put my circumstances in there as well. It might be society, might be work, it might be marriage, might be brother or sister, it might be a lot of things. But in all of the Laments and Praise Psalms, the enemy is always on the periphery. In the center is the psalmist and his or her God. Lament expresses a hope in a breakthrough. Right? That's a quote out of Van Gemeren. It's kind of funny, we don't think of lament that way, but lament the whole point of lament is if I go and I lament correctly, if I go with my complaint before the Lord That there will be a breakthrough. That might be changed circumstances. It might be a changed you. It might be a changed perspective on your God. Some grouped things from Westerman. Lament Psalms move from plea to praise. That's that's You can trace that pattern through all of them. Lament Psalms move from a plea to a praise, from a complaint to a joy. In the move, the speaker is always transformed. The speaker is always transformed. Lament characteristically ends in praise that is full and unfettered. Go figure that one out. Not what we had expect. But in fact, that is the nearly universal demonstration of lament in the scriptures, that they move from bone-breaking lament. To being filled with praise that is full and unfettered. Israel moves from articulating, notice that word, articulating, saying it, right, forming it into words. Israel moves from articulating of hurt and anger to submission of them to God and finally to relinquishment. And that's important there, right? Relinquishment. Hold your hands up, you take your complaints, and at some point there, God comes and does a work in our hearts that allows us to submit to Him, and we end up relinquishing Circumstances. We end up relinquishing our sin. We end up relinquishing the false concept of God that we were holding. It was actually what the problem was. Functionally and experientially, right, the verbal articulation and the faithful submission to God are prerequisites for relinquishment. That statement is using a bunch of fancy words to say whether you like it or not, this is the way it works. Right? That there is no other functional mechanism to do this You must go with your complaint articulated through words or expressed through words Those things are necessary that you can experience faithful submission to God. in relinquishment, surrender to God. Loyalty lament is submission, confession, and dependence on God. It is not pursuing God by accumulating. This is a synthesis of his thoughts, by the way, that I wrote. It's not a quote from his book. It's not pursuing God by accumulating knowledge of Him and thus bringing Him close to our understanding. It is realizing that He is so far above and beyond us And petitioning him to be close in our need according to his promises. We don't have him figured out, and therefore we're going to trick him with this special pattern of prayer Lament by its very definition is understanding that God is transcendent and we need Him to be imminent. We need Him to be involved in our experiences, big and small. And so we go with every bit of engagement that we can. And then we're dependent on him to come find us in that effort. Lament and confession, as expressed in the Psalms, both require that one stand in the presence of God as sovereign and holy Lord, implying accountability Openness to the other, awareness of sin, of personal shortcoming, and of attribution of the whole cosmos to the Creator. I'll let you think about that one a little bit. Lament prevents us from and protects us against seeing ourselves as independent and mostly autonomous from God as we walk through our lives. Lives we know God orders and evaluates, but practically seems otherwise uninvolved with. A direct quote, Systematic theology in general tends to refer to a happy ending all too hastily and fails to take seriously the fruitless disorientation of the journey and all its uncertainties. We we build these nice plastic frameworks of systematic theology And we're so excited about being able to learn it and recite it and get an A on a test if we're tested on it and all this other stuff, right? And then we take it and we go to apply it to our lives and we realize it it doesn't fit And we go from frustration to anger to disappointment to frankly irrelevance, right? We just, what do I need, what is that really about? Now we don't throw it away because we're afraid to do that. Somebody taught us someplace that systematic theology is really important, good stuff. And so we're gonna we're gonna hold that close. Right? I've also got credit cards in my wallet that I haven't used in ten years because I'm too afraid to throw them out I know the moment I throw it out I'm gonna need it. But I haven't used it in ten years. I'm not even sure you can read it at this stage of the game. I've worn down all the nubby parts, right? And I'm being a little sarcastic because it's a plastic card and a wallet that I'm I keep for reasons of safety that aren't even clear to me rationally. We do the same things, not because I'm not suggesting that systematic theology is not important. You should see my library. It's filled with geek books. I love it But we need to be careful about taking a systematic theology, which is this plastic thing that goes, if then, if then, if then. Right? This is how God works and in the end it's all going to work out great. Oops. Got a complete eschatology there, right? I got a complete systematic theology there And then we meet somebody with a real hurt and we go, wow, that that doesn't feel useful to me anymore. It is useful. It is useful, but as a structure for more, not as the answer to Trump all questions. indications that this is how most of us think, that we get frustrated with our our our knowledge, our systematic theology, and we we actually settle into some sort of apathy. Indications that this is how most of us actually think about this? When was the last time you saw a body of believers in which confession of sin was a regular pattern? Heartfelt confession of sin. Appropriate. I'm not talking about inappropriate confession of sin. I've been involved in that a few times and thought, I don't think this is honoring God. Confession of sin always comes when we recognize the active presence of God in what it is we're doing Being, thinking, attempting, and we respond according to that active presence, which is a holy presence Depression, 11% of the US population is actually taking antidepressants and multiple types. That's not just people that are depressed. They are actively taking antidepressants. The company that sits at the top of the pharmaceutical charts, you know what they're selling most? Antidepressants. The WHO, because we all know they're infinitely wise after the last two years. But nonetheless, even they list deep depression as the second most debilitating disease globally in 2020. It was only beaten out by heart disease. The second most debilitating disease. And then prayer. Prayer is communicating with your God. Right? Prayer is saying that the knowledge of God is not sufficient. I need to engage Him Confession of sin, despair, discouragement, depression And prayer are the three ways that I know that we hold high value in our systematic theology. Until it comes to needing a practical God in our day-to-day lives. And then we somehow create a space that allows us to be comfortable with the complete separate parent the complete apparent separation of those two things. David in Psalm 39, I think, tries this exact thing. He tries not to pray a lament. He says, I held my peace to no avail, and my distress grew worse. For what do I wait? For it is you who have done it or done this thing that I'm discouraged about. So I would argue that David creates this experiment where we just hold back our laments and look what happened. He apparently learned his lesson because he's a great lamentor in the rest of the Psalms Peter says it in the New Testament, if you don't like Old Testament references, cast all your anxiety upon him. Because he cares for you. And if in your head you're like, I'm doing this all day long, I'm thinking to the Lord, you've got to take care of this. You've got to take care of this. I I'm no, no. You say it. Find words for it. Organize your thoughts. Explore the truth of your own heart and your own mind. And then say it to the Lord and see what that tells you. And I gotta stop there. I want to go through Psalm 71. I structured Psalm 71 those notes so that they follow the table there that Westerman provided. Otherwise, it is a traditional psalm. I apologize. I noticed I left some some of last week's stuff in the margin, so just delete that if it doesn't make any sense to you. But you will not believe how wonderful the psalm is. And I love that it's about old age. I'm old and I'm weak and I'm tired. Lord, don't let me go out Being a joke. I served you well all my life and I'm asking you to serve me well well now in in this. It's like one verse that talks about the enemies. It's 14 to 24. It's almost the whole rest, it's almost the whole back half that's a vowel of praise, and then the rest follows the pattern that we see. in the beginning of the table with address, lament, turning toward God. I am not satisfied with how I've presented this over the last two weeks. But it's because I believe it's it's just amazingly important. I hope that you will spend some time to think through this and study it on your own