Psalm two really rejoices in what Psalm 1 has said based on the rain of Yahweh raised on based on the reign of God. And it really does a fantastic job of drawing in um the reality of Christ. Um so it we we our Sunday night small group is heavily dominated by Presbyterians and Presbyterians seem to love to read Christ into every psalm. I mean it's like every psalm you're discussing, they're like, oh this is a messianic psalm. I don't see that. But whatever. Um this one is truly a messianic psalm. So much so that Psalm two verse seven is is one of the most quoted psalms in the New Testament, and it specifically relates it. to the fulfilled prophecy of Messiah in Christ. So there's there's no question here. The New Testament authors grabbed Psalm 2 verse 7 and said, yes, that is speaking about the Messiah. That promise was for the Messiah. And if you take a peek at your Bibles, I think you'll notice that the word son is capitalized in Psalm 2 And the reason it's capitalized is because the people that are translating the scriptures understood that to be a reference to Christ. And so they did that normal thing where you capitalize the H in Him or the S in Son or however that works, right? such a little clue there that uh the people that translated your scriptures think that's Christ as well. And they think it because we're told that in in the New Testament And so we we have this life lived through the teaching of Torah in Psalm 1. We have A sure promise about the blessings that we're told about in Psalm 1 as a result of this sovereign reign of the Lord given in Psalm 2. But there's a small problem, and that is it revealed in Psalm 3. Psalm 2 was originally a coronation psalm for for David, or at least we think it was a coronation psalm for David, he describes some rebels there, which may mean that it was almost a re-coronation, meaning after a time of rebellion of some sort when he was being re-established on his throne But it the idea is the same either way. Whether it happened at his first coronation or at some sort of a recoronation, it's clearly about David Psalm 3 is the first Psalm with a superscription, and it says that it's about David, right there in the superscription. And it shows that there's a strong contradiction in the real world between some of the ideals that we read about in Psalm 1. And the sovereign, just rule of God in Psalm two versus the circumstances of our lives that demonstrate real trials, real hardship. And we get to see a response to those in light of God's teaching. And so the three really go together to um summarize the experience of the reader of Psalms and how the Psalms are supposed to interact with that reader's life. Doug, go ahead. Psalm two is the coronation psalm for David. Okay Psalm three is the first one with a superscription that is clearly assigned to David. Psalm one and Psalm two have no direct It is. And and the and the reference to 2 Samuel 17, the Davidic covenant, which is is the reference to the anointed there. So we'll we'll come we'll come back to that a little bit and and see if no no no it's it's no it's perfect, right? We're supposed to be studying it together. But uh let me come back to that one in in its time. Um So right below the Psalm 1 section here. Psalm 1, Psalm 19, and Psalm 119 are all called Torah Psalms. And they're just psalms wherein Torah or instruction teaching is the preeminent theme in those. Psalm 1, 2, and Psalm 2 generally place Torah at the beginning of the Psalms to highlight it as a theme of the overall Psalms. And then Psalm 119 is just threaded in and out with that word about God's teaching as well as other words that describe his teaching. Um and and what you're supposed to get from that is that yes this is the capital of the Psalms. The the Lord's teaching is meant to be the backbone of all of the Psalms as you progress through it and how uh men and women interact with that But the threading of it shows up in its occurrences in in the later chapters, like uh Psalm 19 and Psalm 119 as well. Um and then you see a quote that I have there from um this book, which is actually um not not I I put this in my references, but I did not recommend it to you and I still don't. I'm um not happy with the commentator himself, but I got this book because it's specifically about um the Psalms' Torah. And so this is a a good study reference that you'll see me cite m multiple times um multiple times in the year. And he does do a good job. He does do a good job with that argument One of the quotes there from him is Christian readers are inclined to hear Psalm 1 in light of New Testament affirmations such as, We hold that a person is justified by faith apart from works prescribed by the law. Right? We see that in Romans 3. 28 and Galatians 2. 16. The point in making that quote is when you read Psalm one in a a normal translation of the scriptures, you get his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night, and our our minds generally shift Towards something pharisaical. Our minds generally shift towards somebody that has this unholy, un unright uh Old Testament by which we mean bad. um preoccupation with the law. Um and that's that does a disservice to the way that same word, Torah, or the Lord's teaching, would have been heard by an Old Testament Jewish reader. It is so that the law is used with this negative connotation. When those observing the law are attempting to use the law For self-righteousness. Right? When when God's law is approached in such a way that it says, if I do these things, I do not need to depend on you I will get what I want from my relationship with God without having a relationship with God. I've checked the box. I am self-sufficient. I am good enough. I have evaluated myself. I am satisfied, wherever it is, whenever our adherence to the law is outside of our relationship to the lawgiver. Um then you run into the self-righteousness of the Pharisees. You run into verses like Romans 3. 28 and Galatians two sixteen, which clearly condemn uh those that trust in the law for their salvation. Matthew fifteen, eight through nine, I think, make this more clear than any of the other passages, right? It says This people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. Right? Law is central in that statement But their worship is in vain. There's no merit to it. There's no goodness in it. There's a really great passage In Isaiah twenty-nine. Um if you want to flip over there, it's it's so good you might want to look at it. Isaiah twenty-nine. Verse eleven. So the context for this is the judgment of Israel, right? Because of their hard heartedness. God says, I tried, I tried, I tried, and you won't listen, you won't hear me, you won't respond to me, and so there's a judgment coming. And picking up in verse 11, and the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, Read this, that person says, I cannot, for it is sealed. And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, Read this, he says I cannot read it. He doesn't have the ability to read it. And what I what I like about that is when we come to the Lord As Yahweh. When we come to the Lord with a heart that is seeking to be right with Him as a person and to subordinate see to subordinate ourselves rightly to the Lord. He opens our eyes to the goodness of his teaching. We see as teaching for richness and fullness. We see his teaching as resource, really valuable resource for all of the different facets of our lives. Right? The the good and the bad alike. Right? They become wisdom. They become treasures. They become the pearl of great price. Right? They become that thing that we would sell all other things for in order to attain. They become singular in their priority to us. When we savor our personal Lord in the way that we ought. But when that relationship facet is lost Then his law is just a demand on our lives. It's just more burden. It's more struggle. If you've ever read uh Pilgrim's Progress, right? It's more stones on the back that the Christian has to carry. And he can't bear the weight. The goodness of the Lord is sealed up, you might say. Right? Right? We're we're one of the groups of people that were very literate society, right? So we can open the book and we can read it, but we can't read it, meaning we can't understand it. It is sealed to us Until we realize that it comes from a loving God. A loving God who is deliberately trying to speak into our lives And I have to say I I I have a mental picture. Uh Jeremiah 15, 16, thy word was found and I did eat it, and thy word was unto me the joy and salvation of my heart. Did I get that right? Um I I picture that scroll with a s a rubber stamp on not a rubber stamp, but a wax a wax seal on it, thank you. Not doing so well today. Uh a wax seal on it with the word law written across it. And a lot of us pick that up and we see that wax seal and we immediately put it down Or maybe more accurately, and we can to be faithful to the text here, we see that wax seal, the word Torah is written across it, and we translate it law, and so we put it down. We we don't dig too deeply because things are challenging enough without having somebody come and tell us that we're doing it wrong. But if we saw teaching from your father Teaching from from this covenant Lord. I I wonder I wonder if we would feel like that was more addressed to us. And I don't want to be emotional touchy-feely. I'm not an emotional touchy-feely guy, but I do want to reach into this. I care a lot more about what somebody writes to me when I have a relationship with them than when the county sends me a tax form. Right? I demand of you that you pay this. How many of us approach the scriptures like that? And the Psalms are all about trying to modify that. Trying to speak the law of the Lord, the teachings of the Lord, into our lives. in a in a in an everyday nitty-gritty kind of way. Um another contrast real quick. It's it's worth looking at these in scripture. I don't want you to think I'm making this up as an emotional persuasive speech. This is not a persuasive speech, or it's not intended to be. Proverbs. Go to Proverbs. I'm even turning the wrong way in my Bible. I'm gonna overheard this morning. Proverbs thirteen Verses 1 and 14. It's actually I said turn, but I actually have it printed there for you as well. A wise son hears his father's instructions, Torah. or law. But notice even in our Bibles it translates it in instruction here because it understands that the really the the passage is speaking about relationship. You should care more because your father is telling you this. He's teaching you this. This is his investment in you as a result of him being your father and all that is suggested by that relationship. And so the, although it's the same word, Torah, we here translated it teaching or instruction. A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. And in verse 14, the teaching, so notice there's the the other word, instruction in verse 1, teaching in verse 14. Again it's Torah. It's the exact same word. No difference. The Torah, or teaching of the wise, is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death. Right? It's not shackles, it's not regulations, it's not cold, it's not stiff, it's not limiting, it's not disabling, it's not it it's not anything. It's not restrictive in any way. It's a fountain of life. Right. There's actually a different word I I'm not saying that that's an incorrect translation, but there is a different word for discipline in Hebrew as well. But you will also often see them side by side in in a lot of the Old Testament passage, the instruction and the discipline. Um and as a matter of fact, thank you Doug for teaming that up so nicely. Uh the Proverbs 3 passage that I have quoted there, we won't read the whole 1 through 12 passage, although it's worth reading But it really threads through that idea of listening to the discipline of your father who loves you and is teaching you My son, do not forget my teaching, Torah, but let your heart keep my commandments, for Yahweh reproves him whom he loves, as a father, the son in whom he delights. So perfect Doug. That comes necessarily as a result of the exact same heart that provides that teaching. Again, McCann, Psalm 1 is an invitation to be open to God's instruction and to the reality of God's reign in the world. And he's really there bringing together Psalm 1 and Psalm 2. But he makes that quote. Psalm one about God's instruction, Psalm two about God's reign in the world Um mostly because I really like this. Uh if you take a quick scan of Psalm 1, uh go ahead and look at it real quick Just those first couple verses again. Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. And then if you're familiar with Deuteronomy six, which is the Shema Which most of you should be familiar with, because I feel like we quoted around here enough. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. Now notice how this starts, right? This this this is the this is Deuteronomy. I mean, what stands for law more than Deuteronomy? Right? But when the Lord is about to call his people to obey his teachings, look at the context that he casts it in. you shall not grovel, not be restricted by, not serve with servile attitudes, not begrudgingly, none none of those things that you would normally associate with law keeping. But he says, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might in the most expansive way possible. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. And you shall teach them diligently to your children. And here the verbs start to show up just like they do in Psalm 1. And you shall teach them diligently to your children. And shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you Rise up at all the different activities and stations of your life, you are to be observing these teachings of this Lord that you love expansively. Right? The Lord's message hasn't changed in Psalm 1 versus the message that was in Psalm 2. I am not trying to make a mountain out of a net when I'm doing this, right? This is a uniform message. There's a vein of gold that is running through the Old Testament here. An invaluable Right? Surprising vein of gold that is running through uh the rock of the Old Testament. And I'm just trying to show it to you. I'm just trying to trace it through. I'm back in Deuteronomy, so I just wanted you to remember that last week I had mentioned to you that uh Psalms, uh the book of the Psalms, is uh really divided into five books, and then I gave you an outline for that last week. We believe that the reason it's written as five books is to mirror the five books of the Pentateuch, the five books of the law. Right? Even if there are five books of the law, there are five books of the Lord's teaching applying the law to our lives. And we believe for a whole host of reasons that that is exactly why the Psalms were written into five books. Um and again that that parallel right between the the the teachings, the law of the Lord, and these these fatherly teachings that are being expressed in all circumstances of life throughout the Psalms. And we're going to run into all sorts of attitudes and and trials and difficulties as we work through the Psalms, right? Just that That intermingling of the law of the Lord in our lives as the good teaching of Yahweh expressed into our individual lives for goodness Just some more uh real quick uh regarding the dynamic between us viewing the law um as significant and or excuse me, the Torah as significant and positive versus kind of the the coldness or the abstractness of the law. You can see I've got a few bullets there. It is so that the law is used with the negative connotation. when those observing the law are doing so as a means of self-righteousness instead of as a means of entering into the relationship of honoring Yahweh and receiving his blessing. And an example that I thought of while I was working on this is the prodigal son, right? The prodigal goes out, and I shared with some of you actually uh wrote a prayer uh it uh similar to this for my oldest son when he was first here. Uh when he when he was first here, when he was first born. Um man falling apart this morning. Um and and my prayer was basically that Lord I you know I want To lead my son in all of the best paths, all of the best ways, but if it would be your will that you should lead him out and feast him on the food of swine, that he might return to you with an uh an undivided heart with a heart that is fully surrendered and fully desirous of you And with the wisdom of knowing that there is nothing in the world that he could have or get that would replace the value of just being in the Father's house, then help me not to be in the way of that in the life of my own son And so he broke the law on one hand, but when he came home, there was no there was no fear of having to follow the rules or of being even being guilty. All he says when he comes back is, please let me be a servant in your house. Whatever the rules are for service, that would be good enough for me, God. Or good enough for me, Dad, in that case, right? And he was restored and celebrated and renewed. You get a wonderful picture of what it's like to come home and be under the teaching Of your heavenly father in the prodigal son. But the guy that stayed there the whole time? The son that stayed home And followed the law for what it was? Did I not do everything that you commanded me to do? What was his heart? He didn't love the father. He wanted his inheritance. He didn't love the brother. He just wanted his inheritance. There is a way to observe the law and be completely unchanged, untransformed by it, to be completely self-sufficient in it And I'll just be fair and honest with you right up front, so much of the Psalms you'll read is a psalmist starting off with uh, I need you to do this my way and in my timing, Lord. And if you won't, and the hurt lasts too long, or the frustration lasts too long, or the hope is deferred for too long Can I be crass a little? Then screw you, Lord I'll go to church because that would disappo uh I wouldn't want to disappoint my society. Right? The people in which I participate in society would think ill of me if I stopped going to church But my heart is far from you. I'll live in your house and I'll abide by your rules, but just give me my stinking inheritance I don't know how that plays out in your heart. So I'll be fifty this year. And I've been teaching since I was twenty, I think. First time I think is a joke somebody asked me to teach a a Bible lesson. And I have watched that scenario play out in the lives of people for thirty years. So I don't know how it plays out for you. Maybe it doesn't sound angry. Maybe it sounds broken or humble. Maybe it's cheerful and not frustrated. I I don't know. Map it onto your heart But the psalmists are filled with the testimony of people just like us that are doing that very same thing I came to church, I read your scriptures, I did the praying, I maybe even fasted a few times, give me my inheritance. I have to have the promise now. It has to be in my way and at my time You can ask me to pay the price with my wallet. You can ask me to pay the price with my job, but you can't ask me to serve you, Lord, if it touches my health. You can't ask me to serve you, Lord, if it touches my children. You can't ask me, Lord, if it touches my pride. Keep going. Right? What is it for you? Instead of listening, not to a lawgiver, but a father that's trying to instruct you in the best ways It's been funny, I I'm hard on my sons. Maybe you know, it's a constant balance. I I I often look at my wife and try to determine how to modulate my response to my sons based on how horrified she looks at my response to my sons. And I will continue to be hard on them. I think I understand them as men better than she does. But the balance I'm always trying there is I want them to know that I am always for them. That no matter how hard I am, I am their advocate. that that I am their resource, that there is nothing that I would withhold from them that would enable them to be full in Christ. Psalm nineteen sets a good testimony for just the just the amazing value of the teachings of the Word. It it's divided into two sections, and a lot of people will foolishly tell you that they're completely separate sections, that they have nothing to do with each other, and I argue that vehemently It establishes God's testimony in creation and then sets it alongside his specific teaching, his specific Torah and instruction of his people. for all purposes good to his created image. I created all these things and they give testimony to who I am But I gave you my particular word, my specific words. I came to you and gave you m my name in a way that I never did with anything or anybody else And then I gave you my words and my instruction that we would enter into the most beneficial, the best relationship ever. And Psalm 19 sets those two right next to each other. It it uses uh you see that verse there, the law or Torah of Yahweh is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of Yahweh is Sure, making wise the simple. I love how it makes the law seem like this tremendous resource that fills and enables us instead of this restrictive thing that deprives and cheats us. Perfect, sound, complete, all-encompassing, soul, life, the essence of life, not just this abstract, spiritual, floaty, ephemeral thing, but the essence of our lives. It restores and rejuvenates at the part that matters the most that then affects all other things. It's as if God is saying, I made all creation to witness to who I am And I gave my Torah to direct you in how to fully enter into the enjoyment of all that I created and all that I am. And I have no idea why I quoted that, because I wrote that, so it's not a quotation. Um I guess I just got it was trying to be diligent with my quotations there. You see the value and tenor of God's instruction, his Torah of his people in Psalm nineteen seven. The precepts of Yahweh are right, rejoicing the heart, the commandment of Yahweh is pure, enlightening the eyes, the fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever. The rules of Yahweh are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than bold. even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and drippings of the honeycomb. So remember I mentioned that thread of gold, I didn't even make that up. I completely stole that from Psalm nineteen. This is how the Old Testament and the Psalms in particular describe Torah, law. I hope already there's some shift in your thinking here. Psalmist's claim regarding Torah means that we must not live by our own cleverness, initiative, achievement, or possessions But rather, as Jesus said, we live by every word that comes from the mouth of God. And then if somebody will flip over to Ma'ir's translation of Psalm 119, I get you to read verses 1 and 2. While we're doing that, everybody else should be flipping over their Bibles to Psalm 1. We're going to go through that real quickly as time allows here at the end. Make sure you have your Bibles open to Psalm 1, except for whoever it is that's going to help me with Psalm 119, Adam Motyers translation. 19 or 119? 119, sorry. If I said 19, I apologize. Versus one or two, please. Right, so Psalm one nineteen, it's all that, right? We we know Psalm one nineteen. Because it's got like every reference to whatever word we use for law in all of the Old Testament scriptures, right? It is all about the law. But you read those first two introductory verses to it, right? Integrated into his teaching, one whose whole life is shaped by the message of God to his people If if you have never had the experience of sitting down in front of your scripture and digging and digging and digging and suddenly coming up with this nugget, this this gem of value, this this brick of gold. That you truly just felt like, wow, the Lord visited me here this morning in my study and gave me this gem. That that's what this is talking about. Just just to give you some reference for that When you know that those words came to you from your loving Lord. Now, they came to six billion other people over the course of history too, but that's not the point That's the mystery of how God can speak into individuals' lives through this amazing thing called his scripture. You leave that to him. That word is for you. That word is particular for you in your situation at this time, and the Spirit is using that to divide wrong and right decisions in your life. We will not have the time to spend uh which I would have liked to, on this word righteousness in in Psalm 1. But you need to stop thinking about that as just standing before a judge and being judicially declared, you're okay. In the Old Testament, the better that is a definition of righteousness. I'm not arguing that. But a better way of viewing that, particularly in the Psalms, is one who has the wisdom through God's teachings To make right decisions. Wise decisions. That means decisions that honor God in everything that they do, and decisions that are good for you. Because those two statements are inseparable. They are synonymous statements. And Psalm 119 is saying, if you take the teachings of the Lord, the law of the Lord, and apply them correctly, you will make right decisions. You will find that you prosper always, as the way in the way that Psalm 1 says. Now, with that said, let's look at Psalm 1 a little bit So somebody pick up and tell me. I'm going to keep this real gentle. Let's see what you can do with this. Tell me what's significant about the first two verses. We can all read them. Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. What is significant about those two verses? Okay. If we're real specific, where did you draw out teachings of the world versus teachings from God? What else do you notice? Takes a little takes a little thinking Doesn't seem like it's measuring here with the lights. The lights, that's good. You you're right, this a little bit of piperism here, right? Where there's a hedonistic approach to life. We are seeking the thing that is of greatest delight and greatest value. Absolutely If I said I need to be thinking about the law correctly and considering it correctly in my own private life, would you say that's a fair summary of verses one and two? Yeah. Yeah, that it was a trick question, right? I I was trying to draw out the fact that like Deuteronomy There there is the expanse of all of our activities in life. We need to be walking not according to the counsel of the wicked. Go back to that idea of righteousness, right? Having the wisdom of the Lord and knowing how to make right decisions for life I don't just sit and think about it, right? It's not a decision until I've done it. I have to act upon it where I'm just ruminating on it, right? That's a point of indecision, not decision I don't want to stand here and think rightly and never step. There's no faith without a step. There's no obedience without a step. If I don't act That I may be listening to the Lord, but I am not trusting the Lord. If we're not walking according to his counsel, if we're not taking a stand, right? In other words Standing in front of a group of people, and I say, this is true, and as a result, this is my decision This is my vote. This is my stance. This is what I will do and this is what I will not do. Thought of you while I was studying this, right? You've done this in a tremendous way I'll leave that alone because I don't have enough time, but you've taken a stand. Okay? You are not any longer permitted to hide in the background of anonymity You have a face, and your face reflects the glory of the Lord in the stance that you take it. And I know others are like that too. I'm picking on him because I know it and because I'm hopeful that I can encourage you in how the Lord is using that, maybe not necessarily in your school, I don't know what's happening there, but using it to encourage people in here And sitting, right? Even in my idle time, my relaxation, my comfort time, right, it's distinct from the world. So in every activity of life The blessed man is delighting in the law of the Lord, is meditating day and night on his law. And I love the fact that the word meditate here is the same word that's used for plot in chapter 2. When the people plot in vain against the anointed one of God. Right? That word plot and that word meditate are the exact same words. And I love that. Right? How can I know God's law better? How can I how can I hear and apply the teachings of my father, Yahweh, better versus how can I how can I get around? How can I treat it like a set of regulations that I can check the box on but do whatever I want to do? Or according to the next verse in Psalm 2, how can I burst the bonds apart? And cast away the cords. Do you see how those people view the law of the Lord? The blessed man views the law of the Lord as a stream of water that I get transplanted by so that I have nourishment and sufficiency in everything, every moment of my life, and I bear my fruit in the seasons that the Lord brings. Right? Seasons change. Leaves will fall, bark will dry up and come off for as long as we're stuck under the curse. But seasons will come and I will bear my fruit. And we see that all is sufficiency and enablement, as comfort, as surety. As the care of the Lord and his goodness poured out in our lives, but the exact same teachings look like bonds and cords. When viewed only as laws that restrict us, Um twine There's so much more goodness that would be wrung out of Psalm 1, but I want to give you some of the overall picture. So I'm gonna skip ahead. And just hit some quick thoughts from Psalm two and three. Psalm two, as I told you, is clearly a messianic psalm. It's quoted in uh Um something like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten significant passages in the New Testament which directly correlate it to the fulfillment of Christ as Messiah. Um and so we know that that's there. But what it also does is it points to the insufficiency of the best that a man could do in that same in that same position as as uh as king or ruler or reign, right? The the best that a man can do uh will not work. And you see that in Psalm three Where David is crying out to the Lord and saying, Hey look, I I am loving your law. I am doing what you want me to do, but how many are my foes? Many are the rising against me, many are saying of my soul, There is no salvation for him and God. Meaning when people look at my life they're going, You don't look like a tree planted by rivers of living water. You don't look like you're bringing forth your fruit in your season. And you see the psalmist crying out aloud to the Lord, right? In verse 4, I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. I laid down, and I love this part. So many of the Psalms do this. I have a real problem, Lord, and I am crying out to you to meet me where I'm at. Verse five, chapter three, verse five. I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around. Arise, O Lord, save me, O God. For you strike all my enemies on the cheek, you break the teeth of the wicked. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. What I want you to see central there is God's teaching instructs us in I'll say the perfect way of life, the blessed way of life. But there are hosts of people out there that see that same teaching as shackles and chains and they will rebel against it and they will act um In the same way that Psalm one suggests, by the way, and we don't have time to study it, but when it when it amplifies from wicked, kind of a one-time sinner, to sinner, a persistent infraction to one that actually has decided to call the sin right and those that follow Yahweh's Torah wrong And in chapter three, you see David trusting his Lord to do the right thing. to to answer the need of his life in such a way that he is now able to rest, that he is able to to sleep, that he is able to take comfort, that he is able to cast his cares upon the one who cares most for his soul. And to surrender that time for him. So I don't I don't know if I'm doing a good job at this. I can't tell based on the the looks on your faces. Some of you Seem engaged and some of you look like you're trying to keep your eyes open. Uh, which is fine. Uh there's all kinds of reasons for that. I'm not picking on you. What I am trying to do, what I am hoping to do Is draw your attention to a hundred and fifty Psalms that are intended to take the distant amazingness of God and bring it down to the need of your life. And I keep talking about it as though it's a need because I feel like it's in the hurts of life that we often struggle the most with the Lord. But it can also be in the numbness of life. And it can also be in the joys of life. Right? It's all aspects of our lives that the Psalms engage with. I have been delighted at points in time in my life over situations and I've realized I was delighted because I got what I want. And I've gone home feeling more crushed than if I hadn't gotten what I wanted. And I say crushed because I'm driving home and I'm thinking, Lord, I'm happy because I got what I want. I didn't pray about this. I wasn't trusting you for this. As a matter of fact, I was anxious and losing sleep. I was angry and frustrated over the circumstance. And in your mercy, you saw fit to grant me the thing that I wanted And to show me that I wasn't loving you, I wasn't trusting you, I was serving myself. And then I go back to the Psalms and I'm like, here's a psalm that says exactly that, and the Lord forgave that sinner, so he can forgive this sinner too. And so I'm hoping to just encourage you in a in a in a I don't know a I can't think of the right word. Conspicuous, particular Fill in the blank. I'm hoping to encourage you in Christ in a particular way. And if I'm not doing this well, pick up Moder's book and read it for yourself That's where I got most of my excitement originally ten years ago, so I'm hoping it'll do the same thing for you