We're going to do something a little bit different today. Um I would like to move more toward uh studying the psalm with you as opposed to lecturing you about the psalm Um that was really my original intent for the class. Um I think I've gotten too excited about all the good things I've learned from Psalms over the years and I've been spending more time lecturing than I would like To that end, you will notice that I have as many notes as I've ever had, but I have very little intention of teaching through the last uh two whole pages. Um There is a ton of information that I think is uh super helpful. Most of it for me was gleaned from Psalm 89 when I was studying through Psalm 89. Uh there is relevance to it here in Psalm 27. It would be difficult for you to understand the confidence that David has in Psalm 27 unless you understand uh the covenant that he understands that Yahweh made with him, both in his name and then in the Actual No, that's not the name Sorry. Great get work emails while I'm trying to teach. It's just wonderful. Covenant name of his God was what I was saying. Sorry, I saw the name on the thing and I'm already grumbling about the text the content of that email because I know what it is. Um and just the the covenant that God made with his people, specifically the Davidic covenant and the confidence that it brings to David, and there's just so much here. So much that just Trying to scratch at it, you know, I've got pages and pages of notes. And so I I type those up for you. Maybe they'll be useful, maybe they won't. In a greater context, I have used Not in these notes, um, but I have used the information that I um learned in studying the things in those notes um several times since I've learned them to try to help people understand um how God can be completely sovereign in election, in salvation, which He is Um and also say things like be holy, for I am holy. Be one hundred percent without sin. That there is no temptation that is taking you, that he will not give you a way of escape from. Um that you are to have no sin on your hands or in your heart or issuing forth from your mouth mouth how how is it that God can make such demands on extreme obedience and yet also be one hundred percent sovereign and election. And I think that some of this material in these last two sheets on God being a covenant God and what it means that he enters into covenant with us And how we're supposed to understand that covenant, since we don't really use those terms so much today, um, is really helpful in in harmonizing those truths without doing disservice or damage to either of them. And so the notes I think there are at least for me were very important to that end. And I tried to take you through my thinking a little bit. There's some marginal notes where I I didn't feel like my notes themselves you know, bridged the the train of thought sufficiently and so I tried to give you hints as to what I was thinking when I took those notes as I went through. So I hope you enjoy this. This is all we're going to talk about and now you can put them away Um we are gonna focus um almost entirely on Psalm twenty seven uh this morning. Um and what I really hope that you will get from it is uh some ability to walk with David's confidence into whatever trials are waiting for you at the door of this church in a few hours. And whatever trials are waiting for you, aka work emails. Whatever trials are waiting for you on Monday morning. Real confidence for real circumstances in real lives. What we do in here is limited to a a refinement of a philosophy that we all adore and uh is mutual and therefore we get um some validation Not to put you on the spot, but a pregnant lady walks in and has no seat. You know, should I get a seat? Like Okay. Okay. I can't not ask. That would just that would be too much for me. Um You know, I don't want to sit around and and adore philosophy with you. I I want a real uh the real goodness of God and I want it to flow out in my life, and I want it to flow out of my life in such a way that it um is conspicuously visible to those around us. I'm not sure why, but over the last few weeks in the prayer room there's been a theme of prayer that basically goes like this. Lord, we thank you that people are coming to our church, that our church is growing. But we really ask that you would grow our church not just through the departure of another church's members, then arriving here. but through the salvation of the unsaved, right? That people would come to know Christ, not that they would just adore our presentation of Christ's theology a little bit better than the next person. I'm not saying it's a wrong place to go to another church. Um I am saying that is not meant to be the sum total of a ministry of a church or a body of believers, right? And um And I'll tell you what, if we can't walk in the goodness that God gives us, why should anybody want what we're selling? Take that as identificate, you know, we're not selling Christ. I know. Um But I I just I can't say enough about this. So I hope that today you find some enjoyment in the Psalms, you find some enjoyment in how David uh presents himself to his Lord, and that it encourages you. Um in the midst right there the title right it enc encourages you in the midst of the chaos curse, which is what I call every period of time post Eden Why my brain just pick up on that word, but post Eden. Um, right. Um We live in a a world that is under the curse and it will always be that way until the Lord comes again. And even now, um in our redemption, we walk as exiles in this world because the world that we live in remains under the curse. It's still a kingdom under the curse. And so uh Peter calls us exiles, right, in in that world. Just spent several quarters stuffing on that. Now, with all that said as preliminary, uh not on the notes, I want to pray and then we'll get started. Lord, I really want to see your goodness. I'm not sure why this morning. The the tone in the prayer room was a little gloomy And I don't resist that. I don't even criticize that. I love that we can come with conviction of sin on our hearts. I love that we can come with you to you with broken lives. that are hurting us or frightening us and we can bring those to you and mumble them out or cry them out or mutter them out or moan them out or grumble them out before you in prayer, even as we see David doing repeatedly in the Psalms I love that you will listen to your broken people, and I love that we are broken when we are struggling with sin and temptation and fear and doubt and all things that would challenge your glory. And yet, it would be so wrong for us to gain access to your presence, to do all those things by the work of Christ and the work of the Holy Spirit. and then not get the value that we get to be with God, that we get to stand before His face, that the cleansing of Christ is applied to us readily and willingly as a result of what you did. And what you have always intended to do, even as we see it in the Psalms. And so I pray that we would gain good confidence and good forgiveness and good refreshment this morning. And that even as David said that the you know toward the conclusion of this psalm that he was filled with shouts of joy, that that would be the testimony of our Sunday afternoon, our Sunday evening, and then on into Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and so on. Shouts of joy for the goodness of the Lord and the confidence that we might have in Him, even as we walk through the chaos of our lives. And so I pray that you would be pleased to grant us these things this morning. All this I pray in your name. Amen. I love the quote from C. S. Lewis here at the beginning, so I'm going to read it to you. It's out of his reflection on Psalms. It was specifically interacting with David's comment in if I can find it quickly. Verse 4. where he says, uh to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple, it's the one thing that he seeks. Um to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and C. S. Lewis is interacting with that a little bit, and I'm just gonna read it to you, forgive me. It says the most valuable thing the Psalms do for me is to express that same delight in God which made David dance. I am not saying that this is so pure or so profound a thing as the love of God reached by the greatest Christian saints and mystics. But I am not comparing with that. I am comparing it with the merely dutiful church going and laborious saying our prayers, to which most of us are, thank God not always but often reduced. Against that, it stands out as something astonishingly robust. Viral and spontaneous, something we may regard with an innocent envy and may hope to be infected by as we read. The fair beauty of the Lord. How many I gotta ask rhetorical question. How many of us come like that? How many of us come bruised and tired, weary and afraid? um in denial about the things that are waiting for us on Monday morning, you know, deliberately, knowingly holding them off at the door, right? How many of us come like that For the purpose of getting to see the beauty of the Lord in in fellowship of body of believers, in the times of prayer. In the times of teaching and learning, both of which, by the way, need to be activities. Neither of those should be passive, right? Both of those are active, the teaching and the learning. The recitation of God's word, the confession of sin, the singing of praises and songs, the ordinary means of grace through Sacraments of baptism and communion. Right? How many of us come with an expectation a determination even to see the beauty of the voice. And if you don't do it on Sunday morning Where do you do it? Or when do you do it? Where is it in your discipline of grace? Where is it in your Christian walk? Why are we surprised that we're a tired people when the very thing that we're called to do most in Scripture, which is rejoice in the Lord, is not a discipline for us at all. As a matter of fact, it's more like an accusation. We read that in Scripture more often than not as an accusation. It's not. It's the nature of our covenant God. And when He calls you and demands that you enter His presence with obedience, because of grace. Otherwise you'd never get into his presence in the first place, no matter what your obedience level was, right? Because of grace he calls you to delight in him. What I'm trying to get at with all that is it will be difficult for us to have confidence in God unless we have tasted the goodness of God. Gotta start in Psalm 26, Psalm 26 to Psalm 29 really go together, but specifically through 28. They all effectively deal with the theme of David's, and that is entering the presence of the Lord. That is a a unique um statement, not unique to him, but it's uniquely precious to him. So he uses phrases, phrases like the one thing that I want. The one thing that I desire, and in doing that he uses language that really is reflecting on more than anything else. Like Whatever else you want from me, Lord, that's fine. But the one thing that I don't feel like is negotiable, God, that I I I want you to make true of my life, is that I will get to be in your presence And Psalm 26 through 29, but again specifically through 28, all have strong language that discuss that under some unique facets. So Psalm 26 in particular I think gives us some good background. I wanted to look at a couple of uh those passages here, the two verses in particular, um are noted here, three and eight Verse 3 says, For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. So that's our old friend Pesed that I mentioned to you last week. That's steadfast love there. And walk in your faithfulness is in other words it's going to pop up later, so I I'll just uh you see it in the notes in kind of an orange plot there. Uh Hamath or Hemet, uh depending on how you want to pronounce that word. Um and a lot of what I have in these two pages is really a study of of God's steadfast love. What what does that mean? And you cannot study God's steadfast love without studying his covenant love, which is really a a better translation of that word. And so you have to study his covenants And and so that's what this is, is studying through the not only his covenants to Abraham, uh, David, and then the new covenant with us. uh but also the Mosaic Covenant um and then the covenant form as a general rule. And it gets a bit academic, I'm not gonna lie to you Uh but I still think it's extremely helpful. But I wanted you to understand that these notes are really almost entirely from this use of David's central concern or central confidence in the covenant love of God. Steadfast love is before my eyes. That's what he sees, that's what he understands, that's what his reality is. And he walks in God's trustworthiness, maybe is a better translation than faithfulness. He walks in God's trustworthiness to his covenant. Right? You could you have to be trustworthy to something, right? He's trustworthy to his covenant. Now you don't get a a a full theology, if you will, you you don't get a full understanding of David's theology of covenant here But you can at least see what's central in his mind as he works through these passages, and it's God's covenant love. Verse eight, Yahweh, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells There is no distinction in the Old Testament, is a is a hypothesis that I would make for you. There is no distinction in the Old Testament between God being faithful to his covenant And God granting us access to himself. The construction of the temple is like that, his experience In the Exodus like that, right, come out of here, meet me here, let me speak to you and communicate to you. God's presence is always synonymous with God's covenant with us. Otherwise there would be no presence, right? Without the covenant, we would be destroyed. We would be cast out. We would be stuck with this situation we had in Eden. Even in the Garden of Eden you see it. God was present with his people. In an ideal circumstance they sinned and they had to get out never to be never to return. Right. He set a guard over it so they could not return. So God ended up beginning to make covenants. The the proto uh evang evangelia, right, the the proto-evangelism in the Garden of Eden Um and then the Abrahamic covenant, or excuse me, Noahic covenant, and the Abrahamic covenant and the Mosaic covenant and you know the Davidic covenant and so on and so forth. Right? He kept making covenants with his people And so covenant relationship and presence with God are the same things. The covenant is, I'll say, consummated in our ability to enter God's presence. Um I want you to write the end of verse eight, O Lord, I love the habitation of your house. Meaning being able to stay or live or dwell in your house, which if you think about it for a minute, is a really uh shocking statement for David to make. He wasn't allowed to go into David God's house, right? Study the construction of the temple, he was never able to get past the place where he put his hand on the altar the burnt uh Altar of burnt offering was what I was trying to say there, sorry. He was able to put his hand on that just long enough, right to transfer his guilt onto that that burnt sacrifice, and that was as far as he ever got to go. And so it's it's pretty amazing here that he talks about being able to dwell habitually, is is that that phrase there, the habitation of your house. That's not I'm a guest, that's not I get to come every once in a while. It's that's where I live. In your house. Go ahead. Good question. We're gonna we're gonna keep working on that. And some of it is in those last two pages of your notes. That's a great question though. She said if you didn't hear it, she said, how did he know? Um I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. And that word glory is is just It's just one of those one of those big words that I I can't stand because we use this big word and it should mean so much and it means very little to us most of the time. And so I want to poke at that just a little bit in this next section of notes. Mostly I want you to see that God's glory and God's goodness are synonymous. in scripture. And we worked on this, I think, the first week a little bit, um, that we talked about Moses' experience with seeing God, right? Exodus thirty-three, eighteen through twenty-three Moses asks for God's glory, and God responds with, I will make all my goodness pass before you. I will be gracious. I will show mercy. So those are three characteristics from God's own mouth that are apparently synonymous or composite Um to God's glory. In Exodus 16, you have to read it uh uh a little bit, but sixteen ten in particular is is what uh got me to Exodus sixteen if you want to know. But Yahweh's glory is specifically related to his providing for his people. And you see that in Exodus 1610. He's basically saying, while you're in the wilderness, I'm going to provide for you. I'm going to give you uh Thank you. All I could think of was mammon, and I'm like, that's not the right word. Um we don't want any of that. Um manna um and then the the the quail and uh you know just other provisions right he was going to provide for his people but right there kind of at the at the beginning of that or in the middle of that um is that 1610 passage where he he talks about his glory being providing for his people. And so what I'm trying to do is tie into your mind here a little bit what if David's going for. I need to be in your house because I need to see your glory. But if you miss the fact that God's glory is his providing for his people Is his overwhelming goodness? Is his very real goodness to his people in the challenges of their ordinary lives? And if you're wondering where I got all that like, how can you make it so imminent, Scott? Because he says in verse thirteen of chapter twenty-seven, I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living How many of you would pray that prayer How many of you would take the trials of your day or your life? Big small, it doesn't really matter, right? Not every problem has to be a crushing problem, right? How many of you sorry getting too close how many of you would take the challenges of your day and lay them in your palm Palms and hold those up to the Lord and say, Lord, you see what my brain is struggling with. You see what my heart is struggling with right now But no matter what my circumstances are, no matter what my brain is telling me, as a result of what my eyes are seeing or my body is feeling or whatever other sense right is coming to me right now. I believe ultimately that I need to be in your presence to see your glory to have the necessary outflowing of your goodness in my life as a result of that. And I believe that I will see it both in this life and the next This life dimly, and in the next abundantly. Psalm 191, God's glory is everywhere. I memorize Psalm 191 to teach me to pray that prayer Right? All the heavens declare the glory of the Lord. Everything shows his handiwork and his goodness and his might. And emails cause me to spin off into the weeds, right? So I need to be reminded of what's actually true, not how I experience it or what I think about it. I've been deceived a million times and I'll be deceived another million times. I have believed The wrong things a million times, and I will believe the wrong things a million times again until the Lord redeems me wholly. And so I need his truth. And his glory is everywhere if I will look for it. And it's calling out, by the way. It's not not quiet, it's not subtle. It's calling out. You say, what's wrong with the rest of the world? Romans 1, 20 and 21 Right? The invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Understood. Not just seen, but understood. Even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. But became vain, stupid, deliberately stupid. Stupid is something you choose. Became stupid in their imaginations. And he darkened their foolish hearts. It doesn't say that. It says, and their foolish hearts were darkened, but as it goes on, God makes it very clear that He did the darkening. He did the hardening. Where am I? I'm not gonna change it. Psalm nineteen one, thank you. Second Corinthians four, four through six Really interesting here. New Testament, right? I wanted to bring in some New Testament unless you think I'm losing my marbles in the Old Testament. Actually it's an interesting phrase here. It's unclear who's doing the blinding at the beginning part of verse 4 Um because it says the gods of this world, meaning the the deceptions, you know, the things that we bow down to here, the things that offer us value and goodness, that actually have no value and goodness to offer us, those things blind our eyes to the value and goodness and the glory of the Lord. That's how four needs to be understood. So maybe it's not unclear. It's not God. It's the deceitfulness of the world. blinds the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Did you get all that? The light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. So when I read in 27. 1 where it says of David, the Lord is my light and my salvation, guess where my mind goes What goes there? To the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. See Hebrews Has shown in our hearts. Now this this is talking about believers now, right? This next passage, has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of the of Jesus Christ. In the face of Jesus Christ. You want to know why David wanted to be before the face of the Lord Because that's where the glory was. That's where that light shined most, right? And when it was removed from Israel, nothing good happened. Right? Worst curse that could ever occur in the scriptures, Ichabod. You guys all get that? It's just a nice simple word that you should remember, right? It means a lie again. It means the glory of the Lord is departed, effectively, right? Oh man, I never want to be called that. And yet I feel like people isn't that a name? Isn't that or is it just in a story? Maybe I read that. Oh is that what it is? Okay. Oh well checking. She's a morbid Don't like Dickens. I don't care if he's great. I don't like him. I just went on a tirade about that this week actually. Um I know you can't imagine me on a tirade, but Exodus uh forty thirty-eight For the cloud of Yahweh was on the tabernacle by day, and the fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys. I love that the glory of God was manifest in the lives of the 40-year wilderness wanderers. But now I gotta ask you another question. Isn't it in your mind someplace that if God would manifest Himself in visible glory, that we would somehow find it easier To to obey him? To to walk in the shouts of joy and the rejoicing that he commands? I mean come on, tell me I'm not the only one that thinks that. Right How did it go for them? Not so good. Not so good. As a matter of fact, much as is often the case in the scriptures, right, with that great privilege. Came a great responsibility. And he destroyed people in great numbers through dramatic mechanisms Because they grumbled against his goodness. Or, if you like to say it the other way, because they grumbled against his glory. And so that's why I had that in there. Just go ahead. And a good foundation for our confidence in him. Because he has been faithful to his covenant people in the past. despite everything that we see over and over and over through the thousands of years of redemptive history, he has always been faithful to his people. He has always renewed his covenant with his people. He has always created an additional means. When they could not keep the prior covenant, he created an additional and and a final means in Christ, right? We don't need anything after Christ. always created a mechanism by which he could remain with his people and be faithful to his original covenant there in the Garden of Eden. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's okay sometimes, right? That's why we're told to stay together as a body of believers. That's that's why that's why one of the very real means of grace. And I I only say one of because there's prayer and the reading of the scriptures and the work of the Holy Spirit, right? But fellowship. Fellowship So that we can encourage each other in that task. I think I think Colleen really stole my next bullet and uh said it well, so I'm gonna just leave that alone. Um It is worth noting that God's glory is also seen in his judgment. It is inappropriate, it would be irresponsible of me to describe God's glory in terms of the great gift giver in the sky. I deliberately said that in a way that sounded sacrilegious so that you understood that that that's not what I intend, right? He is the satisfier of the heart, which does not mean giving me what I want, it means giving me what I I need the most What is most important and most valuable and most joyous and most abundant and most healing and most peaceful and most restoring and always the most Which is rarely what I'm after. But God's glory is also in his judgment next to this 14, 4, and 17 and 18 uses Pharaoh as a specific as a specific example of that. He says, you know, over and over, he says, and I will get glory Over Pharaoh. And in Exodus 24, 17. Now the appearance of the glory of Yahweh, this is at Sinai, the appearance of the glory of Yahweh was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain. in the sight of the people of Israel. And because of their sins, he said, Rope off the mountain, because if any of them touches it, they will die. Um and you know implied in that you don't really have to imply, you just have to read around it and you'll find these very words, but implied in that particular uh command is that I will judge them instantaneously. I have not yet provided the bridge, the covenant. I have not yet poured out my goodness in covenant on them in such a way that they are able to enter my presence. The covenant had not yet been given at that point. And so you must stay separate. And even when the covenant was established, we know that it kept them from him at a distance in order that he might evidence the need for Christ. You know, a once-for-all sacrifice instead of a yearly sacrifice media mediated by sinful men. Okay. Enough of me. More of you. You see the outline on the back of that page? We got David's confidence in verses one through three. Actually the whole thing. But you know, he introduces it there in one through three. We have some practice of David's confidence, uh, which basically for David means being in Yahweh's house in verses four through six We've got this dependence of David, necessary for his confidence in 7 through 12, and then the determination of David's confidence in 13 through 14. So I just want to study through this with you, right? What what do you see in those first three verses? And I'm I'm willing to take almost anything there. I mean, as it relates to the passage, of course. Start with verse one. There's a repetition of a word. What is it? Uh repetition of a thought using two different words. What is it? Show me that. I'm not disagreeing with you, just make it explicit. The light shows me which way I should go. My salvation, he saves me from whatever is going to come upon me. And my fortress protects you. Yeah, good. Come on, what's the repetition? Oh, you say whatever you want to say. The only caveat I'll make for that isn't And the only reason I say the only reason I'm making this caveat is a lot of people approach David Psalms in particular and he always seems to be talking about people being against him. And a lot of us today we just don't feel that assault of a necessary enemy, right? We we don't do well with war metaphors because most of us haven't been to war. And the only thing I want to add here is that remember that for David in in his in his context, that that was his job as the king. to establish borders, to expand those borders. This this was the this was the work that he did from Monday to Friday, right? And when he wasn't doing it he was usually getting himself in trouble, by the way. Um and then in addition to that, particularly in this passage, and you see it a little bit in I'm gonna give it away 'cause you guys aren't getting there fast enough for me. My clo clock clock is ticking. Um Fear and dread, right? What's I'll I'll finish my thought in a minute. What's the distinction between fear and dread? Fear is like I'm I'm in the situation right now and I am afraid Dread is, I think I'm going to be in that situation and I'm afraid, right? But it's it's anticipating the thing that come that comes, right? I love that it's both here Right? He's afraid of the enemies that are at the door. Whack, whack, whack. Right? He is dreading the war that is to come. Well, war is a faceless thing It's a trial that comes upon you, that presents you with circumstances that you may or may not be able to control, that you may or may not have sufficient resources to respond to. If you may or may not have the experience or the wisdom to be able to navigate in a way that is successful, right? I'm afraid of what I'm in and I'm dreading what's to come. Is he so different from us? Doug and then Doug's wife, but maybe I should reverse them. Go ahead. I found this to be gracious one way or the other. I mean that's not actually funny, but Not sure what I wasn't supposed to appreciate about that. That was a pretty good testimony. Thank you very much. It was good, yes it was. First, last, it was all good there. Since we're talking about it, might as well show it, right? Wait for the Lord. Be strong and he will empower you. And then again, in case you missed it, wait for the Lord, right? Which by the way does not mean just stand there in your misery hoping that he shows up someday. It means expectantly presenting your life to him looking for him to pour out his goodness and glory And that's particularly poignant because David is always talking about enemies that are seeking his life, and yet he concludes in 13, I believe, I trust, I am confident that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord. Based on all this other evidence, I don't have an empty hope or a vain hope, but I am I am resolved as a result of that which I know of my covenant God. Yep, absolutely. Um So fear and dread in one and then fear again in three, my heart will not fear, right? Even if a whole army encamps against me or an army of situations and circumstances Um and it actually i it I think I think this is I think it's the footnote actually, right? The the the Hebrew there says, Should a camp camp against me, right? Meaning a whole army of of uh enemies encamp against me. My heart will not fear. I will remain trusting. Now that trusting part again goes back to that The the word faithfulness we talked about in the beginning, right? Neites an object. You can't just say I'm trusting. Anybody tells me they're trusting, I say, in what Specifically. Like don't be vague with me. Say again? Right? Um Faith, same thing. You tell me you have faith. I want to know specifically what you have faith in. Right? Yeah. Yeah. You're provoking me a little. I have this little thought I'm like dying to share with you, but it would take me off and I think I'm gonna let it rest for this week, but good point. Um So I want to know what David is trusting in, right? He says, In you I will trust. And I want to know what he's trusting in. And you begin to see some of that in verses four through six. One thing, right? Though war arise against me, all that stuff that I said earlier, right, rise up against me, one thing have I or excuse me, I will be confident, or I will trust Well what's he trusting in? Well one thing have I asked of the Lord, and that will I seek after and that that's a particularly pointed statement. It means to the exclusion of other things. I will seek after this. I may experience other things along the way, but this is my goal. This is my focus. One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. All the days of my life. Right? Why does he want to be in the house of the Lord? Where did the glory of the Lord rest in the history of Israel? Inside the house of the Lord. Inside the house of the Lord. I I can't prove this and I don't want you to necessarily quote me on it, but I think that David was impetuous in trying to bring the ark back to Jerusalem, and even so much so that you know he got somebody killed and messed some things up along the way. I think That he was impetuous about doing that, because in his mind, the only important thing in life was to be near the house of God To deliver the ark and have God's glory rest on that ark and have it be right there next to where He exercise all of his responsibilities over enemies and wars and all those other things that he needed to do. And I think it's why you find that I would actually argue that God was fairly gentle in how he rebuked Israel for the mishandling of his ark. Right? The one priest died And then God blessed the house of turns out a more legitimate priest in that particular instance if you do some studying, but nonetheless, blessed the house of the person that they rested the ark in until they could figure out how to bring it home rightly And then I can't I can't find any references, and I have a number of books on the history of the tabernacle itself. I can find no references that suggest that he built an appropriate tabernacle in Jerusalem to house to house the ark until Solomon's temple. That was a hard sentence for me for some reason. Right? And I think God still was gentle with him about those things because he understood the heart of David here That he was just seeking to be in God's presence. In God's way. Not like Uzih? King Uzziah? He the one that offered uh prayers that wasn't supposed to and got leprous? Right? Not like him, right? They tried to offer worship in his own way. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. and to inquire in his temple, to be absorbed in the goodness of God. Right? You guess that's what beauty is, right? Beauty, my necessity, is that thing that like you just want to keep looking at. You you want more of it, right? Nobody looks at beauty and goes, Oh, when we'll listen. Right? You do? To amplify that point just briefly, I'm I'm reading a book right now about a uh a uh a Russian Jew, uh Nathan Sharonsky. Natan Sharonsky. Um and it it's just uh it's it's interesting because uh modern Israel still feels exactly what you just did that that we are a people that have been scattered. And their war cry during the time when they were trying to bring everybody home was let my people go. Right? They went right back to that Exodus That Exodus mantra, right? And uh and so now they replaced the temple with nationality And it's not working for them, right? They they're they're struggling with all the things that we would struggle with, too, right? I don't mean that they're any particularly worse than we are as a nation, but Uh they're struggling with all the same unity issues and and religion issues and secularism issues and they're they're just struggling with all those same issues because they've tried to replace Worship with nationality. But I say that to maybe just suggest to you where are you doing that? Trying to replace worship with nationality or identity in community or identity in church or identity in family or identity at work or fill in flanks To gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple, I need to ask you questions, Lord. I got an enemy. I got wars. I got a grumbling nation I got these. I I got all kind of stuff here, right? I got grumpy priests. I got grumpy kids. Right? I I I need to be able to ask you questions And and there was only one place where he thought he was going to get right answers, valuable answers. And it was in the presence of the Lord He will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. Right? All those confessions of confidence that flow necessarily from being able to be in the presence of God Enjoying his goodness, getting his wisdom, and having the outflow of his glory And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me. That's a statement of confidence. Not probability, not possibility, but absolute. Now, because four and five are true, my head shall be lifted up above my enemies, all around me. And I will offer in his hand. Unless you wonder if that's a sacrifice. Unless you wonder if that's a sin offering, it is not. I looked So if you look at the Hebrew word there and then go look at your notes from last week, you will find that it is an offering of praise. And you can catch that here in the English because it says, I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. Doesn't sound like a sin offering, does it? I will sing and make melody to the Lord. I'm gonna skip forward just a teeny bit. Verse eight, You have said, Seek my face. And my heart says to you, Your face, Lord, do I seek And so what I want to open to you here is a little bit of uh your question from the beginning of the class. There appears to be some tension here in David's mind. He he expresses this great confidence, but he seems to see the the conflict that we all see too, and that is that, Lord, I understand that you have called me to seek your face. You have commanded me to seek your face, singularly and wholly, to seek nothing else, right? I am your God You will serve only me. You will have no other gods. Our relationship shall be 100% I had an ending word for that sentence and it completely escaped me. Exclusive is the word I will use, but that's not what I wanted. I had a better word. I can't remember what it was. Our relationship will be 100% exclusive I understand that that is what you have commanded of me, and that is what you will judge me for. And my heart says to you, your face, Lord, do I seek. But then he follows that up with, I don't think I've managed this totally in my life. No matter what my heart says, I I haven't managed to do this in the way that I should. And you see that in verse nine. Don't hide your face from the mean Lord. Well why would the Lord hide his face from him? If the Lord commanded him to do it And that's the desire of his heart and he's doing it. Why would the Lord hide his face from that? Well he wouldn't, except that David knows that he comes with his sins and his imperfections, that he cannot merit standing in the dwelling place of the Lord and receiving his glory. And again, until you understand covenant better, you'll have a hard time tracking this one in the way that I think d in the way that I argue, David is is tracking this concept of, I know that you commanded me this, I desire to do it. Please don't turn your face away from me because I failed to do it in the way that I know you you require of me. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. Again, why? If that's what the Lord had commanded. And so again, I'm just arguing here that you're really seeing David's recognition of his inability to approach the Lord through any merit of his own, no matter what the desire of his heart is Read chapter 26. He talks about walking in his integrity. Mentions it twice. And we're like, what a boastful God. Who says that? Oh, I have walked in my integrity, so bless me, Lord. You're going to think he's boastful unless you pick up one twenty-seven where you realize he's saying, I'm walking in my integrity in the best that I am able, and I am trusting in the covenant love of my Lord to supply the rest. And then we have no time for it, but there are some phenomenal mappings to the New Testament here. How it can be all of grace, and yet every single apostle demands a hundred percent obedience. And anything that tries to compromise on either of those is a lie. It's a hurtful lie, too, because it lacks truth. And anything that lacks truth is not of God. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have Been my help. Cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation. For my mother and my father have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Well, w we don't have any testimony of David actually having parents that forsook him. And so what I suggest is you should read there are that the people in of his nation. his is people that are should be as close as family and be providing for him and caring for him and directing him and entering into a familial relationship with him. have deserted with d have deserted it. Right? So I think this is a more general truth than my specific father and my specific mother have forsaken me. People so close to me that there should be an inalienable relationship or an inviolable relationship there Have violated relationship with me. We have a covenant of birth, right? And they have violated their covenant with me. But not you But not you, Lord. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path. If that were to be, matter of fact, it is in in the Greek. If that were to be mapped into the two New Testament, it would use that word pidaic- Oh. Did I talk to you about Pidae in here? Or is that my Thursday night Colossians study? Mmm. I may have just mixed lessons. Sorry about that. Um Never mind then, I'll explain that word to you at a later date. No time for that. Um it's a wonderful word though that means walk with me wherever I go. Don't just tell me a lesson and send me off into the world Give me the lesson and then walk with me. Direct me. The actual Hebrew word here has this idea of throwing at your hand to point at something so that it's conspicuously obvious. Like go there. Do that. Watch out for that. Right? So the idea of throwing out the arm or throwing out the hand conspicuously to direct, to draw one's attention to something. Teach me your way. Well again, where what's he where's he going with that? He understands that his path is all over the place and not necessarily going where it's supposed to be going. Now those of you that are looking down at the table right now, looking discouraged, don't look discouraged I'm only trying to draw your attention to the fact that David is a man that recognizes his sins just like we recognize our sins. David is a man that is struggling with the same depravity of heart that we have And it will not be fixed for him ever during his lifetime, but it is fixed now for him that he's in the presence of the Lord. And it will be for you too. And in the meantime, you are absolutely Called warranted in living a life that is filled with abundant confidence in this life and in the next beside And with the the three minutes I have remaining, I want to maybe amplify that statement a little bit. We do not believe that God will be good to us in this lifetime because we think we have read some things in the New Testament that talk about suffering. And we always see suffering as being ground into the ground. We always see suffering as the complete opposite of everything that is good. And I will submit to you that that is not David's opinion. David never asked to be rid of his enemies. David never asked, don't ever make me go to war again, God. He just asked that God would dwell with him, or that he could dwell with God while he experienced enemies and as he approached wars and fill in the blank. And so I have a small phrase for you that I think you can Google. I haven't done extensive work on it. So if you find something horrible, please forgive me. I'm not trying to lead you to something horrible, obviously. Google the tyranny of comfort. I zinged to Pastor Gabe with it. I I found something this week I was so excited about. I had to tell somebody and and I couldn't think of anybody else that would tolerate this kind of geekiness. And I thought he might, so I was just like, look, random thing, I'm totally sorry, but I have to tell somebody. I will argue that our New Testament American conception of God's blessing is dominated by the tyranny of comfort. Unless we get comfort, and by that I mean no struggle, like sit on a couch, get fed greats, get entertained, you know. Just total comfort that we have let that lie creep into our definition of God's blessing. I don't want to be like that. There's a cartoon movie like that. A bunch of fat people laying around on couches riding around in space. I can't remember why. Don't ask me that question. I just that was the image I had here. I don't want to be comfortable like that I want to be victorious on my battlefields, but I want to fight. I want to be successful in the work that I accomplished, but I want to work. And actually I it I feel like I haven't worked hard enough if I don't come home with a cut or a bruise. I mean I tried to cut my finger off this week just changing the battery just just to make that point clear. You laugh, but it's actually quite bad. I don't mind any of those things. I just want God to be with me in the midst of all of them. Now you're saying, oh, so you don't struggle with the tyranny of comfort? No, I absolutely do. That's why I'm getting excited about it. I'm like, oh, that's what that is There's that lie in my thinking. Maybe we're not confident in God because He is giving us the victory while He's taking us through all those trials and tribulations. While He's walking with us through all that suffering. But because we're bruised and achy, we're like, well, that's that's garbage. I'm not comfy. I'm not comfortable. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. And that gives me hope to wait for the Lord. Many of us would say we we will only see the goodness of the Lord after we die. And if that promise wasn't good enough for David, I don't understand why we should think it should be good enough for us. I am not a hot health, wealth, and prosperity person. I expect to go through life taking worse injuries than this To my wallet, to my health, to my reputation, to everything. But I expect to see the goodness of the Lord poured out in those circumstances so that I may shout My eyes are getting horrible. I expect that too, right? So that I will be able to shout for joy in the midst of those things. That is the confidence that I want to show you in Psalm 27. And in so many of the other Psalms that David prays for. And I hope I hope it convicts your heart of sin. I hope it returns you to a desire to see the beauty of the Lord. I hope it strengthens you for every challenge, every trial, every cut, bruise, scrape, sorrow, tear, battle. And I hope it flows out conspicuously in your joy so that the rest of us can be super encouraged by it. I think that's the end of my prayer, Lord. Please make those things true in our lives. Not just because it sounds good, but because you are good. And we desire to show uh we desire to know it ourselves and to show it to those we love and to share it with the rest of the world. These things I pray in your name. Amen