I was remarking that this is going to be a a fairly mechanical lesson as opposed to uh, you know, particularly exhortive one or hortatory one Um and the reason is is I want to make sure that you have the tools. As a matter of fact, I'm going to be challenging you, shaming you, uh, into trying to uh obtain some of these tools. There's three ones, there's ones that are far less free, um but I'm going to be challenging you to obtain one or more of these for your own personal study. Later on I've posted a schedule of the psalms that I intend to go through. I will not commit to sticking to that order, uh, but I do like it a lot. Um so you can see what Psalms will be doing each week, and my hope is that you will prepare ahead of time I would like this to be more of a discussion class. Now, lest you think I'm wimping out, because this is a late, you know, a late edition, um I had already shared that I've spent the last ten or more years systematically uh working through the psalms and just as evidence that there is some preparation here. Some of you know my infamous little notebooks. This is more than just the Psalms, but I I have a lot of Psalms in here. Um th these notes here are just on Psalm eighty-nine. So I you know I keep my own little graphics and charts, I use multiple colored fonts. read my writing, that's okay, I can't be shamed by you, but that's just Psalm eighty-nine. Uh actually and then they can continues on some of the other pages. So I I don't want you to think that I threw this together haphazardly. Some of the organizational part I did, uh but the study itself I'm super excited about. I've I've been soaking in these psalms for a lot of years and I I love them. So with that said, I want to start off with why I want to study this with you. I'm going to spend a whole bunch of time on the tools. Show you a schedule of the psalms that we plan to study. And then a brief structural introduction to the Psalms. I want you to start getting a perspective uh of all of the scriptures, but particularly the Psalms as a whole. We often do a great job of studying verse by verse through the scriptures here, but it has a bad habit of um limiting the perspective, the view that we have of God and some of the the m most magisterial perspectives that you can get on what God is doing and how he what he's like and how he wants to interact in your life is really caught by seeing scripture more as a whole and and less as a particular verse. Now Unless somebody feel offended, anybody that's ever sat in one of my classes knows that I love to burrow down into the words. So please don't feel slighted by that or there's no slight against the teaching in this church in that regard either. I I love the study of the individual words. But I feel like my life is mostly shaped by the totality of the scripture when seeing like that. And so uh I'm hoping that you will do that with the Psalms, which is why I put that outline in there as well, just to give you some larger perspective on the Psalms. So with that said, I have a few points I want to begin with for a purpose statement. First, my principal purpose in wanting to study the Psalms versus some of the other books that I'm actually potentially more interested in studying for myself. Uh really come right out of that Isaiah 40 verse 1 passage. Um I'm a critical person by nature. Um And Angela and I talk about it a lot. I am not afraid to say I think that person is wrong. I think they're doing it the wrong way. Um I think that's unwise or poor or there are so many better approaches to that Um, I I just think that's I think that's being honest, I think that's being true. But the worst thing that I can think of when I come in here on a Sunday morning is the thought of discouraging one of you in your walk with Christ. That doesn't mean I don't want to engage you about things that I think are helpful, but the thought of discouraging you uh is is just the worst thing I can think of. And I say that because I think a lot of my teaching reflects my own heart and my own need to be convicted. My own need to be convicted be called back to an honest reckoning with the Lord. And I think that spills out in a lot of the things that you hear me say and the things you hear me teach. Or for those of you that are in the prayer room with me in the mornings, a lot of my prayers are are go that way as well. And I recognize that that can be discouraging to people. Always that call to conviction, always that call to repentance, always that call to radical obedience. always that call to live that out in every day and tolerate no exception to it in any way. Right? Tolerate no uh equilibrium in our pursuit of the Lord. I I have no tolerance for that in my own life and I struggle to I'll say accommodate it in other people's lives. I the men and women that have challenged me most in l most in life are not necessarily perfect people, but they are passionate about their pursuit of award in everything that they do. And so that spills out. But I want to comfort. I want to encourage people in Christ. It is a a head lifted to God. And a heart open to his work and a and a great hope in that heart that defines and describes the Christian Right? Not defeated, not discouraged. Those words are words that are associated with the deceiver who is the evil one Right? And so I want to avoid that. And I think the Psalms are a great place to go and to bring all of our discouragement and our despairs, uh to bring conviction or see conviction, and yet be encouraged So many of the Psalms begin with, oh Lord, I am trodden down to a degree that my bones are weak and they will not sustain me. My affliction is so great that my health has failed and my mind is failing and all I can do is weep like a madman in my bed. And they somehow end, and yet I was blessed to enter the pre place of worship. I was blessed to enter the presence of your people. How can a man whose very bones are made brittle by his despair. I don't I don't even know what that means exactly. But the Hebrew in particular is is amazing in these several psalms that do this. And by the end And by the end of the psalm, there is as equally as there is despair on the front side, so to that extreme is the rejoicing and joy and encouragement and hope on the backside. And and so I just love the way the Psalms bring it together. They're not fake, they're real. They address your disinterest. They reflect your despair. They reflect your uncertainty. They reflect your boredom. They reflect your hopelessness. They reflect your frivolity. They reflect all of our human nature and character. And they do it in such a way as to draw us up and focus us on Christ. And so I can't think of a better place to go. To comfort you and encourage you. And I hope that's what we see here each week. Even if we walk out feeling convicted, I hope it's that conviction that says, of this I can be healed. Of this I can be fully recovered. Of this I can fully conquer You have to note that the Psalms are daily prayers and songs of people in the midst of their lives. If if the epistles are letters that uh the apostles that's hard to say. If the epistles are letters that the apostles wrote that should be brought out occasionally, like a uh a sermon that gets reiterated periodically, or maybe like a personal letter that you bring out occasionally to encourage Or exhort or remind yourself of something, that is not the Psalms. Stop thinking about the Psalms that way The Psalms were to be in your heart and your mind on a daily basis as songs and prayers and forms of worship. They are the daily exercise. Of God's truth overlaid on our lives. There is no part of our lives and God's truth in the Psalms that are not fundamentally linked. There is not a loose association. It's not Paul talking about marriage to those that are unmarried. It's not Paul talking about homosexuality to heterosexual people. It's not Peter exhorting um uh people in Asia Minor that may be undergoing some suffering in uh uh uh you know in a community of people that are upper middle class and largely blessed, right? There's there's no disassociation of the psalms from our lives. They are right there. They are expressions of our hearts and minds every single day. Right? And they're meant to be rehearsed like that. So if you take this class, if you take these psalms and you think about them for this hour that I'm running my mouth here on Sunday mornings and you forget about them, Sunday afternoon, Sunday evening Even worse, Monday morning. Then you've you've missed the strength of the Psalms. You've missed the purpose of the Psalms for over a thousand years while they were being assembled and written and treasured And that was just at the time that they were composed. Two more thousand years since then. And yet within the last and I'm getting ahead of myself, but and yet within the last two hundred years, we have nearly lost The regular enjoyment of the psalms in our Christian lives. It's it's just not part of what we do And some of that's good. Maybe we maybe we noticed that it became a dry liturgy, and so we rejected that and went for something that wasn't so dry, right? So it wasn't so abstract. It wasn't a you know it wasn't a Hail Mary or a rosemary thing. I can't remember what that's not rosemary. Rosemary. I got my Hail Marys and my rosaries all confused. I just saw Dawn flinch like I heard her. I was like, Oh, I must have said something wrong. What was it? Um Rosary, right? It's it's you know maybe it got to that degree and so we rejected it and and that's fine. Uh but I would call you back to it. I would call you back to it The name of the Lord is super important. And we butcher it in the English translations of the Bible and uh not just English, but that started in the Greek translation of the Bible with the Septuagint. And so I've recommended, and as a matter of fact, you'll see if if you download the sheet or look here, there are a host of resources listed here and uh next to this top one you'll notice there are three stars Next to the bottom two, there's two and one. Those are my top three recommendations for resources you should get. My top recommendation is this Psalms Day by Day. It's written by a man that's uh recognized uh supreme Hebrewist. So he does his own translation. And he tries does it as faithfully and as literally as he can to the original Hebrew. Um and it's broken up as like a daily devotional by and large. A couple of times you'll do multiple psalms in a day, but it's broken up by that and then has a series of and I'll actually put this up later, uh or a a page or two of it up later But it has a series of uh footnotes that try to help with explanation. But the author says right at the beginning, his goal is to put you into the Psalms Not to preach it you from the Psalms. He wants you to do the digging. He wants you to have the joy of discovery of the goodness and the value of the Psalms rather than him trying to spoon feed it to you, which deprives you of the exercise of Discovery, the joy of discovery, right? If you've worked hard for it, the thing that you discover is so much more valuable. And that's his intention here He is a Presbyterian. Uh we're a covenant theologian and I'll m make a comment about why that's relevant in a bit. Um so you'll see some things in here that you might scratch your head on and go, uh-uh, I'm not sure. That's fine. Just go, nope and move on, okay? You know if you don't have to you don't have to swallow all of it, right? Um I've got books up here that I'm gonna recommend to you that I basically think the guy is is uh nearly a heretic, but I still really like the book and it really helps me get some perspective. Um so uh Alec Mayers, Psalms Day by Day, it's it's listed in here under three stars. Where was I going with that? He translates the name of God faithfully throughout. And the principal name of God in the Psalms is Yahweh. Now somebody tell me why that's relevant or maybe relevant or important What does it mean? Yep. Whom did he say that to? Moses, yeah. And we'll we'll touch on that context. Yes. Uh to get a little help there from the audience. Uh that's okay. Um yeah, we'll we'll touch on kind of the the heritage of the name Yahweh in a bit. But what I want you to notice here is it's the personal name of God. And it was meant to convey Something unique to his people. It was not a name he identified him as himself as when he spoke to others. It was the name he used when he identified himself to his own people. Um, I think I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if you're not sure. Somebody Is that MacArthur's yeah. Uh somebody had it in the class and showed it to me, but I haven't had any time to read it myself. And just loud enough so everybody can hear what was the name of that bottom again? Okay. Yeah, but that one's um that's actually off of the I mean I'm fine with it, but that's actually off of the Jewish tradition, right? Um Yes, yep. Yeah. Um yeah, I ran into that one just a few years ago. It was very helpful. There's an online resource that I use to to cross-reference that. Thank you. The name occurs almost 700 times in the Psalms alone. 700 times in the Psalms alone. And it's not the only name of God used, but it is used Uh in nearly every chapter, I'd have to ch I think there's one or two literally that does not contain it It is the name, the personal name of God that he gave to his people. And rather than comment further, let's just go look up some scriptures. Alright, so start flipping around. Genesis 4, 28. This is relevant because it actually establishes the entire theme for what we're trying to do here in Psalms. Apparently I can't speak and flip at the same time. Somebody read for me verse twenty eight, please. Did I say the wrong thing? Six, twenty-six. So there's a typo in the notes if you're keeping track. There's another one later, I'll show you. Um I hear whispering but I don't hear reading out loud. Somebody just read it for me out loud. Doug, go. At that time people began to call upon the name of the Lord. Yeah, so it's a vague reference there. Um and again in the English you'll notice it says Lord, uh all like drop caps, all capitals. Um in the Septuagint it's uh uh translated curios And that name, that word is the Septuagint translation of Yahweh. So this is really the first time we see the name of the Lord mentioned here. So right after the generations of early Adams, we see that the name of the Lord was called on by his people. Uh four twenty-six. Yeah, sorry. That's what happens when you take notes at too early an hour of the morning. What I think is significant here is that we're not going to run into a reference to his name again until Exodus 3. Now, for any of you that are keeping track or have studied the scriptures much, we're into the early generations of Adam in Genesis 4. Where are we in Exodus 3? Moses, right? We're in the Moses era, right? A lot of stuff happened between first generations of Adam and Noah, aren't we? And there's no mention of God's name in those scriptures intervening Genesis 4 and Exodus 3. How can it be? And there's there's an implied I'll say criticism. There's an implied criticism, right? How can it be that God makes the earth, walks with his people, speaks out loud to them, directs the course of their lives, does all that he does, the eyewitness accounts of the creation of the world are handed down from father to son for just a few generations and they call on his very name when they need. That's what they say. Right? They look to their God And and then I don't know how long, I don't want to even guess. But the next time we see some interaction with his name in verse uh chapter Exodus chapter three verses seven and it's just worth reading. And then it says, Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, right? The the the picture of the people in bondage under the curse. Right? There there is no greater picture of it than Egypt. Right again, see scripture as a whole. Here you are getting a vantage point. As a late redemptive history Christian, you're getting a vantage point uh of of The condition of people uh here in Moses' time, and they are suffering under the burden of their own sins In bondage in Egypt. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hands of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land. A land flowing with milk and honey, so the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Parasites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? He said But I will be with you. I will be with you. And this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. And then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, what is his name? It requires no imagination to see in Genesis 4 that they called on the name of the Lord and in Exodus 3. When I say that your God sent me to you to call you to action, to call you to freedom from the misery that you are in. What shall I say that they call you? What? How does that happen? How does that happen? They were willing to pray to a God. They were willing to talk to a God. They were willing to grumble at a God that would not relieve them from the pain of their taskmasters. The weariness of their everyday lives, right? The lack of fulfillment of the promises that they expected in God. They were willing to talk to a God like that But they did not know him. They did not even know his personal name. What what shall I tell them they should call you? Where has the current of your life done the same thing? It could be a current of comfort and ease. It could be a current of desperation. It could be a current of illness. It could be a current of intellectualism. It could be a current of prosperity, it could be a current of busyness, it could be a current of diligence, service, all sorts of currents that run through our lives. And we still talk about God with a G or Lord with an L. But we forget that we're talking to a personal God whose ending, whose beginning, interim, and ending covenant with his people has always been I I will be with you in your every need, in your every want, in your every requirement. In your every blessing, in your every cursing, in your every sin, in your every work of holiness, I will be with you. And my name is Yahweh. And Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me what is his name. What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am, and that tetragram that we use for Yahweh, right? Is that And he said, say this to the people of Israel, I am as sent me to you. Not also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever. And thus, and thus and by this name, if thus doesn't tickle any cognizant or don't I don't know, skipping. Um if it doesn't work for you in your brain, and thus I shall be remembered forever, and by this name. It doesn't do anything for me. People at work try this all the time, right? And somebody at work wants to flatter me and they start calling me boss or president or CEO. And I hate it. I was Scott the day I started the company. I'll be Scott the day it blows up in my face. I'll be Scott the day they push daisies over the top of me It does me no honor to give me some title that is inconsistent with my character. I'm just Scott. And and emphasis on just And if that is true of me, how much more so of the Lord? This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord. Yahweh, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt, and I promise that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Hizzites, the Hibites, the Jebusites Land flowing with milk and honey. For those of you that were just in the feeders, feeder classes with us uh with me over the last couple of quarters. you learned all too well that we are told that we are exiles now. The day the Lord chose us, He chose us to be exiles. He chose us to recognize the fact that we live in a type of Egypt. We live in a place that is not our own, with a people that are not ours, with a people that deny our God, our Yahweh. They do not name his name. They cannot name his name because he has not given them his name. He has given it to us. And he has called us to live conspicuously for his glory in this exile until the promise is achieved fully. And during that time, he promises to sustain us and walk with us. And he even says, I bought you, not with something like gold or silver, but with the very preciousness of my own son, just so that you would understand how important you are to me It's the same message played out in Peter, and in fact through the scriptures, but it was poignant to me because we just finished studying Peter They have observed you. Do you do you do you get that? As we begin this study of Psalms, do you get this? God says, fill in your knee. I have observed you I I have I have seen you. And I did not pass off onto the next priority because I don't need to balance priorities. I can do them all infinitely well all at once You have captured my attention. Fully and entirely And I have given you my name. So in your name, God says, I saw you And I intend to bring you up out of the affliction of this life, this life under the sun, this life under the curse that has not yet been unrolled. And I will bring you into a land flowing with milk and honey. Now there was a journey between that promise and anything like the fulfillment of the promised land, wasn't there? For you too. And yet the testimony of God is, I never left you. Your shoes never wore out. Your stomachs never went empty. No enemy ever came on you where I wasn't with you. No. There were times when they denied God, treated him like God instead of Yahweh, right? Treated him like a trick instead of their Lord and Savior. And bad things happen. But never outside of the control of God, never outside of the loving, sovereign hand of their Lord. Never outside of the call of their personal God, Yahweh. Exodus 33 draws a really nice summary statement to all of my blathering, and it's inspired where my blathering is not. Exodus thirty three. Moses said to the Lord See, you say to me, bring up this people. But you Oh, this is again remember Moses talking to to Yahweh. See, you say to me, Bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight. He didn't give them all the details, but he gave them the only important detail, the only one that had any real substance or power You know me by name, and you have found favor In my sight. Now therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways, that I may know you in order to find favor in your sight. Consider too that this nation is your people. And he said, My presence will go with you. Again, you see it there again, right? What's defining about knowing the Lord's name and about finding his favor is that he is with you Right? There is no new information. There's a a glorious recommittal, if you will, but there is no new information in the naming of Christ as Emmanuel. Just a full and total fulfillment. That's a little redundant, but you get the idea. There's a an amazing fullness to the ascription of Emmanuel to Christ. But the message was not new. The truth was not new Yahweh has always been in the covenant of presence with his people. My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. And he said to him, If your presence will not go with me, do not bring us up from here. For how shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people Is it not in your going with us, so that we are distinct, I and your people, from every other people on the face of the earth? Did you catch that? Is it not in your going with us that we are distinct? The only thing that makes us this is probably o uh o overconflated statement, but I'll submit it and apologize later when somebody gets upset at me for something And demonstrates that reasonably. The distinctive, the the thing that is unique about God's people is that He is with them. And it's all associated with his name. And it it just slays me that his name For some facade of it being too holy, and yes, there was implied criticism there. That name is too holy, we can't utter it. Since when? He gave it He said to call him that for for forever, and yet we got rid of it. And then we substituted it for a word that means something very different to most of us than my personal God. Who has observed me, and who will as a result of his compassion for all of me Will walk with me. If you're anything like me, I'm a very self-introspective person. I mean I I spend my day telling myself all the things I'm doing wrong And I find it helpful a lot of times. And I even say things like, I'll be in the office working on something and I'll be like, what a jerk and somebody will stick their head in their office and they're like, who you arguing with? Me. Talking to myself. It's ever occurred to you that you spend time and effort and energy to identify what your your your most necessary needs are The most critical things to your life require you to puzzle over them, to identify them clearly. Not so with God. I love that thought. Nothing hidden, nothing too complicated, nothing overblown, nothing too mixed up with social contact context or construct or none of those things, right? God knows what you are exactly, even when you're busy trying to figure out what your actual needs are I just feel like I've spent the last two months working on passages in scripture that talk about wives submitting to your husbands and so on and so forth. And and then the love that husbands are supposed to give to wives. And if you think I just screwed that up and gave two short shrift uh to one versus the other, then come talk to me later, I'll show you all my notes. I'm I'm much harder on the husbands We'd stop being jerks, this wouldn't be a problem. And a lot of it has to do with, you know, men think they want this. You know, they they demand obedience because what they really want is respect. They demand respect because what they really think is they're they're not worthy of it. Actually they know they are. God doesn't have any of those problems. He knows exactly what you need And when you need it and how you need it. Physically, emotionally, spiritually. And he promises to be with you in every single situation, in every instant of every single situation. And for us that name his personal name. As is also evidenced, and we don't have time for it, but also evidenced by Moses' testimony. Right. And by uh a series that I think Doug just finished. He is ultimately good. When Moses said, I hear your name, but I want to see who you really are, God says, Well, you can't absorb that, but I'll show you something. And what does it say passed before Moses? His bat fair enough. Wasn't what I was going for. But but absolutely accurate. Literally accurate. What passed the full No. Surprisingly. Grape guests. It's surprising that it's not that. It's not his glory. I'm gonna stick on this. What is it? It's important. What went before Moses? Oh, you should all know this. Come on. Somebody encourage me with a response. You should really I don't know why, but I feel like you would be the person to know this. You know it you heard me say it ten thousand times before. I love this. Well I heard it. Somebody said it. His goodness. His goodness. He made his goodness to appear to Moses. I love that. Don't gloss over these details. That is so important. This awesome God who is shaking the earth in smoke and fire so that people are afraid to come near the mountain And doing foolish things down there at the base of the mountain, right? And Moses says, let me see you, that I'm going to be encouraged in you. And when he wants to reveal himself to this finite person who he's going to use in a magnificent way, right? Moses is unique in all of the scriptures for what he got to do. A type of Christ. And when God wants to impart to him the essence of his character to the grave stability of Moses to receive it He shows him his say it out loud. Goodness. Goodness. Not a God who is far, not a God who is cold and austere, sovereign for sure. We would all be heretics if we impugned the sovereignty of God, and in fact you would be, by the way. But nonetheless We make of him a Lord, and he requires of us that we call him Yahweh instead And by the way, don't go too far with this. I can take you to half a dozen scriptures in the New Testament that says, Have you forgotten that I am your Lord? And that you owe me your obedience? So don't go too far with this. He is our king. He is our Lord. One author says that's what he what he is, but who he is is Yahweh. And he is present with us, each of us, not as a group. I mean he is with us as a group, but that's a byproduct of the fact that he's with us individually. It is essentially good. And our distinctive is that He is our Yahweh, our essentially good, present with us, personal God. Psalm twenty-nine. I I might butcher it. I would have liked to have brought it up here, but for the sake of time, I'm I'm not going to. I'm already set at a bookmark on Psalm 103. So I'm gonna try to do this on the fly, so forgive me when I butcher it up. Ascribe to Yahweh, O heavenly beings, ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength. Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due his name. Not title, but name. Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness. The voice of Yahweh is over all the waters. The God of glory thunders. Yahweh over many waters. The voice of Yahweh is powerful. The voice of Yahweh is full of majesty. The voice of Yahweh breaks the cedars. Yahweh breaks the cedars of Lebanon. He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf in Syrion, like a young wild ox. The voice of Yahweh flashes forth flames of fire. The voice of Yahweh shakes the wilderness. Yahweh shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of Yahweh makes the deer give birth and strips the forests bare, and in his temple all cry, Glory! Yahweh sits enthroned over the flood. Yahweh sits enthroned as king forever. Yahweh, excuse me, may Yahweh give strength to his people. May Yahweh Bless his people with peace. All that's for that personal name, why would we get rid of it? The Psalms, at the backbone of the Psalms, is that personal name of God. And it is that personal name of God which should be most encouraging to us in all of the scriptures, but particularly in our reading of the Psalms. Again, the psalms are our lives and the truth of God intermixed in a way that cannot be separated. There is no ability to separate it. It is the expression of life. In Yahweh, in a person in the personal God, who is present with us always. And as more good than we can possibly imagine. So that it is not his only characteristic, it certainly is not his only characteristic, but it is the characteristic of himself that he chooses to convey to his people when he says, I am your personal God, and I will be with you in every trial that I am about to take you through. And boy are there some big ones. Moses, you're not even going to get to see the promise, but you will get to see that I am essentially good. Good when drunk all the way to the bottom of the cup. I don't have to overdo the Old Testament here. We can flip to Philippians real quick. Chapter two. Uh if some of you are Okay. Alright, put a pause in Philippians. Um so most of your Bibles should have a dropcase Lord in every place that I read Yahweh. Is that accurate? Dropcase this means all caps uh uh uh an all capital an all capital L. A capital L and then a a smaller all caps OR D. That's what you should have. That's called dropcase. For drop cat Nope. She's exactly right. And then the Septuagint really concreted it or shot it in the head, depending on how you look at it. They picked up on that same device and they translated all references to Yahweh as Kyros, which we then translate reasonably by the way, based on the definition of the Greek word curios. We translate that Lord and we signify the fact that it's the personal name of God in the Old and New Testaments by using the drop drop case reference Okay? So all I did was take my normal ESV translation to the Bible when I was reading through there very quickly. In every case I place I had a drop case Lord, I said Yahweh instead. Uh transliteration. Um So Philippians two Therefore verse nine Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. Now the Greek allows for the way the translation is set up there. You'll notice the Lord is not drop case in that. It's that same word curios, but because of the way the sentence was structured, translators have chosen to translate it the way they did. Jesus Christ is title instead of Jesus Christ is name. I just want you to understand that it is there's no stretch of the grammar whatsoever to say Jesus Christ is Yahweh, that the translation is fully faithful to the original Greek. And so I just say that to draw out how magnificent this Philippians passage is in saying the exact same thing that we've been reading all through the Old Testament passages as well, right? Highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. Well, what name shall God be known by, by his people, for forever? Yahweh. Oh, nice. Uh yeah. You should see Lord many more times than once in the New Testament. The drop case Lord is used multiple times By the time the authors have um I'm gonna try and see what if I biff it, just come back at me. Um By the time the New Testament writers were writing, they had adopted the Septuagint tradition of translating Yahweh as curios. And so that's what makes it difficult in the New Testament. And so you left English translators or any other language translators that were taking the origin the autographs, I'll say. autographs but taking the autographs um and trying to translate them. And so from the sentence structure they tried to figure out was he using Lourdes as a title or was he using Lourdes as a name? In the name case, when they put the drop case Lord, it's Yahweh. They believe that what the authors meant was the personal name of God, Yahweh. So if they'd spoken it in let's say Hebrew instead of writing it in Greek, which they never would have spoken it in Hebrew, because by then it had already become a thing that you didn't speak, right? But had they spoken it they would have used the n the personal name of God. You y you see how that kind of got them into this like difficult circle? I I can't speak it. I can't even write it. I can only write it i in the tradition the Satouigent did To write it in this tradition, the septuagent did it's got to be curious, but now I left it to the reader to figure out whether I meant the personal name of God or his title. And so that's the situation that we're in. So Okay. Um The Psalms, I'll just finish with this. The Psalms are uh not finish the lesson, finish my purpose with this. The Psalms are where God's truth is our lives Find infinite intersection. Okay? And now I gotta hustle. You don't need my help in the last section of the notes to read the outline. So I will leave that to you. It basically says that the Psalms were written in five books. No, they weren't. That is a completely false statement. The Psalms were written individually as Psalms, prayers, forms of worship. They were collected and composed into five books. That's what I wanted to say They are collected and composed into five unique books and the outline calls those out. And then within those books, there do there does seem to be an attempt at mapping them to the Pentateuch And uh while I don't fully agree with some of these subtitles that uh J. Vernon McGee used, he's it's his outline that I've just copied for you here, and you can find this outline actually in uh the Blue Letter Bible. Um But um I I don't necessarily agree with each of his little characterizations of each of the books, uh but in fact uh They're at least helpful here. So I've I've recorded these here for you. Uh we're gonna step through a number of those sections. You don't really need my help to get that far. Um this is about uh eight hundred or a thousand years worth of uh writing that's been assembled into this. Um the superscriptions, while argued uh often by more modern textual critics, uh the superscriptions go way back in the um in the documentation history and uh we believe they were always there. Now a lot of the words we don't know what they mean anymore, particularly some of the musical terms. We have no idea what they mean. And so we think that some of the copyists We're changing some of those words to try to make them make sense in the context of their era. But I just want you to know that when you're reading those two prescriptions, those are important as part of the meaning of the psalm. We often think it's just like, you know, somebody put a heading in our Bible and we go, oh, well, that's a cute little heading. Well in in the Psalms, uniquely, it's not just a heading. It's an attempt to be faithful to the original texts. And so there's good information in those, so much so that some translations of the Bible will actually number them, either as zero and one, or just zero, because there's often only one one verse in it, but sometimes two Um so depending on what translation of the scriptures you're using, you could actually be off from one translation to the other by as many as about two verses because of the way one numbered it and the other one didn't Additionally, the chapters and the verse divisions, as you know, right, man-made to help us do it. And there's a couple of places that it looks pretty obvious that we took two psalms and lunged them together, or took one psalm and pulled it apart Yeah. Um there's also some places uh where you we can probably see the um uh I'll say The humanness of composition, and I mean composition as a book of psalms. There's a number of places where you can see a complete repetition of a few verses in this psalm and a few verses in this That doesn't mean that those words are less inspired. It just means somebody had an original document. When they were trying to compose the whole book, they either didn't know or couldn't decide or felt that it was important for some reason to take that block of text and put it in two places, right? Uh so again, there's n nothing there should diminish the authenticity or authority of those scriptures It was just that they were duplicated in the composition of the Psalms as a book. Go ahead. That's exactly right. It's usually in some sort of an offset italic or bold or something like that above the uh the psalm itself. But those are there in the original languages and in the early manuscripts of those psalms, and we've tried to bring them in faithfully as opposed to some Bible translation organization adding it for your help. That's what I was really trying to get at there. Many people don't don't mind that. Um and then a quick hustle. I'm gonna focus I'm going to focus on some of the tools that I think are most important, and if you have questions about the others, either email me or just Catch me some other time and I'll talk to you about them. Um I want you to know that the Psalms should be prayed and sung, and Doug has already graciously offered to uh Assist with that in some way. I don't know what that's going to look like yet, so I can't tell you, but we are going to try to sing some of the songs. Um hold on just a second. Okay. Um I want to recommend to you two books on Which I may not approach. Two books on praying the Psalms. You'll see them there. One is Martin Luther's A Simple Way to Pray, and the other one is Donald Whitney's Praying the Bible Um praying the Bible may be a less unfamiliar style to many of you. He's a a modern author, and as a matter of fact, I I think Tess at Leaf may have actually recommended that book to me when we were working through another book on prayer Um as a small group. So that'll be a more familiar style to you. We've really enjoyed both, and both of them commend praying the Psalms. I would heartily encourage you to take this on as part of your devotional time uh over the next ten weeks. Um there's a good list of psalms set to uh what I think is very interesting music um and by interesting I mean that I think it's faithful uh somehow to the period of the Psalter and um it's certainly not the only one but I've given you a link there. Um There is no endorsement of the church that that link is associated to. I don't mean that I disagree with everything there, but I certainly strongly disagree with many things. And uh so just look at the psalms and look at the music and if anything else offends you, ignore it. Um There's uh a website there for the psalter. org. There are four different copies of the Psalter there, including what is really the most common, uh, which is included in something called the Trinity Hymnal So if you say Trinity Hymnal, somebody asks you if you have a red, black, or blue one, you'll see them on the cover, but it's just commonly known hymnal that contains a Psalter uh to tunes that are meant for you know people in the nineteenth and twentieth and twenty first, I guess, uh centuries to be able to sing. And so some really good prayer and song versions of the Psalter there. I'm going to focus on my three uh favorite uh psalms uh studies here by nothing else If you don't want to buy anything, just use the Blue Letter Bible, first of all. It's fantastic. It gives you the Greek and the Hebrew helps. It's got commentaries associated with it from Guzzix, Study Light, I think is his organization, but uh Guzix, it's got Spurgeon cross-references in there, um Jamison Fawcett, Brown. Um it it it has just a a a good uh more recently I feel like they have ma uh MacArthur commentaries associated with the Blue Letter Bible test too. I don't know if it's there for the songs But it's a free app on just about any device you can think of and uh super good way just to read and study compared to alternate translations and parallels, just Really easy tool to use and it's free. So if you want to spend no money at all on this one, then just use the blue letter Bible and you'll be in a good place. If you don't mind spending a few dollars, I believe this is under 20 bucks This is the Mautyer's Psalms Day by Day. We have given out tens of copies of this book. You can get it on Kindle. This is a Kindle form here. It has all the footnotes as well. Um that pop up when you click on the links and stuff, so it's got a lot of footnotes. Um But this is just fantastic. It is his own translation directly from the Hebrew. He is very faithful with all of the names. Um it does get a little clumsy sometimes for you know an English reader to read, but I I just find this I found this to be an extraordinary aid in studying the Psalms. I probably discovered this, I don't know, five, six years ago, so about halfway, you know, we'd already been through the Psalms a couple times. I'd already endeavored to study it well. I still recommend this more than any other book and it's it's under twenty bucks. Get this. Um even if you don't use it in this class, get this book. Um If getting the book is a problem for you and you want it, come see me. I'll add you to my list of people I gave the book to. Um my second recommendation is uh if you're really feeling ambitious, um This is uh edited by Trumper Longman, which I'll tell everybody here. I I don't like him and don't ever recommend him, but the book itself is written by Van Gameron And um it it is really good. Umly fault for me is that it's a translation of the NIV, which I don't enjoy. Um nothing wrong with it, I just don't like it. Um Really helpful. This is the one I've used for most of the ten years and I have never regretted owning this book. Obviously, you know, you pay by the pound and uh so it's a little little bit more expensive. But if you're looking at something that really covers the range of hey I want to geek out and and find all these nuanced references to language and culture and all those other things, it's in here. Flip side, I I would like to just kind of understand the themes of the psalm, also in here. A lot of extra helps on things like What does this mean? There so there'll be a little section, for instance, on Yahweh in the name of God, or on the temple and the way people thought about the temple, or The Old Testament conception of death or things like that. So there's a lot of helps in this book too. It's a very approachable book, even though it's got some sections in it that are super rough to read. And then my third one is a newer reference for me. This is also pay by the pound. These two are the complete psalms. This is only 1 through 72. There's an equally thick volume for the remaining ones. My wrist is hurting and I didn't want to carry both. This first volume was written by Gerald Wilson, and it's recognized as a preeminent commentary for the layperson on the Psalms. It is exceptional. Um and I've commented on it in here. Um the second volume he died, and the second volume was written by two of other people. Uh they did their best to write the way he would have written it and so they're pretty good. They're just not as good as the first volume, but still exceptional. But the two volumes that will run you almost a hundred bucks. So Uh I I'm not saying you have to get it, I'm just saying it it's a really good one uh to get. And then I think oh, one one I I said three, but I didn't go for. One more, this is a two-volume set by a guy named Garrett Kirchner. It's also very good. It covers all of the psalms. No psalm gets more than about two or three pages of attention. He just does a really nice job of hitting all of the important stuff But like here it is and and then he moves on, right, rather than drive a nail through it all day long. Uh again, if you do any uh serious study of the Psalms, you cannot escape uh uh Derek Kidner's uh work on the Psalms. It will pop up in every review that you do of the Psalms and is often interacted with in other works as well. And then if I could take one more moment on those just as a caution lest somebody uh really have an aneurysm at a later date. Most of the s really good commentaries on the Psalms are written by people that have a covenant theology background I don't know why that is. I I don't claim to know why that is. That wasn't my choice or my bias. It's just what happens. So two things that you'll see pop up. uh lightly but nonetheless pop off all the time in just about every one of these commentaries that I mentioned to you. Everyone will um there's uh Pedobaptist um Bent, so child baptism, but more to the point, um uh uh more to the point there is an allusion to um Provisional inclusion in the covenant, in the covenant, in God's covenant as a child, right? Meaning people that have never made a profession of faith have no knowledge of what God has actually done in their lives, no no clear understanding of the gospel A covenant theologian would tell you that there's a provisional inclusion in the covenant as a result of just being the child or within the household of believing parents. or believing household leaders, right? That that's nowhere in scripture. Um and so you can just dismiss that. Um I don't think it's a heavy current in there, but you will see it occasionally and I just want you to kind of notice that, oh well, you know, they're kinda in the covenant because they're somehow in the household of Well that's that's not in scripture. Um so dismiss that part, and then the other one is a supersessionist uh ilk and and and then all that means is that the church fully replaced Israel. And that that is not what we believe. We believe in geopolitical promises to the nation of Israel, and we believe that those geopolitical promises will be satisfied in Christ when he comes And I think that's really clear, particularly as you start moving into Revelation. I don't understand much about Revelation, but the fulfillment of the geopolitical promises to Israel is something I feel like is right there in Revelation, is easy to understand. Um and so you'll see a lot of you you you actually see this a little bit heavier, the the idea that the church fully replaces Israel in in a lot of these commentaries. That's not true. Uh or at least We can't find it in scripture and so we don't support it. So those are two things you just want to be careful of as you read through those. I am not recommending either of those to you. Please don't say that I am. You will get me in a lot of trouble. Um and other than that, uh you see the schedule of the Psalms and we'll get started next week on actually studying the Psalms instead of uh me trying to get you ready to study the Psalms.