Alright. I think we can go ahead and get started here. It looks like most of us have found a seat. And it's nice. You guys are a great looking group. So happy to see you. All right. Well, um my name is Ann Jordan and I live in Northern Virginia. If I told you the town, you would never have heard of it anyway. So Northern Virginia, I attend Grace Bible Church, and my husband has been a pastor there for about eight years. So today we are going to talk about putting away bitterness. Have you ever found yourself ruminating over a complicated or difficult issue for months or even years? Have you felt a hurt that is deep, but you just really can't put your finger on what to do about it? Have you found yourself disappointed in the people around you on a regular basis? Or have you decided to just end relationships mentally because you've given up on your expectations ever being met? I have struggled with all of these things at different times over the course of many years. And I've determined that at the root of all of them is bitterness. I want to live a free life, joyful and unhindered by disappointment I want to be so concerned with what God has for me that there's no room for anger or upset feelings when I don't get my way. I want to live in the freedom Christ offers because I'm so content with exactly what God has given me that no one can do anything that would cause me to be bitter. So I did what all believers do when we struggle with sin. I went to God's word. Now putting away bitterness is kind of like putting away groceries. You do not put away groceries by coming home, taking a seat, and just looking at them. It takes work and effort. You are bending over and you're reaching high and maybe you're going up to the second floor, to a linen closet, or out to the garage where you store things It is an active pursuit, and so is putting away bitterness. We have to actively fight this desire we have to claim our own rights and hold on to grudges. Everything in our sinful selves does not want to show mercy. It wants to be on top. So we must work at it and we must have a plan. We need to identify those errant thoughts and choose to show mercy. So today we are going to dive into what this looks like. and do a little dissecting of our thought life to see if we can stay off the road of bitterness and instead show mercy. Charles Spurgeon says, many people are born crying, live complaining, and die disappointed. They choose a bitter pull pill which they would not even know to be bitter if they had the sense to swallow it whole in a cup of patience and water. Oh, how true. And don't we all find ourselves complaining, disappointed, and crying at some point in our lives? We all struggle at some point. But God has given us an opportunity to work through these trials with some very sound wisdom in His Word for how to tackle it. So we're going to start by thinking about what bitterness is and how it presents itself. So if you would, please open your Bibles to our Anchor Verse, which will be in Ephesians chapter 4. And I should mention there is an outline as well in your program, so please feel free to open to that. Page 17? Thank you. All right, page 17. So Ephesians chapter 4, and our anchor verse is going to be verses 31 and 32. And we're going to look here for instruction on what bitterness is and how to put it away. And we're going to start with verse 31, as that gives us an introduction to bitterness. So Ephesians 4. 31 says, let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. When I read this for the first time, I thought, wow, bitterness is in this kind of long list. And I'm really only going to have time to focus on just bitterness. But as I studied it further, I realized that this list of words really defines what happens to a bitter person. These words are all put together for a very specific reason, and I think we'll be able to see how these things can play out in our lives. So let's break down the verse by our key words. First, bitterness. This is hateful or resentful thoughts towards another person or God. Today I am really just going to focus on bitterness towards others and not God. Some of the ideas do overlap, but I believe that with our time I can just cover one of them So I wanted to cover bitterness towards other people. Bitterness can be both of spirit and of speech Next, wrath translates as an extreme anger and harshness. And that is what we see in our actions towards others when we are bitter. It's that callous and careless way we can treat someone when we're upset with them. Anger here is a more um lasting resentment, and that's what builds up over time and becomes bitterness. Clamor is loud shouting. And unfortunately you have probably witnessed this or even done this yourself. When you are angry or have pent up resentment towards someone, slander is making evil insinuations and statements about another person. This is verbal, and we can polish this up a bit, can't we? I mean, even in the name of a prayer request, we could explain pretty vividly the evil we think someone else is doing I'm not saying that it's always slander, but slandering someone can be a temptation when you're with a close friend and you just feel the need to vent. Malice is the intent to do evil, and this is the secret root of everything that preceded it. There's just no good intent with what is going on. So in this verse, we see all packaged in one the actions and thought life of a bitter person. We see lasting resentment and lashing out and slandering or gossiping about someone. All of these are sins, and we're commanded not to do them. But it can be a slow, long, and slippery slope to get there. No one sets out to have this characterize their relationship with someone. It sneaks up on us if we are not on guard. So I'd like for us to take a moment to ponder our own hearts I would like for you to think about someone you may have conflict with, or have been hurt by, or maybe you just disagree with. Have you ever felt or acted like this towards them? First, just giving up. Feeling like you just can't deal with someone anymore. You are done with the relationship and have given up on ever being better. Second, lashing out Doing that in response to the person or when you're not with them, you find that you're gossiping about them or slandering them. Maybe you've also resorted to yelling at them or threatening them to let them know how mad and hurt you are. Third is withdrawal. Just find yourself withdrawing from someone as best you can. You are trying to avoid them. Certain relationships we can't really get away from, like some family members or co-workers, so we do our best to spend as little time as possible talking with them or spending time with them. Now as a caveat, I understand that in some situations people do need to disconnect from others. An abusive relationship would be an example. But what I'm talking about are the ones you know that you should be making work, but instead you're pouting and pulling away. And then fourth, here is no resolution. So quarreling with someone over the course of months or even years and never fully resolving the issue. It just comes up its rear, its ugly head rears itself once in a while, and then a bunch of hurt and accusations surface. And then after time you forget about it until something causes you to get upset again. So if you have any of these four tendencies, and of course there are more, With a certain person, it could likely be the result of a bitter heart. I really like how Lou Priola describes this process of bitterness as an internal self-inflicting wound. It is the result of not forgiving others or responding improperly or unbiblically to an offense. Notice that bitterness is a hurt you cause to yourself. No one makes you become bitter. It is your response to someone or something that has happened. If we think about it as a self-inflicting wound, do we ever have to be bitter? I don't think we do. But do most of us get bitter at some point in our lives? I think many of us do. My goal is for us to think about what happens behind the scenes in our hearts for us to become bitter So we can identify the scenario before it happens. Bitterness is a response to something else that is going on. So I'd like for us to consider some general circumstances that can be a temptation for us to become bitter So hopefully here we've started to think about what bitterness is and how it can present itself. Now we want to focus on what gets us there. So this would be the second Roman numeral in your outline, the road to bitterness. So how do we get there? How do we become bitter? Well, bitterness starts with a hurt. So I think it makes sense to analyze what hurts us and why. For me, I needed to categorize what happens when I feel hurt. And you may be able to come up with more categories, but this is just my simple attempt to try and help understand what could be happening when I feel hurt. The hurts we feel are sometimes valid, and sometimes we are creating our own problems. Feelings of hurt can come quickly, but if we can think about why we are hurt and if the feeling is justified, that could take care of many of our bitterness problems. Choosing to look at a situation honestly and unselfishly can save us a world of drama and be a determinant for many other sin problems we struggle with. So this is the first of my three categories. Our first scenario is that we have someone sinning against us. Sometimes there is an intent to hurt you, and sometimes people sin and they don't really want to hurt you. So for example, someone lies to you. Maybe there was an intent to hurt you and maybe not. They may have just been trying to cover themselves or protect themselves rather than hurt you with the lie But either way, it hurts to be lied to and lying is a sin. In this case, they have committed a sin and so the process of forgiveness should occur So they admit it or you go to them. They ask forgiveness and you forgive them. Maybe they don't ask for forgiveness, but you still choose to forgive them. The point here is that there is something to forgive. We're going to look at forgiveness a little later in the presentation, but I just want to differentiate that sometimes when we when we are hurt there is a sin to be forgiven and sometimes there's not, like in the next two categories we're going to look at. So the second category is that someone sins, but it is not directly against you. So for example, you have a family member who struggles with anger. They've just flashed out at your child and you're feeling upset. It hurts you to watch them show such behavior, but does it make sense for you to go up to them and tell you and tell them that you forgive them? Were they angry at you? In this situation, we would say no. They have sinned, but the sin was not directed at you. You don't have anything to forgive. So many times with bitterness, we just feel we need to forgive someone to move on. But I think it gets a lot more complicated when forgiveness isn't the answer. There's really more than meets the eye So are you hurt because they sinned against you? No. So why are you hurt? You're hurt because it's hard to watch people hurt someone you love or hurt themselves with their own sin. And sometimes we can become bitter at them in the process. Watching someone make bad decisions and seeing others get hurt by the sin is really difficult. But what is the real issue here? This person needs to be confronted with their sin, or there might be another way that you can help them. Helping them with their sin is a totally different issue than you feeling hurt. So we need to take ourselves out of the picture and think about how to love others when they are sinning We change our thinking first. Ephesians 4. 32 gives us a lot to think about, and we are going to talk more about this later But I wanted to think of another section of Scripture that will help us love others and not become bitter towards them when they're sinning. So 1 Corinthians 13 says that love is patient in verse 4, and it bears all things and endures all things in verse 7. If the people we love always did the right thing, why would we need to be commanded to be patient and endure when dealing with them? The answer is that the people we don't love, the people we love don't always do the right thing, just like we don't So what we're talking about is not getting bitter at them in the process. So we're patient and we endure without becoming bitter. It's important to love others in this process, not just grin and bear it. So our focus becomes helping that person with whatever their sin is, which means sometimes we talk to them. This means you may have to confront a family member about their sin or train a child when they sin. Those things may need to be addressed. And sometimes it means we are to remain quiet. But either way, we need to have love in our hearts for that person rather than becoming bitter. Okay, the next category is that no one has sinned at all, but you feel hurt. I honestly think that this could be one of the most common situations that cause bitterness. This one and that last one, they're they're tricky. We're really having to consider if someone has sinned and what their motive is. And these both involve knowing what's in a person's heart and we don't have the ability to peer into someone's heart unless they tell us honestly what's going on. This category is all about our own preferences and how we want people to act. It's all about expectations, and I think we all know what kind of trouble that can get us in. So as an example, let's say that you're good friends with two other ladies. You've been a close friend group of three since high school. And you notice last month that the other two went out to lunch and didn't ask you to join them. No problem the first time, but Then you notice they did it again last month or this month because they posted it on Facebook. So you felt a little hurt the first time and now you are really wondering what is going on You're definitely feeling left out and hurt. Did your friends sin against you by not inviting you? Well, it depends on their motive. If they were purposely trying to get revenge at you for something you had done, then yes. But let's just say that's not the case. Maybe they were meeting to plan a huge 40th birthday surprise party for you. Ah, no sin involved there. Maybe they have children the same age and they're just getting closer and drifting apart from you. That's not a sin. There doesn't have to be a reason that considers you. It could just be that they want to hang out together But many times in life we don't have true insights into why people do what they do. We just know we didn't get our own way, so we get hurt and then become bitter because we haven't forgiven them. But maybe there is nothing to forgive. The problem is our own um biblical thinking, and that's what we need to correct. 1 Corinthians 13 is helpful to us again. Verse 4 says, love does not envy, and verse 5 says it does not insist on its own way. Verse 5 also says love is not irritable or resentful. And verse 7 says love believes all things, or we think the best of those in our lives. So this situation with the three friends could be easily taken care of by the friend who is being left out. She could focus on not being envious or insisting on being included. She could even be happy for her friends getting together rather than becoming irritable and resentful. Is this easy? No. But is it better than becoming bitter? Yes. Why? Because it honors the Lord and will save us a heap of trouble and drama in the process. The point is that we need to work on our own hearts in this situation. But many times we can become bitter over preferences and feel trapped because forgiving someone doesn't seem like the right thing to do either. It's necessary to change our own hearts and take less of a selfish approach. But this is tricky business So once we have taken the time to think about the hurt we are struggling with, you know, why it hurts, and our motives, then we need to think about how to respond. So what can we do to prime our hearts for good soil so that we don't allow it to become a nursing ground for the root of bitterness? Ephesians 4. 32 gives us three excellent commands, and these all combat the sin listed before it in verse 31. The remedy for having a bitter heart is found in verse 32. It says, be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. So Ephesians 4. 32 simply starts out by saying, be kind to one another, tender-hearted. I mean, this is the first thing we can do to combat bitterness in our lives. Kind means having or showing a friendly, generous, and considerate nature. It is to be affectionate or loving, courteous Tender-hearted means to be kind, caring, compassionate, sympathetic, warm, and gentle. These two words are so closer closely related that I believe Paul is just emphasizing the point. Rather than being bitter and angry and slandering someone We are to think of them with a soft heart. We should feel compassion for them and have a desire to be generous to them. There is a friendly affection towards them. Simple, right? Sure, when people are nice to us and doing exactly what we want them to do. But let's think about having this attitude Toward someone who has cheated you out of what belongs to you, robbed you of a close relationship with someone that you really care about, or has disappointed you in regards to something that you really desired. I think that in order for us to be kind and tender-hearted, we need to think about how we view God, how we view ourselves, and how we view others. So in order to be kind and tenderhearted, it is helpful to view God as our provider. You might be thinking that this is totally unrelated. But when we think about what's going on in our hearts when we are upset or bitter with other people, it's usually that they haven't given us what we want. We are expecting others to provide, and when they don't, we feel upset and hurt We see Paul as a great example for us in Philippians. So if you could turn to Philippians, we're going to hang out a little bit in chapter 4 and chapter 2. So go ahead and turn to Philippians. And we're going to start by looking at Philippians 4, 11 to 13. So Philippians 4, 11 and 13 says, Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Paul has been brought very low by other people. They have misaligned his name in order to ruin his reputation. They have hurt him physically by beating him. He's been separated from his friends as he spent time in jail. And someone has caused all those things to happen. I mean what an opportunity to be bitter and angry and to slander those who caused him harm. But instead we see him saying that the secret to getting through these troubling times is to be content. It is to trust that God has put him exactly where he needs to be. He finishes off this section by encouraging the Philippians in verse 19. by saying, God will supply their every need according to his riches and glory in Christ. So in order to stave off bitterness and be kind and tender hearted towards others, It's helpful to view God as our provider. When we don't do that, we can become easily disappointed and bitter. So here are some questions we can ask ourselves. Do we want others to provide what God has not? You know, we want our lives to be full and abundant, and while that's not a bad thing, sometimes we take it out on other people when it's not. We want other people to provide what the Lord hasn't. And it's easy to blame a spouse or a family member or a friend. When they make decisions that don't help me achieve my best life yet, we need to trust that the Lord has given us exactly what we need. when we are tempted to be unhappy with what someone else is doing. Next, are our expectations too high of others? Many times they are because we take a rather self-centered approach to life. So when we don't get what we want and expect from them, we feel hurt. Nursing that hurt can make it difficult to be kind, and instead we become bitter. Lastly, are we satisfied with what God has provided? A proper perspective on what God has provided will give us peace in relationships because we're satisfied with whatever God gives us in our lives. We will have a steady contentment with whatever is happening because we know God is in control and knows what is best for us. This mindset will guard us from feeling hurt. We won't expect those around us to provide what God has not. So as an example, let's say you're a mother of four young children and you had hopes of a doting grandma to be on the scene. Your grandmother had been very present and active in your life, babysitting you and spending time and money on you, and you're hoping for this special relationship to exist. with your children and your mom. It does not, in fact, exist with your children, but it does with your sisters. And it has caused you to feel hurt and bitter over time. So, how can our verses help us? First, we realize that God has provided exactly what your children need. He has not forgotten about them. And your mother has the freedom and opportunity to spend her time and money the way she chooses. The reliance is taken off of your mother and put on the Lord. We find ourselves learning to be content as we watch God supply our needs. Our response becomes kindness and tender-heartedness. Feeling happy for your mom that she has a special relationship with your sister's children. We learn to be happy for and care about the blessing that this is in your sister's life. This is not an easy task, but will bring peace and kindness to a relationship that could otherwise be strained and riddled with bitterness. Another way that we can learn to be kind and tenderhearted rather than bitter is to think about how we view ourselves. We should view ourselves with humility. So just turn back to chapter 2 in Philippians. We're going to look at Philippians 2. 3. So Philippians 2, 3 says, Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. This is a picture of a humble person looking to the needs of others. We don't see overactive, selfish ambition here, but someone with a kind and tender heart looking to serve others. So a question to ask. Do we feel the world should revolve around us? This happens when selfish ambition takes over. We are so consumed with our own lives that we expect others to make decisions in our best interest Of course, we know typically people aren't making decisions thinking about our lives. But when we expect it, It is easy to be hurt by others' insensitivity to our perceived needs. An example of this could be realizing that people, even family, make decisions that might be best for them and not for you. So now another example. We're going to picture yourself as a grandma since we kind of picked on her in the last example. So a possible scenario is that you have an adult daughter moving away with your grandchildren. She has lived by you for years and you have such a special relationship with them. But now, because of a job opportunity, your daughter and her husband will be moving across the country. I did this to my mom, by the way. You know you will see them very little, and the thought of this relationship deteriorating is very difficult. And it's easy to feel hurt and to become bitter at the sweet relationship they have ruined. So, how do we view this in light of our verses? We need to take a humble view of the situation and change our view of ourselves. Instead of feeling like we deserve a special, specific treatment, we look to the interests of others. When we are others focused, we will not be easily hurt. It's much easier to work towards kindness when we aren't focused on what we deserve or are entitled to. When we see ourselves in a humble and a lowly estate, we do not expect to be treated as higher than aught. Rather than feeling hurt, we rejoice in what God is doing in others' lives. So we are happy for our daughter and son-in-law and root for them to do well. Another question to ask is, as we reflect on our own sin, are we more compassionate towards others and theirs? And we're to think of ourselves as humble sinners in need of a Savior. So when we are dealing with the reality of our own sin, it is not as easy to view others in a negative light. You know, usually we feel so consumed with what we need to work on that it's hard to be absorbed in what others are doing wrong. We are much more tender-hearted towards others' feelings when we humbly look at our own failings and sins. So let's say you have an unbelieving spouse or an unbelieving adult child or a good friend that's an unbeliever. The decisions they make are detrimental to themselves and to you, just having a horrible effect on others you love. It is very difficult not to feel bitter towards them because of their choices. Our view of ourselves will help us here. We see ourselves in the same vein as them, sinners in need of a savior, but they haven't received a savior. So we don't withdraw from them or give up. We are to have compassion towards them and humbly pray for them to receive the grace that we have received. Hopefully, this will allow us to feel tender-hearted towards them in their sin, rather than feeling angry and becoming bitter because of the mess they have made. The next thing we want to consider as we strive to be kind and tender-hearted is how we view others. We want to keep their interests in mind as we serve them. So we just looked at Philippians 2. 3, so let's continue on to verse 4. It says, let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. The humility that we talked about in verse 3 sets us up to look to the interests of others, as we see here in verse 4. Consider the interests of others, not just our own. We live in a culture that is all in for themselves. I mean we are willing to help others, but at times only as much as we get something back. That's why we need to be reminded to not only look out for ourselves, but for others. We are to serve others when it is difficult. We look out for their interests, not when it is easy or they are easy to take care of, but because God has placed us in their lives for a reason. So let's persevere when dealing with others. Let's also remember that others are growing just as we are growing. Let's remember that God is doing a work in their hearts or might even save them if they are unbelievers. Don't give up so quickly on others and ourselves. When others are struggling with sin, it's easy to lose hope and become bitter, especially if their sin affects us. But what would help them grow spiritually? What is in their best spiritual interest? Will getting angry and bitter help them? I don't think so. But there are numerous ways to handle it biblically depending on the situation. We could confront with gentleness. We could wait patiently while the Lord convicts our spirits We could lead by example in the area that they're struggling with. There are so many ways we can help someone who is struggling. But to have that kind and tender attitude toward them is easiest when we remember that we too are growing. We are to persevere in doing what is best for their spiritual interests. So, another scenario. Maybe you have taken on some leadership and planning rules at your church. You have spent hours emailing, coordinating with others, and studying to prepare for an event. But when the day comes, very few women show up. You are tempted to feel like your work has been in vain And you start to feel bitter that you are the only one doing all the work and that these other women couldn't even inconvenience themselves for an hour to show up You start to feel bitter towards the church and upset about the time you have given. It's not that you're upset with one particular woman But the general idea of serving the church has lost its luster. The problem here is more than likely a heart that is self-consumed. Rather than serving the Lord by serving others, we are looking to see how successful we can be We want to see immediate fruits from our labors, but many times in ministry, we do not The God-ordained service you have just done may be to bless one person who really needs it. Or maybe it is a lesson in serving when you see no return. But becoming bitter with the church, God's bride, is not the answer. We must turn our hearts to Christ and be willing to serve because we are others consumed. Not because we see specific results. So as we evaluate our thoughts on being kind and tender-hearted, let's consider how God provides the humility we should exhibit, and the selfless focus we should have when dealing with the difficult people or circumstances God has placed in our lives. So as we move on to our fourth Roman numeral on our outline, we're going to turn back to our anchor verse in Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4. 32. In addition to being kind and tender-hearted, we are to forgive one another, as God in Christ forgave you. So this leads us to our next steps for keeping bitterness at bay. We are to forgive one another. Forgiveness is a gracious attitude toward one another. We are to put the offense away, not bring it up again, not use it against someone. When a debt is forgiven, it is no longer owed. We see here that God is our example of how to forgive. And I think there are two things that we can see in God's example of forgiveness. He does it sacrificially and completely. So we'll start with forgiving sacrificially. We are forgiven as God in Christ forgave us. It took the death of Jesus for us to be completely forgiven by God. So it cost God the death of his son in human form. This was his sacrifice. So we too are to forgive sacrificially. That means we forgive to our detriment. But what are we giving up? So when we're sinned against, something has been taken from us. Whether that be our dignity, our hope to be cared for in a special way, or a material item like money or keepsakes. Any of those things could be taken away. When we forgive, we are saying we will not take revenge and we will not blame them for the loss. That's what we give up. It's hard to give up the right to blame others for our hardship. And to go a step further, we are acknowledging that we love the person and want the best for them. This is also a way we look to the interests of others and not to ourselves. So the reason we are to forgive is because Christ, our Master, sacrificially has forgiven us. So if we pause and think about the price of our forgiveness, the death of Jesus on the cross, and the fact that we have done nothing to deserve it, this gives us the proper perspective. We are to remember the great mercy with which we have been forgiven and then extend that to others. So how can we have a grateful response towards others? When we are willing to sacrifice our rights and see ourselves as not deserving of the forgiveness God has given us. We can be grateful, have a grateful response to what happens, rather than just expecting what we want. We can rest peacefully, trusting that as we forgive others, They have not transgressed against us nearly what we have transgressed against God. The amazing thing about sacrifice is that it also brings gain. When we are hurt and in pain, forgiving actually helps relieve some of our own pain. We let go of the bitterness and anger. And that provides us more rest and freedom. So in the process of sacrifice, we are blessed as well. I have a friend who has been in some tough circumstances and could feel a lot of resentment. But she chooses just to move on, forgive, and live in freedom. She's told me it's not worth the time or energy to be consumed by resentful thoughts in bitterness. I think she's a great example, and there is definitely gain and sacrifice The next thing we can learn from God's example of forgiveness is that it is to be done completely. Verse 32 says, God in Christ forgave you. So forgave. It's in past tense. It is done. He will not change his mind or the outcome. You are forgiven. It is complete. I mean what freedom we feel on the receiving end. But do we extend that kind of forgiveness to others? This entails the idea of not bringing the offense up again and not using it against someone. Isn't this so difficult to do? Many times I think we partially forgive others, which isn't really forgiveness. And this is where bitterness shows itself. We mull the sin over and over again in our minds. We go back and replay what should have happened, what the person should have done. But that is not reality. It doesn't make sense to keep meditating on something you can't change. But we feel justified in doing it. Isaiah 43. 25 says, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake. And I will not remember your sins. God forgives us and chooses not to remember or dwell on our sins. Of course, God knows everything, so it's not like he can forget, but he is choosing not to act on it. He makes a promise and doesn't go back and forth based on a changing whim or feeling. When we are hurt and forgive someone, we can usually still remember that hurt. It's not like someone wipes our memory like in a sci-ci movie, but we have a choice not to dwell on it. And this is usually based on the promise we have made. Feelings can lead us to many unwarranted places, but we have to go back to the promise we have made and choose to act based on that, not on our feelings. In order to forgive completely, we also have to have the proper perspective. Playing God rather than humbly responding to the circumstance will cause us to remain bitter. We should let go of our desire for control and just trust the Lord with what He has given us. And this brings in our view of God. We are so small in comparison to him, but don't we long to justify our rights and entitlements so dearly? Forgiveness focuses on the sovereignty of God. Joseph was hurt by his brothers that chose to forgive them. Even though he did not like what happened to him, he saw the bigger picture in what God was ready to use him for. Genesis 5020 tells us that what his brothers meant for evil, God used for good. It is easy to become resentful when we are harmed, but God always has an intended use for that pain. It's an opportunity to grow in our walks, to mature, and to die to self. When we are pricked, we are vulnerable and at times more open to the things of God. We can trust in God's sovereignty and it will help us to forgive because we see a bigger picture in our lives. So for our fifth Roman numeral on our outline, we want to think about why overcoming bitterness is worth it. This is a fight we must win. As we look through the list of sins in Ephesians 4. 31 that come with the sin of bitterness, it does not provide a pretty picture. Who wants to be described as someone who is full of bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and slander This sounds like an evil and sad person, but yet sometimes we allow these nasty, self-inflicting sins to creep in and pollute our thoughts and actions and our witness for Christ. Not to mention that it is a deterrent in our desire to honor the Lord in all we do. We know we don't want to be overcome by this evil, but biblically How do we handle this and win the fight, not just call it a stalemate? So bear with me. We're going to turn one more place, Romans 12. We could turn to Romans 12. We're just gonna, I'm just gonna pull just a few truths out of the section uh Romans 12, 9 to 21 All right, so Romans twelve, nine to twenty-one. We're going to jump to the end of this section, Romans 12. 21. It says, do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. This is our synopsis of this section in 9 to 21. So we have this picture here Step one is don't be overcome by evil. So in the context of what we're talking about today, don't be bitter and angry and slanderous. But step two is just as important. We are to overcome evil with good. So we are to be an overcomer. We are to be victorious. These are our next steps. We're working towards having the right mindset, and now we need to put some action with it. You must keep pursuing your opponent with good until you win the war. There is no place for stalemates or standoffs. You are not to be conquered, but to conquer. So we keep using the resources God has given us to fight the foe. Those resources are all good and not evil, but we do need to make a plan. So this section in Romans 12 will give us some practical ideas for dealing with difficult people in our lives. So, Romans 12, 9 to 10. From there we pick out that we are to have a genuine love with brotherly affection outdoing each other and showing honor. So when those feelings of anger or bitterness start to start to surface, think about how you can honor that person in your mind. Think about something you like about that person. Something nice they have done, or maybe a good decision they have made. Dwell on the true and noble and lovely things about that person, like we see in Philippians 4. 8. Have loving thoughts about them and honor them in your mind. Say something nice about that person to someone else. Then moving down to verse 12, that tells us to be constant in prayer. When those negative thoughts surface, replace them with prayer for that person. Immediately pray for that person. Not just that they will repent or change. But that God will work in their lives in mighty ways and that they will be blessed. Also, pray for help with your own thoughts towards them. Verse 13 tells us to show hospitality. Be generous with them Have them over for a meal or take them a meal. I mean, there are so many ways that we can be hospitable. The sky is the limit. The idea here is to be serving them. As we selflessly serve someone, our attitudes will change and we'll start to feel the love we're showing. Do something nice for that person. Do their chore or just serve them in a practical way. Verse 15 says to rejoice and weep with them. Care about what they care about, their hurts and their victories. Send them a card, a text, or an email with encouragement when they are down, or congratulations when things have gone well. This is how we allow us to start to root for them instead of feeling against them and help us to have compassion and a desire to see them grow. There are many other applications that we could pull out of this section here in Romans 12, and I would encourage you to study it for specific ways to love someone that you find hard to deal with. The idea is that we are focusing on doing good to this person, we struggle to be bitter with. We are overcoming this bitterness and moving on to blessing the person. Alright, so as a way to conclude, let's summarize. When someone offends you or you are tempted to dwell on an old offense, do you know how you will respond? Do you have a plan? Have you prepared your arsenal? If not, Lou Priola says you will most likely pick up the first Familiar but sinful weapon and use that. So here is a plan that sums up what we have talked about today. Analyze, cultivate, and take action. First, analyze your own heart. Is this really an offense, or am I feeling hurt when there is not a case for that? If someone has sinned against me, then I will need to forgive them. Next, we cultivate a general mindset with people, always priming our hearts for good soil. so that we don't plant those roots of bitterness and let them grow. When we interact with people who are difficult or not doing what we would like, we focus on being tenderhearted, kind, and forgiving. Lastly, we put some practical action steps into place where we are not just looking to get by, we want to overcome evil. We can take action with loving thoughts, prayer, hospitality, and genuine concerns for the other person. We'll end with a Charles Spurgeon quote. but turns the bitterness into sweetness itself. I love the contrasting words here. We have bitterness and sweetness. I mean even the sound of them either brings this feeling of great weight or just this joyful lightness. My prayer is that we not only replace bitterness with a sweetness of thought and action, but that in overcoming our bitterness, we find that process too as a sweetness. to our lives. Let us rely on the Lord and see His transforming power and love working in and through us to bring peace to our relationships. Let's pray. Lord, we we thank you for this time that we can just think about our own hearts, our actions and attitudes towards other people. I can't imagine that there's anyone that would say it's easy not to try and get our own way or just to expect things from others to meet our own needs. Father, I pray that you would help us all to just be able to evaluate where we are at with these things. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to take your word And just to uh apply it methodically, Lord, to our thought lives, how we view these difficult people in our lives. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to just work towards being kind and tenderhearted, that you would help us to forgive quickly, Father, so that we can have peace in our relationships Lord, we do thank you for your ultimate example of forgiveness in our lives. There's no way that we can even express the gratitude that we have. for you, Lord, and the forgiveness that you have given us. I pray that you would help us to just in mercy extend a little bit of forgiveness compared to what you have to others in our lives. Lord, we thank you for hope and that we can replace bitterness with sweetness. Lord, we thank you that that process in and of itself will just give us a sweetness in our lives because we've grown in you, we've matured, and we've seen your power working in us. And we pray all of these things in your name. Amen.