Well ladies, now I want to get a little serious and the first thing that I want to say is we thank you all for coming, for taking your time. and spending it with us in this conference. And do you realize that this conference is the best attended conference we have ever had? There is almost two hundred of you that came and we thank each and every one of you for coming And if you liked what you heard from Pastor Jack, we invite you all to come back tomorrow morning for our 11 o'clock worship service where he will be preaching. So put that on your calendars. Um I might have had something else to say. But I I've forgotten it. I'll say it later if I remember it. So now for for now I would like to invite Pastor Jack and Lisa to please come up And sit in these two hot seats that we have. And um Well, it worked. We really got a lot of questions after I told you all to get questions. So we We got a lot and I hope that we can get to them. But the first well now I'm going to say this. One of One of the perks of being the moderator is that I get to ask my question first. So that's what I'm going to do. And my question is directed to either Lisa or Pastor Jack. Do either of you know Who is the shortest man in the Bible? The build had the shoe heights. Oh slightly shorter than Neil Yes, most people say Zacchaeus, but he was a wee little man as before people say, but yeah, Nehi is pretty short. I went to the master's seminary. Okay, of all of these questions, there's only one that neither Lisa nor Pastor Jack can answer, but I can, so we'll do that first. And this person wrote, You said we could ask any question, so this question is what is the bookman's name? I know that one. And his name is Aaron Bauer In case you want to know the spelling, see me later. Okay, that one's done. Now, we try to sort these questions by category And the one that we had by far the most questions on was emotions and emotional stuff. Just to and I don't know if I'm oops. If I'm gonna um read 'em one at a time or all or just we're we're trying to call some things. I I'll I'll just sort of ask a few questions and then you two can opine on How does one find joy when constantly reminded of what you lack? Practical steps in the moment when someone makes a decision. Disparaging comment to you. How do you quiet pent-up emotions inside you that you know you ought not to voice Um what what can I do when I continually am evaluating my feelings and emotions and what ways would you say emotions are helpful and in what ways are they not? You said sometimes I really just need a good cry. And I'm putting off living By faith and asking how? How can we give him glory? Is it unhealthy to cry? Can we walk by faith? And still give vent to our emotions. your emotions, often not believing them, and especially how would you apply it to grief, such as when you get a bad report from a doctor And how can we apply these verses about victory to our lives And sometimes in a moment of anger I lack emotional self-control. How can I repent of that? And that's just sort of the whole thing on emotion so that she can speak on that. Um yeah that's right. Well some of those were really good and really specific. So in some ways I think it would be really helpful for us to deal with some of those specifics. But I was wondering if maybe you wanted to just start off with just an overview of I don't really have emotions. So, yeah. So um I think it's important to realize that God made us gave us emotions And emotions are fine and they're good. They work good as cabooses, but not as engines. We don't want them driving our life emotions. fluctuate and uh we often when we're hurt or something comes upon us like an armed man we can we respond wrongly. We get we get angry We get frustr flustered, we get, you know, sad or whatever it might be. Um, you know, we're gonna blow it because we have emotions. But we We just need to make sure that we confess, quick are quick to confess uh emotions that are are bad in that they deny God or deny his truth. Um you know really like when something happens and if you're if you're here tomorrow you'll hear it, but um If you're not gonna be here, I'll let the cat out of the bag a little bit. Gal not gonna be here, but uh they'll probably record it, but you can listen to it later That we didn't even remember that whatever happens to us, it it it comes from God's hand. God has never been surprised. He's never been like, whoa Jack, I didn't see that coming upon you. That is amazing. It's like, wow, I'm so sorry. No, he has decreed it from before the foundation of the world. He is working all things after the counsel of his will. And he has brought whatever trials you are suffering into your life for a good purpose because we know No, he causes all things to work together for good to those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. And though they may be painful, and though they may be prolonged though they may even end in death, they're still good for you. And what happens is I preached on this a while ago, I forget which sermon, but A lot of times when we have these promises in the Bible, we kind of take worldly thinking and we attach them to the promises of God, which are kind of an eternal nature and we think that everything God promises we should get right now in this life. When really even if If you were to be persecuted and be burned at the stake, you would still get what I described just a minute ago. So part of dealing with emotions is just making sure that you bring them in submission to the Word of God, hopefully before you blow it. And you can do that by hiding God's word in your heart, letting the word of Christ richly dwell within you. And when things come upon you, especially areas that you know are your weaknesses that you know whenever this happens I find myself responding in this ungodly way. Memorize some verses and as soon as you start feeling that you quote those verses. To yourself and ask the Lord for help so that you might not sin against him. And if you blow it like we all do, then you say, Lord, I'm feeling this way But I know your word says, and you bring your emotions in submission to the Word of God. And that's what you have to do. It's a lifelong thing. for every single person. Even people who don't seem to have much emotions, they do. They just st are good at stuffing them. Oh that's so great. Yeah I appreciate that. I was um one of the psalms that I have been meditating on and enjoying a lot this last year is Psalm 37. And it Psalm 37 is stuffed full with do not fret, which I think And then it talks about what's going to happen with them. They will wither quickly like the grass and fade like the green herd. And then it says, Trust in the Lord, do good, dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord, trust also in him, and he will And then it goes on. Rest in the Lord, wait patiently. Again it's that do not fret. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Do not fret. It leads only to evil evil doing. And it's that last do not fret. It leads only to evil doing in Psalm thirty seven eight. That really is kind of the the culmination of that section is when we are dealing with situations and we're responding and we're we are feeling frustrated or angry or bitter or resentful, we want to um get revenge or whatever it is, God says don't fret. Don't fret because of the evildoers. Don't fret. Why? Because it leads to evil doing. Well what is the evil doing? It's sin in us. So when we give in to fretting, it leads to sin in us. And so we are told where to trust the Lord to do good. And so d doing good is basically what we talked about about earlier that we live by faith. That we take our our frustrations, our the things that we're struggling with And we talk to the Lord, just like Jack just talked about. We talk to the Lord. Lord, I'm feeling so tempted to give into vengeance or uh bitterness right now because of this situation but your word says not to fret about these things but to trust you instead and so Lord will you help me to do that help me to apply faith in the situation. You say not to fret. So I am going to um ask you to help me to do that. So and that's part of that whole process of of learning not to v give way or to vent in your feelings. Um, you know, w the proverbs are full of all the proverbs that say that you can always tell a fool a fool because he lets everyone know what he's thinking. Thinking or feeling. A fool is known by the words of his mouth. And well the reason you know, when we spout off, when we vent, then we are acting like fools And that is not the way of God. That is not the way that a wise woman or a woman who is smiling at the future is going to respond. So if we want to be wise in our ways, then we're going to be applying the scriptures. And I think one of the questions even talked about, well, what's the process? And so Jack talked about, you know, hiding God's word in your heart, Colossians 3. 6. I think that it's it's the missing link. Memorization and meditation on God's Word, which is just merely thinking on and seeing how you can apply God's word in your life. It's the missing link to overcoming sin and our lives. And if you're struggling to overcome sin, you're battling different areas in your life, I would encourage you, and I know you and Jack will have more to say on this, but just the the meditation, the memorizing of God's word will help you. It's the answer to our souls and it helps you work Worship the Lord. Anything else you want to say? Pretty specific and I don't know how how much you want to go into it, but this one that says are there any practical steps I can take in the moment when someone makes disparaging comments Yeah, and that one's a really hard one. Yeah. Yeah, this is this is the kind of thing I think. Well, if they make a discouraging com comment about you, why do they do that? Well, they probably don't know the Lord. And if they don't know the Lord and you know the scriptures, what does the scripture tell us about those who don't know the Lord? They're held captive by Satan to do his will. 2 Timothy 2 25. They are walking according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience, Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. And so it'd be It'd be unreasonable if somebody had cancer to get mad at them, right? Like would you ever rebuke somebody for having cancer? Well no, why? Because they can't help it. They didn't ask for it, they got it. Okay It's what it is. Well, when somebody doesn't know the Lord, they are spiritually dead. They don't love God. They don't love his ways. They're held captive by Satan to do his will. They're walking according to And so just understanding and having compassion that if it were not for the grace of God I would be like that person. And instead of getting frustrated and being like, boom, why don't you see them as the mission field? It is Is a gracious response in the face of an ungracious response that shows the fruit of the Spirit and the love of God and is the best witness Because by this meant this way all men will know that you are my disciples by your what? Your love for one another. Mm-hmm. Philippians two, fourteen through sixteen says, Do all things without grumbling or disputing, so that you will prove yourselves to be blessed. Blameless and innocent children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among you appear among whom you appear as Lights in the world, holding forth the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory, because I did not run in vain nor toil in vain. So in a situation where um you're being treated unfairly, the first thing that we want to do is we might not grumble out loud, but we're gonna grumble in our spirits. Um but it whether it's out loud or in our spirits is still grumbling. And so we're told do all things without grumbling or disputing. Why? Because when we Take those things to the Lord, it proves that we are God's children. It says it proves that we are blameless and innocent. Children of God, that we are above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. Where are we living? We're living in a crooked and perverse generation generation they will disparage they will criticize they will find fault but how are we supposed to live we are to live as lights in the world And so it's just an opportunity for us to shine Jesus to a world that's hurting. Whenever they're unkind to us, it's because And so it's such an opportunity for us to take the hurt that they're giving to us. We can run that to Jesus. They don't have anybody that they can run their hurt to And so that's why they lash out. And I think uh just kind of remembering the bigger picture always um helps me. Um and then sometimes I I just think about well what if Jesus said to me in this moment and he maybe he leaned over and said I want you to receive this Just like I received these disparaging comments. And how are you going to respond now in this? I've given this to you for you to bear it well. And how are you going to bear it for my name's sake? And uh that helps me to remember that I need to follow in Jesus' footsteps. I am not going to be any different than my master. And so it encourages me to in that situation. I'll give one more text here. Romans twelve, if you want to study this, um, it would be good. beginning of the chapter. It talks about some Paul talks about doctrine all the way up through chapter 11. And then he says in chapter 12, I urge you therefore brethren by the By the mercies of God to present your body as a living, holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. Lest you be like him, but be what transformed by the renewing of your mind, so you study God's word, let it re dwell in your trees, so that you may prove To who? To the world. To the world what the will of God is, that which is good, acceptable, and perfect. And then he talks about uh the body a little bit, but in Verse nine he says this, and this is like a machine gun thing that you can study if you're trying to memorize some stuff to keep your emotions and just listen to how many he addresses. Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil. Cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in botherly love. Give preference to one another in honor Not lagging behind in diligent, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, persevering in tribulation, devoted to prayer, contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality. And you're thinking, well, yeah, but what if they're mean to you? Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice Weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind towards one another. Do not be haughty in mind, but associate with the lowly. evil. To anyone. Paul always does that. It's like, but we're No, you don't there's no loophole here. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you will be at the But if you have a If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him drink, for in do so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Do you see that? That is a really good section to just help you get your mind wrapped around not the fleshy response of mean for mean, tit for tat, but a gracious response for what is mean. And knowing even if they get away with it, even if you're false Even if you get sent to prison or your husband gets sent to prison or your children get sent to prison or you all get sent to prison and you die and pine away there. Every Injustice, every evil will be dealt with by the Lord. And no one's getting away with anything unless they place their faith in Christ and then He takes it all. for us. So good. I I don't want to belabor this, but she walked all the way up here with with this question. Maybe a short answer. How can we know the difference between venting and showing our heart and struggles. I I would say the difference between communicating how you're feeling versus venting is communicating about your feeling is in the spirit and venting Okay? When we vent, we're sinning. But when we're communicating our feelings and we're able to Sometimes we we might even have heightened emotions, but they still need to be in the fruit of the spirit, which is what? Love. Right. Yeah. So you guys know so the all the peace, the patience, the kindness, the goodness, the gentleness, that faithfulness, that needs to be our conversation And so if we are venting and it's wicked and it's unkind and it's not true and it's not in the fruit of the spirit, if it's not gentle then it's it's wrong. So that's how you can tell the difference. You know? Are you would you be embarrassed to be speaking that way in front of Jesus or in the foyer in front of everybody and those are those kinds of questions that we have to ask ourselves. It's like if if somebody played this on the speaker at church, would I be embarrassed or would I be fine with what there's you know, hearing my words again. Um and if we're not afraid to have our words repeated, um then it's probably gonna be fine. You're not gonna be sinning by sharing those feelings and now we'll move on to some questions about faith and trust. The first did Abrahams having a child with Hagar Or show lack of faith? Or is it is it just his struggle? Yeah. Yeah, so um yeah, so you know in that one text and first 1 Peter chapter 3, where it says, Wives be submissive submissive to your husbands. For if any of the even if any of them are disobedient to the word Well, who does it go on to talk about? Sarah, who is the champion. Why? Because she was married to a disobedient husband. Abraham should di was not I guess exercising faith when God says you are going to have a child from your own loins and he took Hagar to try and please his wife. Now Pleasing your wife is good, but not if it means sinning against the Lord. And just think of all the grief that brought him after that that decision. And then he went and lied about his wife. twice giving her to other men putting her purity in I mean that's like Herculean insane submission but both times he said they'll kill me and And so in order like well I don't want my husband to be killed, so I'm willing to do this super dumb thing in order to prevent this thing that my husband f tells me is gonna happen, but she didn't know. Abraham was a not exercising faith. So even though he is the father of faith, he was definitely not sinless. And so yes, he should have said no to that. Yeah. Yeah, I think and part of the the question I think even behind that is from uh Romans four which we were looking at where um Abraham is an example of faith. You know, Paul lifts him up and um that he hoped in God and hope against hope Abraham. And he didn't waver. Um, you know, um so we see that in Romans four as probably the the background on that. And yet he wasn't perfect, um, which we kind of talked about And yet we have the testimony of Romans 4 from the Word of God preserved for us that Abraham trusted So even though there's the whole Hagar thing, it was the context is is him believing the Lord in relationship to the Abrahamic covenant in that he would be blessed, his his people would be blessed, that from his seed, the Lord Jesus Christ, all the nations of the world would be blessed and that they would inherit the land. So they had those three pieces of what is called the Abrahamic covenant. And he didn't waver in that. And that's why the author of Hebrews in chapter Hebrews 11 in the Great Hall of Faith talks about him and all those other people never receiving what was promised in this life. See that's the eternal perspective we all need to have. God may give us what is promised in this life, some things But a lot of times we don't live for this life. This world is not our home. We are ambassadors. We're we're here for a time and then we're gonna go back. Like Thomas Watson says, who would be so foolish? To so fall in love with their with an inn that they're staying in a night or two is so as to forget their home. Yeah. Heavens are home. Yeah Amen to that. Okay, another one on faith. How do you balance when to wait quietly or standing in trust with needing to take action in a trial. In other words, removing yourself from family and or friends for a time or needing to quit your job. Yeah. Well, a couple things. There's a really great verse in Ro uh Daniel chapter eleven. Daniel Levin's one of those chapters if you've never studied prophecy and even if you have it's kind of a nightmare. The King of the North, the King of the South, thinking of the North, the King of the South, thinking of the North, thinking of the South. And Blank months But there's this really great phrase in there when it talks about the Antichrist and his persecutions, and it says this. And they who know their God. stand firm and take action or they display strength or take action it can kind of be they they they act with defense Or there's the text and chronicles about the sons of of Korah who who knew the times and knew what Israel should be. And so there's a lot of scriptures that talk about waiting on the Lord, like the end of Isaiah. You know, they who wait in the Lord will gain new strength, they will mount up with wings as eagle, they will walk in the Or the end of Psalm twenty-seven, you know, about be strong, let your heart take courage, because it's hard to wait. Yes, wait on the Lord. So there's a bunch of scriptures about waiting on the Lord, and m my general kind of thing, and this is not infallible by any means is when I'm tempted to make a rash decision, I I try to ask myself this. If the decision needs to be made, I ask myself, can I make this decision in another day, in another week, in a month, like is this how how pressing is this? You know, if some false teacher is cruising through my body seducing women or whatever, I'm gonna act with immediacy on that. I'm not gonna pray about it for a month. Um but you know uh I want to make some change and the church service. It's not really an internal issue. It's kind of a preference or I want to deal with some issue, but I haven't really taught on it. You know what? I need to wait until I get to this passage so I can teach on it thoroughly and get people informed and then I'll take action. So I think when you s when you say take action, you you You have to ask yourself, you know, the situation, the context, and whether or not those you're taking action against or with or whatever have been informed or not, and whether Whether it's it can be delayed because a lot of times if you just pray about it and you ask the Lord to rescue you, a lot of times He will rescue you. while you stand by and see the salvation of God. And that has happened many times in my life where, you know, I had some elder or some whatever and I'm like, I had this one music pastor and oh it was a trial. It was just, you know, it was difficult. And I'm thinking, okay, what am I gonna do with the guy? I'm trying to be be kind to him and trying to but he keeps cutting into my sermon time and going way long and then I'm having like choppy apples And I I'm trying to be patient and I keep telling him, but he won't listen. And I'm just saying, Lord, you know, I'm about ready to get out the axe on this guy. But if you could like remove him, it'd be really great. That way I don't have to be the bad cop. The next Next week he said, you know, I'm gonna be moving on. I realize I'm just not in line with where the church is going. It was like You know, and it was great. And you know what? I could have acted rashly and he would have been hurt and a lot of people who liked him. would have been hurt and so yeah just ask talk to the Lord about it and say can I make this decision a little bit slower or does n information need to be given first or just try to do it in the most gracious way possible. So there's a book called The Peacemaker. And that book is really good about if you get into kind of walking horns with somebody, okay, what am I gonna do to be a peacemaker and to be gracious and kind and patient and display? That's great. Yeah, that's exactly what I would say. little specific and I'm not gonna read it all but this woman um her husband had an affair but he later confessed and repented and turned away from it. But But she says how can I trust that he won't betray me again? I'd like you to uh lead off on that. And here's why. Because um I think it's important to hear from a pastor on a situation like that because you You um in a situation like that you need to submit to your pastors. And so uh I hopefully you have, but in this situation just kind of addressing that from Sure. Yeah, I don't know the details, but uh there's a lot of situations like this that happen in the church in one degree or another. And And uh as a pastor, every situation has to be evaluated differently based off of what's happened. Like, you know, if a guy has a moment of weakness and commits adultery with a gal one time and then owns up to his wife, that's way different than if he commits adultery and hides it for eight years with three or four women. Uh that is way worse. That pretty much says he's not a believer. And then you have to deal with the fact that he's not a believer and you can't expect him to b live on it like one when he's not. So there's a lot of different things. It's about is he repentant? Um how mature is he in the Lord? It's way different if somebody who is let's say a mature believer, maybe an elder in a church commits adultery and they know better and they're telling people to do, and they are held to a higher standard. And they have to We're told to reprove them in the presence of all, so the rest will be fearful of sinning, because they as a leader in hypocrisy have been living in lying and deceit and immorality morality, see that that's a huge deal compared to a guy who blows it once. So in a situation where that's occurred, um And this is not an e this is not to excuse the guy in any way. I'd also want to talk to the wife and make sure that she's not contributing to her husband feeling the need to go outside the marriage to get intimacy. Like is she denying him? Is she using intimacy as a tool to control him? I mean is there medical issues? Like what What's the issue there? Why why does he feel the need to go outside? Why isn't his wife taking care of him? So all those things kind of need to it's it you can't give an answer You have to look at every circumstance, every issue, but it's very difficult when you say how can you ever trust him again? By God God's grace. Because I just want you to know how can he trust you? Because every one of us is moments away from committing great evil And if it were not for the grace of God, we would. And you may. You know, we can blow it big time fast and never see it coming if the right situation And God wants to humble us, He may let us jump into the pit. And so we just need to remember that, yeah, you know, God did say Um, you know, hey, you know, if there is divorce, uh that when when the Pharisees came to talk to Jesus, Matthew five, Matthew 19, you know, Moses permitted you to get to write her a certificate of horse because of the hardness of your heart. Marriage is such a close bond, he says when there's been a violation of that bond to such a degree, it's very hard to forgive. But as Christians, you can. Uh you can because it's required of you to forgive. You have to forgive. Um and God never asks us to do anything, He also doesn't give us the grace to do. So So that would be a very broad spectrum, probably not very satisfying answer to the person who did it, but um yeah, uh those things are really hard. You need to pray. You need to work on your marriage. The more solid your marriage is, the more rock solid, the more you will fall in love with each other. more you invest it, remember I used the stock market illustration? Well the same thing. If you start putting money in the stock market, you're gonna be checking on it all the time, right? Because you've got it in that you're invested. If you don't work in your marriage, you're not invested. But if you invest a lot of time and energy, it will produce dividends. And so, yeah, that's how I think over the course of of time um you will learn to trust and he needs to real you need to be honest and say yeah I'm having a hard time trusting you and he knows why and um I want to. I want to completely forgive you. I'm having trouble doing that. Be honest with the Lord, honest with your husband, and work on your marriage. Make it a priority until it's smoking hot. That's right. That's good. Thank you, lovey. That was great. Any tips on how to turn small talk Oh. Well uh that that is actually really fun to see if you can do that. And sometimes when you're visiting with people, you can try valiantly and they're just not going there for whatever reason. Um some But I think when you are with believers and even if they're not used to um engaging in spiritual conversation with you or even in the church. Because I think um we can train ourselves more when we first got to our church in Kentucky, uh there was conversation, but I wouldn't say it was necessarily spiritually profitable. But over time they have learned to engage in spiritual conversation that's profitable for one another. So um one of the things that I think about is okay so what are some things that I would want some someone to ask me or that I think would be encouraging. So well the first thing that's gonna always come to our mind is is Well, what have you been learning in your quiet time? So even in that conversation, you know, we're chit-chatting about the weather and stuff like that, which we always have to do because that's how we start conversation Oh, it's so hot out. Oh, I know. Isn't that amazing? But it it puts me in mind that God is sovereign. In fact, this morning I was reading in my quiet time. In you know, you can kind of guide that conversation a little bit about so then in my quiet time this morning, what did you read that was encouraging about God's sovereignty? And then you can say what did you learn And is there anything cool that you can share with me from your quiet time or that you've been reading this week? You know, and so that there's that attitude of expectancy. even of, so what are you going to share with me? I just shared something cool with you. And then that builds that that conversation with one another. I think even just asking uh you know people about so, you know, have how have you been thinking through You know, just how we can overcome sin. I've kind of been thinking about this, you know. Do you have any thoughts on that? And um, you know, just I'm kind of been wondering about this and so even just the Those kinds of conversations where you can even s kind of counsel each other a little bit. I think that's really encouraging. What are some things that you do, Lovey? Yeah. Here's a good question This is the arrow to the heart question. I love it when you ask this question. Yeah, the transmission blew up in my car. So What do you think God's doing in all of this? It's it's like it just takes all the air out of your complaining. It's like, oh I can't complain because So what's God doing in all of this? So what do you think God is means by this? Why do you think God brought this away your way Oh yeah, it's so hot out there. Why do you think God makes it so hot? To remind us of hell? Yeah. You you turn Yeah, it's gonna get hotter uh if you don't know Jesus. But yeah, that's kinda how it is, isn't it? You you just bring thoughts towards God. And even even when uh Like you'll be talking with somebody, even when they kind of get a little kind of spiritual, say, hey, you know, could you pray about my I'm having this surgery or you know, my car engine blew up or I'm trying to you know We're trying to find a new house or you know, we're trying to go through this trial or whatever. Whatever it is, even this is what I do. I try to take every kind of prayer that has no like clear eternal significance. You know, prayers like, hey, you know, pray for my cats having surgery. Okay, now you're thinking to yourself, okay, how can I make this uh eternal? I just pray things like this. Okay Well, let me pray for you right now. Um, Lord, I just pray that as this cat is needing surgery and you know about it, that you would sanctify so and so and help them trust you help them be grateful the time they have at that cat and whatever you you make it spiritual whether it's a blown up a car transmission, a flat tire, or whatever it is. Lord, like we always need to respond in a godly way in all our situations. So whatever anybody tells you, go there. So where's God in all of this? Remember that one. Or here's another one. How is your soul? That's the one I like. Everybody everybody knows Pastor Jack's coming out. I gotta like what have I been reading? What have I been 'cause I come over there. Hey brother How's your soul? There's no way to gloss that one over. You don't see that one. You don't get to tell me all I've been serving the wana. I'm not asking you what you're doing. I'm asking about your soul. Well uh really good MacArthur sermon. No. I'm not talking about what you're doing. I want to know about your soul. How's your soul? That is another arrow to the heart. It's really good. the weather and the busted sewer pipe under their house, you can always say, but let me ask you, how's your soul? It's a better topic. Okay. How can you be sure that the trials you are facing are truly God's providence and not necessarily your fault due to making bad choices. For example, marrying someone you felt was not the best option for you And now your marriage is suffering. Is that really providence or God's discipline as a result of your poor choice? That question is going to be asked in part tomorrow morning since I'm preaching on the providence of God. Oh, but stay tuned until tomorrow. The question asked is really called an either-or fallacy because it is God's providence and he may be disciplining you at the same time. So you don't have to pick one or the other. But let me try to explain something super complex in a minute or two. God has two different kinds of will that He exercises. So one kind of God's will is called his. I'm sorry about the jargon. His declarative will, what he declares will come to pass. And the text that my wife's going to read to you right now is Isaiah 46, 9 through 11, when she gets there. So there is this absolute will, absolute will, his decorative will, and it's also called his secret will Because he doesn't tell us what it is, except in prophecy. Prophecy is God saying, I'm going to let you look behind the curtain to see what will take place, right? Remember when Jesus rode into Jerusalem and the triumphal entry and they were singing, Hosanna in the highest, blessed is he will be And they knew that That was supposed to be said about the Messiah, and they didn't want it said about Jesus because they didn't believe he was the Messiah. Do you remember what Jesus said? If these are silent the stones will cry out why? Because it's decreed. Then there is another kind of will but we're Okay. I know. Isaiah forty-six, nine through eleven. Uh remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is no one like me. declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established and I will accomplish all my good pleasure Calling a bird of prey from the east, a man of my purpose from a far country. Truly I have spoken, truly I will bring it to pass. I have planned it. Surely I will do it. I will accomplish how much of the good purpose? Uh huh. All and as Ephesians one eleven says, he is working some things after the counsel of his will. No all things. All things. So God has a decree since he is sovereign before the foundation of the world, he decrees what everything whatsoever And he does it in a couple different ways. One way is by causing something to happen, and the other thing the way is by By allowing. Theologians call it positive and negative action. Sorry about the jargon. But, anyways, for instance, did God know that Satan would fall before he fell? Did he know that Satan would tempt Eve and Eve would succumb? Yes. Did he have the power to stop it? Did he? No, he didn't. He allowed Satan. See, so God knows everything beforehand. This is what Jonathan Edwards says. Everybody who knows God knows that God knows all things before it occurs. Therefore, to allow something to happen is to decree it. That is, he allows things things, even evil things to come to pass to bring about good ends. Though he doesn't do evil, he allows demons and Satan and evil men to do evil things, and so he allows it. So that is God's decree. We aren't told to do anything about his decree. It's going to happen no matter what. We don't have to Then there is what is called his revealed will, his desirous will. His prescriptive will, his perceived will. All of those things are what are found in this book, and he prescribes like the doctor How many people here have ever been anxious? Okay. So you can go against God's prescribed will, can't you? You can go against his prescribed will. And so when you're looking at your life and you say, okay, what's my responsibility? Well, God's going to do what he's decreed, and we can't stop it. Even if we try to go against it, the stones will cry out. But this is his revealed will. Which we are told to study and obey. We can go against it, but by doing that we sin. So when you have a situation in your life, you You need to trust that God's going to do the right thing, that his sovereignty, his providence is working all things for the good of the elect, to those who love him and are called according to the Purpose, Romans 8. 28, Ephesians 1. 11, and you need to make sure that you are doing what the word says. It doesn't matter what your circumstances is you can always give God glory in your circumstance, whatever it is. He always gives you the grace to do that. You can be in the a prison, you can be tortured on a rack, you can do whatever it is, God God will give you the grace to give him glory because he has promised no temptation is going to overcome you, but such as is common to man, and God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted. Tempted beyond what you're able, but the temptation will provide a way of escape, so you can bear up under it. And you can believe that, even though at the time you may think, how am I ever gonna like think about this how in the world are you going to have you know a couple million people in the desert get away from pharaoh's army see It's impossible until Moses lifts Rod on the sea farts. How do you have two million people in the desert with no grocery store? No Costco Bread falls from heaven. See? When God says, I want you to trust me, Deuteronomy 8. 3, that I let you become hungry to test you to see whether or not you would believe me. I fed you manna from heaven Which your fathers did not know. So that you may know that man does not live by bread alone, but what? Every word. The prescribed will of God. So when you look at different texts, you need to ask yourself when it talks about God's will, is God telling me this is what He's going to do? Or is God telling me what to do? Because those are two different kinds of of will. The first is fixed, absolute, inflexible. The second, we need to obey. Thank you. I I ladies, I'm sorry. I have so many questions that we we're we're already four minutes over time and I apologize but I don't want to interrupt him. So thank you very much. We appreciate your answers. Thank you.