Father God, thank you for gathering those of us who came here in person safely. And Lord, uh we know that every single day that we're still alive on this earth and We're healthy and uh you provide for our needs. This is all coming from your gracious hand. There is nothing good that we have that does not ultimately come from you, the Father of Lights. And God, what we're particularly thankful for this morning is the church. We know, as we'll be discussing later in this lesson, that this church is the church and all Christians, all Christians fellowshipping this morning. It's a miraculous thing that you have made a bond of amazing unity among diversity that the world does not understand. And Lord, we pray that as we teach on uh admittedly perhaps a controversial or difficult topic, uh That uh you would maintain that unity, that we would uh give ourselves over to letting ourselves be ruled by the Holy Spirit in our thinking. And uh it would just continue to foster a community that displays itself as different from the world because of the love that we have for one another. Thank you, God, for once again sending your Son Jesus Christ, who saved us all from our sins. And we're thankful for the Holy Spirit, which lives in us. We're thankful that we are hidden in Christ and we all drink from the same spirit. In your sons and we pray. Amen. Okay, so I can't see everybody that uh is here just because I think the sheer number of people. But we have a couple people in person as well. I'm going to try to abide by the spirit of the class. I've been keeping up with the recordings afterwards. So if you have if you guys have questions, feel free to chime in. That being said, I just ask uh I think due to a classroom of this size, please try to keep your questions uh uh brief and uh comments relevant. We do have a lot of material I want to go through first. So maybe if you have something more in-depth you want to talk about, please note it so you don't forget it, and then I'll try to leave enough room for discussion. But uh that being said, uh welcome to uh lesson six, I want to say, of our Worldview course. And today we'll be talking about a nice and easy subject of racism, prejudice, and oppression. So I expect no pushback on this, no controversy, super easy stuff, right? Obviously I'm kidding. Oh, by the way, for those of you who don't know me, if you're new, my name is Elias. Um one of the uh uh teachers at the church. I've been attending church for uh hope for like around two and a half years now, and um I help with the music uh in case you uh don't recognize me. But um it's nice to meet you all uh virtually if not in person Okay, I have a question I want to begin with, and you guys don't have to answer, but I want you to just for a moment think through this yourself. And my question is very fundamental. Who are you? If you were given this question, what is your identity? What would you say? It could be a list, it doesn't have to be one particular word, but how would you answer this question of who you are? Now, the Bible categorizes identity, answers this question along three different lines. And that is to say, we have an individual identity. And specifically, as we'll talk about in a second, that means we are all uniquely made in God's image We also all have a group identity. We have some group or groups plural that we belong to. And third, we can also answer this question spiritually. We all have a spiritual identity. So what I mean to say when I state that we all have a uniquely made in God's image identity, an individual identity, Let's start with the unique first. So if we go to Genesis 1, you can turn there if you'd like, but I'm going to kind of breeze through this first identity just for the sake of time. We see that God at the very beginning created diversity And what I mean by that is I don't just mean in terms of like we think today diversity, different colored people or whatever, but diversity specifically, even in every aspect of creation, inanimate creation. God didn't make everything heaven, right? God didn't make everything land creatures. God didn't make everything earth and everything water. He made demarcations. He made diversity. You have water here, you have earth, you have different colors, you have different types of animals. So diversity itself, as a high-level concept, was made by God in the beginning of creation, and God called it good. And then of course, once God made human beings in his image, he made them diverse as well. He could have made two atoms, three atoms, right? Just copy and paste it. But instead he made man and woman, male, female. And from male and female did not come another Adam or Eve. It came Seth. There came Cain, right? So diversity was designed by God from the very beginning. It's a wonderful thing Uh for those of you who are gourmands out there, I love Mexican food, but I don't want to eat it every single day. I love the fact that I can also get, you know, I can't think of another cuisine right now. But You know, there's diversity all throughout creation and that is a good thing, and that includes in humanity, but it's a bigger concept than just humanity And specifically in the church, diversity is made even more highlighted in 1 Corinthians 12, where Paul uses the analogy that the church is like it can be described as a human body Where every cell, every component is indispensable and they all have to work together, right? So the eye can't do what the ear does, can't do what the nose does, can't do what the hand does, can't do what the internal organs do And that's every Christian. Everybody is unique. Everyone's indispensable. And we are also made in God's image, every single one of us. So what does that mean? There's a lot of debate between theologians, but I strongly believe Wayne Grudum in his systematic theology has the best answer. And that's quite simply, in the context of Genesis, to be made in God's image just means we are made like God. but not exactly equal to God. So in any manner that a human is a human and not an ape or a dog or a flower, whatever manner that a human is distinctly human That speaks to the fact that we are made in God's image. We are like God, but not exactly equal to God. So some examples can include our moral capacity. We have consciences. We have self-awareness that makes us different from other animals. We have intelligence. We're able to speak and communicate to each other at a very high level. These are all just examples of the fact that we are like God, or theologians call it the communicable attributes of God. We have attributes that are kind of like God's, but not exactly equal to God. We're not God in our in and of ourselves, right? Now, our image-ness as we might want to call it, I made up that word, but our image of Godness, our imageness, the the nature of our intrinsic being that makes us molded in God's image On the one hand, it is retained. We did not become non-human after the fall, right? But at the same time, our imageness has also become distorted due to sin. So we don't lose our image of Godness. We don't lose our imageness. Yet it has become distorted by sin, which is why Scripture speaks to the fact that in order to reclaim everything that makes us human We must now be slowly molded after salvation into the image of Christ. So that's why it's so important for Jesus to be both fully God and fully man, because There's it's not just us going to heaven. That's not all of salvation, right? That's all we think about. But it's also the fact that we lost what it means to be fully human and we needed a model to mold ourselves back into, and that is Of course, we don't do it ourselves. I misspoke. But that is the image of Christ. We become more and more conformed to the image of Christ. That's how we regain our imageness. But that's all of us. When we try to answer the question, who are we? On the one hand, all of us can say we are uniquely made. Okay? No two people in the room here or in Zoom here are the same. And we are all made in God's image. We're all human beings. However, we are not just unique and different from one another individual to individual The Bible also says that we are unique from one another in terms of groups of people to groups of people. So if you imagine the human population as like a landscape, right? Humanity is not described as just this flat plane where everybody is completely smoothly different from one another. Rather, the human population can be described as mountaintops, some plains, and other mountaintops. There are groups of people that have strongly shared characteristics that are themselves, that group is different from this other group. But what do we call that group? Now, for a lot of the world, remember I opened with the question, who are you? When they try to define their group identity, And I'm not trying to embarrass anyone, that's why I'm not asking for any answers, but how many of you I wonder answered this way? When you try to describe yourself, how many of us immediately thought, or maybe second tertiary thought was I'm black. I'm white. I'm Asian. I'm Hispanic. Right? In other words, did you define yourself by what is commonly known in our culture today as race? Now that word race, you go back 200 years and pull open an anthropological textbook, that word is going to mean something else. But today, this is described, these categories are described as your race, correct? And in fact, your race is so important that the U. S. Census Bureau takes a survey of your race, right? Annually. And in fact, the U. S. Census Bureau recognizes five official categories for our race, and they are one, white. Black or African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander. Now this is interesting. Look at the US Census Bureau's definition for what it means to be a white person. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa And I want you to guys start thinking, how adequate is the US Census Bureau's and in fact the entire world's definition of race? Because if we're describing a person that's indigenous to the Middle East Then this man is a white person, Nasralah Boutros Safir, who is an ethnic Maronite. He is the Maronite people are indigenous to the Middle East But if you saw this person, right, with this appearance, would you immediately think white person? Just a thought experiment, right? Let's look at this hilarious definition by the U. S. Census Bureau for what a black person is. A black person is a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa. That is hilariously unhelpful because you have just used your word in your definition, right? It's just circular it's circular reasoning. So of course the follow-up question is Okay, so where is what what is a what is a black racial group, right? And if you do digging into the word, it it means anyone with having an appearance that is dark skinned. But w where's the black people cut off? Right? Is it at the very right of this color spectrum? Is it a little further up? You know, where does white people start? Where does black people end? Completely arbitrary. Race itself is subjective. In fact, I'm going to define, for the purpose of this lesson, race in the following way. Race is nothing more than a classification based on arbitrary, stereotype-driven interpretations of someone's outer physical appearance It's just your opinion, your opinion, my opinion of what somebody's face, chin, nose, brow, eye, hair color, uh pigment of your skin kinda sort of looks like. You just kind of ballpark it. And it's completely based on the outside. And in fact, the U. S. Census Bureau agrees, and society agrees, if you ask anyone, it's an arbitrary social construct The U. S. Census Bureau states, quote, the racial categories included in the Census questionnaire generally reflect a social definition of race recognized in this country and not an attempt to define race biologically, anthropologically, or genetically. In other words, we give up. We're not going to pretend that it's anything objective. There's no blood tests you can take to say, ah, congratulations, you're Asian, right? It's just completely just a social definition. We just kind of make it up, stereotype-driven In addition, it is recognized that the categories of the race item include racial and national origin or social cultural roots. So it's a definition that has just a grab bag of random stuff. And then further, people may choose to report more than one race to indicate their racial mixture. It's just self-identified. You make it up. You know, we get into so much trouble in our culture today. We we make we like to make fun of people that, you know, they like to pretend that they're a black person or whatever, Native American and And it turns out later that they're the they have no, you know, ancestry to these uh identities that they're grabbing on to. But in a sense we're being hypocritical as a society making fun of these people because race itself is just a stereotype driven opinion-based self-identification, right? Why can't you say I'm whatever? Of course, we think logically, it makes no sense, but the problem is the definition of race itself. That's the point I'm trying to make. And people may choose to report more than one race to indicate the racial mixture such as American Indian or white, whatever. Now, as I hope I'm making clear, there is a serious problem with the definition of race itself. It's not objective It's not based on fact. It is completely opinion-based. And that is why we have all these people that are truly made in the image of God struggling because they're racially ambiguous. What would you call these people? Up on the slide here Right? There are all sorts of outliers out there. We think race is this nice, neat classification. Of course all these people are white. Of course all these people are Hispanic. But then you have all these people at the fringes that don't quite fit one category or another. And in particular, in my personal experience, I have a lot of friends that are like half Korean, half Asian, and they almost uniformly tell me growing up they've got all these identity crises they had to deal with Because uh w uh my friend is like, well the Asian guys don't consider me Asian, the white guys don't consider me white. I grew up I had no idea what I was. You know, you kinda feel homeless and it can really kind of weigh on your psychology But there's all sorts of racially ambiguous are these people non-people? Do they not have an identity? Of course they do. The problem is race as your group identity in itself is problematic. Now, that being said, I'm not saying we necessarily have to jettison all the racial language entirely. Full disclosure, I use words like white, black, and stuff. But racial terminology has a limited use we have to be aware of. And that limited use is simply as a description. Now think about colors. Look at that color wheel at the top left corner. Colors have the exact same problem as racial language. And uh I I'm having this problem with my son, who's two years old, who's learning colors right now, and I'll ask him Oh what is this color? And he'll go, red. And I'll go, no, it's orange. Well, okay, I can see what you think. It's a dark orange. Well, you know, colors are on the smooth spectrum, right? Colors themselves are ambiguous. They are also stereotype-driven. So when I use the word stereotype here, I'm not saying it in a malicious sense. I mean literally the word stereotype, which is pattern-seeking. It's just stereotype driven. We just collectively as a society grew up constantly hearing every time you see this color that means red. Every time you see this color, that means green. And we just kind of fit the patterns together and realize, oh, okay, that's what green means And it's the same thing with race. You say, every time you see this kind of person it means black, and you say, oh, that's a black person? That's also a black person? That's also a black person? You you see that millions of times growing up and then you start to form a pattern. You think, oh, okay, these traits, when society says, you know, when people have this kind of nose, this kind of eyebrow, this kind of eye, you know this kind of skin pigment, that generally means black. Got it. It's a stereotype though. But if you're using race simply as you know a description of what someone looks like, there is some limited use. So it's no different from calling someone tall or short, also ambiguous. What does tall mean? 5'11 and above, 6'1 and above, 6'4<unk>. We don't really know But you know, it's useful as a description just to kind of ballpark thing so you can kind of generally communicate what you're trying to say, right? So for instance, uh look at my uh award-winning actor, Idris Elba, in this picture, right? And if I had my my father next to me, I said, that's my friend Idriss Elba, I would say something like This is my friend Idrisaba. He's the black man. And we know what we mean by that, right? Saying black man, using the word black, that racial language in a descriptive sense here is not malicious It's helpful. It just helps us communicate and interface with people. If you said, he's a black wing, you think the person on the left, that that kind of violates our stereotype that we developed growing up, right? However, As soon as you go beyond using racial terminology as a mere descriptor, as soon as you inject something into that word black or white or Asian or Hispanic, Something about that person's identity, you have now gone beyond the validity of racial language. And that is an error known as racialism. Seeing race as an identity, seeing race as somehow something significant about who you are inside as a person is called racialism, not necessarily racism. We'll talk about the distinction and how they relate in a second. But seeing race as as saying something about who you are. Not just what you look like. You're tall, you're wearing a red shirt, your your your hair is shoulder length, right? Those are all descriptions. But saying you are a black person, white person with a capital W, capital P That is racialism, and that is wrong. So racialism says Idris Elba is descriptively black, right? Now, so far so good. Nothing wrong with saying that. But if you go to that second line and immediately see say, therefore his identity is a black man, you have violated what scripture teaches about group identity. Because when you say you are a black man or he Idris Abba is a black man, what follows is therefore he is some characteristic. Some personality, some behavior, some degree of privilege. So that's relevant to why we're talking about critical theory. Critical theory says Based on your physical appearance, we can say something about your background, your degree of privilege, what trials and sufferings you went through, what trials and sufferings you didn't go through, your pattern of thought. That is all known as racialism. Now, I can immediately show you the absurdity of this idea of racialism, this absurdity of using your outer physical appearance, race, as the world calls it, as saying something about who you are by swapping your race with any other physical trait. Do we do this with eye color? These people have descriptively green eyes. Therefore, their identity is green-eyed people. You see the difference between those first two lines? The first line is just describing what they look like. Okay? Let's not be silly. We get so sensitive with race that it's like, oh I I don't know what race he was. It's like look You can describe his description. He's wearing a red shirt. He's tall. He's white, you know. But these people have green eyes. So far, so good. But then do you go and think that there are such things as a green-eyed people versus blue-eyed people with their green-eyed people culture, therefore they are dishonest. Green-eyed people are always dishonest. You know, that's the negative part. That's the racist part. But then there are some like compliments you can also give, right? Oh green eye people are always so funny. I love being friends with green eye people. They're hilarious. Green eye people drive really fast in traffic. Green-eyed people are are privileged. They grow up with lots of privilege, you know. Green-eyed people tend to value status. That's a part of their cultural artifact. Nobody does this. It's ridiculous, right? You do you go if you went around sorting people by their eye color and saying something about who they are inside, you would be crazy And yet, the insanity of the world is we do this exact same thing with physical outer appearance known as race. In fact, racialism rules the world. By far, the vast majority of the world are racialists. And I um I suspect, unfortunately, even many professing Christians. And again, I'm not saying this to make fun of anyone or make anyone feel embarrassed, but that's just to say: look, when Romans 12 says us that we need to transform our thinking, we sometimes understate how fundamentally our paradigm has to shift when we become Christians. It's like a water salvation is a fish being plucked out of the water, right? All you knew was water. You can't even imagine what it means to be outside of water. And racialism is one of those veils over our worldview that's just so pervasive. You just take it for granted all the time. We don't go to the next logical step and think, wait a minute, is this even a valid way to regard other people? Now the US Census Bureau, of course The government is racialist. They state the following. Information on race is required, why, for many federal programs, and is critical in making policy decisions, particularly for civil rights. States use these data to meet legislative redistricting principles. Race data also are used to promote equal employment opportunities and to assess racial disparities and health and environmental risks. So let me translate this for you. We just describe how ridiculous it is to classify people according to race, whatever you want to call it, right? How ridiculous it is to conclude something about who you are inside Since we based on your outer appearance, let's ignore all those racially ambiguous let's ignore all those half Asian, half black people that uh we don't know what to do with them. They don't exist, right? It's ridiculous And yet, the world creates these real life consequences that affect you day to day, whether or not you get that job or not, where you are districted, policy decisions. Things that actually affect us in real life are based simply on the world's stereotypical interpretation of what my face looks like. I am called an Asian person, right? You look at me and that's fine. Look, descriptively, I'm an Asian person. If you you wouldn't uh mistake me for a Greece Elba in my example. I don't know why I keep picking on him, by the way But you wouldn't mistake me for Idris Elba, right? I'm an Asian person. That is how I'm described. But you cannot conclude anything about who I am based on the fact that I have Asian eyes, Asian hair, Asian whatever. Okay? But the world does. The world does it all the time. It's in our government. If you want to talk about systemic injustice, which does exist by the way, I don't think it can be denied The problem is the world can't define systemic injustice correctly, it doesn't identify correctly. This is an example. Entire swaths of people, policy is made to affect them simply based on how they look. Does that sound just to you? Now, what does the Bible say about judging by appearance? That's another synonym I would use for racialism. Racialism is nothing other than judging by appearance. And the Bible is very clear, God hates it It's misleading at best, malicious at worst. 1 Samuel 16, verse 7. This is the prophet Samuel, he was sent to anoint the king of Israel, David, that God chose to replace this horribly wicked king that Israel, men chose, who was Saul. And um just to set up the context, Samuel he meets the first son of Jesse, Eliad. And he was a very tall, handsome. He had a, if I could use our modern terminology, he had a presidential look. Just looks like. This is this guy's the king, clearly. And this is how God responds when Samuel thinks that in his heart. But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, racialism, right? But the Lord looks on the heart. And James chapter 2 says the same thing in the New Testament. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring in fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, Oh, you sit here in a good place While you say to the poor man, hey, you stand over there, or you sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? That's exactly what racialism is, guys. showing partiality to people just based on what they look on the outside and that is an evil thing to do. Now the fact is we have group identities It does exist. I'm not I think a lot of uh politically conservative brothers and sisters out there. I'm one of them, by the way, okay? So I'm talking to my people here, right? But a lot of political conservatives, we like to use the adage, you know, there's no there's no such thing as there there's only one race, the human race, right? We're all individuals You know, it's not grouping people together. And I think the the part we missed though, the other half of the coin is yes, that's true, we all have individual identities, but group identities do exist. There are diverse groups of people. So we can't push that angle too hard saying we're all just individuals. There are also groups of people with group culture. The problem is it's not race. The world gets that group identity wrong. The Bible never mentions race in the by uh in the in throughout scripture. Because race is in an invalid group identity. Racialism is not legitimate. Now, what is the legitimate group identities? We have one particular passage that is super helpful to us, and that is Revelation chapter 5, verse 9. And the classifications of genuine groups of identities uh here in Revelation 5. 9 really echoes Daniel. That's what John is doing. Now in Revelation 5, just to set up the very quick context, uh um God's servants here are describing and glorifying Jesus as being a savior for all kinds, all groups of people, comprehensive humanity. And the classification used here to describe all the different kinds of humans, all the different kinds of group identities that Jesus saves are known fourfold as tribe Language, people, and nation. These are the group identities we all belong to. You belong to a certain tribe, you belong to a certain language. You belong to a certain people and you belong to a certain nation. Okay? And I'm going to redefine a couple of these words and reorder the arrangement a little just for clarity. And I'm going to redefine a couple of these words to fit better, I think, the words we would use in our vernacular. Tribe would be something very similar to what you would call your family, your extended family, your clan, people with the same last name generally. In the Greek it would be Phyles. I don't speak Greek, so I'm sorry if I'm butchering this. Philes. People is very close to what we presently and this word is gonna change I suspect because ethnicity is getting conflated with race but technically if you picked up a sociological textbook right now What the Bible describes as people in Revelation 5. 9 would be very close to what we today called ethnicity. Ethnicity is different from race. Race, again, is just an arbitrary, fuzzy social construct based on your stereotypical appearance. But ethnicity speaks more to an actual bloodline, your lineage. And this in the Greek is called lau Your language group is your glosses, so I'm speaking English. I'm part of the English-speaking group, and most of you guys are as well. And then your nationality is called ethnos And that's confusing because you would think people would be ethnos, but it's not. So again, that's to tell you that words change, right? Now uh how do you distinguish between family and ethnicity? This is how I'm visualizing it. So you have a family tree here, you start with the two main patriarchs of family. the very top and then you have several generations of descendants. When you get down to like the O'Reilly family, that's your tribe, that's your philosop But then if you just blow up the scope, if you scale up, that becomes your people. So the I O'Reilly family become the Irish people. And Irish, once again, it's not racial. Okay? Because the biblical group identities are verifiable. That is the main distinguishing characteristic between race versus the biblical group identities. All of these four group identities can be demonstrable. You can demonstrate whether or not you belong to a certain family, ethnicity, language, or nationality. It's an objective fact. You can look at your birth certificate. You can do a DNA test to see what family you belong to. You can look at your passport to see what nationality you belong to. I'm speaking English fluently. I'm obviously part of the English-speaking group. Racialism, on the other hand, is wholly subjective and arbitrary. There is no white person patriarch that you trace your lineage back to and that makes you a white person. There is no Asian person, Hispanic person, patriarch. That if you're related to, there's no blood test you can do that shows, oh, you're test that you're a black person, right? It doesn't work that that way. Race is totally made up. It's fuzzy, it's subjective. But Biblical group identities are objective and verifiable. You can demonstrate what group you belong to. Now, here's a subtle point I want to touch on. Why does racialism seem to be true? Right? Because like I said, real groups of people that are distinct and have strongly shared characteristics with one another It seems to work that we can take people with certain stereotypes, and they do seem to share certain cultures with each other. It seems that black people do have similar cultures they share. White people do have similar characteristics they share, right? It does seem like Asian people they do tend to I can talk about myself. This is a controversial topic, so I'll just talk about my culture. It does seem like Asians all tend to really value education, right? These Asian stereotypical people with our almond-shaped eyes, we seem to have these similar characteristics. The reason why racialism seems to be true though is because of a subtle fact that if you have a bunch of people that are related by family, ethnicity, language, and nationality, they will tend to look the same. Right? But the problem is racialism gets it totally backwards. The truth of the matter is, if you have these truly strongly shared characteristics that are important on the inside, That is to say, you have the same parenting. You have the same patriarch in your people group. You speak the same language. There's a lot of your culture that's informed by language. The fact that we're all English speakers, particularly Americans, the idioms we share, that informs what your culture looks like. People downplay that. Having the same language is super important. If you all have the same nationality, you will tend, not all the time, that's why racialism doesn't work, but a lot of the time you will tend to look the same But racialism goes the other way and says, let's just group people together based on how they look and then conclude wrongly, fallaciously, oh, obviously they're all going to be the same on the inside. That's the problem with judging by appearance. Racialism is imprecise. It has arbitrary membership So there are lots of problems that come with the issue of prejudice related to group identity, and that's a genuine fact, and we're going to touch on that in a second. But if you use a racialist worldview to try to tackle the issues of prejudice between group identities, you're going to fail because you will inevitably, especially at the boundaries of these fuzzy racial categories you're not going to be able to define who you're even talking about. Why do the I'll I'll just again pick on my own my own group here. Why do Asian people are they're always so mean to to the green people or whatever? It's you can't define who who are these Asian people. What about these people that are like three-quarters Asian but one quarter Hispanic or whatever? What do we identify him as? What do we identify the outlet? Who are the green people that you're talking about, right? It's a color. It's completely arbitrary. You cannot precisely define the problem and you cannot precisely define the solution. Racialism ignores important shared cultures. It completely flattens all black people, white people, Asian people, Hispanic people. I'm missing some racial categories, I'm sorry. Native American people. It just flattens all these people and says, oh, they're obviously all the same. Just hand waves it away. How many of you have been the victim of that, right? And maybe you haven't been able to precisely define like why does it irk me that I have the same skin color as this other guy and this person saying, oh you guys are obvious. They're treating me like we're just obviously the same. when we couldn't be any more different. Racialism does that all the time because it's judging by outer appearance. You have the same skin tone. Obviously I'm gonna expect the same kind of characteristic from you too And it does the opposite as well. Racialism also exaggerates minimal or non-existent shared cultures. It makes it seem like they're super similar to each other. So for instance, Both of these people are South Africans. They have so much in common with each other, but according to a racialist worldview, They're going to be completely different. Why? Because one woman is descriptively descriptively black and the man is descriptively white Black and white, completely distinct group identities, right? And racialism totally misses the fact that they grew up in the same area, they're gonna like the same kind of food, they're gonna have the same kind of culture. They're both South African, but you completely miss that. from a racialist lens. If you adopt the biblical lens, you realize, oh, they speak a lot the same language. Ah, they have the same nationality, right? You will be able to recognize the fact that even though on the outside they may look very different from each other, they're actually very similar on the inside. A racialist would also lump all these people together You have American Arabs on the left, you have Yasser Arafat on the right, he's a Palestinian. Guess what? They're both Arab, they're both brown people, as people will call them, but they probably have almost nothing in common with one another. One of them grew up in an American context. They one of them like to eat at so-and-so place and their friends are like this and their culture's like this. Yasser Arafat grew up, you know, fighting the nation of Israel and, you know, doing all sorts of things. So these Two groups of people are actually going to be very different. But a racialist will look at them and say, oh, they're both brown people, right? And say they're all the same. They're not. They're actually very different. And there are important diverse considerations between these groups of people that you totally miss as a racialist. So racialism is false. However, racism sadly is very real. Now, why is that? Though racialism is false, most of the world believes it. I don't believe in fluffy, you know, rogue unicorns out there killing people in their sleep. But guess what? If 99% believes in fluffy rogue unicorns that'll kill you in your sleep, that'll affect my world. That'll affect how I'm treated. Right? Th there there will be governmental policies put in place saying don't sleep more than two hours a night or else we're gonna arrest you because unicorns are gonna uh escape it. This analogy is getting getting away from me. But the point is, if even if something is a lie, if enough people believe it, it will affect your world. Most of the world is racialist. And as such, there are some sinful people that need Jesus. Let's not pretend we're so much better than other. You know, we live in a society today where there are some sins that are almost irredeemable There are some groups of people that, oh, you committed a sin that's too far for God to save you. Racism is a horrible sin. But guess what? We commit horrible sins, and we committed horrible sins before God saved us, right? But there are some racialists that are racist. They treat one racial group, they're not real, but they treat one racial group as inferior, and my racial group is superior. That is called racism. And that happens because even though racialism is false, most people believe it. But racism cannot exist without racialism So you can use this picture here to explain the phenomenon. Racism is a facade that is built on top of this false foundation of racialism. If racialism did not exist, you cannot by definition have racism. If people did not judge by physical appearance and group people together simply based on the way your face and your skin looks, There by definition there would be no racist. Now, there would still be sin. People would still hate on each other, but it would look very different from racism. So this is a another subtle point I want to make here is that even a well-intentioned racialist, I'm talking to Christians now. I I don't care about the world. The world will always be racialist, it will always be foolish, they'll always judge by appearance 1 Samuel says it, man judges by outer appearance. That's always going to happen. But when we Christians, even when we are well-intentioned, and we are, okay, I've met a lot of my friends that are racialists and I love them And I know their intentions are good. Do not downplay that fact, okay? Especially for those of you out there who are considered racial minorities like myself. Look, guys, when you're dealing with a Christian, More often than not, you have to give grace. Give the benefit of the doubt. They said something insensitive to you, whatever. They're probably well-intentioned. They probably didn't mean anything by it, okay? But even a well-intentioned racialist. So this goes to a lot of the woke theologians out there, the social justice advocates that are believers. And yes There are genuine brothers out there that believe in the lie of critical theory and social justice. It's true. We all have imperfect theology, okay? We all have not arrived Just because there are advocates out there that believe some of the lies coming out of Marxism or critical theory, it doesn't necessarily mean they're non-believers. But even the most well-intentioned racialist, someone who's fired up against racism You know, someone who's always saying, oh, my people group needs to stop oppressing your people group. Even with the best intentions, you are perpetuating the foundation of racism. You are perpetuating this myth that we can judge by outer appearance and stereotypically sort people into group identities See did you see the irony there? The most woke theologian out there that is just railing on Twitter all day every day against racism Because they still believe in this myth called a white person, black person, Hispanic person, capital P persons, you are perpetuating the foundation This cracked false foundation for racism. You're allowing racism to continue thriving in the church because you're propping up racialism. Now that being said, the Bible gives us our individual identity just as review. We're all uniquely made in God's image. The Bible also says we belong to some group identity, an objective group identity. That's your family, ethnicity, language, or nationality. And lastly, the Bible says, most importantly, we all have a spiritual identity. And if I can make the case very starkly, your spiritual identity, there's only two. It's completely binary Matthew 12, 30, Jesus states, whoever is not with me is against me. There is no truth seeker out there. There is no, you know. you know, seeking for the truth. There there's no someone that's kind of uh very warm to Jesus but hasn't quite bowed the knee yet. There's no middle ground. In spite of what you might see on the outside, you are either with Jesus or you are his enemy. You are a servant of God, a Christian, or you are an enemy of God, a non-Christian. That is your only identity in the spiritual realm. So once again, your individual identity, group identity, and spiritual identity, servant or enemy of God. Now critical theory, specifically critical race theory, confers sin and or righteousness onto group identities. So they say your spiritual state, number three, your spiritual identity here. It depends on what group you belong to. So if you can take a hierarchy, which can be described as a pyramid, where the closer you are to the top of the pyramid, that means how much more power and influence you have in society. At the very top. are the sinners, the sin groups, the oppressor class. I know Danny talked about this and he's going to keep talking about this. And in critical race theory in particular, this would include, in an American context, this is what also critical theory advocates miss. It's like they're they're only thinking in this American-centric context. What about a different context, right? But the sinful group, right, the sinners would be the white people, because they're at the top, right? They're the ones in power, as a critical race theorist would say And then the righteous group, the victims, those that are oppressed, those who they're not being properly represented or whatever, at the bottom, those would be people of color. That's the trendy term to use today, right? Now the problem is, critical race theory advocates, willingly or not, agree with Jesus' enemies by giving sin and righteousness according to your group identity You see, this is what the Pharisees, this is what the unbelieving Jews said in John chapter 8. The unbelieving Jews answered Jesus, Abraham is their father. You see that? That is critical race language. We belong to a certain ethnicity. We belong to a certain it was it was ethnic at least they got the group right. It's ethnicity. They trace back to a person. But it's a group identity. We belong to this group identity. Abraham is our father. We're Jews And they're saying, We're righteous. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that? Listen to this. Listen how they impugned guilt upon Jesus. You are a Samaritan You hear that? We are righteous because we belong to the Abrahamic group. You are a sinner because you belong to the you're like those Samaritans. All Samaritans are wicked. It's you can call it racism, right? And have a demon. Jesus answered, Truly, truly I say to you, if any one individual keeps my word, regardless of your group identity, if any one keeps my word, he will never see death. The truth of the matter is, unlike what the critical race theorists advocates advocate for, your spiritual identity Your spiritual standing, in other words, in God's sight, is always based on your individual identity. It is not based on your group. Listen to this language in John 3. 16. Everyone knows this passage For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, so that every group that believes in him, every one, every individual who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. Ezekiel 18. 20, the soul who sins, is it the group identity who sins? The nation who sins shall die? The ethnicity that sins shall die. The soul who sins shall die. The Son shall not suffer For the iniquity of the father. When you think of group identities, it doesn't get more granular. It doesn't get smaller than the scope of your family, right? And yet, even at the family level, God is saying, look Even though your dad and the son, very similar. Very similar. That's the most similarity you can get at the group level. Yet even at that granular level, it's all down to individuals The Father shall not suffer for the iniquity of the Son. The Son shall not suffer because of the iniquity of the Father. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself Now that being said, there's obviously a difference between sin's consequences and the imputation of that sin. That's where a lot of these critical theory uh you so-called professing Christians get mixed up is they mix up the fact that sin can have very wide-reaching consequences across generations, across your whole group. You can mess things up for your whole group based on your one sin That's what we saw with Aiken, for instance, right, when he stole some of that banned stuff from Jericho. But that does not follow that because you are suffering the consequences of someone else in your group identity sin, that means his sin is now on you That's what critical theory teaches, especially in the realm of theology. But you have to distinguish consequences of sin which are far-reaching versus the imputation So the imputation of sin is individualistic even if the consequences can stretch across the group. So for instance, are the descendants, let's get very controversial here, are the descendants of American slaves disadvantaged even many generations later? To me, it's obviously yes. Obviously yes, right? Look at the studies. Look at how many black people, they don't exist, but let's be more specific. How many descendants of American slaves, how many of them would have had PhDs? How many would have so much more wealth today if they didn't grow up with this disadvantage of being descended from slaves? It's obviously yes If you're descended from American slaves. But then does it follow, based on the fact that you are obviously suffering the consequences of the sins your forefathers suffered, does it follow that the descendants of slave masters a lot of People that believe in critical race theory, they want to substitute the word white people here, not a real group. Okay? There's all sorts of different identities within what a white person is. So let's be more specific, let's be more accurate Are the descendants of slave masters, let's be very direct, should they be rendered guilty effectively and forced to pay monetary reparations? What does that word reparation mean? Does it not mean penitence? Does it not mean repentance from your sins? Obviously the answer is no. That's unbiblical, brothers and sisters. To say that just because, based on your outer appearance, you belong to a certain group, or let's say, more specifically, just because your father committed some heinous sin, you necessarily now incur that sin from birth That is not what Ezekiel 18 says, very clearly. But how many of us are able to hold both truths? Of course, descendants of American slaves are disadvantaged, even many generations later. Let's not downplay again, I'm speaking to my politically conservative Christian friends out there. Let's not downplay that. That's obviously true But you do not follow from the fact that there are real, wide-reaching ramifications of sin to say that people that have nothing to do with the sin itself have to pay that repentance, that reparation. Let's take a biblical example to make my case even stronger. Were the descendants of the first generation of unfaithful Israelites affected by their father's sins? Obviously, yes. They didn't get to go into the land They had to stay in the wilderness for a long time, you know, the the crummy wilderness with the heat and you know they had to be nomads and go around. Of course that second generation suffered the consequences of their father's sins But did God automatically punish the second generation based on their forefathers' sins? No, not at all. We all live in a sin-stained world. We all have forefathers that committed sin. We commit sin and our descendants will be suffering the consequences of our sinful decisions that we make, even as Christians. Even though we're saved once and for all, we still commit sins. Martin Luther called it we're simultaneously sinner and saint. And guess what? Your descendants will suffer some of these stupid decisions that you're making today. I'm speaking to myself as well But that does not mean your kids are incurring the imputation of your sin that you committed. Your kids' sins will be your kids' sins. We cannot judge a parent based on how their child behaves. I know it's very tempting to do. Especially for parents out there. You think, how can that kid behave that I wonder how he was raised, right? You cannot do that. That is an unbiblical way of thinking. Every generation is responsible for themselves. Every father is responsible. Every mother is responsible for themselves. Now they can influence each other. I don't want to distract us. Anyway. Another important facet of our third identity, our spiritual identity, whether you're a Christian or non-Christian, is it completely subsumes and takes Priority over your individual and group identities. Your individual and group identity is not destroyed once you become a Christian, but it is made subservient to your Christian identity. So that being said, every individual and group identity, think with me, are tainted with sin. Is that not? It's uncontroversial to say every individual is sinful. And every individual expresses their sin in unique ways. That's uncontroversial. We all agree if we're Christians, right? Yeah, obviously every person is a sinner. And every person has their own specific sin that they struggle with. And this is why, again, for my politically conservative friends, I'm picking on you guys because I'm I consider myself one as well. But we like to pick on, you know, specific sins like people that struggle with same-sex attraction and stuff. You know, sexual sin is particularly heinous. across the board. But look, every single person struggles with their own specific kind of sin. There are some people out in a class decides, maybe some of you out there are secretly struggling with same-sex attraction. That doesn't make you any less, you know, uh less uh uh what's the word I was going doesn't make you like any more of a horrible person than any of the stuff that we all were safe from, right? There are some sins that are more acceptable, oh I'm a greedy person, you know, and that we have no problem confessing how greedy we are But then stuff like homosexuality, stuff that stuff like that, there are certain sins that we think, oh, those are the really bad people. Racism is another one. Oh, you're a racist. Irredeemable. Sorry, you know, Jesus can't save that. Jesus isn't powerful to cover that with great with grace, right? But every individual is sinful. We we generally, this is uncontroversial, it's expressed in unique ways. But do you understand that even every group identity is sinful? And every group identity also expresses their sin in unique ways. Groups of people are real Nations are not exactly equal to each other. Families are not equal to each other. And it is not an unbiblical thing to point out the fact that every group identity will have their own particular manifestation of sin that they have to struggle with. Now it's one thing to say that, it's another thing to be rude, and I'm going to touch on that in a second with some exhortations I have. I mean don't be rude and point out other group identity things You know, you use your use your head, be considerate, right? I mean it's one thing to talk about your own culture, but you know don't go around picking on other cultures. That's another thing. So I'll again I'll pick on my own culture. I come from an ethnic Korean background And I'll be the first to admit that our culture struggles with an idolatry of worldly accomplishment. Are we the only ones that struggle with this? No. Does that make the Korean people any less savable than the Irish people or the the Canadian people or whatever? No. But every group identity, we have our own baggage that we come from, that we're saved out of. And that's why group identities have to be subsumed under the Christian identity. In Christ, however, you are given a new individual and a new spiritual, I should say, group identity. Your individual identity, you are made into a new creation, according to 2 Corinthians 5. You're still you. The same Christian copy and pasted You're still you. But you are now, there's a priority above who you are in your individual identity. That priority is you are a new creation in Christ. You're also given a new group identity. You don't we don't stop becoming American English speakers. But in Christ there is a more important group identity that we're given that takes over that earthly group identity. And this is uh listed for us in 1 Peter 2, verse 9. We become a chosen race. We become a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people, a group for God's possession. That is the identity we primarily identify with. So once again in summary we have an individual identity uniquely made in God's image, group identity, which is family, ethnicity, language, nationality, and your spiritual identity is you're either in or out. You love God or you hate him. That's all you are Now what is the root of racism based on all this information that we just ingested? The root of racism is bigger than just this colored people versus this colored people. Racism really boils down to how do we maintain unity with diversity? That is the root problem. It's bigger than physical appearance. Okay? Racial categories are not real, but the struggle that comes with groups. kind of fighting with each other and not meshing, especially in like a melting pot or America. I I don't I don't want to get into that. Whatever you want to call America. We obviously have some struggles between groups. Those groups aren't racist, but the struggle is real, real, right? Now how to maintain unity with diversity is really the root issue of all these struggles between group identities. And this is where critical race theorists come up with this completely illogical, false notion that diversity is our strength. You hear it all the time in the world today. This is CRT language. We need more diversity. We need more representation. Diversity is our strength. We're strong by hearing diverse opinions from diverse people groups. But the Bible tells us actually quite clearly, even though diversity is good, it was originally made by God, in a sin-tainted system, diversity is intrinsically divisive. Okay? It's obvious. I'm not saying it's good or bad. I'm saying that's just the fact of what the word unity means uniformity Diversity will obviously create struggles. And I'm not even talking in terms of racial category. Think in your marriage, for those of you who are married. The fact that your wife or your husband is not you, the fact that there is diversity between you, that is what breeds conflict. Right? When you have different things trying to work toward the same goal, obviously there are going to be issues. This is exactly why God knew this. This is why the scattering of people at the Tower of Babel worked. If diversity was a strength, God creating these different language group identities wouldn't have scattered the people. Why did Babel work? Why were people scattered across the world? Is because of Diversity. It's because different language groups were created. They couldn't understand each other. Now the question, of course, is how do you solve the problem of diversity and still get unity? And that is where we recognize the miraculousness of the church. It is uniquely and exclusively in the Church of Jesus Christ that you see this illogical problem solved. You will never get unity with diversity just by the definition of the term. And yet the church is something so unique that you have people from all these different diverse group identities somehow love each other and come together as one. So turn to Ephesians chapter 4 because we're going to refer back to this for the rest of the lesson here, so you might want to keep an eye here. But Ephesians chapter 4, and I'm going to turn there as well, because I'm also going to be referring to it. Ephesians chapter 4 starting from verse 1 states as follows. I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you To walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called with all humility and gentleness With patience, bearing with one another, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit. Who authored the unity of the church? Someone in the room, just say it out loud. It's the unity of man. It's a unity of diversity training. It's the univer unity of being, you know, social justice woke advocates. Whose unity is this? The Spirit, God, in the bond of peace. Verse 4, there is one body and one spirit, just as you recall to the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all. Do you see the beauty of us taking that one bread and cup, the Lord's Supper? We're signifying our unity. We're all one who is over all and through all and in all. Verse 7, but grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of The miraculous church unity that God made, that God designed, comes from the one Spirit inhabiting every believer, binding us into one body. Now the Bible says unity is to be maintained. We don't make the unity. We don't create the unity. God already made the unity from the moment of your salvation. As soon as you were saved, you were unified into this one whole body. And it makes no sense to cause one part of your body to suffer, right? That's what God says in 1 Corinthians 12. And our only job as Christians, we're not here to foster unity or build unity. We are here to just not mess it up Just maintain the unity. You can only go down from where you are. Okay? And how does Ephesians 4 tell us we maintain unity? It gives us several exhortations. One Consider your walk, consider your calling, and walk worthy of that calling. Be humble. Be gentle with one another. Be patient. We're gonna see this is very, very relevant to the issue of racism that's in the church, okay? Be a bear with one another, endure one another when you're being when someone's being silly, right? Love one another Be eager. Be eager. Be zealous. Don't be like, ah, the church is messed up. I'm just going to wait for the kingdom of God. No. Don't take that fatalistic attitude that says The church isn't perfect. I'll just wait till the next one. No. Be eager to support that unity in verse 3. Be at peace with one another. And I just want to wrap up by just speaking from my heart, just some very practical exhortation that I think comes from this biblical theory that we just discussed. And this is basically, my exhortations is just going to be based on this slide. It's just going to be based on how do we apply walking worthy of a calling, being humble, gentle, etc. Number one, minority or majority status recognized is not defined by racial categories. There is way more diversity than you think if you're coming from a racialist perspective. So there's a temptation to think a church in the heart of Maine, okay, where it's just a bunch of, again, not a real category, but we would be tempted to say This church just has a bunch of white people. What diversity issues do they have to struggle with? Right? Obviously they've got no issues. They're all going to be unified. Is that the case? We know. We know any church that looks mono the same, mono ethnic, whatever you want to call it, they still have infighting and struggles and tension. Where does that come from? It comes from the fact that this group of pasty skinned Maine people in in this church deep in the heart of Maine, they still have a lot of diverse considerations. There are still families. with different cult family cultural artifacts. There might be different uh languages actually. If you go that far up north, you might have some people that speak more comfortable in French than English, for instance. You still have different people groups. You might have the Irish people, and they're not getting along with the people that come from an Italian background or whatever. And in fact, it follows that almost everyone Is both a majority in some ways and a minority in some ways. The world, from a racialist perspective, we only think in terms of physical appearance. But guys, guess what? If you speak English fluently, you are in the majority group, a very important majority group in this church. And do we give enough due consideration to some of the really important minorities out there that don't speak English very comfortably? Which one are we emphasizing? Which one are we really trying to address? Because I would argue that not being able to speak English well in this church is a far more important diversity consideration that we have to look into rather than racial unity or whatever, however you want to define that. Who who is even part of what race? We already talked about that, right? But if you have someone that doesn't speak English well, he speaks Spanish or whatever, and he can't understand the sermon. He can't come to this class because he thinks I'm not going to understand anything anyway. That is a very important diversity consideration we need to really look into. But you miss that entirely if you're a racialist. You think, what does this Spanish-speaking white person or Spanish-speaking whatever person, well, what do they have to worry about? They're not a minority. They're privileged If you can't understand the sermon and you're not being fed Sunday to Sunday, that is the number one priority that we need to look into as a church. And everybody is the majority, everybody is a minority in some way, okay? Second exhortation, be very careful not to slander Jesus' wife. Ephesians 5 describes the church. as Jesus' bride. Now think about it. For you husbands in particular out there, or those of you who have girlfriends, how angry do you get? You get way more angry if your wife is slandered or abused, rather than it happening to yourself. Don't do you not? Guess what? When you are talking about Jesus' church And saying the church has a systemic racism problem, you have just spit in the face of Jesus' wife. And if you don't think he's going to chastise you harshly, if you're a believer, Or condemn you to hell in a very low rung of hell if you're an unbeliever. There are rungs or whatever. There are there are different measures of punishment. I mean you you're mistaken. It is a grievous thing to speak ill of the entire church. It's one thing to speak ill of other Christians. You shouldn't do that either. That's also very bad But if you start using systemic group corporate sin language to say Jesus' church, Jesus' bride, Jesus' wife as a whole, who he promised is being sanctified, who he promised will be known by their love for one another, is systemically racist or has a systemic sin issue You have just called God a liar or you said he's incompetent to keep his bride pure. It is a very grievous and very sinful thing. for advocates of critical race theory to speak ill of the church as a whole. And another thing to consider Acts of racism in the church. I say this as someone who would be described as a racial minority. Okay? Look, I have gone through my I could claim I could claim I've gone through my fair uh fair share of racist uh, you know, experiences. I remember I was in the heart of Pennsylvania once at a retreat when I went to a Korean church. and there's a group of people behind me who are telling us, you know, in the middle of the night, Go home, you know? So I I've been through stuff like that. But in the church in particular, it's one thing in the world. I think racism is very alive and well in the world. I I think that's undeniable But in the church, more often than not, for a lot of us ethnic minorities, acts of racism, be very careful slinging around that world word because it can oftentimes be more accurately described as that person was just being rude Or inconsiderate or said something just silly, right? The word racism that our word is so hotly charged, you want to be careful swinging around accusations like that. Oftentimes it's better characterized as just someone being rude So I would say if you're in the majority group, again, that is not white people. If you're an English speaker, if you're an American, right, that you're already a majority in in one sense Be considerate. That's all I would say to myself as well. Be considerate and consider some of these minorities out there that don't speak the language well. that don't understand the American idioms because they came from a different nation, that maybe they're having trouble liking the food because they just immigrated over here. Even if they're white. You know, a French person coming over here, they're a minority. And if you're the majority, you understand the lay of the land, you're comfortable, you know, people are like you, be consider it. And then if you're a minority, be patient. Be long-suffering. That's what Ephesians 4 exhorts us to do. A third exhortation is racism is part of a larger problem of maintaining unity among diversity. So a racialist, why do I say that the racialist worldview makes your physical appearance the ultimate importance. Everything is seen through the lens of judging people by their appearance. Everything is racist, everything is this, everything is that. Everything is based on color. But I I want us to just take a step back and recognize that racism is actually a much larger issue than just skin color. It's it's diversity in general. It's different families. The Johnson family and the Baker family are diverse. They're different And the Baker family with they they have this kind of family attribute, Johnson family has this kind of family attribute, and they'll butt heads once in a while. That is all part of the same ballpark of problems that racism falls into. The fourth exhortation I have for us is the Christian, you must be transformed in your thought to recognize you have nothing in common with the non-Christian. Just because you have the same skin color as somebody out there in the media, that is not you. That is not your people. Your people is a Christian. So I'm going to get very specific here, and I know this is going to offend some people. When the George Floyd riots were happening, if you have dark-colored skin, I have news for you. You have nothing in common with George Floyd. You're a believer. If you're a believer, even well-intentioned, and you went up to your dark-skinned brothers in the church and said, Oh, I'm sorry that George Floyd thing happened. I know that must make you feel uncomfortable You are thinking in erasualist terms, and to be frank, it's a little insulting. What does your dark-skinned brother or sister have anything to do with George Floyd Now, whether or not his death was just or not, there's more details to uncover, right? But the truth of the fact is the man lived the life of sin. And he suffered the consequences of his sin. Did he deserve to be killed? I'm not ruling on that, but I'm saying he was not a believer. And your dark-skinned brother or sister in the church has nothing to do with that person. Why are you even thinking of your dark-skinned brother or sister in the same context as George Floyd? Your mind should be blank. That is a person, George Floyd, his own individual. What happened to him was unfortunate. It was horrible. It was tragic. Any death is tragic, okay? But the truth of the matter is, there should be no mental connection between George Ford and somebody else in the church. Because someone in the church is a called-out holy one that belongs to a holy people and a holy nation. You know when Chosun Heed, he was that uh serial killer that uh killed a bunch of people at Virginia Tech, if someone came up to me after he was gunned down and said, I'm sorry, I'm sure that made you feel uncomfortable, I'd be a little insulted. So I think what do I have to do with a guy killing a bunch of people at Georgia Tech? Oh, we have the same eyes, right? We have the same almond-shaped eyes? He's Korean too, actually part of my ethnic group identity. But I have nothing in common with him. There should be no mental connection in terms of our character between these two people And the fifth exhortation is, guys, look, it is always safe to just treat other people in the church as individual Christians. Okay? Now there are times and there are contexts where it's important to think of group identities and group diverse considerations But my dad, I'm gonna give him credit here. Uh he might be embarrassed that I'm sharing this, but he gave me one of the um uh he was an immigrant, so I'm from the immigrant family, and he gave me, I thought, one of the most shrewd, one of the most wise pieces of advice growing up And he told me, you know, Elias, I I gotta tell you, when you're in public, I have found he said this as as a Korean man Don't point out differences. You know? It makes everyone uncomfortable. And that's the truth. Sometimes if you're well-intentioned and you say, oh, what is it like being a Korean person? Instantly you know I think, ah, okay, you're pointing out that we're different from one another It's always safe, just treat others as individual Christians. That's always a safe thing to do. There are times and places where you have to talk about group identities. Like I said. I think language is a huge one we have to consider. But it's if you want to be on the safe side, just treat each other as individuals and treat each other as a brother or sister in the Lord. And can I say something else? That is by far what we see happening in the church. Why? Because once again the church is God's bride. The church is full of people that are unusually considerate, unusually loving, unusually unified Unusual because you will not see that out in the world. The world will always judge me, someone with, you know, my eyes and my hair color and stuff by my appearance. In the church, that has by far not been my experience, and that's what I expect to see because we are in Christ's called out ones. Do not exaggerate the issues that we have in the church. But At the same token, at the same time, the other side of the coin is let's not also exaggerate how far we have arrived in our walk. Are there instances of racism in the church? I expect there to be. Christians, just because we were saved by God's grace, don't understate the fact that we still have the flesh. We will struggle with every kind of sin. I expect Christians out there that still struggle with adultery I expect Christians to struggle with murder even. And I expect Christians out there to struggle with racism. We've got to uh think about both. So I just hope some of these uh give you guys something to uh think about. Um I know a lot of this was uh probably very heavy We don't have that much time unfortunately, but I'm uh happy to field any questions or comments at this point. But hopefully this gave you uh some food for thought, challenged everyone. Any questions or comments I think two or three off correctly. Um I'm just thinking about password surveys. Um sermon that he had preached I believe after George Floyd's the incident and everything. Um and something you had said when you were on point number four that we have nothing to do with with this man. Um and um there was something that Pastor Cody had said about out he reached out to his black friend and said, I'm so sorry. So can you help um me understand um his thinking and saying that? Is that the same as what you're saying I think so. And I think I would answer this way. I think I think uh we're closer than different if you're hearing a difference between us. And I think the key similarity is being considerate for one another and at the same time um recognizing that uh I I think it goes back to the slide where I said even though racialism is a myth, racism is real. And I think whether or not um You reject or adopt racialism. Um there are genuine uh struggles out there that we should be considerate of I think I think that I think we would stand together there. I don't remember all the details. That was a long time ago already. But that's the best I can do. Yeah. More similar than different. Yeah. Thank you for the question. Well I asked a question, okay? Yes. Go ahead. I I thought I heard a question online. Is there any questions at the How do I check the chat? I I'm too young to not know how to do this, but uh Uh participant. Um what was the question? I couldn't hear it. I think it was just kind of speaking to um If I could rephrase it, how do we love and be considerate to people that felt affected by the George Floyd situation? And I think that was uh what I was kind of answering. Is that kind of an accurate statement? Being considerate to one another, loving each other. And look, racialism is such a wide-reaching concept. Like I said, the vast majority of the world is racialist. They're not racist. I don't believe the vast majority, even non-believers are racist, okay? But the vast majority of the world is racialist, and this is such a big concept that I think needs to be come out of gradually that I think consideration has to take. place. But according to CRT, I'm not white so I can speak a little more strongly, right? So I'm part of the oppressed group. I just need to be female and, you know But I identify as you and I just no, I shouldn't even joke about it. Any other uh questions or comments? Okay, we're formally over time here, ten fifteen. I know a lot of us have to get going. Uh okay, I'm sorry. We have one question here. Maybe we can have a few other thoughts on reverse racism for those who are in the privilege group. So I think where I take it is once again, in the church, look, the world will always be racialist The world will always put people into white or black. But my exhortation is in the church we need to be transformed and just kind of reject even being in the white black thing. entirely. Of course, what we call reverse racism is a true phenomenon. It it's it's just called racism, right? And reverse racism, for those of you who don't know, I'm I'm I doubt nobody would know. But it's the idea can uh a minority race be racist against a majority race? Well let's rephrase that biblically. Can someone with uh a non-white skin color, descriptively non-white skin color Can they be sinful against someone with pale skin color? Of course they can. And that's the way we should be thinking biblically. We should be rephrasing the language to say, can sin happen both ways? Of course. Of course it can CRT locks us into thinking that if you're in the righteous category, you can do no wrong. If you're in the uh the oppressor category, you you can do no right, effectively. But of course this idea of reverse racism is true. But again, I think in the church, um and I know this isn't what you're saying, Don, but in the church, extending your thought. In the church, let's let's start getting rid of race entirely as part of our worldview. That happens outside the church. But in the church, we're not we're not white, black, Asian, whatever. We're the Zender family. We're we're this family. We're English speakers. We're Americans, most of us. And some of us are not Americans. Some of us uh can can I share just one anecdote? Uh I'm gonna keep it anonymous to protect this person, but there's a friend of mine and he's uh he's in he's um uh nationally not American. But he looks like a white person. And he's told me I've changed some uh details here just to for the sake of privacy. But he's told me, you know, I've been in this country so and so years now, I still don't feel like I fit in. And I kinda wondered, and I thought, you know, I wonder if the church we could do a better job reaching out and ministering to you, but we're not recognizing the fact that in a sense you're a minority. But you're white. So we totally miss that. See racialism would just put this person into the white category and we miss the fact that, you know, he he's having trouble with certain foods or certain customs, doesn't understand some of the certain idioms, you know Yeah. Such beauty in God's creation and unity in the body, Don says. Yes, that's right. A lot of diversity. And that's again another point I want us to walk away with is there's way more diversity in the church than you think. That racialism makes everything way too crass and broad. Everything the what you call black, there's so much diversity in black. There is the American black person that had his had it his experience. There's the Nigerian brother or sister who has their experience. It's going to be very different. What you monolithically call Asian, you know? There's Chinese ethnicity. There's a Korean. There's a Singaporean. There there's all sorts of different diversities out there. People are way more diverse than you think. I think that's one of the things I hope you're walking away with at the end of this lesson. Okay, I'm gonna end the lesson here just because we are over time. If you have any questions or comments, please don't hesitate to reach out to me privately. I know I said some hard things. I'm not above the um hypothetical notion that I misspoke at some point Um I did get pretty riled up just because uh, you know, I I think this is ultimately the unity of the body of Christ being threatened by this newfound uh really politically motivated, you know, attack upon the church in the form of CRT or critical theory. And that really upsets me and it should upset you as well. I think we can all stand on that ground. Whether or not you agreed right now with the details of everything I said We should be angry that the unity of Christ's body is being threatened. We should be angry that God's wife, you know, Jesus' wife, is being slandered. And I think we all want to see Christ and his body upheld and uh sanctified, glorified, so we can stand there together. This is what you're doing. Okay. But let me pray for us in closing and I'll dismiss us. Lord Jesus, uh just like I stated, I know I pray on behalf of everybody when we say that we all want to stand together as brothers and sisters. And we all want to be transformed in our thinking. But Lord, to be honest, we confess that we, all of us, myself included We're weak and there's still so much of our thinking that needs to be transformed. God, it is such a radical thing to be plucked out of the world and into this completely alien righteousness that we fundamentally don't understand in and of ourselves in our humanness. And that's why we're so thankful that we have a teacher in our hearts in the Holy Spirit that's helping transform our thinking. and helping us understand slowly what it looks like to reject the world and its systems, things that we often think are innocuous. but are really an affront to your word. Help us to identify more and more patterns of our worldview that do not conform with Scripture because we want to glorify and honor you in our entire lives. Lord, we pray that you would help maintain the unity, support and grow the unity of Hope Bible Church in particular. We know we didn't make this unity, we didn't offer this unity But we know that we are also called to participate in maintaining that unity through humility, gentleness, love, and patience with one another God help us to see clearer and clearer the poison that is critical theory and critical race theory as the labels it takes today. But we know ultimately Um, whatever label the world likes to call these uh poisonous ideas, it really is the old sins of hatred of one another that Cain exhibited when he murdered his own brother. And we know that tendency is still residing in our flesh, even though we are fundamentally a new creation. God, we know in our flesh, in that outer shell that is yet to be redeemed, We also, each of us, harbor that same sin when we are angry and we are hating one another. So please transform our hearts, soften our hearts, and help us to see one another truly. as individual, saved by grace, children of God. Thank you, God, for this salvation. Thank you, God, for this time and this fellowship. And in your sons we pray. Amen