George Whitfield was likely the best known religious figure in the 18th century in England and here in the Americas. He played a central role in the first Great Awakening, both in England and here in the colonies. The spiritual revival may have been the most influential religious movement in all of American history. Whitfield came to the colonies from England in 1739, and his reputation as a great outdoor preacher preceded him. Great outdoor crowds gathered to hear him preach, especially as he traveled in New England and here in the Middle Colonies. Whitfield traveled throughout the colonies, walking by foot many hundreds of miles. Stopping from place to place, calling men to repentance, to be born again, and to believe the gospel He actually lived during a time of great skepticism, deism, atheism, coldness of heart, and much religious hypocrisy. Yet he himself showed an intense concern for the lost souls of men. And the Spirit of God gave this man an extra unction of power behind his preaching. Surprising to many, George Whitfield was a Calvinist in his theology. He believed in God's election. And he believed God's choice of a person was why that man repented of sin and gained saving faith. He understood the utter importance of the lesson that we learned last week in Jonah chapter 2, that salvation is of the Lord. It's all of the Lord from beginning to end. From God's election of sinners in eternity past, to the believers' regeneration and faith in the present, to the perseverance of believers all the way unto glory in the future. Rather than dissuade or discourage his evangelism, his conviction that God was sovereign in salvation actually spurred on his confidence In the efficacy of evangelism in the hearts of men. His preaching was characterized by clarity of doctrine, earnestness of spirit, emphasis on the new birth. conviction of sin, and also immediate conversions and dramatically changed and altered lives We are told that by the time the revival was over, virtually every community within the colonies here in America had been touched by this man and his preaching. Some set aflame by the Word of God. Well, as impressive as that revival was in sheer numbers, in intensity, and how it influenced an entire nation. Brothers and sisters, the revival that we are going to read about today burned with even more intensity than that. This was a religious revival in the 8th century B. C. under the preaching of a great man named Jonah. Yes, that's right. Mr. Runaway Fish Prophet himself, used by God in a dramatic way The most significant thing that happened in Jonah's life was not being swallowed by the great fish, as we have already said But being used by God to bring about repentance to an entire sinful and pagan metropolis. Just as the Great Awakening was an unlikely event in unlikely times, this revival we're going to read about today was even more unlikely. It occurred in a very improbable place. At an implausible time through the work of an unreliable prophet. May the reality of God's surprising yet powerful work in the hearts of men and women, lift your prayers and your evangelistic efforts to believe that God can indeed still bring about revival in our country. For we too live in an unlikely place, during very unlikely times that a revival would start among most unlikely people. Yet, beloved, I would say to you, this is how God loves to show his power. So please open your Bibles if you haven't already. The Bible is the greatest textbook on revival Open it to Jonah chapter 3 and we will read of this great event in human history. Jonah chapter 3. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and proclaim to it the proclamation which I am going to tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three-day walk. Then Jonah began to go through the city one day's walk, and he cried out and said, Yet forty days and Nineveh will be overthrown. Then the people of Nineveh believed in God. And they called a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. When the word reached the king of Nineveh, he arose from his throne, laid aside his robe from him, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat on the ashes. He issued a proclamation, and it said, In Nineveh, by the decree of the king and his nobles, do not let man, beast, herd, or flock taste a thing. Do not let them eat or drink water But both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth, and let men call on God earnestly, that each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hands. Who knows? God may turn and relent and withdraw his burning anger so that we will not perish. When God saw their deeds, that they turned from their wicked way, then God relented concerning the calamity which he had declared he would bring upon them, and he did not do it. Now, chapter 3 presents the great climax to an already dramatic account of Jonah's life. So climactic is this revival, in fact, that we might think it too incredible to actually be true. I think readers of this book of Jonah often gloss over the incredible event that happens in chapter 3, focusing more on chapter 1 or chapter 4, and not fully absorbing these shocking, these stunning events that happen. This was a work of God in salvation, unseen in the labor of any Old Testament prophet of God, yea, maybe even more than any apostle of God in the New Testament. And it is precisely because it was such an enormous work of God and salvation that he recorded it for us in Scripture. You know, with all the confusing talk about what a revival is these days, supposed revivals breaking out over here and and over there, religious enthusiasm that happens, people excited about the Holy Spirit doing all kinds of strange and weird things with weird noises. I would say to you, brothers and sisters, that this chapter teaches us what true revival is all about. For a genuine revival from God will always be ignited by the preaching of God's word and evidenced by repentance. And genuine repentance will always be demonstrated by a humble turning from sin and by obedient acts of faith which follow. True revival is illustrated right here for us in four scenes. The first scene is the recommissioning of Jonah in verses one and two. The second is the response of Jonah. The third, the repentance of Nineveh, and fourth, the retraction of wrath by God. And we'll save that fourth scene for next Sunday. Notice now how scene one is so reminiscent of the beginning of the book. Scene number one, the recommission of Jonah. Look at verses one and two again. It says, Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and proclaim to it the proclamation which I am going to tell you. Did you notice how chapter 3, verse 1 Echoes chapter 1, verse 1. Except in the place of Jonah being called the son of Amitai, back in chapter 1, verse 1, which the readers already know by now. Why repeat that There is the note that Jonah was now being commissioned the second time. Well, there's an awful lot in that phrase, isn't there? The second time. It brings to mind the entire first two chapters of the book, where Jonah ran from God's original call, and then he was caught by God's intensive storm, and then he was rescued by God's timely fish. In chapter 3, verse 1, it is if the whole story is just starting over again. You didn't get it right the first time, Jonah. So let's crank it back up again. Here it comes again. Let's start the whole thing back over again. Now we don't know how long it was between Jonah being split up on the beach there and his recommissioning by God. We're just not told. I think it came very soon. Maybe even right there on the beach. God had an urgent message of judgment and damnation that was going to fall on this major ancient city of Nineveh. There had already been an unfortunate delay. Why delay any longer? I think that God gave Jonah just enough time to wipe all the fish slime off of him, to get to his senses, change his clothes, get in his right mind. And then it says the word of God came swiftly again to Jonah in verse 2. Arise, go to Nineveh, get up, and let's get going. There's no need to re-describe Nineveh's wickedness as was done back in chapter 1 and verse 2. More important now, just remind Jonah this second time around that he better be careful this time and he ought to preach exactly what God tells him to preach The job of a prophet, Jonah, is not to be an innovator. Don't get there and decide something that you would like to tell them. Don't be creative in your speaking abilities. Just be a proclaimer. Be a human transmitter of the divine message. Obedience requires not just going to Nineveh Jonah, but in saying what I'm going to tell you to say to them. Nothing more, nothing less. You know, I think it is absolutely amazing because God could have used someone else to preach his message to Nineveh, but couldn't He couldn't have chosen anybody that he wanted to, right? But he didn't. He stood by his original choice. Do you ever think about that? I think by some church committees Jonah might have been disqualified because he disobeyed God's call. Who knows, we might have even required him to take a few months of rehabilitative counseling before we sent him to Nova. But God chose to bring about the greatest mass conversion in human history, as far as we know, by using a preacher who didn't even want to go. Down in his heart. Friends, God is a God of mercy. Do you know what mercy means? God is a God of incredible mercy. Really, more than mercy. Mercy would be if he saved Jonah as he did from the fish, spit him up there on the beach, and said, Now go on home, Jonah. I'm done with you. You literally are washed up with me. No more of you. When you withhold punishment, when someone deserves the punishment, that's mercy. But God gave Jonah more than mercy. He gave him his grace. What's grace? Grace is adding positive blessings to a life that should have been damned. He disobeyed. Why would God even use him? Why would God even speak through a man like that? Oh, God is a God of mercy, but he is also a God of grace. Marvelous, wonderful, amazing grace. Grace adds positive blessings to the one who deserves condemnation. Grace is when Jesus Christ commissioned Peter to be a leader among his apostles after Peter denied that he even knew Christ. Grace is God choosing Rahab to be an ancestor of the holy Messiah after she had lived a life of rank prostitution and idol worship. That's grace. Many would disqualify a man today from church office and leadership simply because he was divorced prior to his conversion as a Christian, or because he served time in jail for a prior sin. But God's grace is too great to limit it to our man-made rules. And Jonah did not disobey God as an unbeliever, people. He disobeyed God as a believer, yea, even more as a prophet of God. And that was worse. Let us never forget the riches of God's grace that Paul taught us. The book of Ephesians, which says, in Christ we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins. Listen, according to the riches of his what? His grace. The riches of his grace. We were blasphemers, covetous, some of you were drunkards, idol worshippers, served yourself, selfishness, proud, slanderers, fornicators, selfish materialists. Doesn't that describe you and me? We were also given grace. We were given grace so that we would not just have the forgiveness of our sins, but we would obtain a great inheritance and we haven't even seen the greatness of the We were also commissioned to be in God's service, to stand here and minister the Word of God and evangelize and speak in the name of Christ and do ministries in his church for Him Paul himself makes this note about his own apostolic ministry, incredible as it was. Listen to Ephesians 3:8. He says, To me, the very least of all the saints Let me say that again. To me, the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ. Take the very least of all the saints and let him be the mouthpiece for the riches of God's grace. That's how God works. It's amazing. The recommissioning of Jonah in chapter 3, verses 1 and 2 is a beautiful insight into the heart and the workings of God with individual people. Listen, whatever sin that you may have committed in your background, it doesn't matter. No matter how gross it was, how ashamed you are at having committed it. How selfish it was. You need to know that God will not only forgive you and wash you up, but if you are genuine in your repentance, He will use you, use you in a great way for His kingdom. I still sin. I still sin, and I'm amazed that God still uses me. To come up here to take his holy word and proclaim it to you. I hope you don't put me too high on a pedestal. I'm just a sinner like you. And God uses me. Why? Because of his grace. His grace. And yet please note also from verse 2 that along with God giving Jonah grace, God also warned Jonah not to presume upon his grace. Do you see that? Don't take the provision of God's grace lightly. Now, unfortunately, there are too many churches, too many churches in our area. Yes, evangelical churches too. right here in America, who would have us believe that God gives us abundant grace, and they talk about grace and grace and more grace And act as if God gives no expectation of obedience to his commandments to follow I guess they would want to put these words into God's mouth and have him say something like this to Jonah, you know, Jonah, it really doesn't matter whether you go to Nineveh or not. I'm such a loving and gracious God I just saved you from the water because I love you unconditionally. You know, it would be really great if you would obey me and go to Nineveh. I think that's the kind of God so many people worship today. Grace was not given to Jonah to allow him to be loose with God's commands. Grace was given to Jonah to help him be strengthened to obey those very commands. When you're grateful for what God does in your life, you want to obey. And Jonah's commission in verse 2 is to preach. Did you see that? Literally to cry out. Cry out with a great voice, a great message, with great consequences, if it is not heeded, to a great earthly city. It will be a proclamation ministry. There will be nothing entertaining about Jonah arriving in Nineveh, people. Jonah wasn't supposed to stroll into Nineveh and erect a stage and dramatize the Word of God to all of those Assyrian seekers. Jonah was not supposed to tell some entertaining stories in hopes of being culturally relevant. This upbeat pagan metropolis needed a different approach, you see. He was to cry out a message. He was to yell in the city streets. He was to tell them their city was going to be destroyed. You know he didn't whisper that. This is what a true prophet of God always does. When Isaiah the prophet proclaimed his message in his book, he prefaced many of his proclamations with phrases like these. For the mouth of the Lord hath spoken. Chapter one, verse twenty of Isaiah. Thus saith the Lord chapter seven verse seven That which I have heard from the Lord. The Lord hath spoken his word. Thus saith the Holy One. Get the idea? These are God's words. You better listen. It's God's holy, unchanging word that is to be proclaimed. Don't take any of man's folly and dribble and mix any of it in there with it. Get it all out. The prophet was a man who received a message directly from God, verbally. He heard the words of God, and he was commanded: go tell the people what I said. He may not have known at this point in time the content of the message he was supposed to preach. Verse 2 says, the proclamation which I am going to tell you in Hebrew that may be present or future. It likely was future here from the context. He was going to learn it on his way. Five hundred miles to walk, God was going to tell him. Second scene is the response of Jonah. This is a blessing, isn't it? Verses 3 and 4. If you were with us for the chapter 1 message, you know what a blessing this is. So Jonah arose and went to what? No Tarsus there this time. According to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three days' walk. That doesn't mean three days to get to Nineveh, but how large the city in size was. It was 500 miles to get there. It took them longer than three days. And then Jonah began to go through the city one day's walk, and he cried out and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh will be overthrown. Well, this time Jonah responded the way a prophet should respond. What a change experiencing the mercy of God makes in the life of a person. Sometimes people don't want to obey God because they haven't really realized what a miserable wretch that they are and how much God is going to reject them and how God is not going to accept them but punish them. But once they realize they're no good in God's sight, and yes that applies for every single human being on this planet, once they understand that, and they understand that they deserve the wrath of God, and they finally realize that Jesus Christ is willing to forgive them of all of that, then they know in their spirit and their heart what mercy is. And now they're ready to what? They're ready to obey. Jonah in chapter 3, verse 3, responds the opposite of chapter 1, verse 3. The sticker on his suitcase no longer reads Tarshish or Bust, but rather look out, Nineveh, here I come. We're told nothing about his trip. We don't know whether he traveled first class, second class, or with no class. He just traveled. We know he traveled 500 miles. He arrived at this great ancient city. What was Nineveh like in those days? Let me tell you a little few things. In Genesis chapter 10, verses 6 through 12, it reveals that the city was founded by a man named Nimrod, who was a descendant of Noah through his son Ham. In verse 11 of Genesis 10, it states that from the land of Shinar, Nimrod came into the area of Assyria and built four cities, Nineveh and three others. They are described together as the great city. If you could picture the Middle East in your mind, locate Iraq in your mind, if you've been looking at the the war and the maps there, and you know the Tigris and Euphrates River runs parallel through Iraq Nineveh is located in northern Iraq on the eastern banks of the Tigris River, again, about 500 miles northeast of Israel. The Ninevites in those days were part of the great Assyrian Empire. And Nineveh was a very powerful city. At various times it became extremely powerful throughout its very, very long history. You know, even by the time that Jonah arrived there, and that's some 2,700 years ago from our vantage point, that city had already been in existence for 2,000 years. I mean, that's some heritage At times Nineveh was the capital of the Assyrian kingdom, and it appears that Nineveh was usually a royal city of some kind. And of course, according to chapter 1 and verse 2, it was a very corrupt and a very sinful and violent city. Nineveh was infamous for its cruelty to victims of war when they conquered them. If you just flip two little books to the right to the book of Nahum, just keep your finger in Jonah and go to Nahum, we can read about Nineveh. In chapter 3, in verses 1 through 4, it tells us something about that city. Chapter 3, verses 1 through 4 of Nahum says, Woe to the bloody city. Wow, what a way to describe it. Completely full of lies and pillage. Her prey never departs. The noise of the whip, the noise of the rattling of the wheel, galloping horses, and bounding chariots, horsemen charging, swords flashing, spears gleaming, many slain, a mass of corpses and countless dead bodies. They stumble over the dead bodies. All because of the many harlotries of the harlot, the charming one, the mistress of sorceries, who sells nations by her harlotries and families by her sorceries. Now that is a description. I'll stop there of Nineveh about a hundred and fifty years after Jonah preached. But it at least gives us a glimpse into the cruel ways of the people of Assyria. That's the kind of people these guys were. And probably were much like that in Jonah's time as well. For notice if you come back to Jonah chapter 3, even in chapter 3, verse 8 of Jonah, the king is so aware of his own people's extreme violence that he calls for a fast that they would put away their violent ways. It was a violent group of people. Bloodshed the Lord. Now Nineveh itself, according to verse 3, was an exceedingly great city. Literally that means great under the Lord. That is it It was great before God's sight, something great upon the earth that was there. Its population was about 120,000 people, as chapter 4 and verse eleven mentions. Now 120,000 people to us today doesn't sound like all that great of a city when we think about Shanghai, Mexico City, New York, and places like that. But for an ancient city, this was humongous, Jerusalem at the same time. was somewhere between thirty and fifty thousand inhabitants. This was a major, major metropolis for the ancient world. Nineveh was perhaps the largest city in the world at that time. Verse 3 says its size was literally a distance of three days. Now most believe that this refers to walking the circumference around the city, or possibly back and forth through the city streets to be able to get everywhere in the city. Modern archaeology has indeed confirmed that this size was possible. It was an area of about 60 miles in circumference for the greater metropolis area. That would include what was called the Assyrian triangle of three cities, Nineveh, Rezin, and Kala. The actual city of Nineveh, the city proper itself, had great walls almost eight miles along enveloping the inner part of the city. And that city was in the shape of a trapezium, which is a quadrilateral, having no two sides that were parallel And Jonah wanted everyone in the city to hear. He didn't want to disobey God this time. He knew what that would bring He wanted everyone to hear, so he wanted to get to a place where everyone throughout this massive metropolis would hear his simple message. Now imagine if you had a duty And in three days you needed to walk into every single neighborhood in Columbia. You weren't allowed any use of any megaphones or anything like that, and you'd preach so that everyone of the hundred thousand, greater hundred thousand people here in the Columbia area would hear the message that you proclaim. That'll take a ti a lot of time to go into each of the neighborhoods and proclaim that. Well verse four describes Jonah's manner of preaching. It says, Jonah began to go through the city one day's walk, and he, there it is, cried out, saying, So what is he doing? He's just walking And he's preaching. He's walking and he's preaching. And he's stopping and then he's preaching. And he just walks some more and he just keeps preaching. And he keeps saying the same message to the city over and over and over and over and over and over again So that they get it and they hear it and they know it. They understand what God is saying to their city. It's not much. It's not hard to understand. What was the message? What message did God put in Jonah's mouth and tell him to yell out and proclaim? What was it Yet 40 days in Nineveh will be overthrown, literally turned upside down. It'll be absolutely destroyed. It'll be laid waste in 40 days. As far as we know, that is the only thing Jonah was told to preach. And when we get to chapter 4, you're going to realize that Jonah really liked preaching this message. He was hoping for the worst for Nineveh. He gladly preached this message of judgment. He put intensity into his voice, I'm sure. The Assyrian people were very, very wicked. Jonah was not rooting for their salvation. He was not praying for revival. He just was preaching the word of God. And there's nothing wrong with praying. We should always be praying. Always be praying for revival. Praying for people to come to Christ. The message to learn though is that all that God needs to use is this what? His word proclaimed, even when the person proclaiming it doesn't even have the best of motives. The amazing power of God's word preached and proclaimed. You know, if it was only forty days until Nineveh's judgment, after two thousand years of its history, that lets you know just how close this ancient city came to utter and complete destruction. That number 40 in the Bible is kind of interesting, isn't it? Have you ever thought about that? It's commonly used as a number that refers to a time of testing or even divine judgment. Jesus was tested in the wilderness for how long? Forty days. Rain poured upon the world in the days of Noah for 40 days. The flood lasted much longer, an entire year, but it rained for 40 days. The Israelites suffered death as punishment for forty what? Years in the wilderness before they were allowed to enter into the land. Here, 40 days is presented as a waiting period. God's going to wait for 40 days, and that's it. God's going to wait for 40 days and he's going to watch the city and he's going to see what's going to happen. Would they repent? First question. Second question is, if they did repent, would God still go ahead and punish them? If they didn't repent, would God have punished them? You have to say yes to that, right? If they didn't repent, would God have punished them? Would God really judge those who grew up and never had a copy of the Bible in their land? Who never got to hear the promises given to Abraham? They were all outside of that. There was no copy of the law of Moses for them to follow, to put faith in. They never got to hear God's word. Would God have judged and punished them? Oh no, God, he's not that kind of guy. He wouldn't punish those who never had a chance to hear the word of God, would he? Well, was he lying when he said, yet 40 days, and Nineveh will be overturned? They didn't have a Bible. They have anything as far as God's revelation other than what they saw in the sky around them, in their own person, from creation. That's all they had. You know, um people today would say that'd be unfair of God if he carried through with that threat. What is he even threatening him for in the first place? He needs to get a Bible up there for him, not threaten them with judgment. These poor Assyrians, they were at a disadvantage. Didn't God know that? You know, the Bible says that all people of all time are accountable to their creator for the evil deeds that they do, no matter where they are in the world, no matter what time they live. In Romans chapter 1 verse 20, write it down and look it up. Romans 1. 20 says, unbelievers who have never heard the Bible are without excuse. See, we excuse our ignorance of God. God never excuses our ignorance of Him. In Romans 2:12, it puts it this way: everyone who sins without having the law of God. Will also perish without the law of God. Wow. God did not send Jonah to the Ninevites because he felt he owed the Nineveh a message. The truth about God and His existence and His greatness was all around them and creation. That's all they needed. The rest was excuse-making. They themselves were made in the very image of God. They had a conscience that God gave to them, and they knew they were sinning. They knew they were wicked. They knew they were doing wrong. Brothers and sisters, so does everybody out there. They know they're violating the standards of God. And they don't care. They have no fear of God in their hearts. So the Ninevehes were already guilty before God, even before Jonah began preaching. God certainly had the right to punish them. Listen, God could have punished them without sending Jonah there. God has the right to punish people in this world today, anywhere they are, and to send them into everlasting damnation. But they never heard about Jesus. It doesn't matter. They sinned against God. And they did it willfully. And they knew what they were doing. Everywhere you go, people have moral standards, and everywhere you go, people break those very moral standards that they say they hold. But God is a merciful God God demonstrates his mercy. No one takes God's hand and puts it behind his back and says, you have to offer mercy, or it won't be fair. Who's going to do that to God's mighty arm? He offers his mercy as he desires to offer his mercy. He's sovereign in the bestowal of mercy. That leads us to the third scene. What actually went on in the city of Nineveh? To me this just blows my mind. I'm lost somewhere in this city. I I wish I could be there. I wish someone would try to do a movie of this. I'd they probably wouldn't get it right though, you know The repentance of Nineveh, scene number three, verses five through nine. Look at verse five. Then the people of Nineveh believed in God. And they called the fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. What was Nineveh's response to this lone prophet? This one little man walking through its great streets in front of its great monuments and towers and walls. He cried out such a simplistic message. No frills to this, just judgment. Did they laugh at him? Were they entertained by the idiot walking back and forth in their streets? Did they find humor in the audacity of the fish prophet to enter their city without guards or army and declare its ruin? Was he nuts? Did they remind Jonah that they'd been around for 2,000 years? It was ridiculous to think they were about to be destroyed just because he said so? Did they arrest him and bring him to swift punishment for inciting insurrection and for demeaning their kingdom? Listen, any of those responses would have been very appropriate if they were a proud nation. To a proud people, any of those things they would have done to a man like this. But what does the scripture say? Then the people of Nineveh believed in God. In God. It doesn't say they believed in Jonah. It says they believed in God. This is a clear declaration of their salvation, as clear as any comes in all of the Bible. A declaration as clear as the one given by the Apostle Paul to the Philippian jailer, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be what? Saved. The Ninevehites also believed. They trusted in the message. They heeded the warning. They received the Word of God as the truth. They were to believe and submit to the truth. Just as Noah and his family were saved physically from the waters of the flood in their day, as a symbol, that ark as a symbol of their spiritual salvation, for they too were saved spiritually because of their faith. So too these Ninevites would be spared physical destruction of their city as a testimony of their inward turning, their inward faith in God. The fact that they were repentant is demonstrated by the sackcloth that they put on. Sackcloth was a thick, coarse kind of cloth, usually made from goat's hair, not comfortable at all to wear. It was usually dark or even black in color. By wearing their black sackcloth, they showed that they were an entire city in mourning. They mourned their sins. They feared their impending judgment Wearing sackcloth was symbolic of their identity with the poor. It showed they were humble and self-abased before God. I mean the picture here if you just try to imagine it is so dramatic. This scene would make Hollywood jealous The whole entire metropolis came to a grinding halt. People poured into the streets and to the balconies to hear the Hebrew crier as he walked by their area of the city There must have been an eerie hush that came over the people, followed by cries of fear. What will we do? As the convicting work of God's Spirit accompanied the spoken word of God The word of God worked so powerfully there. Nothing else mattered to these Ninevites at all Daily chores seemed irrelevant as well they should. Families stopped all of their squabbling, businesses shut down, boasting in the streets quieted, their idle temples were abandoned There was only one topic to talk about, one and only one. It was Yonah, the Hebrew prophet, who is saying we're going to be destroyed. 40 days, that's all we have. We will be overturned. Each neighbor said to the other, judgment is upon us, people. No use buying and selling. No use praying to another God. No use eating or drinking. Every one of us is in jeopardy. Oh, even the king decided he better wear sackcloth as well. Look at verse 6. When the word reached the king of Nineveh, in other words, the people had already been repenting. The people were already fearful, and the word came to the king and his palace. It says he arose from his throne, laid aside his robe from him, covered himself with sackcloth, and then sat down on ashes. Without hesitation, he knew the message was true. Somehow it hit him too, like a hammer. This was true I mean, he's surrounded by all of his nobility and his riches and his palace. It must have been wonderful. He lays all of that aside. He's so convinced it's true. He confesses the wickedness of his own people, and he demonstrates his own repentance by base appearance before all, sitting down in ashes. with sackcloth covering him. A complete transformation from royalty to rags. His actions declare to everyone that he couldn't speak with individually and told everyone that would see him in that condition, I, the king of Nineveh, am nothing before Jonah's God. This is about as humbled as a king gets, people Who was this king? Well, we don't know for sure. Most believe that it was Ashuradin III. He reigned from 773 to 756 BC. His was a weak and shaky monarchy, we're told, struggling with domestic problems and international dangers. There had been a serious plague during his reign that had negatively affected the population in seven sixty-five BC. And then we're also told that a shocking event had occurred in Assyria. They had a total eclipse of the sun on June 15th 763 BC, a sign in the skies to ancient people. Evidently they had taken it as an omen of impending judgment. And then that also was followed by another plague in 759 BC. It's quite possible that God took all of these events to begin to humble these people and to begin to get them ready to hear the word of God. And though Ashuridan III was the king of Assyria, here he's called the king of Nineveh, because the story focuses on Nineveh's repentance, not necessarily all of Assyria. The king himself feels responsibility for much of the violence and the sin. And so he sits on his new throne. A throne of ash. Verses seven and eight. He issued a proclamation and said, In Nineveh, by the decree of the king and his nobles, do not let man beast Herd or flock taste a thing. Do not let them eat or drink water. Now that couldn't have been throughout the whole forty days with a water part. But certainly the eating was probably for a long period of time But both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth, and let men call on God. That's Elohim. Earnestly. Call on Elohim earnestly. That each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hands. Now that royal proclamation had the effect of law, but the people were already doing it before he even said it. And notice they felt so serious about this they included even the animals in their mourning. Hey, they would be destroyed with the city as well. Might as well cover them in black. That was a typical Persian custom later in history, but evidently it was practiced earlier by the Assyrians as well. That's maybe not as strange as you might think, because even here in Western civilization, horses were sometimes covered in black during times of mourning, and now we have a black motorcade to show a time of mourning But notice the hope in the voice of the king in verse nine. Who knows? Who knows? God may turn and relent and withdraw his burning anger so that we shall not perish. Right here, in making that statement, this king raises the central issue of the book of Jonah. Will God have mercy on such a wicked people as the Ninevites if they repent? The king knows they have no hope of saving themselves. He doesn't tell them to call on everyone's God His hope is in Jonah's God. God may relent. God may change his mind about bringing the judgment. That's their only hope. They don't have another hope. They don't have a plan B. That's it. He knows God has the right to destroy them because of their sin. And that is always a mark of genuine repentance. They're not making excuses. For their sin, they're not saying, well, I know I did it, but it really wasn't all that bad. Well, you know, everyone does it, and you know, what are you picking on us for? And all the this is genuine repentance They're sinners. There's no half confessions here. They know they deserve what the prophet has come to say. They're not arguing with him. They're not debating with him. But there is still hope for them. God gave them 40 days. Why did He give them 40 days? Maybe He gave them 40 days because maybe during that time they could turn from their wickedness and God would hold back His judgment. Maybe. Just maybe. It gave them some hope. That great city had made a name for itself, a name of violence throughout all of the world. They were proud and boastful, corpses all over the place, trampling down other nations. Now they got dressed in the humblest demeanor they knew how, even dressing their animals in lowly attire. They were so distraught, so convicted, they refused to eat food or drink water. Listen, this wasn't a show. This wasn't a show They believed that the simple word of this one lowly prophet, because it was the word of a true and living God, had more power and authority than the might of their king and their own armies and their entire civilization. What a scene. And this was not belief in just one segment of the society in Nineveh, but as it says in verse 5, from the greatest of them to the least, slaves. Prostitutes, workers, soldiers, farmers, fishermen, shop owners, merchants, managers, landowners, soldiers, wise men, noblemen, and the king, all of them Dressed in lowly garb, crying to God, as verse 8 says, cry out earnestly to save them and have mercy on them. May we learn a message about our evangelism from this example. No matter how distasteful the message of repentance from sin is to our own nation, our own state, our own communities, our own friends. It doesn't matter, it's still the message that God has given to us also to preach, and we must preach it. Yeah? People around us all the time are saying, don't be so judgmental, you evangelical Christian, you That's fine for you to believe. Stay over there in your little religious corner and don't come out here in society and say anything about that to the rest of us. What do you think you're better than us that you would tell us that we're going to be judged? Besides, God's far too loving to judge anyone, anyway. But God just keeps telling his servants, telling his witnesses, telling his prophets, keep speaking a message of divine judgment and never compromise on that. Preach repentance. Speak repentance. Share repentance. Tell other people they must repent. That's God's message. It's the same now. It hasn't changed. Paul said it on Mars Hill to the proud and educated philosophers in Athens. God is now declaring to all men everywhere that they should repent. Because he's fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. We don't know if it's 40 days or 40 years, but there's a day fixed. He will judge the world in righteousness. Listen, with the preaching of repentance comes the opportunity for salvation for people. Because with the message of approaching judgment comes the conviction of sin that they deserve the judgment. Only after there's a conviction of sin is anyone going to cry out for the Savior and find out there's only one who will save them You know, often we think uh that's just not gonna work. That's just not gonna work today. Yeah, people in America, they're just not gonna listen. You know. Why bother? Let's just enjoy the things we're doing in here in church and just keep our message to ourselves. No one would have thought that England was ready for an awaken awakening under the preaching of Wesley and Whitfield. No one would have looked at that society and said, you know, they're about to have a revival. No one really would have gone into Nineveh and said, Hey, this is a great place for one of the greatest mass conversions in all of human history. I think that this tells us it can happen anywhere, because God's word is powerful. But there must be repentance from sin. You know, anyone who thinks they can ask Jesus to be their Savior and get out of hell, but they're not willing to turn away from their sin and follow Christ as Lord, they better read the book of Jonah again. Because God looked upon their actions as proof of their faith, right? He looked upon their actions, how they humbled themselves before God and ceased their violence. As confirmation that they truly believed. If they had not ceased their violence and asked God to spare their city, would He have? Just read the prophet Naum, because 150 years later, he does destroy the city after this generation is gone. You know, some people think that this mass conversion was too incredible. It really just couldn't have happened like that. This must have been hyperbole. This must not have really happened like this. Gleason Archer, a great Old Testament scholar, summarizes some of the objections of these skeptics. He writes, It is declared to be quite inconceivable that any heathen city such as Nineveh would have repented so quickly and so generally in response to the exhortation of an unknown foreigner from a small and distant country The king's decree that all the inhabitants should clothe themselves in sackcloth and even drape their animals in the symbols of mourning is nothing short of absurd. These two must be regarded as fabulous elements. Oh, the disbelief in the Word of God among our people. Need this repentance mean that every single person in the entire city was eternally saved? Probably not. There were always tares among the wheat. But genuine repentance did characterize the city. Did it mean that Assyria was forever changed into work worshippers of Israel's God, Yahweh? No Future generations quickly turned back to their idols and they received the judgment. However, it was a genuine revival. For this generation. Why? Because a genuine revival will always be ignited by the preaching of God's word. And it will always be evidenced by repentance from sin. And genuine repentance will always be demonstrated by a humble turning from sinful acts and by obedient acts of faith to follow We have here not just emotionalism, but the true working of God in salvation Not every generation repents. Not every generation listens. John the Baptist and Jesus And then Jesus' apostles preached to the nation of Israel a message of repentance for the forgiveness of sins, but they didn't repent. Jesus warned them That that generation of Ninevites who repented would rise up on judgment day and condemn his generation of Jews. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah, but Jesus was there, and he was greater than Jonah, and they did not repent at his preaching. They wanted a sign from Jesus. So we know that you're from God. He said in Luke 11, this generation is a wicked generation. It seeks for a sign, and yet no sign shall be given to it but the sign of Jonah. For just as Jonah became assigned to the Nineveh, so shall the Son of Man be to this generation. The part that made it a sign is that Jonah lived three days and three nights inside the belly of the whale, and then he reappeared to proclaim God's message. Jesus took that sign and he applied it to himself in Matthew 12, 40. He said, For just as Jonah was in the belly of the sea monster three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. When Jesus Christ reappeared from death and he was physically and bodily seen by hundreds of witnesses that he had conquered death that he was as dead as dead could be upon a cross, that everyone saw his death, and then he rose from the dead bodily victorious over death. That was the one last great sign that God left the entire world, that they have to hear it. Understand it, believe it, and repent from their sins. God's not giving another sign. That's his sign. The resurrection. But people stubbornly love their sin. They're not convicted of sin. They don't fear the wrath of God. So what if revival never comes? What if people just don't Well let me tell you one thing. We must never, ever change the message that God has given us to preach. Are you listening to me? It doesn't matter how many secret churches out there think that they can fill their churches with more people because they adapt the message, smooth it out a little, sweeten it up some, make it a little more palpable to everybody, so they can just say, hey, that's nice, I like that. That's relevant to me We will never ever change the message that God has given to us. Why? Because if God does want to do a revival, and God does want to save a lot of people, he'll never do it through churches like that. Never He will never do it through someone who said, you know, God, what you told us to say, well, it needs some polishing up. We have to preach what God tells us to preach. Our calling is the same as Jonah's calling. We're sinners transformed by the grace of God, and we have to preach the word of God whether it's in season or out of season. We're told that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God and the salvation. Why would we use anything else but the power of God? Our message is the same as theirs. Jesus said the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel in Mark 1:15. Peter said the same after Jesus was raised from the dead in Acts 3:19. Repent and turn, so that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. Paul said the same in Acts 26 as he gave his testimony. So, King Agrippa, he said, I did not prove disobedient to the heavenly vision, but kept declaring both to those of Damascus first. And also at Jerusalem, and then throughout all the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds appropriate to repentance. That's our message. Preach repentance to a world of sinners and tell them God is going to judge the world. That's God's message. Oh, Bible Church, we don't have a choice of changing that message. That's God's message. Yeah, but it's been so long and the Lord hasn't come back. People still aren't repenting Do not let this one fact escape your notice, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years and a thousand years like one day. The Lord is not slow about his promise, as some count slowness. But is patient toward you, not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. And I end with this. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. In which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat, and the earth and its works will be burned up. Our Father and our God, we pray that you would keep us aflame with the message of salvation in Christ and this impending day of fiery judgment, which you have guaranteed is coming on this world. Help us to not be so busy with our events, so wrapped up with life on this earth that we forget this is the truth. And we forget to warn the people around us. The judgment is real. The judgment is coming. Have mercy, Lord, on our society and grant a revival if it would be thy will. We ask it in Christ's blessed The holy name. Amen.