Well, as we turn our hearts to the Word of God, I would invite you to turn your Bible with me to Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter If you're using one of the Bibles from under the seat, it's page 947. 947. Lord willing, we'll get back into John 7 next week, which I'm eager to do, wrap up that chapter and move into chapter 8. But this morning in light of the ministry fair, I thought it would be helpful for us to encourage and strengthen our hearts with a reminder of What God has done for us and the relationship between the believer and the church There are many wrong ideas that people have about the church, and all those wrong ideas spring from a common root. People think about and engage the church wrongly, fundamentally, because they do not understand in some measure what it means to be redeemed. Like citizens who don't know their rights and responsibilities. Many Christians do not know what it means to be a Christian. This is a very serious problem, and it weakens the church at large, and it hinders local churches from fully experiencing the kind of body life that God has designed us to have. And so to help us understand the great joy and privilege that is ours Of being redeemed and also to strengthen ourselves as a local church, I want to look at Romans chapter 12, verses 3 to 8 together. If you're there in Romans 12, follow along. I'm going to start reading in verse 1. The Apostle Paul writes, inspired by the Holy Spirit. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me, I say to everyone among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, So we, though many, are one body in Christ and individually members of one another, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us Let us use them. If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching The one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in his generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. There are four main passages in the scripture that talk about this issue of spiritual gifts, which in a broader title would be How God Designed the Church to Function. Those passages are 1 Corinthians 12, Ephesians 4, 1 Peter 4, and here in Romans 12. If you want an easy way to remember that, you got 2 chapter 4s, Ephesians and First Peter and two chapter twelve, First Corinthians and Romans. Romans and First Corinthians were written to specific churches and specific places, and the books of Ephesians and First Peter were written to vast uh uh number of churches in various regions of Asia. And so both the repetition of these truths in the Scripture and the spread of the recipients throughout the world at that time Underscores the importance of how each of us is to think about our role in the life of the church. But what really amplifies this issue is Is this context here in Romans chapter 12? Paul's letter to the Romans has been considered by many to be his magnum opus. The epitome of theological treatises. It is without a doubt the richest theological and practical letter in the New Testament. The first 11 chapters are a masterful laying out and setting forth of the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul declares that this is the theme of his letter when he writes in chapter 1, verses 15 to 16, I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. And from there, the Holy Spirit moves Paul along to passionately declare the glory of the gospel with intricate detail. Like a skilled gemologist, Paul looks at one facet of the gospel at a time, describing its beauty. He begins in chapter 1 with the reality that the wrath of God comes upon those who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. That truth that is revealed about God the Creator. And they have exchanged the glory of God the Creator for created things. And they've demonstrated that exchange by a life of rebellion against God. And then in chapter 2, he turns his attention to those who are self-righteous, those who boast because they are Jews by heritage and recipients and claim to follow the law. Paul shows that they too will not escape the judgment of God. In fact, he says in chapter two, verse five, But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation for the righteous judgment of God. Unless anyone read all of what he says in chapter one and all of what he says in chapter two, Paul indicts The entire human race, if those who read it and think that they're not included in those charges, he indicts the entire human race In chapter three, when he says, There is none righteous, not even one, there is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside, together they have become useless, there is none good None who does good, not even one. And we heard that part of that is a quote from Psalm 14 earlier in the service. When set against the perfection of God, even the best among us are under condemnation. So how does one escape that condemnation from God? How does one get to that place where rather than being declared Sinner which we are to being declared righteous. How are we justified before God in light of our wickedness Well, it's not by works, it is by faith, Paul says in chapter 4. He recounts how Abraham was justified Not by works, but by faith. And so likewise, if you and I want to be made right with God, we can't do it by our works, but only by believing in the promises of God. And specifically in chapter 4 and 5, what we're supposed to be believing in in terms of the promises of God, this side of the cross, is the Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. who were still sinners, who was buried and who was raised to life again. Paul says that the first man, Adam, brought sin and death into the world, the second Adam, Jesus Christ, brings forgiveness and life to those who believe. So, my friend, if you are not a Christian, understand that you cannot enter into heaven by smooth talk and good deeds. You need a perfection that you do not have. But praise God that the one perfect life, Jesus Christ, can be counted for you if you would only acknowledge your sin and your desperate need. to have his righteousness applied to your account. His life, his death, and his resurrection is our only hope of eternal life Well, turning to chapter 6, we then learn that having faith and being raised to new life from the dead frees us from the enslaving power of sin. We are now free to submit to God, leading to a life of holiness and everlasting life. And then in chapter seven We're reminded that though we live in this body, or rather because we live in this body, which is still infected by the curse of sin, we battle to do what is right. We desire to do what is right, but often we find that battle raging with the flesh And so we often sin, and it's only when we will see Jesus face to face that we will have the presence of sin taken from us. And then gloriously, when we do sin, chapter 8 proclaims, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Again, though we live in this body of death, the Holy Spirit dwells within us and imparts to us the life of God, which enables us to overcome sin and endure suffering. And so certain are the promises of God that nothing in all the world can separate us from that love of God, not even death itself. Paul then turns in Romans chapter 9-11 from individual redemption to his larger redemptive purposes for the Jews and for Gentiles. He tells us that all Israel is currently hardened so that the full number of Gentiles can be saved, and once they are saved, then all Israel will be saved. To show that the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. And so the day will come when every last promise that God made to his people, the Jews, along with the whole world, all nations, will be fulfilled. And so, having considered all of the facets of the diamond of the gospel, Paul then explodes into an anthem of praise. Which you see in chapter eleven, starting in verse thirty-three, he says, Oh the depths of the riches, the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable his ways For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. And all God's people said, Amen. Well, after such an exhilarating and God-exulting proclamation of the gospel, Paul then asked that all-important question: how then shall we live? Look at verses one and two of chapter twelve. He writes, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. In other words, all the theology and all of the doctrine and all of the truth expounded in chapters 1 through 11 have a mandate for your life. You are redeemed to give your life as a sacrifice to God. That means you need to die to yourself. You need to die to the world's system of priorities and rights and morals and goals. You die to the self-oriented desires that have controlled you your whole life. And you die in order to live To truly live, to live a life of worship to the God who redeemed you and rescued you from the kingdom of darkness. He redeemed you from slavery to sin. He saved you from the wrath of God. He forgave you of all of your transgressions. He adopted you into his family. And he gave you a whole new life. But what is this life? What does this new life look like? Well that's what he spends chapters twelve to sixteen in this letter. describing but notice what comes first. The first thing that comes to Paul's mind under under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit Of what it means to live a sacrificial, worshipful, transformed, and renewed life is the matter of how we are to think about our place alongside others who are also redeemed by Christ. In other words, when God redeemed you, He didn't place you into your own private Garden of Eden to enjoy an exclusive relationship with with him. No, he adopted you into his family with other brothers and sisters. He made you a citizen with fellow residents of his kingdom. He brought you into the fold with other sheep. He made you a member of his household. He added you as a living stone in his spiritual house He ordained you as a priest in his temple, and he placed you as a member into his body In short, to be a Christian is to be a member of the church. That one society that Christ promised to build over which not even death would have victory. And so, Christian, whatever is true of you, whatever other relational connections and identities you may have in the home or in the workplace or in the community. Your membership in the Church of Jesus Christ is the defining reality of your life alongside your identity in Christ. You cannot be in Christ without being a member of the church. And you cannot be a member of the church without being in Christ The two go hand in hand. And while these are or really begin as spiritual realities, they become concrete physical realities in the context of the local church. In other words, your participation in a church like Hope Bible Church is not an incidental part of your life alongside school and work and sports and other activities. If for those who are born the home is the center of life out of which out of which all of life is lived, then for those who are born again The church is the center of life out of which all of life is lived. The church is where we experience and participate in Jesus' work of saving and transforming and maturing his people according to the Word of God by the Spirit of God. And so it is as members of this body that we all live life for the glory of God. And so if we're going to experience and participate in this work to the fullest, we need to cultivate convictions that are foundational to the redeemed life. as revealed by the Holy Spirit here in verses 3 to 8. We find here two foundational convictions Every Christian should cultivate when it comes to life in the body of Christ. Two foundational convictions. The first is simply cultivate a right view of yourself. Cultivate a right view of yourself. And second, cultivate a right view of the church. A right view of yourself and a right view of the church. Let's begin by considering the first. Cultivate a right view of yourself. We see this in verse 3. Look at it. Paul writes, For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than you ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. You see here a clear repetition of the word think. In fact, there's three infinitives that the ESV preserves. The phrase to think, you see that repeated three times. It actually should be four. The phrase to think with sober judgment could more literally be translated, to think in order to think soberly. Or you could say, to think so as to think reasonably. If you just look at this one verse and ask, well, what does Paul want me to do as a redeemed person? He wants you to think. He wants you to think about how you think about yourself. And so we are to cultivate a right view of ourselves. Now notice that he states this negatively and positively. Negatively, he says, do not think of yourself more highly than you ought to think. And then positively, think in order to think soberly or think with sober judgment. Don't think too highly of yourself. but rather think accurately of yourself. Now why would Paul tell us to cultivate a rival ourselves? The answer is because how you think about yourself determines how you live. A. W. Tozer Wright, one of my favorite quotes, as many of you know. What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. There is a corollary truth to that. What you think about God shapes how you think about yourself, and therefore how you think about God and how you think about yourself then moves out into every area of your life, shaping how you live. So it's imperative that you cultivate a right view of yourself. Now notice how Paul actually models for us a right view. Look again at verse 3. It starts, For by the grace given to me, I say to everyone among you. In other words, what Paul says stems from his understanding of the grace that he himself has received. What is this grace that Paul has received? Well, he writes in 1 Timothy 1, verses 12 to 14, I thank him that is God who has given me strength. Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, an insolent insolent opponent, but I received mercy. Because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of the Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. In other words, Paul not only knew his position in the church, that he is an apostle of Jesus Christ, but he knew where that position came from. It was a gift of grace. From the Lord Jesus Christ who redeemed him from his sin. This is precisely the kind of thinking he wants us to cultivate. Recognizing the grace of God in our lives is the antidote to not thinking about, or rather, not thinking too highly of ourselves Recognizing the grace of God in our lives is the antidote to not thinking too highly of ourselves. In living as a sacrifice to God and being transformed by the renewing of our minds, we must battle the temptation that faces each one of us. To think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. And so recognizing the grace of God in our life is how we battle pride and kill pride in our hearts. Now, pride manifests itself in two significant ways as it relates to life in the body of Christ. Paul doesn't explicitly give us these two ways here, but he talks about it in this in the parallel passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, where he also talks about spiritual gifts. And the first and foremost way in which we are often exhibiting pride in the body of Christ is by overestimating our importance in the body of Christ. This is the person who serves partially out of joy and the delight to serve, but also because they believe they are the best person for the job. This is the person who believes their gifting demands that they serve in a particular way. I must preach. I must teach. I must organize. I must sing or play an instrument I must lead. Whatever it is that a person does, I have to do this because I am gifted the way that I am. In fact My gift is so important to the church that if I can't exercise my gift the way I want to, then the church itself will be hindered and suffered. They essentially believe that the growth and success of the ministry depends on them Paul describes this self elevating, prideful thinking in First Corinthians twelve, saying, The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again, the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, it is much truer that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary. You and I tend to look more at the visible parts of the body of Christ, those who are up front, who are singing, who are leading, who are teaching and preaching. And we assume: oh, those are the important people. Those are the ones that the church needs. But the reality is we are all necessary. Every individual. No one ought to think they are more important than anybody else. The second manifestation of pride in the body of Christ is the one who determines they don't need the body. They don't need the body. This is the self-sufficient person who believes they can be spiritually healthy without other parts of the body. Amen, sister. This person is not only self sufficient, they are also self-determining, meaning They define the Christian life in their own terms and are as much or as little connected to the body of Christ as they think is necessary. This is the person who sets their own relative standards of what it means to be spiritually healthy, and then they adjust their own definition as life and circumstances require. And so some would go so far as to say, I don't need people in the church. I don't need to let people into my life, and I don't need to give my life and get involved in the lives of others. Jesus and I, we're we're good on our own. Again, in 1 Corinthians 12, Paul writes If the foot says, because I'm not a hand, I'm not a part of the body, is it for this reason any less a part of the body? And if the ear says, because I'm not an eye, I am not a part of the body, is it for this reason any less a part of the body? The mindset that you are not a part of the body because you perceive yourself to lack various gifts. implies that the body is sufficient without you, and you are sufficient without the body. The pride that elevates one's place in the life of the church and the pride that demotes the place of the church in one's life suffer from the same cause. It is a self-oriented way of thinking about the redeemed life. This is consumer Christianity at its core It's the idea that we can customize our engagement with the church based on our perception of ourselves. This is thinking too highly of ourselves. Well, we are not to do that. Paul says, don't think too highly of yourself. So what does he say to do? Again, verse 3, think with sober judgment. Or as I said earlier, think in order to think soberly, seriously, reasonably, accurately. As you think about yourself, have your thoughts tempered Now, how do you determine whether you have tempered thoughts? What does it mean to think soberly? Well that's what he says at the end of verse 3. To think soberly, you have to think each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. This is to say that each person must think soberly about themselves in light of the allotment of gifting that each person receives from God. Now think about this. If you remember that all of your strengths and all of your skills and abilities and intellect are gifts from God and not your undoing. That ought to humble you so that you don't elevate yourself above others. On the other hand, remembering that God has in fact given you your skills and abilities and intellect. And yet that he's given it to you for a purpose means that you should not neglect the use of those gifts for the benefit of the body. When you look around the church and you see the church appearing to function just fine without you Rather than thinking about what gifts you don't have and then shrieking back and isolating yourself, thinking you're not needed, remember Remember instead that God has assigned to you a measure of gifting which He expects you to steward for His glory and the good of the body of Christ. You are to cultivate this right thinking about yourself. You've been entrusted by grace with gifts to serve Well that's the first conviction that we need to cultivate. Cultivate a right view of yourself. The second conviction is to cultivate a right view of the church, and we'll see these overlap to some degree, but cultivate a right view of the church. We'll look at verses 4 and to the beginning of verse 6. Paul writes: For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function. So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another, comma, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us. Pause there. You are to cultivate a right view of the church that is this. You are redeemed into the one body of Christ where each member vitally performs different functions. You are redeemed into one body where each member vitally, critically performs different functions As you know, the scripture uses a variety of metaphors to describe the church. It is the flock of the Good Shepherd, it is the family of God, it's the bride of Christ, it's the holy temple. And here we have the body of Christ. And each of those metaphors are intended to s uh to reveal a various nuance of the reality of the nature and the purpose of the church And the metaphor of the body reveals that the church is a complex organism designed to accomplish the purposes of God and to grow in maturity. Paul speaks of this growing in maturity in Ephesians chapter 4, when he writes: speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. From whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped When each part is working properly, it makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. So the body functions for the purpose of growing and maturing. The church exists fundamentally to ensure that the collective body made up of individual members Is growing in likeness to Jesus Christ. And it's significant here that he notes that it's the collective body that is to be more like Christ And the reason that it's significant is because that means there are ways of becoming more like Christ that you cannot do on your own. You cannot grow the way that God designed you to grow on your own So the church is to be growing in maturity, and that means that we are to become more like our Lord Jesus Christ. And when that happens, the church naturally fulfills its other functions given to it by God, the functions of worship, of discipleship, and evangelism. And so, in order for the body to grow and fulfill the purposes of God, you heard it there in Ephesians 4, every part has to work or function properly. And that makes the body metaphor so helpful to us as we think about the nature of the church. This metaphor challenges the idea that the church is something like a year-round spectator sport. As if it exists so that week in and week out people can listen and learn and leave. It also challenges the idea that the church is like a club where people can participate according to their own desires and schedule availability and preferences. Can you imagine if the body the parts of your body worked like that? Just kind of showed up whenever they wanted to? Some of you laugh because you don't have to imagine When cells get diseased, when organs stop functioning, when limbs stop working, when the nervous system stops sending messages or sends the wrong messages. We are in serious trouble. And so it is with the church. And just think about your body. Your body has many members. Some of those members are out in the open. For everybody to see, your face and your head, your hands in the summertime, your legs and your feet maybe. Other members are covered Most of the members that we have are internal, enclosed with skin, and protected by bone. Every Part in your body serves a unique and complex set of roles as it serves the rest of the body. In most of the things that we do, most of our body is involved. When you walk, your eyes are looking where you're going, hopefully. Your hands swing side to side to help for balance. Maybe your ears are listening for potential dangers, especially if you're walking alongside the road. Or when your mouth talks, your eyes are looking at the person you're speaking to for their responses. Your ears are listening to your own tone. Your facial muscles and your arms and your hands perhaps are giving clues as to what your words mean. In other words, our body is a unified whole made up of many diverse parts that all work together. And again, so it is with the church. Notice the three elements of the church that Paul highlights here. First of all, he highlights that we are one body. He says that there in verse five when he says, We, though many, are one body in Christ. This is the unity of the church. The unity of the church. All who profess Jesus Christ, believing the true gospel, are part of the one body of Christ. There is not one single person who is saved by Christ who is outside the body. Unlike car manufacturers, God doesn't save people and put them on a shelf. Now, every part that gets made, if you will, gets put in the body. So when God saves you, he immediately grasps you into the body. And while we can act as though we're disconnected, we cannot actually disconnect ourselves. Again, just as it is with the physical body, so it is with the church. When a part acts as if it's not part of the body, it causes great injury to the body and to itself. Because we are one unified whole. Secondly, we see here that we are many members, and this is the diversity of the body. We see that in the phrase in verse 5. and individually members of one another having gifts that differ. Every member of the body of Christ is unique. Diversity is not found in the roles that are played in the life of the body, but rather diversity is found in the people who fill those roles In a church like ours, there are many people, dozens and dozens of people who teach in various contexts, whether that's Sunday morning children's ministry, Wednesday night Bible studies, small groups Every person who teaches man and woman has their own unique personality, their own unique gifting, their own unique approach, their strengths, their weaknesses. Up on the platform, you see week after week a different group of musicians and singers. They're all different. The sounds that they make are all unique and they all contribute to the overall sound of music. Every small group leader facilitates discussion in their own unique way. But every person accomplishes similar tasks Yet diversely fulfilling their role. So we are all different, we are all unique. Our education, our life experience, our background, our spiritual maturity Everything about us makes us a unique instrument in the Redeemer's hand. And so we see here that there is unity in the body of Christ, there is diversity in the body of Christ, and third, there is mutuality. Notice the last phrase of verse five. He says, and individually members one of another One of another. By virtue of the fact that we are members in the body of Christ, we are inescapably connected to one another The wounded soldier learns very quickly when they are disabled or maimed that when one part of the body is broken or harmed in some way, that affects the entire body. In fact, Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 12, 26: If one member suffers, all suffer together. If one member is honored, all rejoice together. Why? Because we are intricately connected to one another. There really is a depth of unity in the body of Christ. That far exceeds every, and I mean every other human relationship All human relationships can be broken and torn apart. Even the best of relationships, including marriage, comes to an end at the moment of death. But once God sets his love, he extends his mercy and grace on you, once he forgives you and redeems you and makes you his child, once he puts you into the body of Christ You are joined with all the redeemed, and we are members one of another for all of eternity. The church is not a place you attend because you enjoy the music or maybe you get something out of the teaching. It's not a club you join and go to meetings as you find interest or when it's convenient. It's not an extracurricular activity you participate in and increase or decrease your participation depending on the other activities in your life. Now the church is the body of Christ, and you are one of many members, and because of your God-ordained membership. In the body of Christ, you have a duty, a responsibility to serve the body of Christ faithfully. And that's what we see here in verses 6 to 8. He says again, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them. If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if serving in our serving the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who acts, who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Now in the time that we have, we're not going to walk through each of these gifts individually. That will happen, the Lord willing, some other day. when we have more time. But the point that I want you to receive is really two things. First, as we've already said, God gives to each person A unique measure of gifting by his grace. And that means you. Even if you don't think you have gifts from God. God gives to each person a measure of gifting by His grace. And the necessary follow-up to that is, therefore, serve the body in proportion to your gift. Serve the body in proportion to your gifts. Think about that first one. God gives to each person a unique measure of gifting by his grace. Notice again what he says here: having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us. Consider the word grace, undeserved favor. Nothing you have is earned or deserved. No skill, no degree, no salary, no abilities, no experiences Everything you have is a gift of grace from God God didn't give you certain gifts because you excelled in school or because you are smarter than others or because you are more faithful. No, he gave you whatever it is that you have because he is a gracious God. It's all undeserved. And notice the word gifts here. It is plural. He doesn't say having a gift that differs from others according to grace. No, it's gifts. And both the scripture and life experience would tell us that it is not that each person has one solitary gift which they are to identify and use and serve exclusively according to that gift the rest of their life. Rather, God's gifts are varied. People have a variety of gifts in ver various measure. In fact, when you think about spiritual gifts and you put together all of those passages, Romans 12, 1 Corinthians 12, Ephesians 4, 1 Peter 4. And you bring all of that together, there are some twenty named spiritual gifts. None of those passages contain all of those gifts. The lists certainly have overlap, but they all put them in different order, and each gift has, or rather each list has unique items. Now, if you think about that, in the wisdom of God, he determined that no church, at least originally, would have a complete list of gifts. That would indicate to me that he is not as concerned as we would tend to be that people strive to figure out their one gift so that they can serve in that way. We're not told in the Bible to figure out our spiritual gift, though that's certainly a good thing to do as we grow and discern how God has shaped us. And we're not even told how to go about discerning our gifts except by one implied method, which is simply to serve. And you think about this through the body analogy. Let's say you're a hand. What does a hand do? Well, a hand lifts food to the mouth to feed the body. A hand brushes teeth. A hand pushes a lawnmower, it hammers nails, it greets others, it plays music on all sorts of other things. Some hands are particularly good at sitting next to a weeping person and wiping their tears. Other hands are good at sewing or woodworking. Let's say you're a mouth. What are you good for? You're good for eating, for breathing, for talking, for blowing balloons, all kinds of things. Some mouths can produce beautiful sounds and singing, and others have a great radio voice. Still others excel at expressing compassion and comfort The point is, each part has a great variety of uses. And from person to person, there are strengths and weaknesses within a larger array of uses. But even those who are weak in some areas can still do those, even if others might have a greater ability. So you and I might not be the right person to sing into a microphone But when we add our voice to the choir of the congregation, it produces a glorious sound. You may not be the most effective teacher in a classroom, but you can teach your children. You can disciple someone one-on-one, you can tutor. a child or train a co-worker. The point is you do not have a singular spiritual ability. You're supposed to discover and do that one thing the rest of your life. God has made you who you are, incorporating all of your background and your experiences and your education, all of who you are. He's mixed into that spiritual abilities and interests which you did not have. as an unbeliever. And then on top of that, no matter what your background is, what your gifts are, all of those things need to be cultivated and strengthened because no person is born again into the kingdom with fully developed gifts. And all of that as a gift of God is to be exercised and used in whatever way God gives opportunity. As one who's been redeemed by Christ, you have the ability to serve the body of Christ, empowered by the Holy Spirit, as an act of worship. to God in unique ways. So that's the first thing. God gives every believer a unique mixture of gifts by his grace. And so out of that comes our responsibility to steward those gifts by using them to accomplish his purposes. Like the slaves who were entrusted by their master with a sum of money to invest while he was gone on a trip. We ourselves, each one of us, have been given gifts by God to steward. Not for our own purposes, but for the purposes of God and the good of the church. In fact, if you look at this list list of gifts in verses six to eight, you can see that really these are not so much specific skills like playing a guitar or drawing or accounting. Even teaching in that sense is not a skill because it can be done in so many different ways. Rather, these are functions in the body. Bodily functions are things like eating and breathing and walking and talking. And again, many members are involved in those functions. Functions in the body of Christ, as you see here, are preaching and serving and teaching, counseling, praying, contributing resources, leadership, administration, mercy ministry, and so much more. And all of these things can happen in a multitude of different ways with a variety of different skill sets. And so the question is, less so what exactly is your spiritual gift, as much as How can you steward how God has made you? How can you take who you are with the abilities that you do have and use those for God's glory? And if you're saying, yeah, how do I do that? I don't know how to do that. Well, think of it this way. It's much like a baby who needs to learn how to do everything. No baby learns or comes out of the womb knowing how to walk, do they? They can't feed themselves, they can't take care of themselves, they can't do anything. It takes months of growth and development and practice and trial and error and trying new things before they can do anything productive. And so the way to learn how the Lord has gifted you and the ways in which He's granted you skills and abilities for the purposes that he has for you is simply to get working, to function. Or as one pastor put it, rather than thinking of spiritual gifts, think of spiritual opportunities. Don't focus narrowly on what your your gifting is before you can serve. Rather look around and see what are the needs. And see what you can do to meet those needs. And as you function in that way over time, you you hear a call to children's ministry here. uh way to serve in the facility ministry there or cleaning ministry next week or participate in some other aspect of the life of church as you participate as you function as you get engaged and involved you will begin to identify those ways in which when you serve, others are blessed and you find joy And you'll also probably find those ways in which you can do them, but maybe somebody else is better at that than I am. Over time, as you Function in the life of the body of Christ, you'll be able to discern, you know, I think by God's grace I'm gifted at teaching or administration or Mercy ministry. I just, the Lord has given me a heart for people. You figure that out as you function the body of Christ. It was even after many years of ministry together that the Apostle Paul told Timothy, fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. Timothy had a gift, and he had been serving alongside and as Paul's representative for years, and he still needed to work at it. And so that's true for you and me. And so I want to encourage you. You may not know precisely what your gift is. But get functioning, get involved, serve in the life of the church, fan into flame your gift. The Lord has given you a measure of His grace. And so you are to use it for the good of the church and the glory of God. Now this afternoon you'll have the opportunity to consider. If you're not already fully engaged, as much as you're able in the life of the church, there will be many ministries, not necessarily every ministry in the church, but many that we'll have tables out there where you can talk to those who are already serving and find out how you might get plugged in. But as much as we want to encourage you to serve in the formal ministries of the church, I don't want you to fall into the trap of thinking that's the only way to serve and exercise your spiritual gifts. Because the reality is most of the ministry that takes place in the life of a local church happens informally. It happens unofficially as we engage in our relationships with one another. Whether it's evangelism, because you're talking to A co-worker about the Lord. Or it's mercy ministry as you hear that somebody in your small group has a need and you jump at the opportunity to care for them. Maybe it's administration as you find out that there's some activity that your uh brothers and sisters in Christ want to engage in, a gathering. an official fellowship gathering and you're like, oh I'll take the lead in planning that. Whatever it might be, it happens informally. We care for one another. We minister to one another. As one has need, another rises up to meet that need. And so we are to serve, certainly seeking to promote the ministry of the church and see what the Lord will do as we collectively work together in the body of Christ, but also unofficially, one-on-one, privately, quietly. You may have limitations that prevent you from serving in a formal ministry, but can you make a meal for somebody in need? Can you Give somebody a ride. Can you send a note of encouragement to somebody who posts a prayer request? Can you lend a hand to somebody? Can you visit those who are homebound? Whether you serve in formal ministries of the church or you serve the body in personal and private ways, I would encourage you to remember the words of Titus. Or rather, the words of Paul, as he wrote in Titus 2, verse 14. Jesus gave himself for us. To redeem us from all lawlessness, and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good deeds. Who are zealous for good deeds. Beloved, we are to cultivate a right view of ourselves You are redeemed by Christ. You are gifted by Christ. You have been a recipient of his grace. And you are to cultivate a right view of the church. You are redeemed into the church for the purpose of serving the Lord Jesus Christ as you care for one another. This is the kind of church that God has designed. A church that functions, a body that cares for itself so that we would all grow together. in unity and love as we testify to the glory of Christ in the world he's placed us in. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you For these truths. We thank you for the reality that we can do nothing apart from you. And that's a good thing because Even if we could come up with something that we could do apart from you, it would come to nothing. It would be of no purpose. It would have no lasting value. And so it's good to recognize that we can actually do nothing apart from you. We desperately need you. We're utterly dependent on you. And you are So good to allow us and to encourage us, even to command us to depend on you, to look to you for strength, for wisdom. To recognize you as the giver of every good gift. Lord, cause us to be a people who fulfill your design of the local church. That Hope Bible Church would not be a place where a few people serve, but where everybody serves. In various ways, n seen and unseen, out in the open and hidden behind the curtain. Where people care for one another in their homes, where they witness for Christ in the community Lord, let there be none among us who think that they are not needed, that they are not important, that they are unloved. Help us to grow in relationships with one another. And all of these things we ask so that Christ would be magnified and glorified. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.