A fiery lawyer and orator from Virginia, when speaking before the Revolutionary Convention of Virginia in 1775, Stirred up the bravery of his fellow Virginians to fight for American independence. His famous words still move the hearts of Patriots. I know not what course others may take. But as for me, give me liberty or give me death. Patrick Henry was passionate about freedom. That's because he understood freedom's great value. He also understood the great cost it would take to secure freedom. Well, this weekend we remember the Americans who died in military service for our country. They gave the highest and the greatest sacrifice that anyone can give, and they did it so that you and I would be able to enjoy the liberties that we enjoy today. It is indeed right that we honor them. For it's a time to remember the great cost in blood that was paid. By many, through the centuries, in many battles and many wars, to purchase and keep our nation's liberties Even our religious freedom that we enjoy this very morning. Freedom is important to us Americans, is it not? We expect it. We have lived with it our whole lives. We understand that our way of life is dependent upon these freedoms. Too often I think we take them for granted Soon we're going to celebrate Flag Day. It's a day to take the American flag and wave it high because we are happy that we are in our country and we are grateful to God for our country. We wave it high over the land of the free, as the national anthem proclaims, and the home of the brave. And then we're going to have the celebration. Sort of the climax to our celebration of freedom, the 4th of July, with fireworks and with celebrations. But you know, without those soldiers that we remember tomorrow on Memorial Day, we wouldn't have Flag Day and we wouldn't have Independence Day. It took the shedding of blood to give us the freedoms that we have. And as valuable as freedom to assemble is, and freedom to speak our minds and to disagree. The freedom to worship as we please, as valuable as those things are to us, none of those freedoms can compare with the value of the eternal freedom that Christians possess in Jesus Christ. An amazing freedom and deliverance we have been given Christian freedom, Christian liberty, goes far beyond the liberties of this world, far beyond political freedom Christian freedom is so grand that if you are not excited about it, not enthralled about it, it just simply means you don't understand it all that well. Just as Patrick Henry was passionate about political freedom, the Apostle Paul was passionate, passionate about ultimate freedom in Christ. He wrote to the Galatians a fiery letter In Galatians 5, verse 1, he said, it was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore, keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. That would be to nullify the Christian gospel. And Paul's great desire in the first chapter of the letter of Ephesians is to help believers to understand all of their rich blessings in Christ, as we read in our scripture reading this morning. One of those great blessings, just one of them, is Christian freedom through redemption. Let's open to Ephesians 1. If you would, and focus on verses 7 and 8, and we'll learn about this one great treasure, this Memorial Day weekend. Verses seven and eight read, In him that is in Jesus Christ, we have redemption Through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished on us Few words, but a great, great truth. Now, Ephesians is a great letter that the Apostle Paul wrote in the first century. And he wrote it to the churches, particularly the Ephesus and the churches surrounding it, to explain the meaning of the church and what the church's life in Christ is all about. The first half of the letter of Ephesians in chapters one through three is mainly about doctrine. It explains truth about Christ and about the church. and about salvation. The second half of the letter, chapters four through six, is mainly about the application of that doctrine, how to walk as a Christian. Walking in humility, walking in unity, walking in love, walking in forgiveness, walking in wisdom. And it even gets into talking about how our homes should be. This epistle speaks of great spiritual realities described as in the heavenly places. Six times in the letter, that phrase in the heavenlies is given. And it helps us to get our eyes off of the earth and think about great spiritual realities in the heavenly places that are true of us even while we are here on earth. We fight spiritual battles. Ephesians 6 talks about that Christ our head of the church has been raised up into the heavenly places. We've been blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. In fact, the heavenlies are always peering down and watching the church on earth To see the manifold wisdom of God as chapter 3 speaks about. It also speaks of the great unity that we have in Jesus Christ Here, in the first chapter, in verses 3 through 14, Paul's pen floods the page. It's sort of an irresistible outflowing of all of these gracious blessings God the Father has bestowed upon us in Jesus Christ one wave of God's truth rising upon another, as you read from verses three through fourteen. It creates a beautiful string of salvation truths, and we can take each one of them and have a sermon on each one of them that are so fantastic. They tell us what God the Father has done for the church through his son and always in his son and by the agency and the power and the sealing of the Holy Spirit. It's really one long sentence from verse 3 through 14 in the Greek language. And it describes our salvation riches, all the way from predestination and eternity past to our forgiveness in the present, to our inheritance in eternity future. And all of it is designed by God. All of it is part of one great plan. That a sovereign God in control of all things on earth, including human decisions, he's working this plan out and he is receiving counsel from his own will. He has it all figured out and he's bringing it all about. If you notice in verse 3, it's really a praise passage. It's really a worship passage. It's worshiping God the Father and blessing Him for our unparalleled and matchless blessings in Jesus Christ. It's a passage that reminds us of our immense privileges in being Christians. One, and I say again, just one of these great blessings is redemption. Redemption, redeemer, redeemed. These are words that we use all the time in church. And we think we know what it means, but we know it has something to do with salvation, but we're not so precise. I hope this morning that you'll gain some precision and some admiration towards God for his redemption, towards us. What does it mean to be purchased by Christ and to be free in Christ, to be delivered by Christ? And how does that freedom empower and lead your Christian lives? We're going to learn about redemption. We're going to learn about our the greatness of our freedom by answering five questions about Christian redemption. Five questions. What is redemption? Why did we need redemption? What caused our redemption? What was the cost of our redemption? And how are redeemed people to live? And don't worry if you didn't catch all of that, I'll repeat it. First, what is redemption? Verse 7. Look at it again. Verse 7 exclaims, In him we have redemption. We have Redemption. That means that redemption is something that we own as Christians. It's something we have as a present possession It is true that there is a future date where we will look forward to a future kind of a redemption. We look in hope to the redemption of our body, that is, the resurrection of our bodies. That's in the future. Romans eight twenty three speaks of that. It says, We ourselves having the first fruits of the Holy Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting eagerly for our adoption as sons The redemption of our body, that's something we hope for, it's in the future. The resurrection of our body is future But just as we have present forgiveness now, forgiveness of our sins, we also have present justification, means we've been declared innocent before God, before his court. We also have present salvation. It is true that there is a present redemption. We have redemption. But what is it? The Greek noun for redemption in verse 7 is apolitrosis. It means deliverance by a cost. There always is a payment. There has to be a cost. It could be defined as liberation by a payment of a ransom. Apollotrosis is related to another. Greek noun Lutron, which means a ransom. A ransom is money paid to obtain the release of someone or something that is in bondage If someone were kidnapped, just for example, and this might be how you've heard the word ransom used, the perpetrators might demand a payment of a ransom, and until they get their ransom, they will not release the one they have kidnapped So Christian redemption refers to some great deliverance that we already possess, we already have, that has been secured for us by some payment, the payment of a ransom. Now I know that the term redemption is not used that much in everyday life. You might think because you hear about redemption, that's kind of a Christian word, you learn about that in church, and it really doesn't connect to everyday life. For the Greek and Roman cultures of New Testament times, really redemption was common. They talked about it in business, they talked about it in the military world and also in their religious worlds, in the worship of their many gods For example, when slaves wanted to purchase their own freedom, they could pay money, pay a ransom to a god, and receive papers declaring that they were now slaves of that particular God, no longer the slaves of the human master. And so they were freed from the slavery on earth because they were now slaves of a God. Humanly speaking, they had bought their freedom. Similarly, slaves could be bought back from war. Leon Morris, in his book The Atonement, describes this process. I'll quote him. When battle was over, the victors sometimes rode around the battlefield, rounding up as many of the vanquished as they could. Then they took them off as slaves. When they got them back home and looked them over, they sometimes found there were important people included in their hall. These were men of rank, men who counted for a good deal in their own country, but whose upbringing and manner of life made them not particularly suitable for hard menial labor. Then the victors, let it be known, back in the land of the vanquished, that they were ready to release such and such captives, always, of course, on receipt of a consideration The home folk would pass around the helmet or whatever other way they had of raising funds, and when they had the required amounts, sent it over to the land of the victors and buy back their brothers. This is the process that the ancients called redemption. Anyone who carried it out was called a redeemer. The sum of money was called The ransom. Got the idea? That's what redemption was. And it was a very common idea to the Greeks and to the Romans, and Paul and the others writing the New Testament would have known about that as well. The story of Ruth in the Old Testament is about a kinsman redeemer. That is, someone who is a relative who is buying back something. Here, the closest relative, in accordance with the laws of redemption in Israel, found in Leviticus chapter 25, was supposed to redeem Naomi's husband's land. But in Ruth chapter 4 and verse 6, it says this: the closest relative said to Boaz, I cannot redeem it for myself because I would jeopardize my own inheritance. Redeem it for yourself, you may have my right of redemption, for I cannot redeem it. So Boaz made the payment He redeemed the land and he got Ruth as the prize along with the inheritance. Of course, Ruth and Boaz were married, and they became the descendants of King David. The greatest example of redemption in the Old Testament, though, was not that, but was Israel's deliverance out of the land of what? Egypt, the deliverance out of the land of Egypt, was the greatest example of redemption in all of the Old Testament. In Exodus chapter 6 and verse 6, it explains it. The Lord's talking: I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments, referring to the plagues, of course. So God paid for Israel's release with plagues rather than with money. He did not recognize Pharaoh's right to the people. He said, Let my people go. Pharaoh would not obey. And so he sent Pharaoh a payment in plagues, and he got his people. It was redemption. And so you see, redemption is a wonderful thing. It's a wonderful concept. We're supposed to think about it, think about ourselves, and just be amazed with what God has done to deliver us. It is deliverance from a terrible bondage by payment of a ransom, so there can be joy, there can be freedom, there can be Just praise following that as well. Just like the Fourth of July when we think about independence, we shoot off fireworks. Why? Because it's a great moment. We're thinking about the freedom of our country and we just want to We want to be joyful about it, so there should be fireworks, so to say, going off in our minds and our hearts as we joyfully think about the release that we have, what we were ensnared to, what freedom we now possess. Now, it should be obvious to all of us that in order for Paul to write that we Christians have redemption, we must have been enslaved in some way prior to that. So let us consider, second, why did we need redemption? Why did we need redemption? This is number two. I don't think we can be excited about redemption if we don't understand the terrible condition of our slavery. If you don't own the fact that you were a slave, you won't be excited at all about redemption. And the Bible is emphatic that all people everywhere are sinners. And they're not just sinners, but they're enslaved to the sin that they commit In other words, sin works as a destructive principle in people's lives, holding them captive. I want you to turn back a few books to Romans chapter 3. And verses 10 through 12. Romans 3 and verses 10 through 12. Just turn back there a moment and see this emphasis on sin in the scripture. Verse 10 says, As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside, together they have become useless. There is none who does good, there is not even one. And it goes on to describe the evil of man. This is not the worst of the worst. Again, this is all every everybody. And so it's talking about Jews and Greeks and everyone in those categories. Greek stands for Gentiles. We're all Gentiles if we're not Jews. So it refers to all of us. We're all sinners. In all the years of your life, everywhere that you've traveled and everybody you've met, you've never met anybody who wasn't a sinner. They're all sinners, everywhere. Well, you say that's not so bad, I mean to err as human, right? Yes, but you can make a lot of mistakes in life, and you can learn from those mistakes, and they may not have such great consequences, but you can never sin and walk away from a sin without being a trap. You can't do it. Jesus said, truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. John chapter 8, verse 34. See, Jesus personifies sin. Sin's like a master. And if you sin, you join him once, you're enslaved, you're encased, you're trapped. It's got you. Sin owns you. Sin is like an iron snare when someone steps into it and clamps on their leg and they cannot be released. Proverbs five Verses 22 and 23. His own iniquities will capture the wicked, and he will be held with the cords of his own sin. He's entrapped by his own sin. An illustration for us is drugs and alcohol. Like them, sin itself is addicting and it is entrapping. Sin always teases us until we try it And then we want to have more. Only the more we take, the more it erodes us and destroys us and consumes us. But we keep doing it because we like it. One example is immoral behavior. Immoral behavior develops a habit that is very, very hard to break. The person who is the immoral man or the immoral woman knows what they're about to do is going to be destructive to their family, to their body, but they like it. They want to do it more. They turned something that was designed by God for our joy, for experiencing in human marriage the closest kind of intimacy. A joy that the Creator intended to be enjoyed and used in that context only because he knew its power of destructiveness if it was used any other way And he uses it instead for selfish behavior that never fulfills and always destroys, but he's hooked, and he has to have more. Sinners try hard with various programs out there, counseling programs, to reform themselves, to change themselves. But all that does is change the face of their sin from one kind of a sin to another kind of a sin. Maybe their sin now becomes pride and self that they've had newfound self-control or selfish ambition. Or some sin of meditation on the powers of self. But it's still sin. It changes the face of sin, but it does not change the fact of sin or even the grip of sin. Make no mistake about it. Whether a slave works for his master in the kitchen or out in the field, he is still the slave of the master. Just a different work and job he does. Such reformations of the moral self never break sin's hold on a person. Sin is pervasive and it is undefeated by an unsaved, unregenerate human. Did you know that all human beings, apart from Jesus Christ, regardless of their religion or the spiritual path that they are on, are slaves to sin? Again, turning back in Romans to chapter two and verse one, just to illustrate this, where Paul in chapter one and two and three is really building a case that the whole world is guilty before God, whether they had the Bible or didn't have the Bible. Whether they had the law of God or didn't have the law of God, whether they were Jews or Gentiles, whether they had heard some prophet or had never heard anyone ever speak from the Bible, they were all guilty and all sinners before God That's what Romans 1, 2, and 3 are about. Three very important chapters in the Word of God. But he speaks to religious people in chapter 2 and verse 1. He says, Therefore you have no excuse every one of you who passes judgment. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you who judge practice the same things. Looking back Back to chapter one and all of the sins of the Gentiles, saying, Here all these sins, envy and greed and deceit and malice and gossip and slander and a lack of love and boasting and being disobedient to parents and on and on it goes. Those who look at others and frown upon such behavior, they only judge themselves for they do the same thing. Not necessarily in the same proportions, but they're all guilty. When religious people judge the sin in others rather than showing that they found some neat pathway to God. Some way of obtaining freedom for themselves, they unknowingly condemn themselves, and their own judgments will be used by God on judgment day to condemn themselves. As Jesus said, by your words you will be what? Condemned. They harbor the same evil attitudes, they just express them maybe as religious people in more refined and harder-to-detect ways. Man's religion offers no freedom, no emancipation Religion is from man. Christ is not a religion, he's a redeemer. Even Buddhism, which has as its stated ultimate goal to be free from all human suffering. All desire tries to escape the world through meditation and what they call enlightenment ends up only nodding its followers tighter and tighter into selfish pursuits for self, never learning the true love Jesus Christ taught his disciples Never coming to know the true God and the life that He gives in His Son, but living for one's self-fulfillment, just a tighter and tighter and tighter knot of sin. The harder they work at their religion, the more into sin they get Humanity is trapped in sin, and there is no way out by themselves. Not even those in the realm of Christendom that approach church and Christianity as some list of Things that they must do that they need to keep the list and do good. They can never find freedom that way either. God won't accept it. And the Bible is emphatic about that. Romans 3:20 says, by the works of God's law, no human being will ever be justified in God's sight. You know why? Because by the law of God comes the knowledge of Sin. How do I know I'm a sinner? Because the law says thou shalt not covet, and I covet And the law can't help me. It only tells me I'm a sinner. It only holds itself up to me as a mirror, and I see all the ugliness myself. And so there's no emancipation in religion, in keeping the five pillars of Islam, and doing this which which each religion says. There's no emancipation, there's no freedom from sin in any of that. In fact, the harder they try, the worse it gets for them. Many of the most religious when Jesus came were the ones that rejected Jesus and never got salvation because they were tied up in their religion. There's one more terrible aspect to our slavery to sin. Sin does not just trap us in a cycle of repeated sin. It also traps us in the consequences for sin. And I don't mean the temporal consequences for sin. I mean the eternal consequences for sin. For life ends, and when it ends, there are consequences beyond this life. There is death that is described as everlasting death, eternal death. In fact, Revelation chapter 20 calls it the second death. You think dying is bad. There's a worse death beyond dying. It is the second death that is everlasting, and it is in the lake of fire. It is a place of conscious torment where people will be paying for their sins, so to say, for all eternity and never able to pay. That was the consequence for our sin, so you can see why, filled with the Spirit of God, the Apostle Paul blesses God for Christian faith. Redemption. It is deliverance from the most severe kind of imprisonment. An imprisonment, an everlasting imprisonment from which there is no escape. And yet, what Paul wants us to know about the grandness of redemption goes deeper still. Turn back to Ephesians 1, if you would, because Paul next shows us third what caused our redemption. What is it that caused our redemption? Well, there are two related causes here in these two verses. The first cause is given at the beginning of verse 7: In whom Just those two words. That tells us the cause. You might have read past it quickly, but those are very important words, in fact, in him or in whom are repeated all throughout Ephesians and many of Paul's letters, and they have a very important truth to them In whom we have redemption. The whom, continuing back from verse 6, is the beloved one, and the beloved one is the one who is called my beloved son at his baptism, and that of course is Jesus. Jesus is the beloved one. So listen, you can't understand your blessings described in Ephesians, much less this blessing of redemption, until you understand your connection with, your union with Jesus Christ. The blessings are caused by our being joined to Christ. Go back to verse 3 of chapter 1. It says we are blessed with every spiritual blessing where? In Christ, that's our address. That's where we live. That's our location. That's how God is able to bless us. Look at verse 4 We were chosen where? In him. Look at verse 13. It says we were sealed. Where? In him. It's like that throughout the whole book. If there's no union with Christ, there's no blessing from God. All the blessings from God come because of the union with Christ. All of them People feel safe when they get connected to a church. Connection to a church, union with a church, joining a church doesn't do anything for you. All these blessings come because you're connected to Christ through faith in him. We simply can't receive God's blessings apart from Christ. Apart from Christ, the only thing we deserve is punishment for our sins. Because we are joined to Christ, we get the blessings. Rich graces bestowed upon us. Maybe you could think of it as if you were Joining a royal family. If all of a sudden it was announced that you were adopted into some very rich and privileged royal family, you'd have access to all of the things that they own, the palace. all of the servants, all of the riches that they have there, all of it would become to you because now you're in the family. And so you have to be in Jesus Christ to inherit What Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, has been given, and he has been given all things, which we learned recently. We have redemption because we're in Christ. Colossians chapter 1, by the way, verse 14, echoes the same thing. In Christ we have redemption. In Christ, we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Now, in case anyone wants to pat themselves on the back and say, I'm very glad that I'm in Christ, we need to notice in verses 7 and 8, the second related cause of our redemption Paul says, our redemption is according to, according to, and sometimes it's good to put the opposite in there so you can understand what he's saying. It doesn't say according to our good behavior, does it? According to our obedience, according to our religious deeds, according to our credit, our merit, our righteousness, our goodness. No According to what? The riches of his grace which he lavished upon us. We are redeemed. Not because we paid the ransom price ourselves, not because we assisted God in getting us redeemed. Not because we worked very hard at our freedom and after 14 years finally we bought it. Not because we went out and fought for it and we wanted ourselves and we could pat ourselves on the back. Because again, I say if you're trying to obtain your liberty and find peace with God and freedom, that way you'll fail Paul said in Galatians 2: No man will be saved by the working of the law. But we are in Christ. We are Christians simply because God is rich in grace. God is rich in grace. Grace is the cause of our redemption. Grace. What is grace? The word grace, carus, just means unmerited favor. It means you got favor and you didn't deserve to get it, but you got it. You shouldn't have gotten it, really. I shouldn't have gotten it. Really, we should never have gotten this at all. It's just something we didn't deserve, but God He's rich in grace, and so he gave it. And he gave it to you. But but you didn't deserve it. You can't boast it. You can't brag about it. And neither can I God gives us grace and he gives it to us because he sees us in our misery. He sees us that we're enslaved. And he doesn't say, look, they don't deserve, they don't deserve freedom. Because if he said that, he wouldn't give it to us. But he looks at us and says, you know, they need freedom, and even though they don't deserve freedom, I'm going to give it to them anyways. That's the riches of God's grace. Romans 3:24, mark that reference down. We are justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. Zacharias was excited about this. He didn't understand all of it, but in Luke 168, he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited us and accomplished redemption for his people. He was excited about this. God accomplishes it. God does it. God gets the credit for it. It's to the praise of the glory of His grace. We praise God and we praise his display of grace. Something to bless God about, thank him for. That's what Paul's doing in Ephesians 1. You wonder how anyone really can refuse God's free offer of redemption. I mean, it really just doesn't make sense, doesn't it? If you ever want to be convinced that unregenerate man is blind Think about an offer like that. Hey listen, you know you're going to be going to everlasting torture and torment in a prison of fire in which you'll never escape, and God is offering you Freedom from that. Simply give up the rule of your life. Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you'll be freed from all of that of the consequences for sin. And people say, nah, I don't need that. Blind, blind. God through his son whom we have insulted and ignored and neglected over and over again, looks at all of that and hears every last sin across the globe, and still he says, I'll pardon, I'll forgive I'll wipe it all clean. I'll love you. I'll bring you into relationship with me. Just let go of yourself. Quit holding on. And man likes to sin. It says, I'll stick it out no matter the consequences. I'll drink beer with my buddies in hell. Sad. Yet for believers, we continue to grow in our understanding of grace. We keep talking about grace as Christians. Shouldn't we get beyond that? Isn't this one of those salvation truths? Come on, Pastor, we've learned about salvation so much. Preach us something new. You know, really you don't learn the Christian life, how to walk in the Christian life, how to have victory over sin. How to be full of the Spirit of God, how to be Christ-like, how to serve in the power of God until you master grace. And we don't really master grace, but we need to try. If you get grace, you understand it's all from God. It's not from you. The power is there for you from God. But we don't get it. We somehow go back into ourselves. I have to do. I have to do. And that's how we live a Christian life. And we forget the gospel. We figure the gospel as something there at the beginning, and we don't understand that we need to know the gospel and what it means and what God how God relates to us and how it builds us in our faith so that we can trust in Him. And receive power constantly from Him and empty ourselves of ourselves and be humble and be totally trusting in Him. And then we grow and then we show Christ's likeness and then we bear the fruit of the Spirit of God. So the glory always goes to grace, to God's grace. Hey, he predestined us. To adoption as sons by his grace. He didn't look into the future to see who it was that was going to believe in them and say, ah, that person had more insight than this other person, and because they saw better than them, I'm going to pick them. Oh no, that would be outscetting to be. Credit. That's not the gospel of grace. It was all of his grace. He chose us in Christ. It was all from him. There was nothing in us. It was all from him to begin with. It's shocking. It just kills every last ounce of pride in our bodies when we understand it. This grace Paul says God lavish on us. Lavish You know, the church, the redeemed people are like soaked with grace. It's like there's been a storm and we've been poured on, and it's grace. We're just lavished on it. It's God's grace and our position in Christ caused our redemption. But we still know there had to be a ransom price that was paid, right? What was it? Number four. What was the cost of our redemption Well, Psalm 49, verses 7 and 8 says, No man can by any means redeem his brother or give to God a ransom for him, for the redemption of his soul is costly. Wow. Jesus asked in Mark 8, 36 and 37, and this is one of the great questions I sure wish we had our own church bulletins somewhere out there and we could put all of our questions and statements up for people to read as they drive by. Maybe one day we'll have that. But this would be one of those questions I would stick up there. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Nothing. You're lost Listen, the cost of our redemption was very, very high. Very high. It was so high we could never pay for it ourselves, ever. Sin is a demanding slave owner with a high price There was only one rich enough to make the payment for us. Look again at verse 7. It says, we have redemption through what? What is blood? You remember what Romans 6. 23 says that says the wages of sin is what? Death If the wages of sin is death, then the soul that sins will do what? Die. And if the soul that sins dies, what becomes then? The required ransom price for someone who has sinned. Death. Shed blood. Blood shed. Hebrews 9. 22 puts it this way: without shedding of blood, there's no forgiveness. We know in American history, without the shedding of blood, there's no America. Right? Without the shedding of blood, there's no forgiveness. Now, people all the time say, you know, I know I'm committing sin, but you know, God's loving God. I think He's going to forgive me. No, He won't No, he won't. Without the shedding of blood, there's no forgiveness. Many people have the wrong idea, they're deceived Any forgiveness that you read about in the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament, past, future, for you or somebody else, any forgiveness in the Bible is because of shed blood. Adam and Eve learned that right away when God took an animal, killed the animal, and clothed them with the animal right after they sinned. If you're going to have forgiveness, it's going to come when blood is shed. And God killed the animal. Not that the animal really did it, but the animal was a picture of a future sacrifice to come. 1 John 1:7 says, the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Leviticus 17, 11, there God tells us, for the life of the flesh, that is, the life of the body, is in the blood. Interesting that they knew that way back then. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood by reason of the life that makes atonement. The blood is the life, and the life has to be poured out, and so the blood has to be poured out all the way unto death It is not just that any blood that can be the ransom price for our redemption. In Old Testament times God required the blood from an unblemished animal. Even then you couldn't just take any animal, it had to be exactly as God wanted it. sacrificed in a particular way, on an altar before his presence, at an exact spot with the sprinklings as he wanted it. By the person he wanted to do it, who was cleansed in the way he wanted to do it In the day of atonement, the blood was then taken and sprinkled on the golden mercy seat on the Ark of the Covenant between the two cherubim to atone for the sins of the people of Israel. And though God prescribed these animal sacrifices for centuries when the new covenant was written, we read in Hebrews 10:4, speaking of those Old Testament sacrifices, it is, listen, it is impossible. It is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. There you have it. It failed. The Old Testament system failed to take away sins. It really wasn't supposed to. It was supposed to be a picture of the new covenant that would take away sins. The animals were only types of Christ. It is not our blood that can redeem ourselves. It is not the blood of animal sacrifices that could make the payment. The payment was way too high. The blood of the armies of men can't do it, wrong kind of a deliverance. It's the blood of the perfect spotless Lamb of God, Jesus, who never committed a sin and offered his own body to lay down his life. To be brutally killed all the way in the death, his blood poured out, so the payment would be made in full. And it is no coincidence he yelled from the cross to telescai, it is paid in full. It is finished. It is accomplished. The payment was made. Oh, Jesus said this. Mark 10, 45, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. 1 Peter 1. 18, you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold. None of that's precious enough. But with precious blood as of a lamb, unblemished and spotless the blood of Christ. Revelation five nine, speaking of Christ, the heavenly beings are singing You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. You have made them to be a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they will reign upon the earth You know, some of the early church fathers had this idea that God made a payment price to Satan. That you know you asked where was the payment made? And their their idea that seemed logical to them was to say, well, he paid the payment price to Satan, but God doesn't owe Satan anything. Anything. The payment is made to sin. It's a personification of sin. The Bible never says the blood was paid to Satan. Pouring out the blood on the cross of Calvary, he poured out his very life as a substitutionary payment to free us from all slavery to sin. That is why it says we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. Forgiveness grammatically is an oppositional relationship to the redemption, and therefore they're equated. Forgiveness means to be released from debt or guilt. They're very, very similar. Someone may complain, but I'm not guilty. Yes, you are. You are a trespasser. Paul calls our sins trespasses. We stepped on forbidden ground. We broke the law. The law of God said, do not do, do not enter, but we ignored it. Because the field looked pretty and we wanted to go running across it. Contrary to popular belief, humans have absolutely no right to live the way that they please. Well that's a shocking statement, isn't it? That's very un American. You have no right to live the way you please. To do so is to trespass on God's law. God made us. We're his creatures. He gave us a law. We must obey. And his law is good. It's wonderful. Makes us happier and The way we make ourselves. Here's the wonderful thing to keep in mind, though, no matter how many sins that you have committed, no matter how bad you think that they are compared to others. God will forgive all of them, every last one of them, no exceptions, simply because of the poured-out blood of Jesus Christ Listen to Psalm 103, verses 10 through 12. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities, for as high as the heavens are above the earth. So great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. And that's why Psalm 130, verse 7, says, This: O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is abundant redemption, and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquity. And that's my prayer for you, and our prayer for you, if you don't know the Redeemer, that you would know him today. Put your trust in him, all your hope in him. Being redeemed from sin, being delivered from hell, being rescued from death may not have cost you anything, but it cost God the great price of the slaughter of his son. If you think you ignore that payment that somehow you'll be okay, you don't understand God. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace which he lavished upon us. Lastly, let us consider what that means for living a Christian life. How are redeemed people to live? Number five. We'll turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And verse twenty, verses nineteen and twenty. First Corinthians six, nineteen and twenty. There it says Or do you not know, now he's writing to Christians now who have believed in Christ, or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God? And listen, and that you are not your own. For you have been bought with a price, and we know what that price is. What's the conclusion? Here's how to live. Therefore, what? Glorify God in your body. That body you have has been purchased, it's going to be raised. Belongs to God in your body, glorify Him. That's the connection. You are now under new ownership. You were bought. Before you thought you were the owner of your own life, you weren't sin owned you. But now you've been freed from sin. You have a new master, he's Jesus Christ. He bought you. You are his slave. You are his servant. Say, I thought I got freedom in redemption. You did! Serving Jesus Christ is the greatest freedom and the greatest riches. So you can be all that God wants you to be. Romans 6. 18 says, having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. To be a slave of doing what is good and righteous is a wonderful thing. You always have happiness, you always have blessing, you always have relationship with God. So redemption then Works inside out. Inwardly, grace has made a real change in you. Romans 6:14 says, sin will not be master over you. You are not under the law, but you're under grace. Grace has set you free from the tyranny of sin. Rather than just having the law that says, thou shalt not be a bad person, thou shalt not be selfish, thou shalt not be so proud all the time. Or shall not steal or lie or whatever. You now have an active power of God inwardly in you, the power of grace, to give you the understanding and the power to live the way God wants you to, and that is freedom. That's why 1 Peter 1:18 and 19 teaches not just that we were redeemed from the penalty of sin by the blood of Christ, but we were deemed from, quote, your empty way of life inherited from your forefathers. We were delivered from a whole disobedient, fruitless, worthless way of living. Titus 2. 14 also says, Christ Jesus gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from every lawless deed. And purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. Are you zealous for good deeds? That's what he redeems you for. See, Christ redeemed us not just from hell, but from lawless deeds to make us zealous for good deeds. So, here's the thing. We have to quit making excuses for ourselves when we make and commit the same sins over and over again and say that's just the way it is because we have not only been freed from the penalty of sin, we have been freed from the very power of sin that changed lives. And so when we say, you know, all Christians still sin, that's true, of course. But you use that as an excuse because you won't change, because you're stubborn, because you're s you're caught in the spin cycle of sin. You don't understand. You were released from that. Sin's not your master. You fill in whatever sin it is that you're struggling with. That is not your master. You're redeemed. Live that way. Confess your sins genuinely. Present your bodies to God as instruments of righteousness. Believe in His power. Be full of the Spirit. Walk by the Spirit, Galatians 5 says, and you will not fulfill the desire of the flesh. You are not now under a tyrant. You are free. Live as freemen. Ring your liberty bell and be free. God has made you that way. And don't be enslaved to religious regulations from the old covenant. As so many didn't understand the relationship between the new covenant and the old wanted to go back And be under the Old Testament laws and be under the Sabbath laws and the dietary laws and this law and that law and circumcision. And Paul said, You don't understand Christ has freed you from all those regulations He has fulfilled everything for you. You're completely free from that. You're under his law now, the law of love. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. That is Christ's commandment. You're under that He's your master, you're his slave, that's his law, that's what you live under, and the grace of God empowers you to live that love. Too many make rules. After being freed in Christ, they go right back under another set of rules, and they want everyone else in the church to live by their rules, or they won't acknowledge them as mature, we're as good, faithful Christians, and that's a misunderstanding of redemption Phil Johnson, in a recent blog, exposed legalism in the church. He writes that legalists in the church try to impose rules on other Christians, saddling people with a yoke that they imagine exists somewhere in the white spaces of Scripture. It means not in the words of Scripture. Then he concludes: You want rules? Here's a good one to start with. When it comes to the question of spiritual duties, where scripture stops speaking. We should too. Do what the scripture says, not what man says. Well, may God help you to celebrate and apply this precious truth of redemption and freedom that we have in Christ. Remember not just those who died on the battlefield to give you freedom as an American. Remember also the one who died on the cross to give you everlasting life and everlasting freedom. And may God Empower you to live as freed men. Amen? Heavenly Father, we are just so grateful to you. For your love and your kindness. We are grateful, Heavenly Father, for the blessings that you have given us in the Lord Jesus Christ. We just know that there's so much here that we have just scratched the surface of help us to rejoice in our freedom, understand our freedom, and apply our freedom more. For we pray it in Jesus' precious name. Amen.