Uh we're on lesson four today, page thirty-five in your notes. The first three lessons we've had have been focused on basically on the question of authority. Um By what authority has the Catholic Church uh come up with its various doctrines and practices and so on? Today we're turning a little bit to look at their view of salvation and how that um influences a lot of their practices, certainly their thinking, and how it compares with scripture. Both today and next week we'll be focusing on that. So on page thirty-five, today we're going to look at the sacraments as the Catholic Church understands them. And by way of background here, what is a sacrament? You know, we don't use that term, right? If you look at their definition, a sacrament sacraments plural are outward signs of inward grace. We use terminology like that sometimes. Instituted by Christ for our sanctification The dictionary, if you go to the dictionary, it says a Christian uh a sacrament is a Christian rite. Such as baptism or the Eucharist, that is believed to have been ordained by Christ, and that is held to be a means of divine grace, or To be a sign or symbol of a spiritual reality. Now, what that definition does is it covers the whole range of views. And so I've um made bold here that a means of divine grace, that's the Catholic position, the Catholic understanding of the uh uh what they call the sacraments But at the end of this it says a sign or symbol of a spiritual reality. That's that's our understanding of of At least what we we call the ordinances, which are baptism and uh believers' baptism and the Lord's Supper. Let me go ahead again and read from the Catholic's position here a little bit more detail. The sacraments, and they have seven of them. 7. The sacraments are defined as outward signs of inward grace instituted by Christ to help individuals in their spiritual life and to grow in holiness. Sacraments are mysteries. They are signs of the sacred presence of our God in our midst. They are more than mere signs, however, for the sacraments impart Grace. That's their key takeaway, their key belief. That the sacraments impart grace. The sacraments help to make people holy and build up the body of Christ. They are a way to relate to God throughout life's transition. and help us to give praise and worship to God, uh, and so on. So that's their understanding, and we're gonna For the next several pages here, go through quick somewhat quickly what their seven sacraments are and what they say about them, and then we'll think about them biblically. Okay. So the seven sacraments of the Roman Catholic Church, and they divide these into, I think it's three categories: the sacraments of Christian initiation. The sacraments of healing and the sacraments of service of communion. Okay, so first, the sacrament of baptism And here I'm going to be quoting directly from their catechism. And there are sections of the catechism. The CCC is the catechism of the Catholic Church. And they're all numbered. And so they're all documented for you here. Holy baptism is the basis of the whole Christian life, the gateway to life in the Spirit. And the door which gives access to the other sacraments. And listen to this. So baptism through baptism, we are freed from sin and reborn as sons of God. We become members of Christ and are incorporated into the church and made sharers in her mission. Baptism is the sacrament of regeneration. So we speak of believers' baptism. They think of it as entrance into Life with Christ. It's basically salvific. It provides salvation. Reborn as sons of God. Uh and of course they uh believe that that uh would normally be instituted um through parents on their infant children. And their infant children are then incorporated into the life of Christ, the body of Christ, through salvation at that point of baptism. That's the belief. The sacrament of confirmation. So if a child has been baptized that young, they don't remember it. They had no part in you know, receiving it uh cognitively. And so there's this second step, this sacrament of confirmation. So it says baptism, the Eucharist, and the sacrament of confirmation together constitute the sacraments of Christian initiation, whose unity must be safeguarded. Let's go to the top of page 36 in that first full paragraph. It is evident from the celebration, that is the celebration of confirmation. that the effect of the sacrament of confirmation is the full outpouring of the Holy Spirit as once granted to the apostles on the day of Pentecost. So a child is baptized as an infant, which in their view places them into the body of Christ, and then that becomes confirmed, taken to the next level, when they're confirmed, usually there's a series of classes they go through to make sure they understand the right things. And the view is that that process pours out on these young people the Holy Spirit. Okay. The third one, the sacrament of the Holy Eucharist. That is the Mass. We think of it as the Lord's Supper, communion, right? The Holy Eucharist completes Christian initiation. Those who have been raised to the dignity of the royal priesthood by baptism and configured more deeply to Christ by confirmation Participate with a whole community in the Lord's own sacrifice by means of the Eucharist. At the Last Supper, on the night he was betrayed, our Savior instituted the Eucharist, Eucharistic sacrifice of his body and blood. This he did in order to perpetuate the sacrifice of the cross. Throughout the ages. They believe that every time a Mass is conducted, Christ dies again. It's uh repeating and it the the bread becomes his body, the blood becomes or the wine becomes his blood, he is sacrificed. Every time there is a mass. And as we'll see later, and as you probably already know, Scripture says he died once for all. It is finished. Right? Last paragraph there on page 36 in that section. At the heart of the Eucharist celebration are the bread and the wine. By the words of Christ and the invocation of the Holy Spirit, become Christ's body and blood. So that's the view. And in a little bit we'll see some reasons why they have that view. But let's go on to the sacrament of healing. um or the various sacraments of healing, the first being the sacrament of penance and reconciliation. is confession. Here I'm going to flip the page to third seven. First paragraph. It is called the sacrament of conversion because it makes sacramentally present Jesus' call to conversion. The first step in returning to the Father from whom one has strayed by sin. It is called the Sacrament of Penance, since it consecrates the Christian sinner. the Christian sinner's personal and ecclesial steps of conversion, penance, and satisfaction It is called the sacrament of confession, since the disclosure or confession of sins to a priest is an essential element of the sacrament. In a profound sense, it is also a confession acknowledgement and praise of the holiness of God and of his mercy towards sinful man. It is called the sacrament of forgiveness, since by the priest's sacramental absolution God grants the penitent pardon and peace. So the various names of it, the various dimensions of it in their view, and um they're all kind of together. Um but like all of these sacraments in their view this this um imparts grace to the person. And the pe people are to build up more and more grace. uh more and more merit before God. Next, the third paragraph there. Conversion to Christ, the new birth of baptism And the gift of the Holy Spirit and the body and blood of Christ received as food made us ho um have made us holy and without blemish. Just as uh the church itself, the Bride of Christ, is holy and without blemish. Nevertheless, the new life received in Christian initiation Has not abolished the frailty and weakness of human nature, nor the inclination to sin, that tradition calls concupiscence Which remains in the baptized person, such that with the help of the grace of Christ, they may prove themselves in the struggle of Christian life. This is the struggle of conversion directed toward holiness and eternal life, to which the Lord never ceases to call us. And so there's this Ongoing need to do these various things, including these sacraments, in order to um Not just stay saved, but become more and more holy. It's the outworking of a religion of works, our works. Now, what's interesting here is in this last paragraph, it says interior repentance, that is, repentance on the inside of us, right? is a radical reorientation of our whole life, a return, a conversion to God with all our heart, an end of sin, A turning away from evil with repugnance toward evil, uh, the evil actions we have committed. That's pretty close to the kind of language we would use. But what's interesting is that they put it this way It's it's in the official Catholic Catechism, um, but it's it's rooted in the Council of Trent 1551, which was in direct response to the Protestant Reformation. So trying to work the words in a way that would um satisfy their critics, they think, or at least as much as they can do. It is true. Repentance Repentance, I think we may have talked about this, uh Metanoia in the Greek, is a change of mind, literally. A change of mind. A change of mind toward what? Sin. Right? And so a good synonym in my mind of repentance is forsaking. In your mind, in your heart, you're forsaking sin. As they say here, it's repugnant. You're not You're not um attached to it. You you're just freeing up yourself, you're you're leaving that in your heart. Um and as John the Baptist and Jesus preached Anyone who does that genuinely, you're not going to see what's going on in their heart. But what will you see? The fruit of that repentance If it's genuine, it's going to show up in the person's actions. Those actions are not the repentance. They're the fruit of the repentance. And so I think this paragraph is trying to get at that. It's recognizing that when it when it really boils down to it, it's it's a forsaking of sin from the heart. What they don't understand from Scripture is that repentance is a gift of God. They think you do it in order to get a gift from God. But in fact, the repentance itself, just like faith, or saving faith, is a gift of God. We'll talk more about that in a minute. The sacrament of anointing the sick. This is pretty straightforward. Uh it they acknowledge uh like from James uh five Which is quoted here at the beginning. Is any among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Um We do that when someone requests it to pray for them, that God would intervene, that God would uh heal or in any way God chooses, accomplish his good will uh for that person. Um they Do that as well, Roman Catholics. Um but uh did do do do Last paragraph starting at the bottom of page thirty-seven. From ancient times in the liturgical traditions of both East and West. We have testimonies to the practice of anointings of the sick with blessed oil. Over the centuries, the anointing of the sick was conferred more and more exclusively on those at the point of death. Because of this, it received the name Extreme Unction. Notwithstanding this evolution, the liturgy has never failed to beg the Lord that the sick person also may recover his health if it would be con if it would be conducive to his salvation. Um and so here they're thinking of it sacramentally. In connection with all their other works of attaining grace. Okay. And then finally the sacraments related to the service of communion. The first one being the sacrament of holy orders. I think of it as and they use the term ordination, similar to the way we would use the term ordination, where someone who is appointed to an office in the church Is ordained to that office. As they say in that first paragraph, holy orders is the sacrament through which uh the mission entrusted by Christ to his apostles continues to be exercised in the church until the end of time. Thus It is the sacrament of apostolic ministry. It includes three degrees because there are three positions in their view. The episcopate By that they refer to bishops in the Catholic Church. Secondly, the Presbyterian or Priests in the Catholic Church. And then lastly the diaconate, the deacons in the Catholic Church. Biblically, well that that term uh bishop Is the Greek term episcopos, which means overseer. The term they use for he they're quoting here from priest is presbyterate. That's from the Greek word presbyteros, which means elder. Um and of course deacons are deacons. It means the word means servant. The issue here though is that in Scripture that the term um episcopas and presbyteras, those two terms, overseer and and uh elder are used interchangeably. There's no distinction in Scripture. They're used interchangeably even in the same passage. Multiple passages use use those two terms plus another term, shepherd, or uh usually in scripture, in fact almost always in scripture, the term shepherd is is a verb, shepherd the flock. It's used once as a noun where it's referring to pastor teachers in Ephesians 4. But all three of these terms are used interchangeably in Scripture, and we use them interchangeably. An elder is a pastor, is a shepherd, is an overseer, they're all the same thing. And so there's not a hierarchy. Now there is a distinction between the elder, pastor, shepherd, overseer. versus the deacons. Those are very clearly di distinguished in First Timothy three. Um But apart from that, there's no hierarchy among the the actual leadership of the church. Yeah, you can read the rest of that. It's pretty straightforward. Then there's the sacrament of marriage, matrimony. You might not have realized that uh this the getting married imparts grace to you for salvation. But um That's the that's the thing. Um On page 39, you can read through the the various portions of their catechism that deal with this. But um uh the th second full paragraph down. The various liturgies abound in prayers of blessings and uh Epiclysis, is that right? Epiclysis? I think it's the climax. asking God's grace and blessing on the new couple, especially the bride. In the epiclesis of this sacrament, the spouses receive the Holy Spirit. as the communion of love of Christ and the Church. The Holy Spirit is the seal of their covenant uh the ever available source of their love and the strength to renew their fidelity. Um they go on to say that uh The marriage bond has been established by God Himself in such a way that marriage concluded and consummated between baptized persons Can never be dissolved. This bond, which results from the free human act of the spouses and their consummation of the marriage, is in reality henceforth irrevocable. and gives rise to a covenant guaranteed by God's fidelity. The Church does not have the power to contravene this disposition of divine wisdom. They have made an exception to allow them to be able to annul a a marriage for certain reasons. But their view is that Uh divorce is never an option. Um the fact that they qualified it to say um Basically they say that if if they are baptized and committed Catholics, that applies. Now, our view on that, in a nutshell, is we sort of agree God's design is that it's permanent. But he has provided some extenuating circumstances under which divorce is the more gracious. Avenue. But only two reasons for it are in scripture. And that gets very involved and detailed and technical, and we're going to have a whole course on that next quarter. What is to Catholics, what's the difference between an enrolment and a divorce? A divorce in their mind is, as I understand it, always wrong. But a marriage can be ended if certain things are not certain requirements are not there. So if it turns out that somebody um Wasn't a Catholic. I don't know how they could figure that after the fact, but um the if if the certain requirements are are not met then they they classify it as an annulment. It really never was a genuine marriage to begin with, is what that means, versus a divorce which is So I don't I don't understand all of their thinking and where they're getting it from, but that's for the envolving is more like saying that was never That's why they call it something else. Yeah. Was there another okay Okay. Um that's basically what I wanted to cover. about the seven sacraments in their view, except on page 39, there's a kind of a recapping here and starting to look at What the scriptures tell us. First is that the word grace means gift. That's what it means. Karas in Greek. It's a gift. What do you do to earn a gift? Nothing, right? It means unmerited favor. Getting something we don't deserve, we haven't done anything to earn it. Um it's good when we express our appreciation for a gift, but it's not right to expect people to do things in order to receive the gift. Right? That's what the nature of a gift is. B. The Roman Catholic Church teaches that the only way people can receive God's grace is through participating in the sacraments of the church. If someone is cut off from the church, their eternal state is impacted negatively because they can no longer be receiving these these what do you call them packets of grace through through the exercise of these various these uh uh um sacraments Which has what result? It solidifies the Roman Catholic Church's control over people. Because the only way they can get that cure is through the operation of the Church. Scripture doesn't teach that participating in activities like these results in receiving more of God's grace. What does it teach? That individuals receive God's grace directly from God at His initiative. The ordinances of believers' baptism and the Lord's Supper are ordinances. We specifically call them ordinances because they're not sacraments. We don't view them as imparting grace. Um now uh I didn't mention it here, but Uh that was actually a sticking point among the reformers. What do wha how do we understand The Eucharist. How do we understand what's going on here? Uh and um They didn't all agree. And I don't think they would agree with our position on that, um for the most part. But they understood it was um important. I don't know when the the um referring to it as a ordinance began. I'm not really sure about that, uh, but it's certainly not a something that would convey grace. Which is required in order for our our uh for our salvation, basically. Yeah. I have a question with marriage. Do they be a single Catholic people and be a Yeah, that's a good that's an interesting question. So marriage is one of these means of attaining grace. What about single people, including priests? Right. Well, a preacher married to the church wrote thinking of the whole single Catholic Yeah, I I think I think their v their view, um and rightly so, would be that marriage is the norm. Yeah. Uh I don't know what the thinking is about what about somebody who like uh who's not a priest, somebody like a nun. Same thing. Married to the church, right? Um just a normal person who's not married. Um I'm not sure what their view is on that I'm sure that they would say that if if God brings them into a marriage, it would be helpful, it would be normal, it would be a way to get more grace. Um but I'm not sure how they would talk about singlehood. Strange question, but do they still believe in exorcism Like that's so weird to me that they think that priests can come and actually do that sort of thing. Is that still part of their faith or we know or I think I'm not real sure. I'm I think that technically they would agree. Practically It probably never happens that much. That's my understanding. This has been from my course. Right Yeah. Um so there's an example of a passage of scripture that would seem to run counter to their their uh practice and and belief But remember what their authority is. It's not just scripture. It's also tradition and whatever the the bishops and pope say. And in fact, have you ever met a Catholic, even a maybe even a priest, who is well versed in Scripture? Probably not many. Right. So uh it shouldn't be too surprising, and we're gonna see through later on here this morning, uh there's a lot in scripture that would that would show that their understanding is wrong. We just need to stick stick with scripture. And if they're inconsistent, they have to face the Lord on that. Sola scriptura. Right. And they recognize that distinction. We just read about it last week. Um yeah. Over time departs from scripture and replaces it with things like other writings. or tradition or just our human logic, you know, God can't be that way, right? Yeah. God is love. Well, that's true, he's love. But he's a lot of other things too, simultaneously. Um if they depart from the Word of God, then just inevitably you go astray. Isn't that the negotiation of a call? Um There probably several of those things have to be true in order for it to be classified as a cult. But as I pointed out earlier, those things are all true of the Roman Catholic Church, which I view as a cult. It has it has uh departed from biblical truth and Christianity, layered on all sorts of other stuff, and what comes out of that is something that's just completely incompatible, completely unknown to Scripture. And There are other cults like that as well. And yeah, and I think the Catholic view is if you are not a Catholic, you are not redeemed. And that's also typical of a cult. If you're not one of us You're you're out of luck. I know that there are traditions of like how do they get there. Well, that's a good segue. Let's go there. But actually, um before we go there Uh I probably don't need to spend a lot of time on baptism, particularly infant baptism. The point there is you don't see that in Scripture. What you see is Christ's command to baptize disciples. Who were disciples? The followers of Christ. And that's the example you see all throughout Scripture. And um often it's quite soon, it's immediate, uh, that there'd be this expression of faith. Um uh demonstrating the faith that they already have. And um Well, usually the way I explain it is that there are uh two kinds of baptism that are uh at issue here, and sometimes they get confused with each other uh as people look through the scriptures. One is um You know, the word baptism, the baptize means to immerse, to place into. And so Scripture says that I believe I have a reference here, 1 Corinthians 12, 12-13, that every believer is baptized into Christ. Baptized into the body of Christ, placed into the body of Christ By the Holy Spirit. When does that happen? At the moment of salvation. Placed into Christ. Baptized into Christ. That's the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Well, if that's true, what's water baptism? Well, water baptism is a a step of of obedience to the Lord to be baptized by water after one has been baptized by the Spirit into the body of Christ. And so it's it's an outward sign of obedience and and um Identifying oneself with their spirit baptism. I've been baptized by the Spirit into the body of Christ, and I'm now publicly proclaiming that. Um and the the action of being baptized by water into water uh and by the way is always into and immersed into, not just sprinkled. But it it symbolizes and reflects and uh the our association with our um Um yeah. Our association with the the death of Christ, our associate association with his death um burial and resurrection uh of Christ. And so we're uh publicly identifying ourselves with with Christ because we've been baptized into Christ already. And so scripture refers to The baptism of the spirit into the body, it refers to the baptism by water or in water as this step of obedience and testimony of what's already happened in our lives. By the way, John the Baptist said there's another baptism coming, the baptism by fire. And that's when the unsaved are placed into fire for eternity. Which Christ will do. Clarify question. Clarify my question. Yeah. Um so you said that doesn't mean that Immerse. Is that part of the the uh Greek uh no the word batcho means to immerse. It means what to immerse. Okay Yeah. It had other applications other than you know religious significance. Um dying. Yeah, we're actually too placing a cloth into uh a die and having it completely immersed. And it comes out a different color. That's you're baptizing that into dye. Yeah. Right. I've heard of references to a sword being baptized in blood. Um anyway. Um so one of the key issues here is their belief in baptismal regeneration. Which you don't get in Scripture. In Scripture it's faith and repentance, then baptism. That's the order that's always given. And of course a child, an infant, can't do that. But even if an adult chooses to do it, if it's just an outward ceremony, it's not really a baptism, because it's not a genuine Exactly. No, it's a demonstration of your eternal salvation. And so I've I've listed here um the key passages about um regeneration and the work of the Holy Spirit and it's not a work of of man I think for the most part you all are familiar with that, but you can read through it. Related to that though is progressive justification. And Catholics view Justification is a process. That is, salvation is a process. As we understand scripture, justification is what we usually mean when we say someone is saved. Someone is is pronounced by God to have right standing with God. That's not a process. It's a it's a done deal. God pronounces someone to have right standing with him to be justified. And Scripture is replete with with clarity that we are not justified by works. Anything we do It's by grace through faith. Scripture does speak of something that is progressive, an aspect of our salvation, but that's not justification, it's what? Sanctification. The process of becoming our our Scripture refers to believers as already sanctified. We're seated with Christ in the heavenlies. We're called saints. That's the same root word as holy. We're holy ones. By God's declaration of justification, he's placed us in the heavenlies with received with Christ in the heavenlies. Ephesians 2. But scripture also uses the term, not just we have been sanctified, but we are being sanctified, that is sanctification. That's the most common use of the phrase of the term sanctification in Scripture. And so that process is You know, you you kind of wish that when you come to Christ you're justified, your sin is um uh gone, right, you're completely holy like that. That would be real nice, don't you think? Uh that's our position. Our experience is we still have this baggage. We're still surrounded by sin. We still have a sin nature that's that's in need of sanctification. And there's a whole process of putting off and putting on, right? Putting off sin and there's uh ongoing repentance involved in that as the Holy Spirit convicts us and and so on. Um that's progressive sanctification, not per that that our the our eternal destiny is not at issue. We're secure in our position in Christ. We're sanctified. What this does is progressively makes our experience more and more like our position. And why would God do it that way? Any thoughts? And what does that require? It requires this requires faith. Yes. It requires um Yeah. I know I'm probably listening to what you want me to say. No, no, those those are right on, spot on. But what you're describing is also obedience. Right? So it's faith, trust and obey. Right? But but I I guess. Yeah, so what Ricardo is describing is someone becoming more and more conformed to the image of Christ What's the outcome of that? Well, becoming more and more conformed to the image of Christ in terms of our experience. But what else? And that's the process of sanctification. But it gives glory to God. God is reconstructing this person on a step-by-step basis to become more like Christ. If he were just to zap us A, I don't know that we could handle it. You know, every example in Scripture of someone confronted with the holiness of God is that they're just dead men. You know, Isaiah six. Um Every one of us has significant accumulation of sinful baggage in our lives right now. If we were confronted, if any of us were confronted with the holiness of God, like Isaiah, we would fall down like dead men. We couldn't handle it. Peter said, depart from me, Lord, for I'm a sinful man. Right? But he's gracious to do it step by step. One reason the Holy Spirit lives in us is to prompt us to do what Ricardo was talking about, and as we forsake sin and cling to Christ and obey Him and live for Him and love Him, represent Him well What's that do? It makes us more and more like Christ. It gives glory to God. And one of the reasons it's suffering, it's not all it's not always physical suffering. Right. It's most commonly a humbling. Right? Yeah yeah. That's hard. For most of us, that's hard. Anyway, we've only got a few minutes left. Um, The segue to the Eucharist, we start with on the bottom of page 41. The issue here is transubstantiation. That's the fancy word that's been associated with the belief that um the bread in the Eucharist becomes the actual body of Christ. The wine becomes the actual blood of Christ. Every time we do this we're re-sacrificing Christ, literally. That's transubstantiation. Where do they get that from? Well, it really never became official in the Catholic Church. until what was it, the twelve hundreds, I think? Um just a little bit before the the um the Reformation. But first of all, to note on the bottom of page 41, these various places where it makes it very clear that Christ died once for all. All people, all time. Oh yeah, it was uh 1215, the Lateran Council, top of page 42. And they get this primarily from John 6. Which is a very challenging text. It was intended by Christ to be challenging to his hearers, And we s read at the end of it that um uh I've got it here somewhere, I think. Well anyway, in verse 66 of John 6, it says many people just couldn't handle it and they would no longer follow Christ. Um that's next year in the topic. Yeah. Well anyway, what what I want to focus on here is on page forty three. Actually, before you get to 43, 42 has an extensive quotation from John 6. And I've got some colors in here to show you how he's repeating a theme over and over and over again. And you see, for example, he makes multiple references to raising people up at the last day. Raise up at the last day. Raise him up at the last day. He's talking about who is saved and who's not. And he uses different descriptions that are summarized on page 43. tracking with his language in each of those verses. Um He who comes to me will not hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst. So I will raise him up on the last day. The second row, everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Everyone who comes to me and he who believes in me has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Um w if if one may eat it one may eat of it, and if anyone eats of this bread, he says this a couple of times in fifty and fifty-one. He will not die and he will live forever. Unless you eat and he gets more and more sort of graphic. Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourselves. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. He who eats me will live because of me and will live forever. You see how he's over and over and over again Repeating basically the same formula, but using slightly different words each time. And it has to do with who's going to have eternal life, who's going to be saved. And what comes before that? He's um I I think the the the clearest way he put it was at the very beginning. Where it says he who comes to me, or everyone who beholds the sun, and he who believes in me So what he's talking about there is coming to Christ, believing in Christ, placing faith in Christ is what leads to salvation. But then he progresses to this other uh metaphor of eating and drinking. I think, uh, to basically rephrase the same thing, but I think the reason he did it was very similar to his rationale in Matthew 13 uh surrounding the parable of the four soils where the disciples ask him, so why do you talk in parables? And what's his answer? His answer is, to you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been granted. No wonder they're ac they're scratching their heads. God hasn't given them a mind to understand it Therefore I speak to them in parables, because while seeing they do not see, and while hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And he goes on to say that's the fulfillment of what Isaiah said, Isaiah 6. And that's exactly what's going on here in John 6. There's people who therefore many of his disciples When they heard this, said, this is a difficult statement. Who can listen to it? Right? And Jesus said, some of you just don't believe. So the use of parables and the use of language like he used in John 6 where uh there there it is on the bottom of page 43. For this reason I said to you that knowing to come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father, as a result of this, many of his disciples withdrew And we're not walking with him anymore. Um I believe the the example from Matthew thirteen and here from John six uh indicate that In in some sense it's a gracious thing that God would um speak in parables and figures of speech that people couldn't understand. What would be if if they could understand it and still rejected it, that would bring greater judgment on them But he speaks with parables so that those who have ears to hear can hear, and others are not They're still scratching their heads and in fact some of them actually leave because God hasn't granted them faith. And if they were to understand it, they would be held under greater accountability So anyway, um his references here to eating his flesh and drinking his blood are all about Coming to Him in faith and trusting Him for salvation. And so when you get to the Last Supper And he says, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise this cup which is poured out for you is for the new covenant in my blood. He's saying specifically, this is a memorial. Do this in remembrance of me. When he gave them the bread, was that actually his body? No, it was bread that they all brought. They bought it. It didn't become his body because his body was giving it to them. Right? And the blood, the wine, didn't become his blood. They weren't drinking blood, they were drinking wine. Why? To commemorate what he was about to do the very next day. To shed his blood on the cross And so that like the Passover that they were celebrating at the Last Supper, which was looking back at God's provision uh to save us from the bondage, save them from the bondage of slavery in Egypt The New Covenant is a, for them was a looking forward to the act of God whereby he would save them from the bondage of sin. And for us, we're looking back, like the Israelites have ever since. Uh we're looking back at now that he's done that. as a memorial for what he's done. And it's a solemn and special remembrance. Um God had a lot of times of remembrance, these various festivals and so on for the nation of Israel. And Christ set this one up for the church. uh not to gain more grace, but to give thanks to God for the grace we've already experienced. Anyway, we've got to end. The bottom of page 44, the lesson here is it's too easy for any of us to take any passage of Scripture out of context. and draw incorrect conclusions. We need to discipline ourselves to interpret the scripture literally, given the grammar, immediate context, and the teaching of all of Scripture. And in case it helps you, I've inserted on page forty-five uh a diagram that I got from um another source, it's really well done, that talks about and maybe we'll pick up on this next week. It talks about these various steps that the Catholic Church would have people take to gain salvation, to gain accumulate merit so that once they die they can Go the right direction. Even if that right direction is purgatory for another period of purging of sin Anyway, next week the topic is indulgences and purgatory. And Pastor Mike is going to be teaching that because I'll be in the membership class next week. So um if you've got questions we can mingle afterwards, but let me close them first. Father, we thank you that you have given us your word. Help us to handle your word correctly, faithfully. Understanding its impact on us, giving us both direction in life and great assurance of your saving us from sin. Lord, we pray that our our process of sanctification would indeed be glorifying to you, bring honor to you. Point people to you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.