All right, so we are on um page thirty-four in the middle section of your notebooks. I hope you've caught that that middle section is um the the handouts that the people who put the films together have provided. And they say, go ahead and make copies of it, use it in conjunction with the film. And so uh we're on what they're calling the radical reformation. the Anabaptists. We've had reference to the Anabaptists a bit uh but here is where we get our our more thorough um understanding of them. And to do that, I wanted to actually read from page 34 in your notes for the the lesson today. Starting in the middle, uh Heinrich Boelinger, who was Zwingli's successor in Zurich, He wrote two treatises against the Anabaptists, primarily their doctrines, their beliefs, and he summarized their main beliefs in this way. One can and this is in speaking the way they would speak to describe their doctrines. One cannot and should not use force to compel anyone to accept the faith. For faith is a free gift of God. Anybody agree with that? Yeah, makes a lot of sense, right? It is wrong to compel anyone by force or coercion to embrace the faith or to put to death anyone for the sake of his erring faith. Anybody agree with that? Yeah, that makes a lot of sense too, doesn't it? It is an error that in the church any sword other than that of the divine word of God should be used. The secular kingdom What do they what do they mean by the secular kingdom? Just The the worldly the world system, right? Whether it's a kingdom or whatever. Uh the secular kingdom should be separated from the church. And no secular ruler should exercise authority in the church. Any of you uh anybody on board with that? The separation of churches says Yeah, uh right, it makes a lot of sense The Lord has commanded simply to preach the gospel, not to compel anyone by force to accept it. The true Church of Christ has the characteristic that it suffers and endures persecution, but does not inflict persecution upon anyone. Make sense? Everybody's an Anabaptist, right? Um paragraph below that. The Anabaptists sought to make a radical break with the past centuries. This is not Bullinger, by the way. This is um uh the editors here, I think. Um radical break with the past centuries of their society's culture and go back to the church as it was in the New Testament. A voluntary church not made up of the entire population, but made up only of committed believers whose lives were transformed by the Word of God. Anybody think that's okay? Yeah, that's that's the way it should be, right? They believed that obedience to all the commands of Christ was the essence of Christianity. The life of a true Christian disciple would manifest obedience in every area of life. The church itself was not an institution. in the way it had been considered up to that point anyway, but rather a family of believers Living in the world, but not of the world, the Anabaptists sought to manifest a Christian ethic of love and non-resistance. Christ's words in the Sermon on the Mount were to be lived now, and they readily accepted Jesus' words in Matthew 5, 10 through 12. Blessed are you when men cast insults against you and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely on account of me Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. I think I may have mentioned before that the word Anabaptist was not coined by the Anabaptists, but rather by the other reformers. Um and it was used to refer to a kind of a broad range of uh groups that sprung up that had in common, they wanted reform, but it wasn't quite the kind of reform that the other main reformers were seeking. Um and they um they had some um Similarities across these multiple groups, but some of those groups got really um I'm not sure what the right words are. Um really extreme in some of their applications, pretty weird, maybe is another word in some of their applications. Um and they wouldn't necessarily they clearly w these different groups wouldn't even have agreed amongst themselves other than They're doing they're, I think, doing their best to try to get back to scripture and its modern day application and and those kind of things. What we're going to look at here is more uh if you can call it that, mainstream uh Anabaptist uh and how that kind of came into being and what the implications were And we'll talk a bit about that when we're done. So we're going to focus mostly on um Michael Sattler. Not only there would be other people who are key players in this, but kind of following his life a little bit gives you a flavor of what was going on In people's thinking during that time. He was I think he was a Catholic priest, but his role was he was a monk. Um actually he was a prior in a Benedictine monastery. And so uh uh he was initially in Germany And then moved to um Switzerland after after um he left the Catholic Church. And so the timing here is very much the same as Luther and Zwingli. So with that intro, let's go to So we've been uh highlighting the the five solas of the Reformation. Uh we've seen this every week, but clearly this week uh sola scriptura only scripture. Uh is highlighted. Um I wanted to um uh actually mentioned here. In your notebooks, we've got three sections. The first part we covered the first seven weeks, I guess. And then you've got the notes that were accompanying the the videos. And then there's some supplemental material in the back. Sola scriptura is covered on pages eleven and fifteen of that supplemental material. Also, I didn't mention it here, but uh you saw that when th the um Anabaptists got together to try to get a bit more organized in their thinking and so on. They drafted what became known as the Schleichheim um Confession. Is it confession? Anyway, that's uh actually printed for you. Uh in the page uh thirty one. in the supplemental notes in the back. The entire text of their confession. Uh is a kind of a uh Preliminary. It wasn't intended to be comprehensive, but it was some of the distinctives that they were very concerned about. they wanted to put in writing and and they all agreed to. Um And so one of the things that was very central to the Anabaptists was the need to understand biblically that the church is made up of those who are believers. Now that seems like you know Obvious, but up until then, even the Reformers understood the church to be what they would call Christendom It's more of a It's it's a melding of the kingdom of this world and the kingdom of Christ in their thinking. Um and so for a thousand years it was already understood and taken for granted that you have uh this relationship between the civil authorities and the um the church. And so that you get you become a member of that through baptism. And you're part of that, the blessings of of um uh the church that way. And so when the Anabaptists came along and say, you know, we don't see this in scripture And uh we understand the church to be made up only of true believers. Those who have trusted Christ for salvation uh by faith, um that Like in the apostolic days, those who were baptized were those who had come to Christ, had placed their faith in Christ. And so As he sort of alluded to when people when the Anabaptists Saw that distinction clearly, that the true church is made up only of believers who, as believers, were baptized. They're forsaking their infant baptism, which all of them had. And if they're forsaking that infant baptism, they're forsaking their membership in Christendom And that's basically not only heresy in the mind of both the Catholic Church and the re the reformers up to that day, but also treason. Uh you are off on your own. You're not protected by the the um hierarchy in the structure and the blessings of Christendom, which by the way included a lot of unbelievers. Um and so they knew what the stakes were. And the Streichheim confession gave them opportunity to um crystallize those thinkings and have these some some of the disparate groups um join forces and and um work on developing uh um a church. As you could see, very central to that thinking was uh what we would call pacifism. Mostly what they were concerned about was using the power of the state, the sword, to compel people spiritually. And they're resisting that was another reason they were branded as traitors and um were punished. They they would have been punished by the Catholic Church, the early reformers, the the civil authorities. Nobody liked them. Um because they were that different. Um so even the the um Denominations or groups that have descended from that Anabaptist tradition are very much known for their pacifism. even to the point of conscientious objection to involvement in the military, even if it's completely separated from religious affairs. Um, yeah. And so there are a lot of other reformers who both in the Anabaptist movement and others affiliated with people we have looked at. There's a list of those In Appendix 9 in the back, right after the Schweizheim Confession. So you get people like George Blaurack, who was mentioned here. Um and so on. These are in alphabetical order, not grouped in any particular way. But there's a little bit of background on a lot of other key people. Uh, let's see Any other thoughts, questions at this point? When they were referring to the Turks, they were referring to the Turks from Turkey who were Muslim. who were expanding and seeking to take over Europe, which is where these people were, um, that was the hot issue of the day. Yeah. Yeah, when when did uh re-baptizers begin using immersion? I'm not exactly sure. I think Baptists had a lot to do with it Um but it's a good observation because what were they doing? They were basically um The mechanics of it was what they had grown up with and were leaving, but their meaning associated with it was completely different because it was only of believers. And so that's a good example of the fact that certainly within the Reformation and even after the Reformation there was a continual, somewhat continual development and refinement of what Scripture actually says and therefore what we should actually do. When immersion uh became more common, I'm not sure, but um it's a good research question. But um w uh what we would find, I'm pretty sure, if the historical record uh was complete Was that by the same way that these people were saying that we don't see infant baptism in Scripture? What we see is believers' baptism Eventually people would say, well, also what we see in Scripture is not sprinkling, which became necessary because of infants, but rather what we see in Scripture is full immersion. And um but when that took place I don't know. That's another thought, question? Yeah, so when did infant baptism get started? I don't know that precisely either, except that It was associated with this whole idea of replacement theology, where um the early in the church, certainly by the four hundreds Um it was assumed partly because Israel was destroyed. But presume that the church was God's replacement for Israel, and then kind of putting two and two together and getting five They concluded that um uh baptism is the replacement for circumcision. When was circumcision done? On eight on day eight of a son's a boy's life. Um And so those kind of associations were part of the the thought process. But how long it took or when it when it really happened, I don't know. Um that's next week. Um That's the wrong one too. There you go. Um Like a lot of things, I'm sure that these things were not aha moments like it was for the Anabaptists. It really was an aha moment. But traditions like that kind of get started over time. It's a tradition, not a structural. Yeah. And traditions can be very helpful. God has actually established traditions for the nature of Israel, even for the church, but they can also, if they're not biblical, they can take on a life of their own. Yeah Was there another Who comes up with these ideas of torture? Wow Well when your your mindset is this melding of church and state You get this blur between um just plain heresy versus treason. And there's really no distinction in their thinking because it's all one and the same. Um when we think of how how would you deal with heresy You know, scripture talks about uh removing false teachers and and and so on, not burning them at the stake. Any Anabaptists here? You see how how blessed we are for the people who have gone before us and paid a price for it. Yeah. Um Yeah, the question is how do we how should we think about pacifism? You know, they were committed to it to the extent that they didn't want to get involved with uh defending um A corrupt government um or a corrupt church Um and so their main point initially, anyway, was um Coercion has no part in the church, right? And so People who become Christians become Christians because of God's work in their heart, not because of our twisting their arms. Or even um making them Christians By baptizing them as an infant. Anything like that just uh is is not Um allowing people to make their own choice for Christ. And so that's that element of pacifism We would all agree with. Right. We we don't coerce people to becoming Christians and we don't use the power of the state to to advance the kingdom of God. The more relevant question today is what about a Christian's, a true Christian's role in uh defending the country, which has nothing to do with the church per se, but citizenship of the earthly um And there are people who disagree on that. What is a Christian's legitimate freedom or responsibility? In fairness to the Anabaptists, the context that they were facing Was not the same that one that we have today. Right? They were they were facing the reality of the church and the state being so corrupted and blended together that to oppose one was to oppose the other. To defend one was to defend the other. That's not so much the case with us. And so it's a little bit different question for us than it was for the early Anabaptists. I don't know Billy, do you give any thought to that? And we have the great benefit of um Having that voice and being able to, as Christians, try to bring Christian principles to bear to how we exercise our right to vote, our right to express our uh beliefs. Uh things that these people couldn't even dream of. And a right to say I I object or conscientious objector. Right. I cannot cannot do this. Right So we have lots of rights and privileges that um many of which stem from the the convictions of the Anabaptists that um bring into our lives questions that they didn't they didn't even have the opportunity to to um Anything else? Well, next week we go back to England to William Tyndale. Fascinating story. And encouraging as well. Uh let's pray. Father, we do thank you for uh the The boldness, the steadfastness of those who have gone before us in examining the scriptures and drawing conclusions that are uh things that we even take for granted today. Um Help us, Lord, to likewise be diligent in our handling of the word that we not Just uh accept things that have been accepted for a long period of time uh as traditions or the understanding of men only But Lord give us the insight into your word. That we may be faithful to it and not interpret it through a grid that's man-made But rather is thoroughly biblical. Lord, thank you for those who have gone before us and uh the privileges we have and uh It the development of the rediscovery of biblical theology that's been taking place for uh f even five hundred years since the Reformation. May we be true to your word, Lord, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.