Good morning everybody. How are we doing today? Completely gone. Everybody doing well? So um uh how Let me pray first. Um what's bell in the word prayer. Thank you for um The great privilege you give us to gather together with your people, to worship you, to be fed by your word, to encourage one another, and may we not Uh take that for granted, but enjoy and invest ourselves in that. Um the relationship with you and with one another. Pray that our time here this hour would contribute to that, and that you would be pleased in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, so we are on the um the fourth of our videos that that uh feature some key events and key people from the Reformation. We've been in England, we've been in Bohemia, we've been in Germany Now we're going to Switzerland. Has everybody been to Switzerland? We're going to be looking at two people today, Zwingli and Calvin. Now a lot of people Um have heard of Calvin, but not as many have heard of Zwingli, but uh they both had key roles in the early Reformation. So uh Zwingli, Ulrich Zwingli was, like the others we've looked at, a Catholic priest. and got um increasingly concerned about uh what had been uh developing and and so on in the Catholic Church He was, like Luther, very influenced by reading the New Testament in Greek that Yeah, what's his name? Erasmus. We mentioned that uh the last week or two. Uh published. That was very instrumental. And the more he looked at the original language and the more he studied the word, he realized, whoa, there's there's um a lot of doctrine and practice in the Catholic Church that is departed from Scripture. Calvin was not originally a uh A Swiss, is that the right name? He wasn't from Switzerland, but rather from France, and he settled in Switzerland and is Um contributed I think probably more than Luther in the body of Bible study writing and uh teaching. Um That has been very instrumental uh for now uh five hundred years and uh had a big big impact. Two very two very different people and yet uh both operating in Switzerland. Uh and we'll find them. Uh Very interesting. So Zwingli and Calvin overlapped in their lives, but Calvin's ministry was mostly after Zwingli's. And um anyway, we'll have some discussion after the video. But um one thing I wanted you to be looking for in the video It's covering both of them. Um, is we've talked about this relationship between church and state. State is just a a short term for civil authorities, right? And civil authorities could range, and we've seen them range all the way from emperor to a local king or prince or something like that in Germany. Here we're going to see city councils And uh the same kind of issues about the relationship between church and state, we can talk about that at the end. All right. I see I didn't pause the uh recording, so uh the people listening to this at home get a bonus, I guess. Um Anyway, so there are several topics uh were featured here that I wanted to uh highlight. Uh you're all familiar with the uh five solas of the Reformation. We've seen uh most of those um Intertwined with several of these biographies. Sola Grazia, Grace Alone, Salvation is by Grace Alone uh was key in um in um But well both Swingley and Calvin, but primarily Calvin, um the sovereignty of God in salvation is really um where this comes into play that uh man because of his sinfulness and his depravity um is incapable of And has no inclination to please God. And the only way anybody could be saved out of that condition is by God's grace. And uh that um that's a key uh teaching of the Reformation. rediscovering what scripture actually says. By the way, this might be a useful time to remind you that your notes include Notes and background information for each of the videos we've been seeing is produced by the same folks, the Christian History Institute But there's some supplemental material I've put in the back from various sources, and uh the five solas are are highlighted there as well So I mentioned earlier the the church-state relationship showing up here as well, but here it's with the city councils, whether it's Zurich or Geneva. and the reformers. And yet it's very much like what happened in Germany Each uh territory, in this case cities like city states, um decided whether they would side with Protestants or the Catholics. Right? And and so it was the city council that said, we are going to be of the Reformation. And so they sought out people like Calvin to to uh provide spiritual and biblical um uh input Um and as you also saw, it was the city council that drove them out and then and then um uh pleaded with them to come back in their um in their fight against the Catholics. Um when it comes to t Calvin, often people um summarize his teaching with the acronym TULIP. Everybody's familiar with TULIP? It's not a flower, it's an acronym. The T is total depravity, that is man's condition. It's not that we're as bad as we can be, but every aspect of us is tainted by sin. And also making us incapable and not even wanting to uh please God The U is unconditional election. This is where Sola Gatya comes in. Apart from God's initiative by his grace. To save some, nobody would be saved. We all deserve death. And so that election of God, it's not us choosing God, it's God choosing us That is the U of Tulip. The L is limited atonement, which um When it boils down to it, in my mind, it's all about the truth that it's only the elect who are saved. Christ paid the penalty not for everybody, but satisfied God's wrath against the sin of the elect. The I is irresistible grace. So it's God's grace that that makes it possible and even initiates and causes the salvation of the elect. And that grace is irresistible in the sense that the elect respond as God enables them. Both the faith and the repentant are gifts from God. And then the P is the perseverance of the saints. Those who are saved will never lose their salvation because it's all of God, not of us. And um now um that tulip is a is normally thought of as the the core of Calvinism, but Calvin didn't come up with that. He didn't teach it. It was others later after him who in I think it was in the context of some um theological debate and and so on, tried to summarize what it was that that reformed theology taught, and these are the five key points that they came up with. And uh in English they came up with terms that allowed them to use an acronym. We do that all the time today, right? Uh so Tulip took on a life of its own. But that was not derived by Calvin particularly. And then um We see hints here in both of these things of the impact that replacement theology in the Catholic Church had on many of the reformers. Um to the point where where uh Zwingli got caught up in the the military battle between the Protestants and the Catholics and lost his life in that. Um Um again connected with this relationship between church and state Um but also the um the conviction we saw that in in the film today in in uh Zurich that the city council uh decided well even in in Geneva the city council decided to execute people they considered to be heretics. And what we saw in Zurich is the executed the Anabaptist leader Um because they derive from Scripture the conviction that that baptism was to be only for believers And that was heretical to the city council, the Reformed Protestant City Council. And without realizing it, I think, is because they have brought into their reform thinking replacement theology. uh that baptism was just a a carryover from um circumcision in the old testament and um The lesson for me, and I think the lesson for us is that It's so easy for each of us to interpret the scriptures with a set of assumptions, a grid. That itself is not necessarily derived from Scripture. And if we do that, we're imposing on Scripture A that that grid, that structure, that set of assumptions, so that when we see something We say, oh, it has to be consistent with with my preset assumptions, therefore it must mean this. That's dangerous. Right? That's that's uh Man basically being in judgment of Scripture rather than Scripture being in judgment of man. Um that's so easy to do. Um and so I don't necessarily fault these guys for not seeing that. Um because I think they probably did a better job than I would have done in their shoes. Um and we certainly stand on their shoulders But that's no excuse. We need to look at scripture. Sola scriptura is one of their calling cards, right? Um but that doesn't mean it's easy. It takes discipline, it takes hard work. And of course, who worked harder than Calvin? Nobody. And you still have baggage from his his uh Catholic background. Anyway, lots of interesting topics here. Was there anything in the in the video today that raised the question or had some thoughts about? Yeah, Steve. I was just curious about the Anabaptists. Is there anything beyond their belief and Yeah, this idea of being re baptized that kind of random them as heretics. Yeah, and in fact that is the very topic next week. But as a as a preview, um Yeah, if if your mindset which even the reformers the the the reformed reformers had, like the uh Geneva City Council and the the Zurich C uh City Council. If your mindset is that the church has replaced Israel And um baptism has replaced circumcision And if you've got this idea of church and state such as such that um Christianity is an entity on earth called Christendom that you become a citizen of by baptism Then teaching something else is not only a theological heresy, but ends up being treason. Because you're undermining the the whole framework and foundation of society. And so um You know, the the the execution of Cervidus in Geneva, uh it wasn't about baptism. That was literally heresy that he was holding to But the idea that the church's response to heresy ought to be execution Well that comes right out of replacement theology and uh and this this the commingling of church and state that um uh many of the reformers Um borrowed from Catholicism. Um so We're going to talk more about this next week because it's focused just on the Anabaptist. He introduced it here today. Anabaptist doesn't mean no baptism, it means re-baptizing. The presumption is that everybody was baptized those days as a child, so to be rebaptized as a believer was being re baptized. Of course a lot of people today were never baptized in their youth And their only baptism was as a believer. But the Anabaptists then were the exception. Why? They were just doing what other people were doing, trying to look into the Word of God itself and drawing conclusions. And their conclusion was I don't see this anywhere in Scripture, instant baptism, or the baptism of anyone, or the introduction of people into uh Christendom As a baby, as if it's a kingdom on earth. Um Anyway. Um actually the Anabaptists were um instrumental in not just the concept of of um when somebody should be baptized and what's the meaning of baptism But one of their huge tenets for the same reason was really being critical about the relationship between church and state that had been in place for 1,500 years. And that didn't go over well. But um that was in the early to mid fifteen hundreds. And in the next hundred, hundred and fifty years, um those kind of concepts and and particularly the church-state relationship uh were Debated, uh tested. Um what we now take for granted as a church state um separation um in the American experiment. Was very much an experiment at that point. It existed nowhere else as far as I know. But that wasn't even that, while it was here in the US, it was um Shaped and influenced by theology. There were some key players who weren't even believers here in the U. S. , who saw from history the the dangers you get when you have a concentration of power like that and just human experience itself taught them there's got to be a better way. Thomas Jefferson wasn't a believer, and yet he's the one who always is cited as the originator of this term, separated walled separation between church and state The Constitution, which Jefferson had nothing to do with, he was in Paris, I think, at the time. The Constitution um doesn't use that term. It merely says that the government needs to And here it's talking about federal government initially, but also by extension the state governments, is to protect the right of people to worship freely. uh according to conscience, and not to dictate to people like what's the practice um both before the Reformation and in many areas after the Reformation dictated by where you live, that's your religion. Um anyway. Yeah, things things evolved, but uh what we're gonna see next week with the Anabaptists is um Many of them um gave their lives because they were convinced of these principles from scripture. I will also say, maybe as intro intro to next week, that um The Anabaptists themselves were not really a cohesive movement. There were several movements from within that um ideology. And some of them were really off the wall, not biblical at all. Um And yet others had some important truths from Scripture that they were increasingly convicted about. And we're actually the beneficiaries of their they're questioning the assumptions of the rest of the reformers. Any other thoughts? Yeah, Bill. Um I don't think it I I'm not aware particularly with Calton or even with Zim Swingley, that they wrote anything defending it. I think y you'll see it though permeating their other doctrines. their assumptions. Calvin in his commentaries speaks of in his commentary on Genesis, for example. Um speaks of Abraham um being in the church So believers in the Old Testament were considered part of the church. The church wasn't begun at Pentecost. Um and that just that's part of this this mindset that um uh The church has replaced Israel. Even though, as we looked at earlier God's promise to Abraham was unconditional. It was promised to Abraham and to his descendants forever. And God has not gone to plan B and never will. It's always plan A. Any other thoughts, questions? Yeah, Maryland actually is very interesting. You know why it's called the Free State? Freedom of religion. Yeah. Yeah. And it Maryland has been very strong on the freedom of religion. And churches have benefited from that long history and precedent. Turns out, however, there is a bill before the General Assembly right now that would undo that. And um I'm actually going to be attending a a Zoom call tomorrow with some concerned Christians to learn more about that. Um but yeah. Will you let us help know how? Yeah, I'll let you know what I've learned. I'm sure that the reason they're asking pastors to get informed is so that we'll inform other people. Is that through Maryland Family Institute? I g I don't know who's actually sponsoring it, uh but the um the law firm that the Christian law firm that we've um uh hired on several occasions for things like buying a building and so on. They initiated the the the reach out. So I'll learn more tomorrow. Cool. Be praying about that. Well let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for again for the uh the examples of those who have gone before us. To study your scriptures and not be uh swayed by tradition or the teachings of men Pray that you would give us a similar um zeal for truth. And that we would uh benefit from all that they rediscovered from your word, but that we would not um Drop our guard and would always be insisting on understanding what the scriptures actually teach. May we be humble and also diligent in that. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.