All right. Well today we are on lesson six. You know our first Five lessons were focused on things concerning uh the basis for uh Catholic beliefs that were a big issue in the uh Reformation. So the first couple were on uh the authority that the Catholic Church was relying on the last couple of weeks were about last three weeks I guess were about salvation specifically. What is their understanding of salvation and um a lot of the issues that were in the forefront in the Reformation. Well today and next week, um We're going to be looking at some things in the background, uh things leading up to the Reformation, that Um not all of the reformers had issues with. Some of them did, some of them didn't. And as we go through it, I think you'll see that we have issues that some of the early reformers particularly didn't weren't sensitive to. And I'll explain all that a little bit more. But if you look at the the very front of your notebook, there's a couple of pictures there. I haven't commented on those The first one's pre-self-explanatory. We haven't gotten to uh Luther yet, but uh the one on the bottom I find very interesting. It's a painting Done uh very much after the fact, hundreds of years after the fact, but it's meant to depict the coronation of Charlemagne as Emperor of the Roman Empire in A. D. eight hundred. And he's being crowned by who? The Pope. Pope Leo. And That's uh an interesting intro to our lesson today. What is this relationship between church and state? And um you were gonna find as we walk through the Reformation period that um Whether the reformers knew it or not, this was very much in the background. It's very much the context that the church had already been operating in for a thousand years. And um Uh some of the reformers recognized the issues there and others didn't, and we'll we'll see what some of the implications of that are Anyway, so you had this this relationship between church and state that was in existence when the Reform Reformation began, and had been that way for, as I said, thousand years. And so how did we get that way? How did that come about? What what shaped that relationship between church and state? Well, uh when you think about it Uh the church had uh the early church had a couple of uh external You think of them as external uh examples and uh realities in their context. And one was was of course Israel. What kind of relationship between church and state did Israel have? Yeah, it's it's uh It's a theocracy, right? Meaning um a a a government of by God and um While that was God's intent and God's design, as we see in 1 Samuel 8 here, I've I've given a An extended extract there. But you know the story when uh Samuel um was judge over Israel during the latter days of that period of the judges. Um In 1 Samuel 8, it says, Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Rama, and they said to him, Behold, you have grown old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Well there's a problem already. Now appoint a king for us to judge us like all the nations. Right? You know where their heart was. But the thing was displeasing in the sight of Samuel when they said, Give us the king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord, and the Lord said to Samuel, Listen to the voice of the people in regard to all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. That was the issue. Right? Like all the deeds which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even to this day, in that they have forsaken me and served other gods. So they are doing this to you also. Now then listen to their voice. However, you shall solemnly warn them and tell them of the procedure of the king who will reign over them And so the subsequent verses um give us detail about what it's going to be like to have a king over you, um, including taxes and and uh consignment of your children to uh military and so on. In verse 19, nevertheless the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel, and they said, No But there shall be a king over us, that we also may be like all the nations, that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. We want to be like everybody else. Right? So the Lord said to him, listen to their voice, appoint them a king. And of course that first one God knew met their expectations. tall, handsome, uh kind of a uh a presence, if you will. And we know how that ended, not very well, right? Was it was it wrong for them to ask for a king? Yes. But was it God's will? Yes. Um he even God even um had told Abraham that there would be a king, that they would have kings and so on. But God's purpose in having those kings was not that there would no longer be a theocracy, but that the king, the prophets, the priests, and the kings would all be taking their orders from who? God. Right? And uh that sometimes worked and happened, most of the time didn't. Right? And so anyway, there's that example. You've got the nation of Israel, and we're going to talk next week about the presumption that the uh early church and uh the Catholic Church and many of the reformers, the presumption they made that the church has replaced Israel And so God has this model for us in Scripture of a theocracy. that was something of an aspiration even for the church. Well another example in the background there was the Roman Empire. The there was some variation over the years, but the general idea is that the the emperors Uh and the people, for the most part, had the idea that that um The emperor had final say on everything, including matters of religion. And it was not uncommon for the emperor and the people to view the emperor as a god. Now they they generally believed in multiple gods, um, but uh this emperor uh kind of ascended to the role of a god in their eyes and and most of those emperors didn't um Um didn't mind that that uh idea. So They often believed in many gods as long as people believe that the emperor himself was one of them. And one of the problems that uh the Jews and even Christians ran into was um even in the in the context of Tolerance, religious tolerance, which sometimes the Romans allowed, that tolerance was intolerant if someone didn't revere The Emperor as God. And so, you know, you can believe in whatever other gods you want, as long as you believe that the Emperor is A God. So that led to this next section here, persecution in the early church. We see from Scripture that the very early church in the book of Acts was the subject of persecution from who first? The Jews. Right? There was this friction. Um and um the apostles, uh deacons, the early church had a lot of not only resistance but outright persecution. The Apostle James was executed. The deacon Stephen was martyred. And Paul, of course, in his pre-Christian days was a part of that persecution, right? And I'm not gonna delve a lot into The persecution by the Romans, although that's key here. On page 57, starting on page 57, I've extracted an overview of some of that perspective and there's much more detail in uh appendix one in the back of your your book. Um But look at the the toward the bottom of page 57, number five there, many Christians during this persecution time lapsed. In other words, they They compromise their faith, giving in to the demands of the Romans. Uh that created quite a controversy in the church. Um does that mean that these people are n are not believers Uh what happens when uh some and this happened a lot, when someone uh stepped away from defending the faith and kind of accommodated the persecution to avoid the persecution. Um and then later came back to the church. Um do they restore them? You know, there's that kind of of uh Controversy in question. Number seven, the high regard for martyrs as the heroes of the church And the privileges assigned to them led to what ended up becoming a cult of those saints, the martyrs, and revering them, which was honorable. But it kind of went to the extreme and and um assumed that they had um standing and role that that um most Christians don't don't enjoy Top of the next page, number eight, one of the leading charges against Christians in the Empire was that they were atheists. Which is kind of strange, but they were called atheists. Why? Because they didn't um They didn't worship the whole pantheon of of deities, but most importantly they didn't they didn't participate in the uh you know the cultural religious activities including uh paying homage to the um the emperor. And so there's this tension now between uh the church and the state, and it's grounded on uh religious practices and so on in the in the culture that Christians had to stand up against Um and people were dying because of it. Now number eleven The Edict of Milan, you may have heard of, uh associated with Constantine in A. D. 313. Is usually characterized as an edict issued at Milan by the Emperor Constantine that established Christianity as the imperial religion It it wasn't that clean cut, actually. Uh it was not an edict, but rather an agreement between Constantine and his counterpart, Licinius, that um Resulted in uh rescripts to provincial governors It was kind of a political thing. And though Constantine and Licinius had met at Milan, the edict was issued not there from but from Nicomedia. But the most important thing is, in the agreement, Christianity was not established as a state religion, but was recognized as a legally permissible religion, among others. And it made a little bit more formal some of the less formal agreements that uh of tolerance that have been given beforehand. However, that does mark a very important turning point because with Constantine who claimed to have a religious conversion experience, which led to his victory and becoming emperor, He had a profound impact on the direction of the church because of that. And You can imagine coming out of an environment of great persecution, official persecution from the Roman government, people dying because of it To that's all over. And we're now free to uh practice our religion. In fact, the emperor is one of us. Can you imagine being in an environment like that? Just the changeover? And so if you had asked them before that, what's it what about this relationship between church and state? They would say, wow, they were just so far apart. But now what are they saying in their mind? Church and state are cooperating. This is a great thing, right? And it wasn't inherently evil. But what happens? Well, let me go back. Um, what can you generally say, even today? About the faith of those who are under severe persecution. What's that? It it it Um it doesn't stand out as principles too. So uh generally persecution separates the sheep from the goats. Right? Um so if someone is a lukewarm believer, how are they going to respond to persecution? They'll accommodate and and and try to avoid standing up for Christ, whereas a genuine believer is willing to die for it. And people did. But now you switch into an environment where uh the state is not your enemy, but rather, for all intents and purposes, your friend. The emperor is one of us. They believed. And and by the way, uh my understanding of Constantine is that it's not at all clear about where his heart was, whether it was a genuine conversion. Maybe yes, maybe no. That's not our point today. Our point today is it was a profound change in their environment. Right. Yeah. I I that was not automatic, but I think that was in people's minds and it actually um That's where it headed, yes. Very early on. In fact, very early on, like within a few years of Constantine becoming the emperor And pronouncing his faith and and making Christianity uh legal at the very least He took the initiative to convene these ecumenical councils to deal with religious issues. He was the one convening them and actually present as it was deliberated. And so any lines that might have existed between church and state were getting blurred very quickly. Yeah. And if you were living through that, you would probably say, praise God. I think you would, right? Not seeing where that might lead. That's my guess. Okay, so we have these influences, both Israel and Rome, as as uh Models of alternative relationships between church and state. And then you've got persecution and the letting up of that persecution And this this blending of church and state. And on the bottom of page fifty-eight Part of the same context was, and we've mentioned this before, is the need to combat various heresies that arose in the early church. And some of those were being combated just by Scripture itself, you know, what Paul writes in Galatians, what John writes in 1 John and elsewhere. to combat very serious heresies that arose in the early, early church, even in the first several hundred years. And as we've mentioned before, and you can see on page 59, and there's more detail in the timeline in the back. in the appendix that these various councils were convened to make sure all the the church through its leaders, we're on the same page about what is sound doctrine, what is not. And that was a good thing. I mean we see an example of it in Acts 15 with the Jerusalem Council. And that that approach was repeated over many times over, particularly in the first several hundred years of the church. the Catholic Church convene many more even after uh even after that. But um On the top of page fifty-nine there are a couple of tables there that that um indicate the kinds of heresies that were being uh addressed. And by God's grace, the way they came down together on what was Sound doctrine versus not was good. It was a helpful, helpful process Not that everything they decided was necessarily of equal importance or correctness, but when it really came to these fundamental heresies These councils uh did a good job. That's my my uh informal summary. What's important here though is in number five, got the list of ones that Constantine himself called for or presided over or both. And so you have this very explicit commingling of church and civil government and a blurring of the any distinctions that might have existed. Not that these What was decided at these was not necessarily bad. I I I think they got it right uh for the key uh uh uh doctrinal issues that were were being discussed, but it was setting a pattern of this relationship between church and state that uh was ushering in in their minds, I'm sure, this is what God has always intended. And this is this is good. This is right. And then that relationship um basically persisted for another thousand years up to the time of the the um Reformation. Now there was a kind of a a uh do I have it here Yes, it's later. It's later Uh before I go on though to page sixty, is there any questions or thoughts so far? I'm I'm just looking at at your table under number five. Yeah. Ephesus council four thirty moan or a time block. Pollagianism, yeah. Salvation by good works. Yeah. Yet the Catholic Church totally embraces that today. Yeah, I'm not sure how how their current doctrine massage or The I don't know, maybe Mike, you you know more about plagiarism than I do off the top off the top of my head. But my guess uh s Jeff is that was so focused that Um it it wasn't sort of a comprehensive is salvation by works or by faith. It wasn't that general. It was the specific teaching that they were responding to. It it it it cut at works versus uh faith, but it wasn't a generic um statement. But I I'm guessing that if modern day Catholics were to uh compare current Catholic teaching with the decision of that council, they probably squirm. I'm guessing. Yeah, they'd be a little bit more Yeah yeah. So it's a good question. Yeah. Um Okay. The only other thing here on the bottom of page 59 is uh happening along with all this. is the concentration of power in Rome. And of course that had begun even earlier, but um Then you had a separation between the uh Western Church in Rome and the Eastern Church and uh Anyway. So on page 60, we're looking here at a fourth influence that shaped their thinking. And in this case It's it's not so much um It's not so much a a um a direct influence as much as an indirect, maybe is the way to think about it. Because uh what ought to have been Shaping their understanding of this relationship between church and state is Scripture. But what we actually had was a weak understanding of Scripture. So I wanted to walk through some of the basics here that I'm sure are familiar to you. But first of all All authority comes from where? From God. Right? Anyone who who has a position of authority is ultimately accountable to God for the exercise of that authority. Right? Romans thirteen is is clear about that. All authority comes from God. And so But can lead one into thinking that okay theocracy and and and and so on is is God's will. But when you look at Scripture, you see that God has given roles to civil government, the church, and the family. These three foundational institutions that God created, and He gave specific um instructions to each of those three major institutions. The role of civil government we see both from Romans thirteen and first Peter two, for example, is to praise those who do right and to punish those who do wrong. Or, as some have summarized it, to commend and condemn. Now what does that presume? If you're going to praise those who do right and punish those who do wrong, you have to understand what is right and what is wrong. Right? It's a very moral role. What is right, what is wrong. And where does that understanding of right and wrong come from? From God. God is the standard. Um and if you were to ask most people today around you Where does where do we get our understanding of what is right and what is wrong? One way or another they're going to say popular opinion. You know, we could vote on it. If if everybody if most people think it's right, then it must be right. If most people think it's wrong, it must be wrong. Well, that's not God's plan that we would be the standard of understanding right and wrong. It's God who does that. And um And yet he limits civil government. If you look at Romans 13, you know, we're used to the passages where it says uh the the government Bears the sword, that is the enforcement mechanism for punishing those who do wrong. But what's interesting is in Romans 13, Paul very clearly defines the scope. of that. And he he appeals to the Ten Commandments. But he appeals only to commandments 5 through 10. He doesn't appeal to commandments one through four. What's the difference between one to four, verses five to ten? relationship with God versus others. Yes. So the first four commandments are all about our relationship with God. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength And commandments five through ten are all about our relationship with other people, loving others as yourself. When Paul describes the role of civil government, he he includes only specifically that those latter commandments, the way in which we deal with other people. That's a legitimate role for the government to praise people about or punish them about. Yes. Um only because it's w the context is no longer a theocracy. So then the question becomes, what should it look like? Okay, God has ordained civil government for legitimate purposes. What are those purposes? That's not a theocracy, that's some other form of government, whether it's a a monarchy or um imperial kind of basically a monarchy, or whether it's something else. And what principles ought to govern the legitimate roles of government in that context. And the legitimate role of government From God's perspective here is to monitor, to regulate, to praise and punish with regard to doing right by our interactions with other people. And that's the the second major command under law. The government would have no authority to govern our relationship with God. And Paul's very clear on that in Romans thirteen. So, what is the role of the church? What is the role of the church? Well, we see uh throughout the New Testament that the role of the church If you think about the Ten Commandments, does it have a role to to um uh With regard to the first four commandments? Yes. You bet. Teaching, admonishing, correcting uh example, all of those things. Does it have a role with regard to the last of the Ten Commandments? Yes. Very much so. Again, teaching and and um uh Training definitely. What about the family? The role of the family in Scripture is it's it's a God-designed institution, if you want to call it that. God designed the family Uh does the family have any role in in uh those first four of the commandments? Very much so, training the next generation very explicitly in Scripture. What about the remaining six? commandments. Does the family have any role there? Yeah. Again, it's training, it's it's discipling, it's it's um disciplining when there's violations of God's standards and praising when there's there's um um adherence. And love for God's standards. So the first observation there is both the church and the family are involved in the entire scope of the Ten Commandments. And so there's a logical need, and you see it in Scripture, of their cooperating to meet those ends. But there's a restriction when it comes to civil government. There's no role for the civil government to dictate or regulate anything regarding the first four. of the Ten Commandments. And so each of these institutions has A domain, a context, a mandate, um and There's overlap, but there are distinctions as well. Um And it Yeah, go ahead. I was wondering just adding to the weakness on that. Yeah, that just exacerbated the the problem. Yeah. And so uh letter E there on on page sixty, uh Just focuses on not the institution so much, but what is the role of each of us as individuals? God calls each of us to submit to the authority in all three of those. Domains is it a um Unquestioning, unlimited submission? No. If any of those authorities, those who are in authority, would compel us to sin then it's our duty to A appeal hey you know you're actually compelling me to sin. Um I don't think you have authority to do that. But if that doesn't work, and often it doesn't, then to resist and just accept whatever consequences happen. And you see that example in scripture several times, right? Several key examples. Um Let me go ahead and read that number two statement there. Unfortunately, these principles were not well understood or followed in the church's formative years. human wisdom and the experience gained through the above three influences, you know, all the historical examples, the persecution, the heresies. Those things seem to have conditioned the early church to welcome the shift from being persecuted by the government to being protected by the government. And that's a natural uh not necessarily a wrong uh reaction. Um But r becoming to the point where you're relying on the protection of the government and uh even oversight of the civil government in uh uh Christian affairs. It didn't take long for that to get out of hand, basically. And so a thousand years passes, and we come to the time of the Reformation, and you have reformers Who challenged the church to think through these things biblically and were very much rebuffed by the church. And in some cases, the church had the government execute them as heretics. Now, if we had a heretic here, how would Scripture have us to deal with that Matthew 18. Matthew 18. Search discipline. You kind of work through the issues. Uh if it's clear it's it's a biblical biblically clear sin. Then you call the person to repentance. Right? And you work through that. And those steps, if there's just um continued resistance unrepentance and ultimately we execute them, right? No. We remove them from the church. I mean that's very clear in Matthew. Matthew 18 And yet the church had gotten to the state here where the the lines between church and state were so blurred that Religious heresy was counted the same as treason, and therefore execution was the logical thing to do. And we're going to see that as we look at some of the lives of the reformers. And this is how it began. It sort of gradually. Um all right, bottom of page sixty, Constantine. Um I mentioned I guess maybe I mentioned enough about him. It's not clear whether his conversion was genuine. I mean he wasn't baptized until right before his death, but that that doesn't necessarily mean he wasn't saved prior. For us, the important thing about Constantine is it was a huge change in this idea of relationship between church and state It's because of his uh rise to the the uh uh what do you call it? Emperorship? Whatever. Okay. So you've heard of the term Holy Roman Empire? I'm on page sixty-one. That term was not used initially. It wasn't used back in Constantine's day, as far as we know, as far as I know. And Um there was a period of time um Yeah, on top of page 61, point number three there. The Western Roman Empire fell to the Germanic tribes in 476. But the Roman Catholic Church remained a stabilizing influence for the next thousand years. So between four seventy-six, when Rome was sacked And 800, when Charlemagne was crowned emperor, there was this period of time that was just kind of a drift. When it really comes to a Roman Empire-wise. But the Church, the Pope, in crowning Charlemagne as emperor Not just in Rome, I mean he wasn't even from Rome, uh, but of all of the the lands where the Catholic Church uh prevailed, which was mostly Europe. Even then it wasn't called the Holy Roman Empire, but that became a name that stuck over the years. as more and more uh emperors were uh presiding. And their their um Well the popes uh item C there, each successive emperor All the way up until 1530, each of them was crowned by the Pope. So there was always that close relationship between the church and government. And in most of these cases, uh what evolved was that the emperor was ruling over Kingdoms, multiple kingdoms, each led by a basically a tribal king in various parts of Europe and uh maybe elsewhere But the emperor's role was widely understood to be defender of the Catholic faith. In not just word but in in deed. So Okay. That brings me to the concept of Christendom. You've heard that term? Christendom? Um I I had heard it um and I wasn't sure that everybody was using it in the same to mean the same thing. So I looked it up. And I love Wikipedia. You may be noticed. But um I'm quoting extensively here from an article in maybe two articles in Wikipedia And I just want to read through this to give you a flavor of people's thinking about the nature of the church, the church-state relationship. Canadian theology professor Douglas Hall stated that Christendom means literally the dominion or sovereignty of the Christian religion. Tom's Curry, a Roman Catholic Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles, defined it in 2001 as the system dating from the fourth century by which governments upheld and promoted Christianity And Curry states that the end of Christendom came about because modern governments refused to do that, refused to uphold the teachings, customs, ethos, practice of Christianity. Uh the government's got more and more secular and w why are we burdened by this this uh historical uh obligation The greatest church historian McCulloch described Christendom as the union between Christianity and secular power. Malcolm Muggeridge said Christ founded Christianity, but Constantine founded Christendom. I don't know that Constantine knew that, but Then later we read that Christendom has referred to the medieval and Renaissance notion of the Christian world as a polity. In essence, the earliest vision of Christendom was a vision of a Christian theocracy, a government founded upon and upholding Christian values whose institutions are spread through and over with Christian doctrine. In this period, members of the Christian clergy wield political authority. The specific relationship between political leaders and the clergy varied, but in theory, the national and political divisions were at times subsumed under the leadership of the church as an institution. This model of church-state relations was accepted by various church leaders and political leaders in European history. And indeed, that that was very much the context at the time of the Reformation. And very much the the um The context, the the way I put it often is the baggage that many of the reformers carried with them into the Reformation. That's all they knew. And so on page sixty-two I offer um actually no, I've I'm I'm quoting here again. Um Where it says, For a thousand years, Europe was ruled by an order of guardians considerably like that which was visioned by the philosopher Plato. During the Middle Ages, it was customary to classify the population of Christendom into three groups, the workers, soldiers, and clergy. The last group, though small in number, monopolized the instruments and opportunities of culture. And ruled with almost unlimited sway half of the most powerful continent on the globe, Europe. The clergy, like Plato's guardians, were placed in authority by their talent, as shown in ecclesiastical studies, administration, and by their disposition to a life of meditation and simplicity. and by the influence of their relatives with the powers of the state and the church. In the latter half of the period in which they ruled, from eight hundred on, that is from Charlemagne on, The clergy were as free from family cares as even Plato could desire for such guardians. Celibacy among the priests was part of the psychological structure of the power of the clergy. For on the one hand, they were unimpeded by the narrowing egoism of the family, and on the other, their apparent superiority to the call of the flesh added to the awe in which lay sinners held them. Um so it it it it evolved And it evolved partly because of opportunity, partly because of uh human nature, partly because of a weak understanding of scripture um and partly because people most people weren't in a position to question they were just going along for the ride. Kind of And so my last point there on page sixty-two, this this concept of Christendom was the cultural context of the Reformation and had a lasting impact on most of the reformers themselves and on their understanding of ecclesiology, that is, how the church should function. And we're going to see, you know, in the video starting in a couple of weeks, at multiple stages along the way, it just becomes clear that There's a church-state relationship here that m most of the reformers were just presuming that's just the way it is. Um and and sort of therefore that's the way it should be. Um and that led to all sorts of interesting problems. However, there are some reformers who questioned even that. And we'll talk about them, the Anabaptists. And um They had some some good questions and good conclusions to their questions. But like everyone else, including us, um, they had other issues that were not biblical. Many of them. And um and so what's our lesson here? I think our lesson is that we need to be extremely careful not to allow such things as current events Or peace, or the lure of power, to distract us from obedience to the all-sufficient word of God. And My impression is that that's not easy because we're often swayed by things like that. We're often swayed by uh in our interpretation and application of scripture the context we're in whether it's the problems I'm facing or um just a a social context Those things often play heavily into our reading and application of Scripture. And it's definitely good for us to apply Scripture to all those things But let's not impose on Scripture things that we're deriving from these other sources And like man, that's hard. It's hard. We need to guard ourselves that that we don't um Use the scriptures to state as doctrine something that scriptures don't actually teach. And and and that's that takes vigilance by all of us. Because our natural inclination is to be lazy. lazy in our interpretation of scripture rather than do the work of of understanding what it actually says. And I I often say that um and many say that we stand on the shoulders of the reformers. Who God raised up to um rediscover what scripture actually says. But the reality is that those reformers didn't all agree with each other and they didn't all agree even with us. They didn't we weren't around to be asked, but Um we stand on their shoulders because I'm pretty sure I can speak for myself and probably most of us, we wouldn't have done anywhere near as good a job as they did in the context they were working from That doesn't mean they were omniscient. It doesn't mean that they got everything right. But God raised them up for a purpose and and um we stand on their shoulders. But it also means we need to stay objective, stay vigilant, interpret scripture. Rightly and um therefore apply it rightly. Um So I'm I'm pretty sure that, you know, we have a very detailed doctrinal statement, and I'm pretty sure that Knowing that that is not inspired, it's not inerrant. Only the scripture is inerrant, that Someone wiser than us, or maybe even us when we're wiser, would state a few of those things a little bit more clearly and probably better. So we need to be humble, we need to be objective, we need to be biblical. That's the lesson for us. And it's hard. It's hard. Each of us has that responsibility. It's not just the elders. Anyway, I think you'll see as we get into next week and then the following weeks we've got these videos of the uh various um reformers and their struggles and what happened to them. We'll come back to some of these very same issues and see how they were being played out during the Reformation period. and what impact it'll have. Okay? Let's go ahead and close in prayer. And if you have any other thoughts or questions, we can follow up afterwards. Father, we do um acknowledge how important it is to um Handle your word rightly, which means being objective, disciplined. Allowing scripture to speak to our situation rather than the other way around. And I pray that you would continue to give us great diligence and faithfulness in the handling of your word, teachability, humility. And yet being steadfast on what we see in your word to be true. Our desire, Lord, is that you would use that to build us up, but that in the process you would be glorified. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.