So lessons from the Reformation and what led up to it. Why was the Reformation? Well, God raised up people to rediscover what his word says. Um but there was a lot of history. like fifteen hundred years of history leading up to it. And I thought it would be helpful before focusing on the the issues around the time of the Reformation and what caused it, to get some of that background, what led up to it. So we're going to do that for these first seven weeks And uh that's going to highlight some of the main issues, not everything, but the main issues. And then in the second part, we've got um a video series that's really well done that uh provides an account of the somewhat the life, but particularly the ministry of some of the key reformers. And you see how they wrestled with some of these issues as well. And then at the end, for your general reference and edification, there are a number of appendices that might be helpful, and we'll refer to those from time to time. So lesson one um the papacy, um the existence of a pope and what that involves. Clearly evolved over those first 1500 years of the church. and was very central to a lot of the concerns that the reformers had. So Uh what I've done here in this lesson, as I have in several of the remaining ones, is let's see what the Catholic position is on this issue in their own words. Okay? I'm going to highlight a little bit of that here today. And then go through um what's a a more biblical approach to what they're claiming. Okay? And that may be of more interest to you. So I'm on page three of the notes, papacy. There are two main sections here that they provide. And and this is from their uh the Catholic encyclopedia that I'm just quoting Barbado from, okay? And they point, first of all, to the institution of a supreme head of the church by Christ. And of course, their assumption is that that's Peter, right? And then later on we'll see um on page Eight. The second point is those who succeeded Peter in Rome succeed him also in the supreme headship. So it's first Peter as the head of the church, and secondly, um it's all centered in Rome. Um okay. So they're they're claiming to derive the uh um legitimacy, the the origins of uh the papacy from two passages One of them, of course, is Matthew 16, 17 through 19. And let me read that and their little commentary on it to open this up. So in Matthew 16, 17 through 19, the office is solemnly promised to the apostle, that is, to Peter In response to his profession of faith in the divine nature of his master, Christ thus addresses him. Quote, I'm not sure exactly what Catholic version this is, but I'll read from their version Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonah, because flesh and blood hath not revealed it to thee, but my Father who is in heaven. And I say to thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give to thee the king the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever you shall bind on earth, it shall be bound also in heaven. And whatsoever you shall loose on earth, it shall be loosed in heaven. And so following this, they go point by point in that section I just read And elaborate on their interpretation of that. Given the press of time, I'm going to let you read their perspective on that Um you ha you probably already have a pretty good idea. They're saying that Jesus or yes, Jesus singled out Peter. to be um the head of the church, which later the word became Pope, and that um He's he's got that authority directly from Christ. That's their their take on that. Um And they even have a section there where they address some common objections as they understand them. Then on page five they take us to the second main passage they go to, which is John 21, 15 through 17. This is after the resurrection when Christ, uh, well the apostles, he sends them to Galilee where I'll meet with you, and they're in Galilee. And they um as they're waiting, they just go fishing. Right? Peter says, that's what I do, let's just go fishing. And While they're fishing and they catch nothing, Jesus calls for them from the shore. They didn't realize initially it was Him. And he says, Cast your nets on the other side, which is exactly what he did earlier in his ministry, right? And they get this boatload of fish, literally. And several of them put two and two together, realize it's Christ. Peter jumps out and anyway they all gather together for breakfast on the shore And sometime in that that um episode, Jesus and Peter start walking a little bit along the shoreline, presumably, and it says that John was following them. And this is where Jesus asks Peter, Peter, do you love me? And he asks him three times. And Peter responded kind of embarrassed, I think, but all three times, yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Um and there's some some nuance there in terms of the word for love that's being used there. Uh Christ initially uses the agape word for love, God's unconditional love. Do you love me that way? Peter's response is always not using that word. It's using phileo, the brotherly love. kind of thing. Anyway, that's not really uh all that important to our context here today. But Um the Catholic claim is that when Jesus said, Okay, you love me, feed my sheep. The feed my sheep is uh shepherd my flock. Um which of course is the role of what Stationary pastor. A pastor. Yeah. Um any pastor has that responsibility to feed the flock, at least this portion of the flock. But they extrapolate that to say that, oh, this is Jesus singling Peter out to be the overall chief shepherd of the flock. And so uh that's those two passages are the basis for the presumed basis. For their position that Christ singled out Peter to be the overall head of the church All right, we're gonna come back to that from a biblical perspective in a minute, but on page six, um they speak of uh the primacy, the superiority, the the focal, the head headshift essentially of the Roman C. Now C just means um the domain of that Office. The office of the Pope. What is the domain of it? And that's what they mean by the Roman see. It comes from the Latin word So they say, well, Peter was the bishop of Rome. God had given him this authority and this position, and he became, at some point, the bishop of Rome. And we see various church fathers over the years following that making reference to it. And so that they they quote those. And then on page 8, their second point is, those who succeeded Peter in Rome succeeded him also in that position of Pope It was a a position that was handed down from from one person to another, as it is even to this day, they say. And so starting on page eight, they quote, and again I'm I'm getting this verbatim from their encyclopedia. All these various church fathers and writers and saints and so on attesting to the reality of the point they're trying to make. That not only was Peter the head, but uh Rome became the uh the head, essentially, of the church. So head location. Okay, that's about as much overview of what they teach that I want to cover. What I really want to do is address those those two things from a biblical perspective. Okay? Now I start that on page 14. Everybody got that? the critique of the Roman Catholic position. And so we take those two those two assertions in the same order. First is the institution of a supreme head by Christ. And so the first thing to recognize is that any passage of Scripture, including these two that they quote, shouldn't be interpreted in isolation of the rest of Scripture. Right? Only Scripture is inspired by God and inerrant And Scripture then becomes the best commentary on Scripture. So if there's a portion of Scripture that we interpret in a way that conflicts with the rest of Scripture Guess what's wrong? Our interpretation, not scripture. Right? And that's essentially what they've done. So um Their first point, uh my first point here is that the New Testament teaching about the supreme head of the church. You were probably already recognizing as I was speaking earlier, wait a minute, Peter the head of the church? I thought Russ was the head of the church. Right? And that's what Scripture teaches. So interesting background here, in point one on page fourteen, little one, uh Jesus' apostles argued on several occasions about which of them was the greatest. I mean the issue came up, right? Not just once, but repeatedly. And what was Jesus' response? You've got it here in Luke several places. The greatest will be the least among you, the servant of all. Right? Don't focus on, am I greater than this one? but focus on being servants, even as Christ was. Right? That would have been prime opportunity for him to say, guys, you you've got to realize Peter is going to be the head of things here But he never did that. He was talking about to all of them that the greatest shall be the least among you, the servant of all. Right. Okay. Uh James and John, of course, had their famous uh uh attempt to, you know, be uh named as those who would be on his right and on his left in the kingdom. And the same thing. But Jesus even said at that point, um To sit on my right or on my left, this is from Mark 10, at the top of page 15. To sit on my right or on my left, this is not mine to give, but it is for those to whom it has been prepared. And Um, he just goes on to talk about being a servant and and so on. A third observation here from the breadth of scripture in point three on page 15, Jesus used the example of the Pharisees, that is the bad example of the Pharisees. To teach that those who minister in the church shouldn't seek power or prestige through the use of titles, including father, but should rather be humble servants of all. He says, Don't uh be called rabbi, for one is your teacher. Uh you are all brothers, and do not call anyone on earth your father. For one is your father, and of course what the Catholics do. They refer to their priest as father, they refer to the Pope as a holy father, right? And what Jesus is saying is the focus here ought to be Christ, me, not any position of of distinction among you. But more explicitly on point four, the New Testament clearly indicates that Jesus Christ is the head of the church, a position he hasn't delegated to anyone else. And so we see this repeatedly, 1 Corinthians 3, for example. No man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is what? Jesus Christ is the foundation. Uh more uh specifically in Ephesians, uh chapter one It says that the Father gave him Christ as head over all things to the church, which is his body. the fullness of him who fills all in all. And then chapter two of Ephesians, he speaks of God's household, that is the church. having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, plural, Jesus Christ himself being the cornerstone. What's the role of a cornerstone in a foundation? kind of orients everything in the right place, right? Um And so it's not the foundation of Peter. It's the foundation of the apostles, plural, prophets. Why prophets? Most of them were apostles, but not all. That's how God was communicating his word through these New Testament prophets And then later in Ephesians chapter 4, it says we are to grow up into all, grow up in all aspects into him who is the head that is Christ. And then, of course, in Ephesians 5, the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. And again, in Colossians 1, and he, Christ, is the head of the body, the church, who was the beginning of the firstborn from the dead, and so on. Scripture is clear that the head of the church, both originally and today, is Jesus Christ. Right? And That's not consistent with him delegating that role to anybody else. He is the head of the church. On point five, page sixteen, uh I think it's helpful to note that God's design for the church is that there would be multiple leaders in each local church, those leaders who we call scripture calls, Overseers, elders, pastors, shepherds. And Scripture uses those terms often in the same passage Interchangeably. It's referring to the same role. What is that role? They're shepherds, but they're what? Under-shepherds. And we're gonna get to that in a minute. Um but in in uh Acts fourteen twenty-three. Um Paul is on I think it's probably his first missionary journey. It says, when they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. So, right from the beginning, what was the practice? What was the design? Multiple elders, you see the word elders here, plural in every church, singular. So there would be um shepherds, overseers in each congregation Without any distinction. There's just multiple sharing of the responsibility to shepherd each separate flock. And you see reference to that in uh Acts twenty, of course, when Paul calls to himself the elders from Ephesus to meet him on his way back to Jerusalem. And there are multiple elders there. He refers to them as shepherds and overseers. And um in verse 32 he says, I commend you to God, to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who were sanctified. Who is he commending here? The elders, the shepherds of that flock in Ephesus, to do that shepherding ministry within that church Um so it's a shared responsibility within the local church. And The remaining passages here I think are familiar to you. That leads us then on page 17 to number six. There is no provision in the New Testament for any leadership structure outside the local church. Though there is biblical precedent in the apostolic era for foundational doctrinal questions to be answered by a council of leaders from multiple churches. And where do we see that? Well it's actually it's printed for you, it's Acts fifteen, the Jerusalem Council. Okay. Sort of kind of naturally The question arose in the early church, what about Gentiles? Gentiles were starting to come to faith. And uh there was a a group of Jews who understandably assumed that in order to become a Christian you had to become a Jew. So God wasn't doing away with the law. You had to do all the customs of the law and and circumcision particularly. Um although circumcision wasn't instituted in law. It was instituted with Abraham. Anyway, um There's this whole whole controversy that came to a head. They called together the apostles, other uh elders, church leaders, in Acts 15. where Paul recounts his experience with Gentiles coming to faith. Peter recounts, of course, his well-known encounter with Cornelius and one of the first Gentiles to to come to faith in Christ, and his whole family did. And so as they and Barnabas were were describing all these things and making it clear that God is saving these people right where they're at. These are Gentiles. The council collectively agreed that you don't have to become a Jew to become a Gentile. Basically it's about online. And so they drafted a letter of encouragement. Um and um That should have settled it, but it it sort of didn't, because those Judaizers, the ones who wanted the Gentiles to become Jews, kind of kept persisting. And we'll come back to that in a minute. So there is precedent to have um Pastors and in the early church, of course, apostles come together to work through a controversy that's come up, a particularly a doctrinal controversy. And there were a lot of heresies that cropped up in the first several hundred years of the church. And this precedent led to other church councils that met together for the very purpose of thinking things through biblically as best they could. Like a lot of the early heresies had to do with Christ. Is he God? Is he man? A lot of the early heresies were yes on one and no on the other, or no on one and yes on the other, and both were heresies, and they ultimately Came to understand that Jesus is the perfect God man. He is one one um Um person with two natures, a divine nature, a human nature. That took a lot of time for the early church fathers, if you will, leaders, to grapple with and it and Um defeat or uh pronounce Deviations from that as heresy. Those were big steps, big conclusions. And uh God was working through those assemblies, those councils to uh help the early church to uh steer the right course. Turns out though that some of the councils didn't steer exactly in the right course. And we'll get to that later. But the general principle is is a good one. That doesn't that doesn't undermine The the principle from Scripture that there's no God given authority outside the local church Other than Christ Himself, who is the head of the church. Um, it's just not there. Except if you want to go to these passages that the Catholic Church wants to, and we'll get there in a minute. On page eighteen, um it's helpful to see that Peter described Um in scripture some things about his role. So in First Peter five, for example Where he says, I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed. And then here's his charge to them. Shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight You see this word elder, shepherd, overseer, they're all connected here. Um not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for sort of gain, but with eagerness Nor yet is lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. And when Peter comes, is that what it says? And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Who is the chief shepherd? Christ. Yeah. Um Peter referred to himself as a fellow elder. He didn't even refer to him in that context as an apostle. But apostles were shepherds as well. And that's exactly what Peter or what Jesus was telling Peter after the resurrection, shepherd the flock, feed the flock. And that's what he was doing. Um Peter also referred in First Peter two To this whole idea of a stone. And he says, coming to him as to a living stone, which has been rejected by men, But as a choice and precious in the sight of God, you also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For this is contained in Scripture: behold, I lay in Zion a choice stone Who's that choice stone? Christ, yeah. A precious cornerstone. And he who believes in him will not be disappointed. This is Peter now quoting that. This precious value then is for you who believe, but for those who disbelieve The stone which the builders rejected, this became the very cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. You might have thought that if Peter interpreted Christ's um pronouncement to him that Peter was the foundation of the church, the the Petros, right, of the church. He would have mentioned that here, but he didn't On page nineteen, what Paul wrote about Peter's role. Paul recognized that there were apostles before him and they had um uh uh Reputations and prominent uh prominence and so on. But in chapter two of Galatians He writes, but from those who were of high reputation, what they were makes no difference to me. God shows no partiality Well, those who were of reputation contributed nothing to me. That is, he didn't get his his gospel, his his training in the truth from them. He got it directly from Christ. But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, that is the Gentiles, just as Peter had been uh entrusted uh with the gospel to the circumcised. So there is kind of a division of labor here by Um even though Peter was instrumental in uh some of the first Gentiles to come to faith, um Peter was largely focusing on the Jews, as were many other of the apostles. But Paul, God had singled out to really focus on the Gentiles. But then in verse 11 it says, but when Cephas, that is Peter, came to Antioch, where he was with Barnabas, I oppose him to his face, because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, that is James, the um half-brother of Jesus, the human author of the book of James, who early on became sort of the head elder in Jerusalem. And he kind of presided over that Jerusalem council that we referred to in Acts 15. So prior to a certain man coming from him, he, Peter, used to eat with the Gentiles. But when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision, that is the Judaizers. The rest of the Jews joined him in the hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy. And so it ought not to be too surprising that even Peter was not um Without error. And Peter well Even we we we well, that's another point. You know, during Christ's ministry, Peter was the one who was always putting his foot in his mouth, kind of a thing, right? But clearly God Matured him, worked in him, worked through him, and was Peter was very instrumental in the early days of the church, right? Look at the opening books of uh opening chapters of Acts. But he was not infallible. And God raised up Paul to um to point that out. And apparently um That had an impact, a positive impact on Peter's life. We don't see that here in Galatians, but in some of Peter's own, like 2 Peter 3. Peter refers to Paul in a very, and this is late on, refers to Paul in a very um uh gracious and thankful way. And so I think that God definitely used this this uh interaction that they had. Well look at Paul though, and point two. Paul viewed his apostleship as equal with all the other apostles, which included Peter 2 Corinthians 12. For in no respect was I inferior to the most eminent of the apostles, even though I am a nobody. And uh kind of small point, but at the end of r uh the book of Romans Rather typical to some of Paul's epistles, but more more so here in Romans He says, greet uh Prisca and Aquila and he he names a lot of people who have been um very helpful to him in ministry and he knows that they're in Rome as he's writing this letter to the Roman church. And um And so there's a long list of people here. Now he wrote that in around AD 58, and the Roman Catholic Church asserts that Peter was the Pope. as early as A. D. 42, in which case Peter would have been a Pope when Paul wrote this letter to the church in Rome, but it makes no reference to Peter Which is interesting. It's kind of a footnote. Okay, so that's kind of the broader context. Of what we see in the scriptures about Peter, about the headship of the church. And so with that understanding How do we interpret these two key passages? And that's what we have here on the next few pages. So on page 20, how do interpret Matthew 16, 17 through 19? I'll go ahead and read it in NASBY, just because it's more familiar in its broader context than just what I read earlier. Now, when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he was asking his disciples, who do you say, or who do people say that the Son of Man is? The Son of Man being, of course, who? Christ. That's how he referred to himself most often. And they said, some say John the Baptist, others Elijah, and still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. But then he said to them, his disciples, but who do you say that I am? And Simon Peter said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Kind of um in stark contrast to most of the pronouncements of Peter, he did not put his foot in his mouth this time. He was right on. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah. Barjona means son of John. Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. That in and of itself says a lot. Peter was speaking under really the inspiration of God. to say the truth about the identity of Christ. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Um And verse 18, I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven. Then he warned the disciples that they should tell no one that he was the Christ. Why? It's not time yet. They were going to Caesarea Philippi just to get away from the crowds, who were impinging on his ability to prepare his disciples for what was to come. And he often told those he healed, don't tell anybody, because it just gets worse. Uh he he had a heart for them and he just he spent whole days healing people but It was from a human perspective a distraction from his need to really invest in his disciples Which is why they went to Caesarea Philippi. No self-respecting Jew would go there. It was a Roman uh outpost. Anyway. So the context here is the identity of Christ. Right? That's how he opened the questions. And then at the end he said, don't tell anybody about that. I'm just confiding in you. That Peter, you're right. I am the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus commended Peter for that statement, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. When Jesus said, I also say to you, Peter, you are Peter, and upon this rock, Petra, I will build my church. He wasn't changing the subject. Concerning his identity, Jesus had already given Simon the name Peter much earlier. In fact, when they first met. It's recorded in John 1, which I've inserted there for you. So Matthew 16 uses two different words here. The word petros is a male noun in the Greek. Which we we translate into English as Peter. And Petra is the female equivalent for rock. So you are Peter, that's the male noun, and upon this rock, it's a feminine noun. I will build my church. He wasn't referring to Peter the person. He was referring to Peter as an example of those who come to the right conclusion about the identity of Christ. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And, it turns out, flesh and blood doesn't reveal that to people, only God does. That's what Jesus said. And so it's that confession by the enablement of God that Christ will use to build his church. You see that? But then the interesting thing is when Jesus said in verse 19, I will give you The keys of the kingdom of heaven and whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall have been bound loosed in heaven. The Greek there is as the New America Standard translates it, shall have been bound, not will be bound. And what you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven, not will be in the future, because you've blessed it or you've loosed it. The the the Catholic Bible has uh actually other translations as well Missed that point. And Jesus actually um made a statement similar to that two other times. And it's instructive to look at both of those. Top of page 21. Matthew 18, just a couple chapters later. Right after Jesus gave the instructions about church discipline in Matthew 18, following that He says, truly I say to you, whatever you, in this case now he's using plural, whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven. And whatever you plural loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven. Who's he saying that to? Well immediately saying it to I mean the immediate context is the apostles, the disciples he's with. But um the instruction is about church discipline of going forward, and so those shepherds who are uh uh supervising and encouraging this church discipline process is who he's talking to. Um And it uses the same structure. If you whatever you loose, whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven and and loosed as well, what's the point? The point is, if you follow this in this Matthew 18 context, if you follow this procedure, the conclusion you're going to reach about whether this person is A repentant Christian or an unrepentant unbeliever, that conclusion is has already been settled in heaven. Is what he's saying. Not that heaven is responding to what they're doing, but that It it's it's already the case, and that through this procedure you're reaching the same conclusion that heaven has already determined. That's what it's saying. The third time he uses something like that is in John 20. This is um I think it's on the evening of Resurrection Day, Sunday evening when Jesus meets with them. It's the time when um you know the doors are locked, he just appears, but Thomas is not there. One of the things he says to them there If you forgive the sins of any, their sins have been forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they have been retained. And again, he's speaking to them as a group in the plural. Very similar structure of of uh grammar. So Jesus wasn't giving Peter um anything special there. He was giving Peter a picture, actually the first of these three pictures, of what this shepherding of the church is going to involve. And um and obviously in the in the remaining two uh uh uh uh times when Jesus used it, Matthew 18 and John twenty. He's speaking not to Peter alone. He's speaking to the leaders, the shepherds, the pastors. And so there's nothing unique in this respect about Peter And then what's interesting on page 21, of course, continuing that that account from Matthew 16. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go up to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised on the third day. He's preparing them for his departure, right? And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. Lord, you don't understand. Right? He began to rebuke him and saying, God forbid it, Lord, this shall never happen to you. But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block to me, for you are not setting your mind on God's interests but man's. We probably would have done the exact same thing Peter did, right? But the point is that Christ commended him for um understanding and at least proclaiming what God had revealed to him, that this is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, but that didn't make him perfect or inerrant. Just in just in the same moment Christ referred to him as Satan, the behind me Satan, because he completely misunderstood the big points about the need for the crucifixion. All of that to say that Peter was just an ordinary guy who God gave this shepherding responsibility alongside of other shepherds in the early church. And that continues today through shepherds in lots of local churches all over the place. Um Peter's a good example because I think a lot of us can relate to him. Open mouth, exchange feet, you know. Okay, so what about John 21? Four minutes. You know the story, we talked about it, you know. Um do you love me, feed my sheep? Um I think basically on the pay in the middle of page 22, the thing to highlight here, Peter seems to have been truly humbled by his denials of Christ earlier. Yet all three times Jesus commanded Peter to tend, feed, or shepherd Christ's flock. That was not a unique role for Peter, as all the apostles had the same responsibility, but this was Christ's assurance to Peter that he wasn't disqualified due to his denials. It was meant to be an encouragement and a kind of um Restoration. Restoration. Um don't think of yourself as a fisher of fish, which he just was a few minutes ago, but think of yourself as fishers of men like I told you when I called you initially. is what he's saying. Okay. Um this is quick. The primacy of the Roman See. Um On page 22, in that first paragraph, starting in the middle, the uh evidence for how early the church began evolving. doesn't make that structure that evolves biblical. Although it it traces its roots pretty early. It's easy to understand that once early Christians began treating larger and more experienced churches as having greater influence in Christian affairs the church and the capital of the empire would progressively become more and more influential and powerful. That's a very human Thing. Not a biblical thing. It's just a human thing. And that's what happened. Um And add to that the need for church leaders to come together in these early church councils to debate these various heresies, what was heresy, what was not. That gave more and more influence to these pastors from the larger churches, not just Rome. And so what's interesting is that and you could go back and read the from the Catholic Encyclopedia, all the people they quote from the early church as Attesting to the the primacy of the Romancy, that is, uh the Roman bishop was head over all And that evolved to become very much the case. And you just read through those and you don't see any scripture. What you see is tradition. This is what happened. This is how early it happened. And I don't doubt any of that. It doesn't make it biblical. Um and so on page twenty three, the lesson here Is that it's too easy for man to depart from God's word and to rely on man's logic or traditions instead with the result that the truth gets corrupted. Even if many of those who adhere to that corrupted paradigm genuinely believe that they're following and serving God. Does that remind you of anybody? The Pharisees. Jesus said in Mark 7, he said to them, the Pharisees, Write me that Isaiah prophesied, you hypocrites. As it is written, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men. That's easy. That's sort of natural human nature to rely on the logic and teaching of men In spite of whatever God might say in his word. And that's what happened. I almost did it. One extra minute. Um So there's m a lot more here obviously. It's there for you to review, think through, refer back to, and uh we'll pick up on some other issues Starting with the Apocrypha and the Latin Vulgate next week. Let's pray. Father, we um acknowledge that like Peter We are very human and uh we are prone to wander and we need to be vigilant to be rooted and grounded in scripture rather than tradition or even just logic Pray that you would help us to be faithful in that, and that we would always be submitting to you, our chief shepherd, the head of the church, for your glory. In Jesus' name, Amen.