So welcome to our continuing um uh review of the lives and impacts of several key players in the Reformation. And today that brings us to Martin Luther. Uh the last couple of weeks we've looked at um um John Wycliffe and John Huss. uh who kind of were forerunners of the Reformation and um but when people mostly think of the Reformation, uh the first name that comes to mind is Martin Luther And we'll we'll see why here today. Now, Martin Luther, uh we're doing this cr chronologically. Martin Luther Um was was born in the late fourteen hundreds, but um Most of his life and his ministry force was in the early fifteen hundreds. And um like John Wycliffe and John Huss. Martin Luther was was a Catholic priest. And more specifically a monk in the Augustinian order. And uh he at that time was was um in Wittenberg in Germany. And so let's take a look at his life See if I can get the volume on this right. So um among the key uh elements of the Reformation that were highlighted here. Um Martin Luther was very instrumental in recognizing from scripture that salvation is by faith alone. Sola fide. And um that had lots of um Uh implications. So the practice of of buying indulgences, which uh was really at its height at that point Uh and I don't know if you noticed, but um uh Tetzel was saying these are no ordinary um indulgences where you you uh pay to maybe uh shorten the length of time a relative or someone would have in purgatory. But this was carte lunch All sins for all times, no no need even for confessions, and it was it was a real push to um to do what raise money to build St. Peter's Cathedral. Uh one of one of uh Luther's ninety-five theses Which are printed by the way in in your in the one of the appendices of your notes toward the back. Um One of his themes was, well, if the Pope could do that, why doesn't he just proclaim forgiveness for everybody? And we're all We're all freed from any penalty of sin. And um that was too logical, I guess. So uh but solafide, uh one of the five solas coming out of the Reformation, uh was central here. Okay. Another thing that you you saw a bit here is this r again, this relationship between church and state, the emperor, the pope. Um But it wasn't just at the call it y worldwide level, you know, the Roman uh Catholic Church, the Pope, the Holy Roman Empire, the Emperor, but uh uh that same relationship was played out uh uh at the more local level. And so the emperor was uh head over a lot of the the um territorial kings and princes and and so on. Each area had its own monarch, if you will, and they were all subject to the emperor. Well um Um as things progressed because of the uh the Reformation, some of these local monarchs and princes and and so on actually sided with the Reformation. And so there's not just religious divisions, but political divisions along those religious lines. And I I'm not exactly sure if it was formal, but it was clearly uh at least informal that a particular monarch And his religious predisposition would dictate what the religion was of everybody in his In his kingdom. And so it was territorial. And those who sided with the Reformation said our people are reformed. And others who remain faithful to uh the Catholic Church, our people are faithful Catholics. And so it became divisioned uh um uh territorially. Um And that was just kind of evolving during this time. Another key thing, of course, and it's it's consistent with both uh Wycliffe and Huss, particularly Wycliffe. was the translation of the Bible into the the common language of the people in his case, uh German. Uh it I don't think it was mentioned here much, but one of the things that particularly made that possible for Luther was um a contemporary of his n by the name of uh Erasmus, um who was a Catholic, he remained a Catholic, but he shared some of the same concerns academically that Luther and some of the reformers had. And he was particularly interested in the rediscovery of those classical languages, particularly the languages, the original languages of Scripture. And so he produced an up-to-date um reprint, essentially, of the New Testament in Greek. And that's what Luther was studying. And uh because he was getting back to the originals, he could see how some of the things we noticed earlier uh that around the time of the Reformation they realized some of that Latin translation going back into the Vulgate was not as faithful to the Greek as um it should have been. Things like uh repentance were translated as penance. Instead of being repentant, you had to do repentance, but do penance. And that led to indulgences and that whole thing. Anyway, Luther was very much interested in getting back to the original language, particularly in the New Testament, Greek, and Erasmus's uh publishing of the Greek New Testament around that time was uh pivotal, very instrumental. Um The last point I'm making here is just recognizing that what was happening in this Reformation period uh and starting even before Luther was um what I would call the sequential rediscovery of sound doctrine. So uh they weren't coming up with new doctrine. They were just rediscovering what was already in scripture. And that was not a um A quick, decisive thing, it evolved. Um much like each of us as we study scripture, we grow in our understanding They were rediscovering things from scratch for the most part. And it was even harder because they were so um uh affected by the status quo doctrines that they were recognizing were not consistent with Scripture They had to be careful as much as they could to not be affected by that when they were rediscovering what the scriptures actually teach Um, I've often said that I'm pretty sure they did a whole lot better than I would have done, but none of them got it completely right And you wouldn't expect that necessarily. It was it was a process and the resharpening of each other, and we'll see uh I guess next week how even Zwingli from Switzerland met with Luther to kind of work through now what's your understanding, what's my understanding. They agreed on almost everything. But not everything. Even the two of them were trying to rediscover it from Scripture. And that was true not just of those two, but just generally. And so with the the developing rediscovery of sound doctrine from scripture comes the gradual application of that sound doctrine in philosophy of ministry, uh Christian living. And it has implications that we're just growing on them. And um uh Well, that's still happening today. Even each of us, as we grow in Christ, we grow in our understanding of the Word, it has an impact on us, right? And it we changed because of it. And um a lot of that got restarted during the Reformation. Okay, so those are some of the key points I wanted to highlight, but we've got some time. Uh any thoughts, questions about Luther himself, or this particular period? Any of these topics? I knew we only had six kids. How about that? Yeah. Yeah, you're you're you're basic Catholic monk. Six kids. Luther's thought on baptism wasn't a whole lot different from what he had been brought up with. And that's still true today. Lutherans inf uh baptize infants. And in that baptism do they look at that as self-disc Yeah, the question is, do they, Lutherans, for example, view that as salvific? Um I don't think it's a one-size-fits-all. My understanding is that some very much yes, others not so much. There are branches of Lutheranism. And um yeah. Um And that to them was a pretty natural thing because all they really knew was this close combination of church and state in Christendom. And if we're re rejecting the false doctrine of the Pope That has implications on our church state understanding and um that plus like in Luther's case He was actually protected by uh a a um I'm not sure like minded is the right word, but certainly a sympathetic uh ruler. And um Both well, both um Wycliffe and Huss had a certain amount of protection from from uh or b because of uh um sympathetic. You're referring to the the the the sale of these supercharged uh indulgences Yeah. He was the sort of the lightning rod because he got into it with a lot of gusto and his own poetry I think it was his own. Did you catch the poetry here in English? I I'm sure it was even better at German. Um uh but he was certainly a um uh a lightning rod that Luton Luther couldn't ignore and so it became sort of a flash point. But it was straight out of Rome. Any other thoughts, questions? Anybody raised in a Lutheran church? Really? Nobody here? Okay. I I've attended Lutheran churches. Yeah, I'm not sure. I know that there are different maybe called Missouri Senate or something like that. Luther would roll over in his grave at what much of the Lutheran church has become summarizing it Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Everything in the Catholic Church was Latin until like what? The nineteen sixties. So um Yep, the upshot of that of course is that the common people, if this if you weren't in a Latin-speaking environment, like maybe Italy even at that time. For the most part, you didn't understand a bit of it. But you you believe that this is the only way to God? And so the people were just subject to that and had no clue what scripture actually said. And so one of the first things, of course, that these reformers um uh saw as an action point is to translate the scriptures so that the people can understand them. Well um Yes, I'm sure that the the um establishment, the Roman establishment was concerned about losing control, um their their public response to it was, well, if everybody has the scriptures in their own language, many of them are going to misinterpret it. And and I don't know if you remember, um um Wycliffe addressed that very point. Yes, he s he committed. Yeah, some people will misinterpret it. But look what's happened as the alternative in terms of misinterpretation of Scripture. It's Big Tar misinterpretation. And Ultimately his uh Wycliffe's and I'm sure Luther's conviction was um This stuff is not rocket science. People can understand the plain Word of God. And if there is misinterpretation God is sovereign over that as well. And people can Yeah, so you'd think that there would be uh um even before Luther and and Well that's that's why you get a a a Wycliffe and a Huss. who who do have enough education to look deeper into the meaning and compare the status quo with what Scripture says Um but the mindset of everybody was that was not sola scriptura The mindset was, okay, it's it's it's scripture, but God is continuing to reveal things through the church, and so tradition and the statements of the church are um theoretically equal authority but and but in practice higher authority than scripture. Um And in that mindset and uh people are used to status quo and tradition and um it it i it took God God's intervention to raise up people from within that environment to be objective enough to recognize, whoa, where have we come? Yeah, you know, um God God's sense of timing in in scripture we uh we see reference to uh In the fullness of time, referring to Christ. Christ came. But actually the time that Christ came was very strategic Looking back at it, the uh uh political landscape, it was a uh a period of relative peace under Rome. There was um a lot of good infrastructure transportation wise and the gospel could get out and it did. Um A unified language, people pretty much were able to converse over large areas if with if not one, maybe multiple languages And it was just ripe for evangelization. Then you get to the Reformation, and that's brought up a notch with the printing press and the ability to get the word out. Um just imagine what the apostles would do with the internet. Or Luther. Um but That brought actually the the printing press and um the the uh the publishing, the the reprinting of the printed word, whether it's scripture itself or other books and things that Luther and others wrote also brought with it the something we just take for granted, um education Right? So the peasants, didn't matter what language you wrote it in, they couldn't read it. And so there was an importance of of training people to Read, why, so that they can read and understand the Word of God. And um it brought a lot of societal change because of that, for the better. Good point. Any other thoughts? Questions? Yeah, Bill. Um so yeah the question is what about all these other branches and ultimately denominations of of Protestantism? Did they all come back to Luther? Well um That's a good segue into our next several weeks because that's exactly the focus. Um how the reform reformation developed in various places under various uh leaders and how that all played out But your ultimate question that says it all kind of trace back to Luther, those other things probably would have happened without a Luther? But that was a spark that really um Luther kind of sparked a r a broader uh rethinking of the status quo that um these other reformers That was a bandwagon these other reformers were able to jump on, basically, is my way of thinking of it. And so other denominational traditions and and so on uh were spawned by others uh who we'll get to particularly next week the next couple of weeks um But they all were happening. And you know, y this week, you know, we saw Luther coming of roughly a hundred years, a little less than a hundred years. He overlapped a little bit with us. Oh no, he overlapped a little bit with Columbus, right, 1492. Luther was born a little before that. What was my point? That these various reformers God was raising up from within the Catholic Church um God could have done that through only one person, but he did it sort of simultaneously through multiple people, each having their own um distinctives and um many of them independently looking through the scriptures And coming up with slightly different views on sound doctrine, some major, mostly not major, but a lot of minor differences Um and it just kind of evolved and I don't think any of them um set out to be a an alternative to the Catholic Church. They were truly thinking of reforming it, getting back to basics. By the way, for what it's worth, um I've I've taught a class here several times on um understanding Islam and evangelizing Muslims? How in the world could that relate here, right? Well the relation is um A lot the a lot of the jihadists and so on today and recent history, what are they trying to do? They're trying to reform Islam. Get back to basics. What does the Quran actually say? And get away from a lot of the trappings and traditions and so on. But actually do things that the Quran and and uh Muhammad himself taught and lived out, including Um suicide for Allah. And um these things are in the Quran. And so the the real zealots are just getting back to basics. Like the reformers were trying to do with regard to scripture. Interesting parallels for what it's worth. Yeah, that uh thanks for raising that. Um when it really comes down to it, all of us really need to get to that point, however sensitive our conscience is. to recognize the reality and impact of our sin and that we can do nothing about it in order for us to be open to, well, what's God's solution? Right. And uh he went through it uh through a prolonged time because um the gospel wasn't being preached. And he had to well it was God working in him and uh through him to bring him to the truth. Yeah. Yep. Get out of the hell free card. Um and the way I it helps me to understand it is is that that really is, you know, you're looking at where God is and where we are That's a very low view of God and his holiness. You know, he's he's so holy, and Luther caught that That he is so holy that it's unreachable. It's not like I can kind of jump or use a ladder or or good works or whatever. Plus, it's a too high of you of man All it takes is just one sin and we're disqualified. Right? And Luther struggled with that ultimately was gracious to him. Opened his eyes, softened his heart. And um now I will say We gotta close here. I will say that on uh if you've read much of Ruther's Lut Ruth Luther's writing or read about him and his personality, he was he was quite a character. And didn't mince words often. And you could tell a little bit from the the debate that um Uh he would be very forthright and sometimes people would view it as crude because he was saying, you guys are missing it, right? Um but God uses people even like that. Well, let's let's close in prayer. Father, we do thank you that you did raise up both uh Luther and others around that time um to rediscover the truths of your word and to apply them And we're the beneficiaries of that, and we thank you for that. Help us to be equally zealous and forthright And objective as we study the scriptures and apply them to our lives. Because we know in them Uh we have truth. And it's in you only that we have life. Thank you, Lord, for the lessons we can learn from those who have gone before us. Pray that this would bear much fruit even in our lives. In Jesus' name, Amen.