So an announcement I guess before we get started. Um uh If you have one of the books and you've not yet um surrendered the thirteen dollars uh to cover the cost of the printing and the the book Um see Jeff as soon as you can. And um oh and also I found one in the Worship Center this week. Someone left it. No name So because they all look alike, if you bought one, put your name on it. Okay? Okay, so today we're on lesson two, page 24 Um last week we focused on uh in our sort of Survey of the issues and the development in the Catholic Church that led to the Reformation. We started with a papacy last week. And today we're looking at Scripture as they understand it. And that is the Apocrypha and the Latin Vulgate. So the Apocrypha, um as you can see there, the the the word initially meant um Um secret in some sense, or um uh Separate uh to hide or conceal is it um but In its original meeting it meant basically it was for private reading, not for public reading. Um and um well, be that as it may. There are what what the Catholic Church is concerned with and includes is what we might call the uh the Old Testament. Apocrypha. There are later writings after the time of Christ that are apocryphal as well. That's not what we're concerned about here. So in the middle here is a list of the uh the books or sections of books in the Catholic Apocrypha. And you've probably heard of some of those those names before and have some familiarity, but um what I want to focus on mostly today is How do we how do we approach um writings like that? How should we approach writings like that? Well, historically um Uh particularly in the church age. Um Church leaders have used a number of tests to evaluate whether a certain writing is inspired by God? It is it's part of the canon of scripture or not And so on the bottom of page 24, I start listing these tests, these principles. So the first is, is it prophetic? That is, is it written? specifically by the authority of God, right? Thus saith the Lord, kind of authority. And secondly, on the top of page twenty-five, is it authoritative? That's related to um whether it's written by a prophet who is a prophet of the Lord, but is it speaking authoritatively as it's from God. Third, is it authentic? Um can you tell by looking at it That it's consistent with everything we know that God has revealed? Or is it inconsistent? Well, if it's inconsistent with anything that God has revealed, guess what? It can't be from God, right? We shouldn't attribute that. That doesn't mean it has no value. It may have historical value, cultural value, whatever, but it wouldn't be um the word of God If it's inconsistent with the Word of God. And Deuteronomy 13, for example, God actually gives that as a test for evaluating whether a prophet is a false prophet or a true prophet. Right? Fourth, is it dynamic? That is, is it obvious that it has the power to transform lives? Rather than just some some writing. And then fifth, wa has it been received by the people of God? So uh certainly collected but read, accepted, um, used. Uh so these these tests that have been applied Don't think of them as having equal weight, but they all contribute to the body of confidence that we have. that something is God's word. And by the way, I don't mention it in the notes here, but um It's important to realize that the canon of Scripture, what is inspired by God, what is contained in the totality of God's revelation to us Is not something that man decides. Man can realize the truth of it But God is the one who has revealed it and will make known that it's his revelation. So it it's not a bunch of people getting in the room and deciding, oh, let's include this, let's not include that. But they use these tests to recognize what God has already done. Does that make sense? Okay. And related to that, because of that, it's it's that recognition of what God has revealed is sort of naturally, it wouldn't necessarily be the case, but it's kind of naturally um taking place over some period of time. It's not an immediate thing where God said, this is right Um, but he's involving people to recognize what he's already done. Right. Okay. Well, um on page twenty-five and And so the big question is, why would the Roman Catholic Apocrypha not be canonical? So think about those tests and some other things that I'll go through here in this table. So on the left-hand column, the Roman Catholic rationale for the Apocrypha is first, it's contained in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. Well that would be interesting if it's in in if it's in that translation of the Old Testament. Well in fact it is. However, on the right hand side There's no evidence that the Apocrypha was included in versions of the Septuagint during the time of Christ. Remember, the Apocrypha was was uh included in the canon of scripture for the Roman Catholic Church in um as early as sort of the three hundred, four hundreds or so A D and um the earliest Manuscript we have of the Greek Satujent, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the earliest one of those we have is from the fourth century. So it's possible that that um those apocryphal writings were included in the At some time after um uh the time of Christ. We don't have any evidence one way or the other. We can't say that it's always been in there Uh those writings haven't been around forever. Right. Um we'll pick up on that. The second one here, it was recognized as canonical, that is, inspired, uh, by several church fathers, including some who have uh carried a lot of weight in the early church. Iranius, Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, and Augustine. However, there are other church fathers like Origen, Jerome, Athanasius, Cyril of Jerusalem, to name a few, who said, no way are they canonical. So what does that tell you? There's not a clear consensus even in the early church, right? Um Some of these people and others use the apocryphal texts for their historical and cultural value, but not It not concluding that they were God's revelation. So because of that, is and the because of this confusion even among the church fathers, it doesn't really pass the uh received uh that's the last number five there uh the received test wasn't uniformly universally received by the people of God And probably the most telling of it is in that second row on the right-hand column Palestinian Jews of the first century, like Josephus and Philo, rejected it as Scripture because there were no prophets during the inter-testamental period. No one speaking for God but after Malachi and before John the Baptist. And because of that, and for no other reason at all, you don't need any other reasons, there were no prophets. This is not God's revelation. That was their conclusion, and rightly so. Third row. Well, they say it was recognized as canonical by several church councils The Council of Rome in 83-82, the Council of Hippo, and the Council of Carthage. Well, what do we say to that? Well these church councils are not always infallible. Now God did use mightily these councils where leaders came together to uh uh analyze and critique and make um um consensus statements about things like heresies that were prop that were very common and so on. But they also began weighing in on the this received test, which of the New Testament books are canonical. And that evolved over time and these councils kind of continued weighing in on that. But these three councils that are named here did in fact include the Apocrypha as they were looking at even the New Testament books, which ones are are inspired But these church councils were not all in agreement on that point. And uh these were were just men who um uh certainly had wisdom, but they were not infallible And again, because it wasn't universal, uh, we can't say that that they all came up with the same conclusion. It's also interesting to note that the councils of Hippo and Carthage were strongly influenced by Augustine. who viewed these apocryphal writings as canonical why? Because they mentioned the extreme and wonderful suffering of certain martyrs. As if that was a valued um characteristic of of uh divine inspiration. So um that's a pretty weak argument that some people thought it was the apocryphal writings were were uh inspired because that was not universal. We often point out that early catacomb paintings portray episodes from the Apocrypha, some of the historical accounts that are in the Apocrypha. And they're illustrated in some of these these uh paintings There are lots of things in paintings, no matter where they are. Um doesn't mean that they were um the writings they're based on are divine revelation. It just means people like to the the event or to characterize the event in some kind of painting. They may have even been revered by some people, but that doesn't mean that God inspired their writing And then lastly, on the left-hand column there, some of the apocryphal books were among the Old Testament canonical books in the Dead Sea Scrolls found in Qumran. Um and when do those scrolls date to about a hundred BC? Okay. But all that shows is that some members of the Qumran community believe those writings were worth saving. But they saved a lot of things. Along with um copies of the scriptures, they saved uh legal documents. Um Commercial documents and other religious documents. The fact that they were saved in a cave doesn't inevitably make them inspired by God. Um Moreover, as we continue down the right-hand column here, the New Testament cites hundreds of passages from the Old Testament. You're very familiar with a lot of those, right? But it never cites anything from the Apocrypha. So that in and of itself is not proof of anything, but it ought to cause you to wonder if you think that the Apocrypha is inspired. Furthermore, none of the Apocryphal writings pass the prophetic test. I mentioned that earlier. There were no prophets during that time between the two testaments, between Malachi and John the Baptist. 400 or so years. No prophets. And the the Jews were particularly sensitive to the fact that there were no prophets during that time. And uh they rightly um push back on any claim that these writings are inspired. How could they be inspired without a prophet? Next, none of the apocryphal writings pass the authoritative tests as speaking for God. It's just there's a little bit of history, there's uh um just moral writings and various things. Um there is no thus saith the Lord kind of uh aspect to them. But combined with that, none of the apocryphal writings pass the authentic test as being consistent With what is recognized as in the fireword of God. And we're going to look at a couple of those in a in a bit here. So when anything is inconsistent with what God has revealed We ought to recognize that it can't be coming from God. It doesn't necessarily have no value whatsoever. There's a lot of historical and cultural insights, perhaps But um the question here is, is it the inspired word of God? And it doesn't pass that test None of the apocryphal writings or authors were authenticated by miracles, and that God that's what God did consistently. Whether those miracles be You know, like the parting of the Red Sea, very visible, or whether they be fulfilled prophecy, right? To authenticate that that had to have come from God None of that is true of the apocryphal writings. And as you might expect, because of all those things, the last one here, the Apocrypha Contains historical, geographic, chronological, and numerical errors confirmed by archaeology and other sources. Well the canon of scripture has consistently been affirmed by those analyses. Of course, that's something that the the the weight of that just accumulates over time. Back into time of the Founding Fathers, they wouldn't have been necessarily as sensitive to that. But the cumulative effect of all these discoveries and and so on is important. Okay. Any questions there so far? You're gonna run out and read your Apocrypha and um and uh get blessed by it, right? Good segue to our next section. But no answer yet. Yeah. No, next section. Let's st look at that. Page twenty-six. Yeah. Um the four debate of these votes, were they all in the Period between the you know the Old Testament and New Testament where they're also doing that thing. In the inter testamental period. Okay. Yeah. Okay, so on page 26, letter D, the Roman Catholic Church uh doctrines, uh, there are several that are based on the Apocrypha. And They're not consistent with Scripture. So one of them is that there should be sacrifices and prayer for the dead. Which gives rise also to the doctrine of purgatory and indulgences. So let's take a look. I've quoted here at the top from 2 Maccabees. Um verses thirty-nine through forty-five. Uh I'll go ahead and read the whole thing. On the next day, as by that time it had become necessary, Judas, now this is Judas, not the Judas you know. Okay. Judas and his men went to take up the bodies of the fallen and to bring them back to lie with their kinsmen in the sepulchres of their fathers. Then, under the tunic of every one of the dead, they found sacred tokens of the idols of domnia, which the law forbids the Jews to wear, and yet they were. And it became clear to all that this was why these men had fallen. Two plus two equals four, right? So they all blessed the ways of the Lord, the righteous judge who reveals the things that are hidden And they turned to prayer, beseeching that the sin which had been committed by those guys, which are now dead, might be wholly blotted out. So they're praying on behalf of these dead guys because they believed that they were basically good. Lord, please forgive them of that sin, kind of a thing, right? And the noble Judas exhorted the people to keep themselves free from sin, for they had seen with their own eyes what had happened because of the sin of those who had fallen. He also took up a collection, man by man, to the amount of two thousand drachmas of silver, and sent it to Jerusalem to provide for a sin offering. In so doing, he acted very well and honorably, taking account of the resurrection. For if he were not expecting that those who had fallen would rise again. It would have been superfluous and foolish to pray for the dead. But if he was looking to the splendid reward that is laid up for those who fall asleep in godliness, it was a holy and pious thought. Therefore, he made atonement for the dead that they might be delivered from their sin. So um obviously, you know, you look at scripture, how does that stack up against scripture? Well, we know, for example, from Hebrews, it's a good summary of it, but we see it throughout the New Testament, Christ died once. for all. And um of course Ephesians two eight and nine For by grace you have been saved through faith and not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not a result of any works, like praying for the dead or sacrificing on their behalf. John 1, 12 and 13. But as many as received him, Christ, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name. Who were born not of blood, that is, it's not their f physical lineage. They're not born by the will of the flesh, anything that they do, nor of the will of man any decisions that they might make. But born how? Of God. Right? 1 John 5. The one who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. The one who does not believe God has made him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given his son. And the testimony is this that God has given us, given us eternal life. And this life is in the works we do, right? No. This life is in his son. He who has the son has the life. He who does not have the son of God does not have the life. These things I've written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life. Two kinds of people. Those without the sun, those with the sun. Those without the sun do not have the life. Those with the sun have the life. And notice that It doesn't say he who has the son will have the life, as it's a future thing. If you've got the son, you've got the life, because the life is in him. Right? I should have maybe added the verse in there too that refers to it's appointed that uh to all men that they die once and then face the judgment, right? There's nothing we can do after we're dead to change the outcome. Right? Many other verses. You can just see how this this is is completely Uh there's probably no denying that these people did these things, but the fact that this is not God's inspiration seems to be pretty clear. Related to that, number two, the whole idea that doing good works pays for sin. Other passages from the Apocrypha from Sirach. Water extinguishes a blazing fire, so almsgiving atones for sin. So the giving of alms and, by extension, other kinds of good works helps to pay for sin. That's the idea. And then in chapter 35, to keep from wickedness is pleasing to the Lord, and to forsake unrighteousness is atonement. So what is righteousness? Right standing before God. Right standing before God. Um in a in a Um that's sort of an ultimate outcome, but in a in a here and now experiential way, righteousness is Doing the right thing. Obedience. Doing the obedience. Doing the right thing. So unrighteousness is not doing the right thing, but rather doing the wrong things. Right? And Forsaking unrighteousness, in other words, that's kind of a double negative. Forsaking unrighteousness means clinging to righteousness, doing righteousness. Is atonement. Um but we know from scripture that By the works of the law, no one will be justified in God's sight. Um Paul goes on quite a bit in Romans three on that. Um James 2. 10, I'm at the top of page 27 here. James 2. 10, you might remember, says, for whoever keeps the whole law, all that righteousness. But stumbles on just one point has become guilty of all. Why is that? God's standard is absolute holiness? Absolute holiness. And if we fall short, what good does it do that we've done all this other stuff? That's what's expected. But if we fall short in one little piece The penalty is the same because God can't can't welcome that into his presence. Right? Um And so I quoted earlier from Ephesians two eight and nine, but of course verse ten. You know, by grace you've been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not a result of works, and once you boast. But what? God Created us to walk in good works that He prepared beforehand for us. Uh those good works are not the cause of our salvation, but the result of our salvation. Right? And so you can I'm you probably already um um seen how some of these verses could lead to things like the practice of indulgences, doing things to uh add to your merit in your standing before God. Uh and praying for the dead, but also expecting that those dead are doing things in a place they call purgatory to uh advance their standing before God The third example here is about angels. Angels as intermediaries between us and God. In the book of Tobit. It says, I am Raphael, one of the seven holy angels who present the prayers of the saints and enter into the presence of the glory of the Holy One. And yet we see in Scripture that we can go directly to God through Christ. He's our intermediary. Yes, angels have an important roles that God assigns to them, but God has um Urged us in Scripture, well, here in Hebrews 4, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy. And find grace to help in time of need. We don't pray through angels or through saints or anybody else. We pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. directly to God. So those are some of the the main examples, which by the way, um uh some of the reformers really highlighted these and how those are just not consistent with scripture and that was part of their their um their beef with the Roman Catholic Church. And they have a lot to do with one's understanding of salvation. And by the way, um Uh I was gonna say in in fairness to the Catholic Church, but be that as it may, um It's it's very human, very human for us to want to make ourselves acceptable to God. And so a religion of works is just intuitive for people. In fact, every religion out there, apart from biblical Christianity, is a religion of works because of that that human tendency to want to make ourselves acceptable to God The bad news is none of us can do that. The good news is God took care of that problem. Right. Anyway It's just very natural for even the early church fathers And again, in fairness to them, they didn't have the full text of the New Testament. From the very early days, widely distributed and and so on. And they were still grappling with some of these heresies and so on. It's easier for a lot easier for us to put our finger on the text and challenge some of these thoughts and ideas that are inconsistent with Scripture. But Just sort of the natural human response is to um want to prove ourselves uh acceptable to God, and we have no idea what acceptable means. Um because we completely un misunderstand the holiness of God, which is a low view of God, and actually a high view of man. So um in the middle of page twenty seven, in light of all that The Council of Trent in fifteen forty five, it was it took place over the course of what eight, nine years. Uh no, eighteen years. From fifteen forty five to fifteen sixty-three it was an ongoing council within the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Church canonized these apocryphal writings, declaring once and for all that this is the inspired Word of God. Now why would they have done that in 1545? To maintain their power and prestige. In what context? In in religious context. hesitate to say spiritual but religious context. Okay. Um time wise though. Reformation? It was the response to the reformation. Right. They were being challenged on these points and they dug in is what happened. Right. They had an opportunity to humble themselves and correct their doctrine and refused to do that. Right. That's what it looked like. That's exactly what happened. So they officially stated that this was part of the the canon of scripture. Over 1500 years after they were written, largely as a reac reaction to the Protestant Reformation. So, one of our first lessons here, we need to ensure that we teach only what is consistent with Scripture and reject any teaching that is contrary to Scripture. Right. That seems like a pretty straightforward thing that we would all agree with, but you can see what would happen if you don't. It's so easy to get led astray. Right? We should rather be like the Bereans who were hearing Paul preach and examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. Of course the scriptures they had were what? The Old Testament. Is it consistent with what God has already revealed? Holding us all accountable to what God has revealed. Yeah, for sure. And of course, what's a key characteristic of a cult? They come up with other writings that they revere. uh even though they're inconsistent with what God has already revealed. Okay. Um we've got a few minutes. I wanted to Uh speak about the Latin Vulgate. Um A little bit of history there. It it originated in the late fourth century. Uh translated uh by Jerome, who's uh guess a Catholic uh priest slash uh uh theologian. I guess he completed it in three eighty-two. And had that the work had been commissioned by Pope Damasus I. um to update the currently available translation of the Gospels And so he updated it based on uh the the Greek and the Hebrew uh into Latin Uh but he went beyond the initial instructions and kept kept going to translate uh the whole of the Bible Uh I'm not sure that he himself finished it, he might have, but um um The point is that that translation eventually became the official translation, the official Bible of the Roman Catholic Church. Um it took maybe nine or ten centuries to be formally recognized as the only thing out there that's that's uh recognized. Uh that term Vulgate uh has to do with uh what's common. What is commonly used, commonly understood. It was the common language of the people who are authorizing this. And on the top of page, oh by the way, uh we get our word vulgar from the same Latin root, the vulg. It's just common. It's it's so um Uh of course Volgar has a very negative connotation, but the point is it's common. It's it's um not esoteric. So top of page 28, these are my conclusions. It was apparently in the interest of the Roman Church. To have a good translation of the entire Bible in Latin, translated from the original languages, why? Well, a good translation in the common language of not just priests, but also the common people in the Roman Empire would aid biblical literacy in application. So that's why we do translations today. Right, there was v inherent value in in that. But B, they may have thought that it might impose uniformity across uh all of the churches throughout the East and the West. solidifying Roman superiority in the church because it was in the Roman language. It didn't succeed in doing that on the East, you know, the what became the the Orthodox churches in the East But it did succeed in solidifying Roman control across the Western Church, this uniformity that was imposed. And just a little footnote here about the scope of the Vulgate. I mentioned the Old and New Testaments. I'm sure Jerome rolled over in his grave, but they also included in it the Apocrypha in the Vulgate that was widely distributed. So in the middle of page twenty-eight, let's think about the the use of that over time. Unfortunately, during the medieval period, the Roman Church's influence spread to many areas into which Latin was not the common language of the people. So it started out being the common language, but um Uh it's just natural that as the church uh spread, a lot of people um didn't understand that language Notwithstanding that, however, the use of the Vulgate and the and even Latin in church services became mandatory. So imposing that on um people who spoke other languages because this is the official language and the the Vulgate, the Latin uh just became exalted as this is what God has revealed. You know, you gotta fall in line, kind of a thing, very bureaucratically. And so while the original intent of translating it consistently from the original languages in the common language was pretty good. Over time that becomes a a way to control people. And we're going to see that a lot when we study the Reformation. Um a lot of people died because they were um translating or even just using the scriptures in their own language. We can't take that for granted. Okay, the second point is that this guy, Lorenzo Valla or Valla This is just before the time of the Reformation. Early in his career, he made a critical study of Jerome's Latin Vulgate, the official Bible of the Roman Catholic Church. And he raised some troubling questions about some of Jerome's word choices in his translation, even from into Latin from the original languages And the key one here that he pointed out was the Latin word, uh anybody know Latin, can pronounce that well? Penitentia, something like that. which in English became the word penance. He used that for the Greek word metanoia Which is better translated repentance. So you see the connection, penance, doing penance, penance, versus being repentant. What is repentance? Literally meta, well, noia has to do with the mind, no, like paranoia, kind of double-minded. Um metanoia means change of mind. Change of mind in our context about what? Sin. Right? So um When God convicts us of sin, and that we we we understand the the conviction there. Yes, that is sin. What does he want us to do? The wrong thing to do is to maybe rationalize it Or just try to ignore it, hope his conviction will go away. What does he want us to do? Stop it. Just stop it. So the first step in that is to change our mind about it. Yes, it is sin. I agree, Lord, it is sin. And my desire is to forsake it. So I like to use the synonym forsake for um Metanoia. Forsake is something that we do in our heart, right? In our mind. We say, I no longer want to cling to that. I want to forsake it. And what are the implications of that? If I'm really genuine about that, what am I going to do? Cling to Christ and the truth of his word. So it has that connotation of turning. But literally it means a change of your mind. That's where it starts. Now, um John the Baptist challenge hi his baptism was a baptism of what? Repentance. Right? He was calling people to repent. And um I don't think I have the verse noted here. But one of the things he said to those who were coming was that they should not only repent, but that they would bear fruit in keeping with repentance So if you have genuinely forsaken the sin, it would show up in your life. Right? And that's true. But these things that we do in our life are not the repentance. They're the result of this forsaking of the sin. So Repentance, being repentant, and doing works of repentance are two different things. Right? Doing penance is a work that we do, according to the Catholic Church, to gain merit before God. What God's asking us to do is to forsake it. And let the consequence of that forsaking be the fruit that is born in our life. Make sense? Well, this guy, uh Lorenzo Vala, um I guess published some of this and obviously the Catholic Church was not all that um grateful, but it got the attention of some of the reformers And they've looked into it and said, Yeah, you're right. He's got a point here. And that's critical. And all this this whole system of uh penance and earning your salvation To a large extent is grounded on a mistranslation of God's Word. To shame. But That was the case. And so our second lesson here is we need to study Scripture using translations that are faithful to the original manuscripts Of both the Hebrew and the Greek. It's too easy for translations to introduce errors by allowing interpretation to overshadow the original text. Now I'm not saying that's what Jerome did, but it's so easy for translators Um and as it would be for any of us. It would be easy for translators to, when they have a certain passage, to Move from so strict translation kind of word for word usually doesn't work because languages aren't structured the same way. They have different idioms, different ways of structuring the v the grammar and whatever. So you have to be faithful to the original uh intent, the original message of the original, but put it into faithfully put it into the language that you're translating into. And it's so easy in that process To add interpretation that actually isn't there in the original text. Um And praise God that that not only was he superintending uh um the uh transmission of the text from one generation to another. You know, they didn't have electronic copies, they didn't have They didn't have photocopies. It was handwritten copies, and God superintended the faithful transmission over time because it was his word he wanted to get out. And that's one of the reasons the Dead Sea Scrolls were so important. Um they revealed that um Well, when the VETSI scrolls were were were found, pri just prior to that, the earliest manuscripts we had of The Old Testament were around 980. And the Dead Sea Scrolls, everybody! Recognizes that the Dead Sea Scrolls were put in that cave around a hundred BC Which is a thousand years earlier than our previously existent manuscripts. And so the obvious question is, how do they compare? And the answer is fantastic. Fantastic. Showing just how faithful, even at that age, the transcribers were Um God superintended that. He also superintends the translation process. And yeah, there have been those who have translated uh with not very How should I put that? Not very rigorous principles or standards, maybe. Um maybe with an intent, like a paraphrase to to just kind of get the general thought across. But God inspired more than the thoughts. He inspired the words. And so uh the translations that we need to rely on need to be faithful to those original words and the the the message of those words, yes But even the grammar, right? Um is inspired. And so translating that into other languages is a huge challenge. Um I've never known any other language. In fact I'm still learning English. Um to be able to translate anything. But um The same kind of care that those scribes put into transcribing the text to make additional copies The same kind of devotion needs to be a part of every translation as well, and for many it is. So we need to Study the scripture using translations that are faithful to the original manuscripts of Hebrew and Greek. And so the ones we would recommend would be Numeric standards have been around the longest. The 95 version is probably the best of those. The ESV is real good. the uh uh English Standard Version. Yeah. Uh but a third one recently was put together called the Legacy Standard Bible. It's basically t starting with NASB ninety-five and uh making it not only a little bit more um And easier to read. I don't know that was a heart in uh to the at the heart of it. But there's some things in NASB ninety-five that um can be made clearer than they were in in the Legacy Standard Bible. Um The most common course are NASP and ESP. And so I would if you're going to do study of the word Uh I would recommend using one of those three. Um I have a note here at the bottom of page 28 that there's a timeline that includes some of the dates of these various Councils and and so on, uh in your appendix. And by the way, that's also a Opportunity to say I'm I apologize for the numbering system here. Um our lessons one through seven are pages one through whatever. And then we start all over again with the middle section which is provided along with the videos we're going to be watching about the Reformation. So that starts with page one all over again And then the appendices start with page one all over again because I can number those. So I apologize for the challenge there. But Okay. Any thoughts, questions? Yeah. Do you know what happened to um poor old Lorenzo when he excommunicated I do not know. That's your homework. By the way, real quick, there's somebody else who's key in the this this whole Bible translation back just before or during the time of the Reformation. And that's a guy named Erasmus, who was a very devout Catholic, but he published a um a an updated uh good version of the um I think it was just the New Testament in Greek And that was very instrumental in people like Luther studying in the original languages. And um Uh as far as we know, uh uh Erasmus himself wasn't a believer. Uh he was a humanist in uh that kind of day. But um God raised up all sorts of people to provide the tools, I mean even Gutenberg. Um uh the Bible printing, the printing press, right around the time of the Reformation. Can you imagine that? Um anyway, let's close and print. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for those over time who have recognized what you have revealed to us in your word. And we're the beneficiaries of that. Help us to not take that lightly. Pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand your word, but also apply it well. So that you would be glorified. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.