All right, well, welcome to lesson seven. Uh last week we began looking at some things that were in the background. leading up to the Reformation and had a lot of influence on both the Catholic Church and on many of the reformers' uh theology Today we're going to continue that with a related but different topic. Last week it was the relationship between church and state. Today we're looking at replacement theology. Now I don't know if you've heard that term before. Replacement theology basically is The teaching that the church has replaced Israel. So God gave all those promises to Israel. They're going to be fulfilled in the church. That's the assumption. Um and in fairness to uh early believers You can imagine uh coming through the destruction of Jerusalem. In A. D. 70. The destruction of the temple, the center of Jewish life and certainly worship. And the Jews being scattered at that point. You could imagine being in that context as a Christian having come out of Judaism Judaism particularly, or maybe even the Gentiles, but to go through all that and to see basically the destruction of the state of Israel And if not immediately at some point coming to the conclusion, God has really fed up with Israel now. And he's uh he's already uh sent them into exile and and so on several times, but now he seems to have really done it. This is what they're probably thinking. And somewhat simultaneous, a little bit before this, he established the church. And people starting doing arithmetic, putting one plus one and getting three, you know, and figure that, well, God must have in mind to uh fulfill all those promises that were given to Israel, but because they've forsaken all that, he's going to fulfill them through the church. I can see how that would make sense given their context at that point and for many, many years afterwards, in fact. But there's some problems with that. And that's what we're going to talk about today. And we're going to look at a number of key doctrines. in some detail here that have arisen because of this replacement theology mindset. The first is transubstantiation. We talked a little bit about that in the Lord's Supper. The the concept is that The the bread actually becomes the body of Christ. The the the wine, the juice becomes the actual blood of Christ. And that every time, and this is the Catholic doctrine, every time uh the Eucharist, the Mass, is conducted, Christ is sacrificed yet again. And we went over that in whatever lesson that was, a few lessons ago, and we saw from Scripture That that completely ignores the fact that Scripture is very clear that Christ died once for all. And no additional sacrifice is needed. Right? He's the great high priest. And all sins, past, present, and future, are paid for by him. And so that the the the mass, the The Lord's Supper is not a sacrament that imparts grace to people. That's the meaning of a sacrament. But rather it's as Christ said a memorial. Do this in remembrance of me. And so just like the Passover feast um that preceded it And here's another example of this this replacement theology. The Lord's Supper has replaced the Passover. And it seems sort of natural to think in those terms. The Lord's Supper was instituted in the context of the um the Passover. Jesus introduced the the Lord's Supper as saying that this now is Uh the covenant. This is is um uh a memorial of the new covenant in my blood. Um which is actually significant. It didn't have anything to do with the old covenant. But again, the the idea, the concept in replacement theology is that we're no longer under the old covenant, we're under the new covenant. It used to be Israel, now it's the church. That's sort of the thinking Right. Um but On the bottom of page 63 here, that ignores that scripture clearly teaches that Christ died once for all. Mention that. From lesson four, we looked at in some detail what Christ said in John 6 about eating my flesh and drinking my blood, and how He progressively described what coming to him and believing in him were And eventually he used the terms eat my flesh and drink my blood, partly to be over the heads of people who just didn't get it. But he had been crystal clear as he introduced the topic there in in John 6. Okay, so we we've talked a bit about that. And transubstantiation, the the the idea that um The the bread becomes the actual body of Christ and the the wine becomes the blood of Christ Um that was not really official doctrine in the Catholic Church until did I have it here? No, but it was around um Thirteen hundreds somewhere in there. Maybe twelve hundreds, but very late in the overall scheme effect, over a thousand years. It may have been believed and practiced and preached, but it wasn't official until until then. Well, another Key doctrine or practice that's that's springing I believe from replacement theology is the whole concept of the priesthood in the Catholic Church. The rationale seems to be that Since the church has replaced Israel and Israel had this system of priests and a hierarchy of priests, that um and their role was to handle all the sacrifices and and so on um that the church ought to have priests as well Notwithstanding the fact that Scripture doesn't When Scripture refer the when the New Testament refers to priests, other than the contemporary priests from Judaism, when it speaks of ch priests with relation to the church, what's it say? We're all priests, right? The priesthood of the believer is something that the reformers uh brought up. Um there's no mention of any hierarchy of priests conducting business within the church. That's been uh introduced and assumed and introduced from this Replacement theology mindset. Um by the way, um I'm on page 64, under the priesthood there, the last item there, D, the biblical office of elder, which is the Greek word presbuteros, where we get what from Presbyterian, you see that in there, right? Refers to a qualified shepherd in the local church uh who leads, feeds, and protects the flock. Um I I'll go down a couple more just to uh advance ahead here. Um Still on page 64, under hierarchy number two, the presumption for a hierarchy of clergy is that there should be um uh a similar hierarchy within the church where we have what the Catholic Church refers to the priest as Presbuderos. Scripture the word there is elder. Uh bishops which rank higher than the priests. The the word bishop, the Greek word is episcopos, where we get what from? Episcopal. And then cardinals and then the Pope. They've got this hierarchy. Um that's um there's also more of a hierarchy than what you you had there. I don't know if you're not sure. Well sure, you've got archbishops or arts and cart seniors, check out the whole right, right, right So um uh the point is that the the existence of the priesthood in the way it's fashioned in the Catholic Church and the hierarchy within it makes sense if you're thinking that they have to that the church is replacing Israel. And that that's maybe not the only justification, but it's certainly one. Well anyway, back back in Um the priesthood section in the middle of page sixty four and letter D. Um From Scripture, these roles, presbyteros, episcopos, and the word for pastor is really shepherd. Uh the word for shepherd is mostly used in the New Testament as a verb. It's used once as a noun. And it basically means pastor. A pastor is a shepherding role. It's a shepherd. Anyway, another word that's often used I'm not sure if it's used in the Catholic Church, maybe, but certainly in Protestant churches that have this kind of mindset, they use the word vicar You used to that? Vicar? They have a vicarage, that's where the vicar lives, as opposed to a parsonage where a parson lives, right? What is vicar? What does vicar mean? Yeah, it's a substitute. A substitute. So the word vicarious, referring to the the the death of Christ, means he's our substitute. Christ is our vicar, he's our substitute, right? And yet various denominations use the term vicar, basically synonymous with priest But maybe to distinguish themselves from the Roman Catholic Church, which has people they actually call priests. Um Okay, so let's go down then to this hierarchy, not just the priesthood, but the hierarchy itself. What does that ignore? Well, the main thing it ignores is that in the New Testament when it speaks of the the spiritual leaders in the church, it's referring to Elders, overseers, episcopals, shepherds, and it uses those terms interchangeably. Often in the very same context, the same chapter. There's no distinction between them. What those different words do is they illustrate the range of roles of those shepherds. Providing oversight and leading, shepherding like a shepherd would in the fields, protecting and and feeding the flock. And um Presbuder's elders pictures the the um maturity, leadership, uh example that these leaders need to um exhibit and provide for the church. And so they're used interchangeably. There's no hint of anything in Scripture. Of a hierarchy. The closest example of anything like a hierarchy within the church leadership is in 1 Timothy 5. Where um let me actually read it. Should have had this prepared for you. First Timothy five Paul is giving instructions in the beginning of supporting Widows, those in need, the church can come alongside them if these widows meet certain consideration. And the word that's used there is to honor them And that honor, it's very clear here that the honor is material support of them because they have no other means of support. Then, beginning of verse 17, he says, the elders who lead well are to be considered worthy of double honor. There's that word honor again. Especially those who labor at preaching the word and teaching. For the scripture says, You shall not muzzle the ox while it is thrushing, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. So the idea is that at least some of the pastors in the church are not going to be gainfully employed elsewhere because of their study of the word and their ministry involvement and so on. And it says those who uh especially those who labor at the word and teaching ought to be supported very well so that they're not going to be divided in their their focus between gainful employment and ministry. Um just like I don't think we often think of our elders as oxes or oxen. But the point is that the oxen were able to eat right along with the work they were doing to thresh and and to um prepare the grain for use. Okay. Uh but so it says especially those who uh give double honor to those who are um involved in that full time study and and preaching and teaching of God's Word. Um The main implication is there is that not all of the elders would be employed by the church, but some would be. But there's really not a hierarchy in terms of authority there anywhere in that verse. It's just the practical nature of which ones need support. Make sense? Okay. Uh I guess the other on page sixty five, the other main thing I wanted to emphasize here is in letter C on page sixty five, again speaking of the hierarchy. Um Scripture is very clear that in each local church there would be multiple Such leaders, multiple elders. We call it a plurality of elders. And you could look at all these various examples in Scripture. And The reason for that is that uh there multiple shepherds would um Jointly have greater wisdom, discernment, insight into the word than any one of them individually could Uh they probably have different gifts, spiritual gifts, and can complement one another in their leadership and oversight of the flock. And with a larger flock, it actually becomes very helpful to divide the responsibilities and share the load and that kind of thing. And there's mutual accountability. And that's important. Um, what's the accountability structure in the Roman Catholic Church? You know, you got you've got a a local priest, or maybe multiple priests, but then you've got this hierarchy that goes all the way up to the Pope. And so there's accountability built into that structure, except for at the top. Practically speaking, theoretically, it's the same as ought to be the case in every local church, which is The pastors, the elders are accountable directly to the chief shepherd, Jesus Christ. And that's what Paul gets at in, or Paul doesn't get at it, Peter gets at it in 1 Peter 5, that the uh the shepherds are under-shepherds, under Jesus Christ. So that each local church is independent, not subject to external control. There's nothing in Scripture that that provides for any external control over a local church. Cooperation, yes, but control, no. The churches, the leaders of those churches are directly accountable to God. And so it's helpful to have multiple leaders who together are accountable before God. Do you know the structure of how they select who become pre so become the help? Um the question is How in the the Catholic Church do they select priests and and the Pope and everybody in between? I know only roughly what that is. It's um With the Pope particularly, the cardinals all get together, the ones just under the Pope, and they vote. And if they don't if they're not unanimous then they have to vote again and eventually i it could go on forever. But practically speaking, they figure out who has the most support and they end up being unanimous. Uh I think that's an oversimplification of it, but that's basically you just can't. Well just to be basically qualified. Yes, to be a priest. Yeah, yeah. So there is there's All sorts of stuff. Some of which is helpful in terms of training and so on. But the hierarchy is just not from scripture. That's the point. Okay, so another example of This mindset of replacement theology is infant baptism. And I'm on page 65 here again. We talked a bit about this. Um but in our context today it's pretty easy to see how people could assume that, well, if the church has replaced Israel, then it must be that the whole point of baptism is to replace what? Circumcision. Right? And you can see people adding one and one and getting three. Um and So the presumption is that it's a counterpart to circumcision. Uh and so therefore the baptism of infants Ushers the child into a covenant relationship with God based on the faith and obedience of who? The parents. Right? Much like in the case of circumcision, it was the faith of the parents that were being obedient. To conduct the circumcision on the eighth day as a sign that this is now someone who is a member of um the Jewish nation. And the counterpart to that is the thinking that infant baptism Would usher the baby into not the Jewish nation, but Christendom. So we christened them into Christendom. That's the idea. Um the Catholic Church is very explicit, we talked about this earlier. That that's salvific. That's when salvation happens. They're ushered into um the church As an infant. Yeah, the question is why do Protestant denominations, multiple Protestant denominations, practice infant? Baptism. The answer is their roots are in the Reformation and the Reformers, those reformers came out of the Catholic Church, bringing with them some baggage, some assumptions like this. And the whole idea of replacement theology is sort of the backdrop of this and all these other assumptions that are carried over into some of the reformed churches. Yeah. And we're gonna see We're going to see a lot of the implications of that in the coming weeks as we look at the Reformation specifically. So on the bottom of page 65 There's a quote in item 2C. This is from a Presbyterian. This is a good segue, Sarah. It's from a Presbyterian organization. And it says baptism is a sacrament, which it's not, in which the washing with water in the name of the Father and Son and the Holy Spirit is a sign and seal of our engrafting into Christ. of regeneration, of remission of sins, and our giving up to God through Jesus Christ to walk in newness of life. Then they say very specifically, infants are also by baptism as a sign of the covenant to be incorporated into the Christian church and distinguished from children of unbelievers. This was done in the old covenant by circumcision. In the new covenant, baptism has instituted, uh been instituted to take its place. So in their thinking, this is the very logical consequence of this presumption of of um replacement theology. Well, what does ignore It ignore. Uh well there's nothing in scripture that links water baptism to circumcision, let alone to uh infants. The word baptism, of course, means to be immersed, baptizo, to be immersed, dunk, completely within, identified with, completely. All of the examples and teaching we see about Christian baptism in the New Testament Indicate that repentance precedes baptism. That's always the order. Baptism then is a baptism of believers. So repentance, then baptism. So baptism is an obedience of the of the believer. It doesn't make one a believer. In fact, in Matthew 28 in the Great Commission, what does he say? There's one verb there, which is what? Make disciples. What's a disciple? In this context, a disciple is a follower of Christ. Someone who has repented of sin, trusted in Christ alone for salvation. That's a disciple And that term is used throughout Acts particularly as refers to the disciples. Not just the original twelve or eleven, but anyone who professed Christ and followed him. So it says, make disciples and then what? Baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Baptize who? The disciples. Right? Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. So Kind of grasping at straws, I think, this replacement theology and infant baptism mindset Focuses on several verses in Acts, particularly where it speaks of whole households being baptized. And the presumption is that must have included a few babies. Nothing is said about babies in those passages. What is said is that there is repentance and faith. And everyone who heard the good news believed and was baptized. For what it's worth, on page 66, there's a section here about John the Baptist saying he speaks of three baptisms He says, I baptize you with water. Why? For repentance. He was preparing people for the Messiah, right? And they had to repent from Sin to be prepared to receive the Messiah. So his baptism was one of repentance That's water baptism prior to Christ. But John also spoke of two other baptisms. He referred to Christ and said, He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. The baptism of the Holy Spirit is referenced elsewhere in Scripture, and I've included Three passages here. That very clearly happens at the moment of salvation. The Holy Spirit, when someone trusts Christ for salvation, The Holy Spirit places that person, baptizes that person into the body of Christ. That person is now saved. That person is now a believer. 1 Corinthians 12. 13, for we by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Romans 6. 3. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus And Galatians 3, all of you who were baptized into Christ. So the into Christ here is his body, the church. Replaced in the church by the Holy Spirit. That's the baptism of the Holy Spirit. John also spoke of baptism of fire. That hasn't happened yet. The final sentencing and well yeah, the final sentencing at the Great White Throne, Revelation 20. Verse 15, it says, if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was baptized into the lake of fire. Uh that's the eternal destiny of all those who refuse to trust Christ for salvation. Okay. I think that's all I wanted to mention on that, but there's a lot more. If you do have a really a real germane question, feel free to raise your hand. I don't want to extinguish dialogue, but I do want to cover a fair amount more. Another main on page 67 teaching associated with replacement theology is called A-Millennialism. Millennialism is an understanding and belief in the literal millennial rule of Christ on earth. re referenced in Revelation 20. Um lasting a thousand years. It says specifically a thousand years. Ah, millennialism you would think would mean there is no millennial. That's not exactly what it means. What it means is you have to take this millennium figuratively and understand that it's actually happening now. That's what millennialism holds. So the millennium referred to in Revelation 20 is not to be taken literally as a thousand years, even though it says specifically a thousand years. It's happening now on earth between the first and second comings of Christ. Likewise, all the judgments of the tribulation that are described in the the chapters of Revelation leading up to Revelation twenty, uh are occurring Now, during this figurative millennium, not before the millennium, which as it's presented in Revelation 20. The millennial rule of Christ is happening now in and through the church, they believe. The book of Revelation, in order to hold this, they have to conclude that the Book of Revelation Is not laid out chronologically, it's to be interpreted spiritually, whatever that means. And Figuratively and and so on. That's how you can s explain away a lot of stuff. You kinda wave your hands, right? And the also interesting, um they respond to the fairly obvious objection. uh Revelation 20, uh one through three, referring to Satan being bound four thousand years in the abyss? And they say, well, that's referring to when he was defeated at the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ. Well, it's easy to say that, but what does that ignore? First, um I think I'll deal with these Somewhat in order. The main thing that this position ignores is that God's promises to Israel That are yet to be fulfilled were unconditional. What does that mean? That means there were no can no strings attached. God says this is what's going to happen. Now that's in contrast with the Mosaic covenant, which was very explicitly conditional. If you do this, you'll have blessings. If you don't do that, you'll have curses. Read Deuteronomy 28. It's all about what the blessings will be and what sort of the mirror image curses will be if you don't. Did they fulfill th those obligations? No. So what happened? They got all the curses. Coming from it. Fulfilling Deuteronomy twenty-eight. The Mosaic covenant, the covenant with Moses, the law. was conditional. In contrast with the Abrahamic covenant, the covenant to Abraham, what did God tell Abraham? I'm gonna bless the socks off of you. Well, that's my my translation of of the original text there. Um You're gonna have a boatload of of descendants and I'm gonna give you this promised land. Three a three-part promise to Abraham without any conditions whatsoever. God says, this is what I'm gonna do. In fact, in one of the cases where he repeated this He says, I have given you this land. And so how do how do a millennialists Deal with that. Well, you have to see that just like in Revelation, what God said to Abraham is going to be fulfilled spiritually by the church. Um what does it tell you about God or their view of God? He what? It's a pretty low view. It's a pretty low view of God. He's going to change his mind after a unilateral covenant he made. Which is heresy, yeah. That is related, that's right, to some of the logic that they apply here. We're going to come back to that that role of Satan in in a bit. Um but yeah, that's a good point. But um so so the the whole mindset though is one where if it looks like the passage is plainly speaking of God's unilateral promise, or it's plainly speaking about a future for Israel and Judah We have to put on our spiritual glasses and interpret those things not literally but in a way that fits with our preconceived ideas. That's essentially what's going on. Starting on page 67, I thought it would be helpful to actually lay out a lot of these promises. They were given specifically for the future of Israel. In Jeremiah thirty-one God says, Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. When did he say that? They were already in exile. The northern tribes had already been exiled to Assyria. Judah was already exiled into Babylon. I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. This covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord, I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Who's he speaking about? The Jews. Alright. The next chapter, Jeremiah 32. Behold, I will gather them out of all the lands to which I have driven them in my anger. They were already driven out when he wrote this, right? In my wrath and in great ind indignation, and I will bring them back to this place and make them dwell in safety They shall be my people, I will be their God, and I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me always, for their own good and for the good of their children after them I will make an everlasting covenant with them, and I will not turn away from them to do them good. I will put the fear of me in their hearts So that they will not turn away from me. Has that happened yet? No. Well, partially. I mean there are Jewish believers and there actually were back then Uh a few, I'm sure. Um and are in the land at least. There are some who are in the land today, but that's actually a very recent phenomenon, right? In my life well, no, before my lifetime, but not by much. Anyway, he he concludes that by saying, just as I brought this all this great disaster on this people So I am going to bring them all the good that I am promising them. He's not speaking to future Christians here. He's speaking to Israelites, right? And then Ezekiel 37. You know the that picture that God gave to Ezekiel of all the dry bones that were scattered around? And then they slowly took on sinew and and bones got connected and the uh flesh and everything. He says, then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried up and our hope has perished. We are completely cut off. That's their thinking. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, my people. I will bring you into the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. When I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, my people, I will put my spirit within you And you will come to life, and I will place you in your own land. Who is he speaking to? Israelites. Right? Continuing on the next page, also in Ezekiel 37. Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph. Which is in the hand of Ephraim and the tribes of Israel, his company companions, and I will put Uh put them with it with it with the stick of Judah and make them one stick, Israel and Judah, because at this point they were separated. They were for a long time. He says you're going to bring them back together I will gather them from every side and bring them into their own land, and I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel. Very explicit. 1948? Yeah. Like I said well, he can remember it. I can't quite remember it. But um Up until 1948, it was pretty easy to assume that God was done with Israel. Now, having said that, the Jews coming back to the land starting in 1948 is not the fulfillment of this. Has God put a new um a new heart within those Israelites? Only the ones who are in Christ. Some of them are But not as a nation. He's speaking here as a nation. Right? This is not yet fulfilled. The fact that Jews are on the land. gives us gives more credence to what God promised long long ago. He can do it and he will do it. He continues in verse 24 on page 68. My servant David will be king over them, and they will have one shepherd, and they will walk in my ordinances, my statutes, and observe them. They will live on the land that I gave to Jacob my servant in which your fathers lived. And they will live on it, they and their sons, and their sons forever. David, my servant, will be their priest forever. I will make a covenant of peace with them, and it will be an everlasting covenant with them. When he's referring to David here, what's he referring to? The Davidic covenant, where God in 1 Samuel 7 I think it's 1 Samuel 7. Promised David that he would have an heir on his throne forever. And how does that get fulfilled? Well, Gabriel announced to Mary that that Savior would be Jesus and that he would reign. Well, I've got it printed here somewhere Um Well, never mind. But Gabriel announced to Mary that her son, which God was going to miraculously form in her womb, Would reign on the throne of his father David in fulfillment of the promise to David. And so we know this is future, we know this is literally Christ on the throne of David in Jerusalem in fulfillment of his promises here over the nation of Israel. Ten chapters later, Ezekiel 47, and this is key. Thus says the Lord God This shall be the boundary with which you divide the land for an inheritance among the twelve tribes of Israel. Now you remember the the promised land was divided in the time of Joshua as they entered the promised land out of coming out of Egypt, right? After the forty years. That's not this. This is much, much later. They're already off the land. And in Ezekiel, God says, here's how when Israel is re-established on the land, Here are the boundaries of it, and they're all given here in verses 15 through 20. And then he goes further and says. Twenty one. You shall divide this land among yourselves according to the tribes of Israel You shall divide it by lot for an inheritance among yourselves and among uh the aliens who stay in your midst, and so on. Chapter 48, verse 1. Now these are the names of the tribes from the northern extremity of the land beside the You know, the border near Damascus, uh running from east to west. First, there would be Dan, then Asher, Nephtali, Manasseh, Ephraim. Reuben, Judah, and then beginning in verse eight, I'm on page sixty nine now. Beginning in verse eight He describes in the middle of the this new allocation of the land, the the promised land, a district that's carved out for the Messiah and for uh the Levites, kind of around the center, and this would include Jerusalem and so on. But then in verse 21, the remainder shall be for the prince, the remainder in that central district shall be for the prince, that is the Messiah. And verse 23, and then continuing south, as for the rest of the tribes, from the east side to the west side. Then the remaining five tribes, Benjamin, Simeon, Issachar, Zebulun, and Gad. Um So if you've looked at the allocation of the land of Israel under the conquest, under Joshua, um it's kind of like we're used to st state territories and and whatever. They're kind of um not random, but they're all different. Whereas here, they're all going to go in parallel bands, starting from the north going south, an east-west band for one tribe. Next an east west band for another tribe. And they're all just going to be very straight lines. Um And in a slightly different order than was the case when they did the original conquest. So when did this happen then It's yet to happen. It hasn't happened yet. When Christ is actually reigning in Jerusalem on the throne of David. And Just as a um sneak peek, it's not just the Jews who are going to be there. But all Christians will be there. Yes, the Jews will be allocated according to their tribes, but Jesus said that even the apostles are going to uh reign on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of is of Israel. And um Yeah. So all all believers are going to come back with Christ in the second coming anyway and be reigning with him. Um But all these passages are specifically about the Jews. You can't spiritualize that and say, well this church is going to be the tribe of Reuben. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Uh that's uh page uh bombers seventy three one and six. I knew it was here somewhere, thank you. Yeah, Luke 126 Um You shall name him Jesus, and he shall be great, and will be called Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. That happens, starts in the millennium. And that will be on this earth in Jerusalem in all of of um the nation of Israel as defined by those boundaries. Okay, I gotta speed ahead here. You gotta listen fast. Bottom of page 69 The New Testament makes it clear that God still has a future blessing for Israel. This includes the inclusion of believing Jews into the body of Christ. Which has already been happening, and the grafting of Gentile believers into the root of believing Israel. It's something of a mystery. Who are God's chosen people? All of them. Look particularly on the top of page 70 in Romans 9, Paul writes, Isaiah cries out concerning Israel. Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that will be saved. He's quoting Isaiah here. Romans 11. I say then, God has not rejected his people, Israel, has he? May it never be. For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. And then he continues in verse seven. What then? What Israel is seeking it has not obtained, that is, unbelieving Israel. But those who were chosen obtained it, and the rest were hardened. And then skipping down to verse 16 Uh well start with 15. For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, that is, um the gospel went out to everybody, as indeed it was supposed to, under The law. Um anyway, it went out to the world, the re reconciliation of the world. What will their acceptance be? But Life from the dead, and if the first piece of the dough is holy, uh what will the acceptance be but um and if the first piece of dough is holy, the lump is also And if the root of the tree is holy, the branches are two. But if some branches were broken off, That is unbelieving Israel. And you, being a wild olive, that is, a gentile, were grafted in among them and became partakers with them of the rich fruit of the olive tree. Do not be arrogant toward the branches. But if you are arrogant, remember that it is not you who supports the root, but the root supports you. Down verse 23. And they also, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in. So some Jews will in future be grafted in. They will believe. Surrender to Christ as Lord. Uh for God is able to grasp them in again. In fact, He's able to give them life when all they have is dry bones, right? And verse 24. For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive. tree, how much more will these who are natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree? There's a future for believing Israel for the remnant And then he sums it up in verse 25. For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery, so that you will not be wise in your own estimation. That a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved. All Israel meaning all believing Israel, not the hardened ones. From the standpoint of God's choice, they are beloved for the sake of the fathers, for the gifts and the calling of God are what? Irrevocable irrevocable. You can't break a unilateral promise that God has given. Otherwise you're calling God a liar. I'll let you read the balance of that, but I wanted to real quickly sum up with page 72. Speaking of the Abrahamic covenant, I won't read all the references to that as they unfolded in Genesis with Abraham. But again, just to note that his covenant with Abraham was unconditional. Just like the covenant to Noah was unconditional. The covenant with David was unconditional. But in contrast with the covenant with Moses, which was very conditional. Um God said it would be everlasting. And Paul refers to that in Galatians three, where he's speaking to um Christians who were being influenced by what we call Judaizers, those who were assuming that in order for a Gentile to become a Christian, they first had to become a Jew. In other words, they had to uphold all the law of Israel in order to become a Christian. And Paul goes almost ballistic in responding to that theory. But he says here in Galatians 3, Brethren, I speak in terms of human relations. Even though it is only a man's covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one sets it aside or adds conditions to it. Now, the promises were spoken to Abraham. And those were listed above here in Genesis. Promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed, including Isaac and Jacob. He does not say, and to seeds, as referring to many, but rather to one, and to your seed, that is, Christ, ultimately. What I'm saying is this, Paul says, the law which came 430 years later, what law? The law of Moses. Does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God so as to nullify the promise. For if the inheritance is based on law, it is no longer based on promise, which it was. It was just a promise to Abraham, but God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise. So, yes, the Mosaic Covenant for God's own reasons was conditional. If then. If not then. But not the promise to Abraham, not the promise to David. Um Replacement theology is simply incompatible with these realities. You have to sort of spiritualize things and assume away that it's the church. Okay, well there's there's more more evidence giving on the next couple of pages here. But I wanted to wrap up here on page 74 with the lesson. And this is similar to the lesson we've already looked at. If we're honest, we'll admit that because we're generally lazy We are prone to interpret a passage of scripture too quickly without doing the work to analyze its grammar and context, including the major context which is all the rest of Scripture, right? You can't just look at one passage and ignore the rest of Scripture and try to make sense all the time out of just that one passage. With the result, when we do that, all too often we impose our own or someone else's assumptions on the passage. Like the church has replaced Israel, thinking it says something it doesn't actually say. We need to be disciplined to handle the scriptures faithfully. That takes work. Sometimes hard work. It takes objectivity, not bringing our assumptions and imposing them on the text. And we're not immune from that. We need to be careful, each and every one of us, that we learn that lesson here. Anyway, let me close in prayer. Father, we do thank you that you have a future for Israel. Many Jews, of course, have already and are continuing to come into relationship with you through Christ. And one day the remnant will look on them, look on him whom they have pierced, and submit to him as their messiah. We thank you that you have a plan, not just for the church, but also for Israel, and that in the mystery of your will, the two are very interconnected. But distinct. Pray that you would help us to um Interpret scripture carefully, letting Scripture speak for itself rather than impose our ideas on Scripture. Because as we've seen, the implications are massive. Lord, we need your wisdom Thank you for your your patience with us and for your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.