All right, we are recording. Welcome everyone. It is wonderful to be here today. Uh Pastor Allen is over uh teaching the new members class, so I'm kind of stepping in for him. And uh it's a joy to be here. Um I'm excited actually to go through this material. Uh I've had a chance over the over the break to kind of read up and try to get ahead on what's being covered and what we're going to cover today. There is a lot in Alan's notes that I am so appreciative of because Again, to understand what led up to the Reformation, it is really important for us to learn this material. And so I want to encourage you, just as a teacher, Please take the opportunity to read through his notes and try to digest as much as you can Because again, this is all building up to why the Reformation took place. And so we've been covering a lot in here. Um Started off in the first lesson on the papacy and then went to the Bible and understood the Latin Vulgate and also the Apocrypha Um we then in lesson three talked about the issue of authority and especially as it relates to uh Roman Catholicism, so looking at the Bible plus tradition plus the magisterium. Um and then we last time, last Sunday We're talking about salvation, part one, which included the issue of the sacraments, and then also um We're jumping into Salvation Part 2 today, which is going to talk a little bit about purgatory and then also the issue of indulgences. Now before we jump into our lesson today, there is a chart on page 45, I think in your notes And it's this chart here. I think Alan briefly touched on this last week, but I kind of want to give you a little bit of an idea of what it covers so that your understanding how the doctrine of um the sacraments are attributed to this issue of the graces that are supposedly given through adhering to the sacraments of the the Roman Catholic Church. So if you've got this note, take a look at it. It's broken up into four quadrants If you start down in the lower left, you'll see at the very bottom of the page, you see in that left-hand corner, the starting point for infants If you go over just a little bit to the right, you'll see the starting point for adults. And how this graph is laid out is that you just follow the arrows. So if you're if you're a an adult who has um come to believe in the Roman Catholic sacraments Where you would start ultimately is with understanding the graces of the sacraments. Now again, I want to be upfront and very clear with you. This is a false religious system, but this is what the Roman Catholic Church teaches. And so as you would progress in Roman Catholicism You would hang that corner there in the green and you would exercise faith. You would start to do good works And then you would see that through the sacrament, particularly a baptism, that would bring you into a justified relationship with God. Likewise, if you're if your infant baptized into the Roman Catholic Church, then the moment that that child is baptized, that baby is baptized, supposedly they are justified. And again, it's this sacrament of baptism that sets this person on a trajectory where they are trying to attain ultimately the glory that God is that God gives us. And they do that through uh upholding the sacraments, the seven sacraments that we covered in last week's lesson, and then also the good works and the traditions of the church. So again, if you follow the arrows through this, if you go all the way up to to the top in the purple and you start answering no to some of these sacraments you start to get down into a section, the the gray section there, where you need to be rejustified. And how that happens is again, you're um you're abiding by the sacramental system uh that the Roman Catholic Church has set up. And so, whether it's a mortal sin or a venial sin, um, ultimately you're making confession for that, but you're doing good works and acts of penitence in order to achieve this re-justification that then takes place. And if you're then a in good standing with the church, you're abiding by all of the various sacramental um graces that are given, then that then leads you into the final state, which is your final destiny, ultimately First of all, going into purgatory and again being purged of all of what is the leftover remnants of sin in your life and then ultimately entering into glory. If you do not, if you are a lapsing Catholic and you decide not to abide by the sacraments, then you end up um getting into a position where the state of your soul is that of condemnation And if you're truly saved, um then again purgatory will be the place where you'll be purged of those sins and then ultimately um you'll reach glory. But if you die in a state of sin, then that send you to hell completely. So again, the way this uh graph is set up, it's it's there to emphasize all of the various sacramental graces that are in the Catholic Church and how you need to abide by them. But then also they're combined with um doing good works, acts of penitence, and then ultimately uh trusting in the church that the teachings of the church will lead you to a place of ultimate glory. And so again I I really appreciate the way I think it's James McCarthy that laid this out, um, but I really appreciate the way that he did because it helps you to kind of see graphically how the system of Roman Catholicism leads you through this these stages of these sacraments, ultimately abiding by the the traditions and the teachings of the church to then end up in purgatory and ultimately glory. Now I think last oh we're going to talk about purgatory today, but um in the last lesson, just to kind of recap uh what you guys went through. Um in that um last chapter, uh the last lesson that Alan covered, he went through or walked through all of the various uh sacraments of the Roman Catholic Church. And again, Roman Catholicism is based on these sacraments. So it's very important that a Catholic learn what these are, how they apply to the person's life, and how they ultimately relate to the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church. And they're critical because of the fact that each one of these sacraments is a part of what they would deem as saving grace. So again, these sacraments are huge because as you abide by them, as you practice them You are giving evidence, again, of the saving grace of God in your life, and it's ultimately leading you to a place Where through a system of works you then achieve the righteousness and you achieve the ultimate glory that God provides. Now again, it's a false religious system because again, it's based off of all these works, but it's very, very important for you to understand that these are huge in the Catholic Church. They are very significant. Because again, as you abide by them What you are doing is you're earning merits of salvation so that by the time you get into glory, you have enough righteousness to be able to enter into God's presence. I just want to um emphasize and add to what you're doing. Yeah. Thank you. It is, it is huge. Um if you look at page thirty-five under um lesson number four, you'll see here that again these are sacraments that are imparting God's salvific grace to you. So if you look at point number three at the top of the background, this is quoted again directly from uh I think it's from uh an encyclopedia. in reference to Roman Catholicism, but quoting here, number three, the sacraments are defined as outward signs of inward grace. instituted by Christ to help individuals in their spiritual life and to grow in holiness Sacraments are mysteries. They are signs of the sacred presence of our God in the midst today. And then here's the bolded portion that Alan listed here that is so important. They are more than mere signs, however, for the sacraments impart grace. Again, it's a system that is built off of works. It's a system where you need to do these things in order to receive the grace of God. It's not a gift It is a work that you do. And again, the sacraments help to make people holy. Now, as I'm reading that, uh again in my mind I'm thinking, there is so much that is wrong with this Because again, is salvation a work that that we do, or is salvation a gift that God gives us? And how do we make ourselves holy? We can't But again, this system is built off of the fact that it what is imparted in these sacraments is the saving grace of God. And so by the time that you Go through life practicing these sacraments. Ultimately, you're hoping that you will have enough merit of righteousness to get you into heaven. And if you don't, then you end up in purgatory where you're not only purged of your of the remnants of sin sin that have been a part of your life. But based off of the merits of those who are doing righteousness in this life, somehow, some way they're applied to you so that you can then enter into um heaven. and be with God. I remember growing up. I I wasn't raised necessarily a Catholic. My mom was um she would say that she was a Catholic. My dad was a Methodist Um they were unbelievers. But I just remember growing up in a system of thinking, I've got to I've got to do so much good that it outweighs my bad And if I do enough good, then I've earned my way into heaven. And I learned that early on, and it really was confusing to me, but when the gospel was preached to me, it was like it was liberating. Because I realized every day I fell short, every day I sinned. Every day I was sinning against God. And ultimately I needed God's righteousness, not my own And nobody could achieve righteousness for me. Only Jesus Christ could achieve that righteousness that's required for heaven. So again, it's very important that these uh sacraments be understood according to Roman Catholicism. that they are works that get you into heaven. Now the reason why this is important is because when we get now into lesson five on indulgences and purgatory, you start to understand how these merits of righteousness apply to the person that's that's steeped in uh Romanism So let's begin first of all with purgatory. Number one. We're on page 46 of your notes, and there's a lot to cover here, so I'm just going to be reading some of the statements quoted by the uh Catholic catechism here that Alan has given. And I really appreciate him drawing out all of these quotes because there's so much here to help us understand this system of Roman Catholicism as it relates to the the sacraments, but also as it relates to what the church teaches in order to get into heaven. So let's begin with the Roman Catholicism's catechism related to purgatory. And catechism is a word that just means teaching. Um, you will often hear people say, even in the reform faith, hey, I'm going to catechize my children, I'm going to catechize you know our family, or I'm going to catechize be catechized in the church. That just means I'm going to sit underneath the teachings of the church and I'm going to learn. And uh it is really important for us in one sense to catechize our children because what we want to do is we want to teach them the Bible. We want to teach them what is the Bible uh say. In fact, I developed a little booklet of just statements similar to the Westminster Fa Confession of Faith, where you have a question and then an answer. And it would be like um what is the Trinity? And then it's You know, God in it's one God, three persons. So s just quick answers. And I went through that with our girls um as they were growing up. And so it got to a point where I thought they just need to know what the truth is, what the Bible teaches. And so in a sense I was catechizing my two daughters. But again, we're dealing here with the Roman Catholic Church itself. So number one Quote, all who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation. But after death they undergo purification. And again, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven. It is that purification that relates to purgatory. Purgatory again, we'll get we'll get into a definition of it, but uh just briefly, purgatory is a state where after death you you go into a place where you're pure you're purified, it could last for thousands of years. But you're purified of all the remnants of sin that is in your life and with the combination of the merits of saving grace and righteousness that was achieved through those who again were trying to help you get into heaven. With that combined, ultimately you become purified and then you enter into heaven. Number two, the church gives the name Purgatory to this final purification of the elect, which is entirely different from the punishment of the damned. Now again, the church formulated her doctrine of faith on purgatory, especially at the councils of Florence and Trent. And it was that the tradition of the church, by reference of certain texts of Scripture, speak of this cleansing fire. that takes place. And you have a couple of those verses laid out for you. What's nice is Alan has included them in the footnotes and gives you an explanation of why we should not interpret this according to Roman Catholic teaching, that it has nothing to do with purgatory. But again, these are the proof texts that the church would use in order to prove that purgatory is indeed a teaching that should be embraced. Now again, here's a quote from Saint Gregory the Great, as for certain lesser faults we must believe that before the final judgment there is a purifying fire. He who is um truth says that whoever utters blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will be pardoned, neither in this age nor in the age to come. From this sentence we understand that certain offenses can be forgiven in this age, but certain others in the age to come. Now again, you read that and you think the red lights ought to be going off because Christ died how many times for us? Once. To deliver how much of our sin. All of our sin. When a person professes faith in Jesus Christ as Lord of their life, as Savior of their life, and they put all their trust in Jesus as he died on the cross for them and they believe in him, your sins are forgiven, past, present, and future All of them are covered by the blood of Christ. There's nothing left out. And that's an amazing thing because as we live right now, do we not sin? We sin, but we recognize that Jesus Christ died for that sin. In fact, 1 John 1. 9 tells us that he died. We confess our sins. Why? Because He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from how much sin? All of it. All of it. So again This is such a twisted thinking with regards to the gospel of God's saving grace. Number three, the teaching is also based on the practice of prayer for the dead already mentioned in Sacred Scripture. Now, the question is, where in the Sacred Scripture is this mentioned? It's not mentioned in the 66 books of the Protestant Bible. It is mentioned, though, in, what is it, 2 Maccabees And that's where they get this issue of baptizing for the dead, of not just baptizing for the dead, but also the merits of righteousness applied to the dead. Now again, we wouldn't recognize uh the books of the Apocrypha because again, nobody in the in the Old Testament or New Testament quotes from the Apocryphal books Jesus never did, the apostles never did. In fact, as you work your way through all of the letters of all the different apocryphal books, you find that in each one of them Some of them are just so outrageous, they're so bizarre, that I don't I I can't understand why somebody would even believe that they're even true. But others that are more historical, like 1st and 2nd Maccabees, the reason why we don't recognize them as Scripture is because they have errors in them. They contradict the Scripture. And they contradict the teachings again of their own s their own writings as well. So again, it's it's these outside books that ultimately give preference to this teaching, not the sixty-six books of the New Test or the Old Old End New Testament, our Bible So again, they're going outside of the Scripture, and how they confirm that as well is by the magisterium, by the teachings of the bishops, ultimately the Pope When he sits on the throne ex cathedra, he then declares these things to be true, and the church must abide by them. Again, we do not see those things being supported in the Bible, and so we reject them. But again, this this right here, this statement of um Well, by Gregory, but also number three, just ought to sound alarms in our head that this is not what the Bible teaches. And so we must reject it. But again, this is the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church. Um that last sentence, from the beginning of the church from the beginning of the church has honored the memory of the dead and offered prayers in suffrage for them. Above all the Eucharist sacrifice, so that thus purified they may attain the The church also commends almsgiving, indulgences It works of penance undertaken on behalf of the dead. Again, this speaks very clearly of a system of works righteousness And it's these merits of righteousness that ultimately are applied to the dead who are in purgatory waiting to get into heaven. Now that last quote, let us help and commemorate them. If Job's sons were purified by their father's sacrifice, why would we doubt that our offerings for the dead bring them some consolation? Let us not hesitate to help those who have died to offer our prayers for them. This is John Chrysostom making this quote here, but again, this should just sound the alarms in our brain regarding what the true teaching of the church is. When somebody has died What does the Bible say happens? Present with the Lord. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. For a believer, absent from the body, present with the Lord. Hebrews 9. 27 When a person dies, ultimately judgment takes place. Again, there is no merit that is applied to a person who has died, not according to the scriptures. And so here you have very s very strongly um alarm bells going off when we read these kind of quotes from the various um Catholic Church leaders. Now Yes. That candle you light the candle. You pay money to light the candle so they can trade for those that have died to get into heavy soon. Yeah. Yeah. There's so many little systems uh within the Catholic Church that are trying to provide as much merit uh much righteousness is possible in order for people to get out of h get out of purgatory and into heaven. It's not enough for some reason when you're alive, so you gotta get it or when you're dead. I don't know. And that's that's how do you purge somebody of sin after they have died Ultimately it's left up to God, but it's again God in cooperation with the merits of righteousness of his people in order to get everybody Yeah. Again, it's a system of good works is what is being emphasized, and it is amazing um how This is built into Roman Catholicism because they take this very, very seriously. Uh so much so that if I remember correctly, at the Council of Trent in the 1500s when they started laying out various um firm statements of what the Roman Catholic Church taught They were Council of Trent was in response to the Reformation and what they ended up doing was any system that said that you could be saved by grace alone was anathema. So that's why they were so against uh the Reformation, because the Reformation was saying, no, you cannot earn your way into heaven. You cannot do enough good works The only way to get into heaven is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone. And the Roman Catholic Church said, if you believe that, you are anathema. And anathema means you're condemned. You're condemned to eternal hell. And that's how strongly the Roman Catholic Church believes in these various systems. And uh and it's just a warning to us that when we go and talk to a Roman Catholic person who is, you know, a a strong Catholic, we need to keep these things in mind. We need to take scripture uh to them to say where is this in the Bible? Not where does this come from with regards to the church, the magisterium, or um the sacraments or the councils. Where does this say this in the Scripture And again, the best way to evangelize a Catholic is to just bring them to the Scriptures and help them to see very clearly. Again, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, we're saved by grace alone. That is the most wonderful, one of the most wonderful verses in the Bible, because again it stresses how everything is based off of Christ's work alone for us, and that's what people need to understand. Now again, is it is it okay to do good works? Yeah. We as Christians want to encourage people to get out there and do good works, but As you understand and as you will understand, our good works are not the root of our faith. They are the result of our faith. Ultimately, a person who has put their faith in Jesus Christ alone will do good works. We don't do it to earn our salvation. Again, we do it to show the salvation that God has already worked in our life. Now, what does the Bible teach about this issue of purgatory? That's letter B on page 47. What Christ accomplished on our behalf. There's a lot of scripture here, and I'm going to go over this very quickly. But the first point is that what Christ has accomplished on our behalf is that He paid the debt for all our sin in full at the cross Again, it is what? Jesus said. It is finished. It is finished. And again, passages like Colossians 2 and 1 John 1 Tell us that Jesus Christ died for all our sin. And that is what's so important. In fact, let me say this. I just got through telling you how to evangelize a Catholic Here are the verses you need to take them to. Here are the here is the truth you need to impress upon them to help them to understand that Your sin has been dealt with completely if you put your faith in Jesus Christ alone for your salvation. You don't need to Abide by the sacraments. You don't need to, again, be doing good works in order to purge somebody out of purgatory so that they can get into heaven. No, the Bible says once you have put your faith in Jesus Christ alone, you've repented of your sin, your s your sins are completely covered. They are completely done away with. And so letter B He lived a life of perfect righteousness, speaking of Christ, always doing the right thing. Literally, Jesus as a faithful Jew fulfilled the law perfectly for us. That's why again he lived the perfect life that he did, so that when he died this perfect death for us, his righteousness would then be credited to us. And that's what we see in the scriptures So again, that the righteousness of Jesus Christ is credited to the account of everyone who is saved alone by God's grace. And again, we see this in Philippians, we see it in Romans, we see it also in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21, which is the most wonderful gospel in a nutshell. He made him. God the Father made him Jesus Christ who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf. Why? So that we might become the righteousness of God in him When he died, our sin was imputed to him. It was credited to him. So that when he died as the sacrificial lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world, he did it and he did it completely He died to take all our sin, past, present, and future. And again, because of him dying and living a righteous life His life, his righteousness was then credited to us. So when God looks at us now, he sees a child of God clothed in the righteousness of Christ, and Jesus is in heaven interceding for us, saying, This one's mine. Because again, this is my child. This is this is this is my righteous servant And let me tell you, when God looks at us right now, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you have put your faith solely in Christ alone for your salvation. And he looks at you, he sees you as being just as perfect as Jesus Christ is perfect. Now again, that's the justification that we have before God. Now, do we feel righteous? Do we do everything righteous? No, we don't. Why? Because we're still incarcerated in the sinful fallen flesh My mind is corrupted. I have the world, the flesh, and the devil constantly at my back, constantly in my face, uh trying to again discourage me from the position that I have in God. But ultimately That's why 1 John 1. 9 and other passages like that are so critical. Because when we sin, we break the communion that we have with God, not the fellowship we have with God. And so we want to be right with God in our sanctification as we are growing to become more like Christ. So what do we do? We confess our sin. Again, we we go to God and we say, I'm going to say what my sin was was exactly the way God, you look at that sin. This is the sin. that you die that you sent your son to die for in order that I might become the righteousness of God in him And when we do that, again we restore the communion that we have with God. Our conscience is cleared. Our guilt is done away with. Our shame is done away with. But we do that because we rest on the saving grace of God to cover all of our sin. And again, not one sin. And this is the thing that amazes me As a believer, not one sin is going to be credited to me when I stand before God. Why? Because Jesus Christ took it all Took it all. And I tell you, that is the most wonderful blessing, the most glorious liberation that I have, the freedom that I have in Christ, is to know that my sin is covered. And as I grow in sanctification, I should be coming more and more developing a hatred towards my sin that God has towards sin. So that as I grow closer to Christ, I become, I start to live like Christ. Not perfectly in this life because I've got to shed this carcass before that happens. But when we get to heaven, we're going to be given a brand new body, a glorified body, freed from the presence of sin altogether. And I'm looking forward to that. I hope you guys are too. But again, Christ died a perfect death. He lived a perfect life in order that we might have the righteousness of Christ credited to us. Alright, page 48, letter C. He fully satisfied. This word satisfied is the word um It's the definition of the word propitiation in the Bible. I know that's a that's a big word, but just think when when you see the word propitiation, just think satisfaction satisfying. So he fully satisfied, he fully propitiated the Father's wrath against our sin. Again, recognizing that what Jesus Christ did on our behalf tells us that any judgment, any wrath that needs to be poured out on my sin has already been poured out on Jesus Christ. And again, this is what the Bible teaches. Romans chapter 3, verses 24 and 25, he says, here for well twenty three, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus Verse 25, whom God displayed publicly as a satisfaction in his blood through faith. Jesus satisfied it all Satisfied at all. Romans 8 verse 1. Therefore there is now no what? Condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. Even when you die as a believer and stand before the Bama seat of Christ, the judgment seat of Christ for believers, it won't be a judgment of condemnation. It'll be a judgment of reward. And how you lived your life for Christ in this life will be determined on the level of reward that you get. But no condemnation at all. There will be for those who are in Christ Jesus absolutely no condemnation whatsoever. And I say praise the Lord. 1 John 2 verses 1 and 2. One of my favorite passages here, my little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. The present tense here is that you may not continue in sin. And if anyone continues in sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. How so? He himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. Now again, what John is saying here is not universal salvation, but again, the application of the fact that Jesus Christ was the Savior of the world, the only savior of the world. So when you put your faith in him, He then satisfies God's wrath against your sin by taking it upon himself. And it's what he did when he died at Calvary that ultimately satisfies the just punishment for sin. Now for those who are unbelievers, that will take place at the final judgment in Revelation. So there will be a time when unbelievers will be raised from the grave to stand before God And bear the ultimate punishment for their sin. Not so with the believer, not so with the righteous, who again are made righteous in Christ. 1 John 4:10, in this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin. Again, in this is love. This is the love of God, that He would be the satisfaction of God's wrath poured out on your sin. I tell you, there is no greater love. No greater love. Alright, our position now in Christ. What is our position in Christ? Do we go to purgatory? Do we have to suffer? Do we have to be purged? Absolutely not. The Bible tells us that once we are in Christ, we are then seated in heaven. That is our position already. Right now you have a place in heaven In fact, God has a place prepared for you in the Father's house. He's been working on it for quite a while. It's going to be the most beautiful place ever. But he has a house for you, a place for you. in heaven already there. And likewise we are fully justified before God. Justification is a wonderful forensic word That means ultimately that you have been made righteous before God, not on your own account, not on anything that you did, but solely based on what Jesus Christ has accomplished for you. Romans chapter 5, verse 9, more than much more than, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. That should right there tell you that purgatory is a false system. Because again, you have You have through Jesus Christ experienced the full justification for your sin, and there will not be any wrath. uh brought before you. You won't have to suffer anything. Yes. Yes, it does. And I'm glad you brought it up because again Paul is just stating here What happens when an unbeliever, somebody who is dead in their trespasses and sins, what happens when God saves them? Not only are they saved and delivered from their sin, washed clean, but they have been given a position in heaven already that is fixed. And the seal of that promise is the Holy Spirit in us. Ephesians 1 says. So again, it's a positional thing right now. We are again hopefully not hopefully, I shouldn't say it that way, um, getting a brighter perspective on what heaven is going to be like, uh, but ultimately What should be the process of us getting ready for heaven is that we are living so much like Christ in this life. that when we die and when we enter, absent from the body, present with the Lord, once that happens, we won't be surprised. We won't be surprised about what heaven looks like. We won't be surprised about what heaven encompasses. We won't be surprised when Jesus Christ greets us. positionally and practically. So but yeah. So it's a great verse. I love it too. Alright. Uh 49. We are way slower than what we should be. That's okay. Letter C. Washed. We are washed, cleansed, purified, perfected by Christ. And not by fire, but by Jesus Christ I'm going to just jump down. I'm going to let you guys read the passages. In fact, I encourage you. Go through and read each one of these passages and just take some time and meditate on the glory and the grace that God gives us in these verses. But letter D, we are reconciled to God, conform to his holiness, so there is nothing blocking our relationship with him. We don't have to go through a priest We don't have to go through another person, we don't have to go through a saint, we don't have to go through Mary. We can go directly to God and confess our sin and rejoice in the liberation that we have as believers in Christ. Why? Because we are completely reconciled to God. There is no more animosity. There's no more enmity Should have had Karen say that word. Because he rather he's taught on it. Um there is no more at war with God There is just this reconciliation, this love relationship. There is this, again, abiding relationship that we have with God. Why? Because we are completely reconciled through Jesus Christ. Letter E, we are made holy. Holy is such a profound word. Jeff's going to speak on it this coming Saturday, and my wife's going to speak on it the following Saturday in the women's. group. But I encourage you guys get to know what this word holy means because it is absolute perfection. It is so being so purified that there's not one aspect of any imperfection in it whatsoever. And so positionally, because of what Jesus Christ has done for us, God looks on us and he sees us exactly as he we should be seeing, which is holy before him. Again, it's a positional sanctification right now that we have, but practically we will experience it when we get to heaven Now, what we contribute to the payment of our sins? What do we contribute to the payment of our sins? Okay, you sh don't read letter A, but just tell me. Nothing! Nothing! Our good works earn absolutely nothing before God. Why? Because our good works are like what? A filthy rags. They are totally imperfect. We don't have enough goodness in us to achieve the righteous standard that God has given us. So again, none of our good works earns us anything before God. It is the result of what God has done in our life that we then do these good works. We do them to the praise and the glory of God. They are a testimony to the world of the work of God in our life. But they earn us absolutely nothing in heaven. Earn us absolutely nothing before God in terms of justification. So again, very important for us to understand that. And the Bible makes that clear. Letter B, top of page 50. To receive the gift of salvation, we do not need, or we do need to repent uh from we need to forsake our sin and place our faith in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. But even that faith and repentance are a gift from God. And a lot of people miss this. Again, faith and repentance is a gift that comes directly from God. It is what God does when he regenerates us When He saves us and we are born from above, the very first thing that we do is we express saving faith and we repent of our sin. Faith and repentance are two sides of the same coin. So if you express faith, you also repent. If you repent, you express faith. genuine faith that that again saves. Why? Because it is a work that God has done in our life. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace we've been saved through faith And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not as the result of works. Why Because in no way, shape or form can we ever boast about anything. I didn't have enough faith to believe, I didn't have enough oomph to re to repent. God had to gift me that gift that to me himself. And when he saved me, what do you think happened? I ran out and believed in Christ. I said, absolutely I believe in Christ. And I put my faith and trust in Him alone for my salvation. And guess what happened? I repented. I turned from my sin I not only was convinced in my mind, which is ultimately what repentance means, it's a change of mind, but it's a change of mind that tells you, don't go in that direction, go in this direction towards God. And so I repented exactly the way that God said a believer would repent because of the saving grace of God. So again, this is very important that we don't have enough faith to believe. We don't have enough oomph to to uh repent. We cannot do anything And so God has to be the one, Ephesians chapter 2, which is the verse that we looked at before, he literally needs to make us alive. And that's what he does. And I'm so grateful for it. Um, let us see. It takes only one sin to be sentenced to hell. In fact Yeah, when we talk about sin, James says, even if we stumble, not all out rebel and commit a sin, but if we just stumble At one aspect of the law, guess what? We're guilty of it all. We're guilty of all of it. Eternally. So one sin, just one sin in your life would condemn you to an eternal hell. Why? Because God is eternal and his law is eternal. And so it deserves an eternal punishment. And that's why, again, people suffer for eternity, conscious torment in hell, because they have violated the very nature and the law of God in that. And if you just do it once. Then you're guilty of eternal hell. That's a sobering thought, isn't it? That's why we need to get out there and preach the gospel. That's why we need to remind people that salvation is in Christ alone for your salvation. And you cannot do enough good works in order to get you out of hell. You can't Now, number four, when Christians die, they immediately go into the presence of the Lord. We've already talked about this, but again, Paul's desire in Philippians is to depart and be with Christ. He then expresses Paul expresses in 2 Corinthians also that to be absent from the body is to be at home with the Lord. The moment a person dies, immediately they are brought into God's presence. Death is like just a doorway. Once you go through that door, you're in the presence of God for all eternity. And that's why Paul had such a desire to want to depart and be with Christ Far better to be with Christ, isn't it? Or wouldn't it be? Than to be here suffering and going through trials and difficulties and again, constantly stumbling, getting entangled in our old ways of life. I tell you, far better to go into the presence of the Lord. And Paul makes it absolutely clear there is no Purging stage. You immediately go into the presence of the Lord. I can't wait for that day. Just uh thinking about it. It's just amazing. Yeah. I I'm thinking of Marion right now. Um the moment she collapsed and died, she was in the presence of the Lord. And I tell you, you could have asked her, would you like to come back? And she would have said absolutely not Absolutely not. So again, very, very important. Let's get into part two. We're going to go through this really quickly, but indulgences. Roman Catholic teaching on indulgences. Let's just Focus on this first part, especially the bolded part in number one. But an indulgence is a remission. It's a decrease or disappearance of our sin before God of temporal punishment due to sins, whose guilt has already been forgiven. which the faithful Christian who is duly disposed gains under certain prescribed conditions, like indulgences, through the action of the church, which, as the minister of redemption Is the church the minister of redemption? No. Okay. Through the action of the church, which, as a minister of redemption, dispenses and applies with authority the treasury of satisfactions. of Christ and the Saints. Um Tetzel. Oh go ahead. No, before we get to the story. Go ahead and Ali. Um during the time of Martin Luther there was a guy, um Johann Tepsel. Um what a guy. He was probably the greatest salesman. He if he would have been selling used cars he would have been the guy that did w really well. But he used to go around with the boxes and they were raising money to I think complete Notre Dame or one of the other cathedrals. And he would go around and he would say this little jingle, um, When a coin in the coffer rings, a soul from purgatory springs. And he had this little saying that he would go around and so people would give their money because they wanted to get their loved ones out of purgatory so that they would go to heaven. Well again This is the type of work that the church was doing during the time that the Reformation really took off. Martin Luther hated it He hated it because he saw the falseness of it. And he saw the falseness of the people that were then doing these kinds of deeds for the church. He saw how how um morally b bankrupt they were, how sinful they were. He was just disgusted by it. And it's one of the reasons why he then wrote his 95 Theses. And he wrote that because they were these arguments against these issues, particularly indulgences. Because again, there's no way that you can, through the merit of these graces, um deliver anybody from What they called purgatory at the time, or even hell. And so Martin Luther saw in the gospel, particularly in Romans chapter 1, the gospel of God's saving grace. And he just hated this. So um he really gave Tetzel a hard time. But fascinating story. So that is a good question. I I don't know I'd have to look back and to see, but I know that it did help. No. Um all I know is that it related very significantly to the issue of purgatory because of Tetzels Little Jingle. Yeah, but it's funded Yeah, no, it funded the Catholic Church. It funded uh I should say the Roman Catholic Church. Catholic just means universal. Um we are the universal body of Christ, so we are the Catholic church, the universal church, but Romanism, Roman Catholic Church is very important as a distinction. Roman Catholic theology taught that again this was one of the merits of grace that you could give in order to get people out of purgatory. But it funded all the cathedrals, it funded the church, it funded Everything that they did. And again, they made a lot of money by doing this because people were steeped in Roman Catholic theology at the time. And they didn't know the Bible, they couldn't read it, it was in Latin, and so they trusted that the church was telling them the truth about this. And so they gave. But again, it's just a false religious system. Number two, to understand this doctrine in the practice of the church, it is necessary to understand that sin has a double consequence Grave sin deprives us of our communion with God and therefore makes us incapable of eternal life. the privation of which is called eternal punishment. And if you go back to that chart that I showed you in the beginning, you'll see that aspect of it, of the temporal punishment. I mean sorry, the eternal punishment. On the other hand, every sin, even venial sins, those lesser sins than the mortal ones, entails an unhealthy attachment to creatures. uh which must be purified either here on earth or after death in the state called purgatory. The purification frees one from what is called temporal punishment of sin. These two punishments must not be conceived of as a kind of vengeance inflicted by God from without but as following from the very nature of sin, a conversion which proceeds from a fervent Charity can attain the complete perf uh purification of the sinner in such a way that no punishment would remain. In other words, I can do all these righteous deeds, all these righteous acts, and I, by my the merits of my righteousness, I can help you be purified from your sin. Again, does that sound right biblically? Because it's not. It's not. There's nothing that we can do to merit the righteousness that God requires Number three, temporal punishment of sin remains, and so we should or he should strive by works of mercy and charity as well as by prayer and various practices of penance. to put off completely the old man and to put on the new man. Again, these works of mercy and charity include indulgences. These indulgences Number four, the Christian who seeks to purify himself of of his sin, can a Christian purify themselves of their sin? No, they can't. And to become holy with the help of God's grace is not alone. Ah The life of each of God's children is joined in Christ and through Christ in a wonderful way to the life of all the other Christian brethren in the supernatural unity of the mystical body of Christ. as in a single mystical person. So again, it's these works of charity that purify. And one of them is, again, indulgences. Number five, the communion of saints. A perennial. Perennial just means persistent, but a persistent link of charity exists between the faithful uh who have already reached their heavenly home, those who are expiating, expiation is another word, opposite propitiation which just means the act of again amending or or performing reparations. Ultimately expiation is the removal or cleansing of sin, guilt, and again consequences of that sin. So when you expiate, you're basically removing the guilt, the shame, the the consequences of that. And so here we have these faithful uh brethren who have reached their heavenly home, who are expiating their sins in purgatory, and those who are still pilgrims on earth And again, uh the bold part that Alan lists here, in the wonderful in this wonderful exchange, the holiness of one profits others. It's like Christ is not enough. Christ is not enough. And again, it's so wrong. Um, let's go ahead and I'm gonna let you read the rest um because these are just quotes from the uh Catholic Catechism and so you can read those and see what they say. But what does the Bible teach about indulgences? What does the Bible teach about these these acts of merit and charity? The Bible does not place sins into category, first of all, such as venial or mortal, because any sin would sentence you to hell. So there are not lesser and greater in the sense of deserving of the eternal punishment. Now again, are there degrees of punishment in hell? Absolutely. The Bible makes that clear Are there sins that are more grievous to God? Absolutely, the impardable sin is one of them. But again categorizing them in this way so that we through our merits can then achieve the righteousness that a person who is committing these sins can't, that's just foreign to scripture. It's foreign to scripture Um, nothing, number two, there's nothing in Scripture indicating that the church is to absolve sins, to release from the consequences of guilt. Only God can do that And again, when he does it, it is because of the debt that's been paid by Christ Himself and not anyone else. There is no such thing as an indulgence as if to appease God or expiate somebody's sin. Now, um Alan goes through a list here of verses that have been misinterpreted by Catholics such as 1 John 5, 16, um that there the sin related to death or leading to death This is not a venial or mortal sin. As verse 17 states, all unrighteousness is sin. And so what we have here in this is an explanation of what Is John talking about with regards to a sin that would lead to death? I believe, and like Alan states here, it is a sin that could result in premature death And we see those in in passages like 1 Corinthians 11, where they again were abusing the Lord's Supper, and some of them had gotten sick, and others had fallen asleep. It's a euphemism for death. But this is what then happened. Um the the Church, the Roman Catholic Church treats this like they're venial or mortal sins that can somehow be purged in purgatory through indulgences. Number two, on page 53, you have James 5. 16. Confess your sins to one another. This isn't talking about confessing to a priest, and that's the way the Roman Catholic Church would view this. This just says one to another. If you have a sin that you've committed against a brother or a sister in Christ, you want to go to them and confess that If you've committed a sin that you feel is very grievous and you just want to have somebody to pray with you in order to again remind you of the saving grace of Christ, confess it. But again, all sin is a sin against God, let it be. We need to confess our sins to God, primarily to him That's what's most important. And again, it's not confessing it to a priest, it's not confessing it to the Pope, it's not confessing it through the saints. Because they can do nothing to absolve you of that sin. Only God can. Only God has the power through the gospel of His saving grace to remove the guilt, the shame, and all that is associated with sinning. from your life. That's why again in biblical counseling we don't go back and rehash the past because if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, all of that has been forgiven. What you need to recognize that is that all of that has been covered. It may be important to go back and talk about some of the patterns and the habits that have taken place, but again, we can't do anything to absolve you of that sin. That involves you going to God alone and confessing that sin to Him. And when you do that, He is gracious to forgive us our sins, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, if you've truly put your faith in Him. There's others here. John chapter 20 verse 23. Um dealing with what do you do with the statement of, you know, if you have forgiven any sins then their sins have been forgiven If you retain any sins again, then they've been retained. The Roman Catholic Church uses these keys to the kingdom as a way of expressing their authority over these kinds of issues, like absolving you of your sin. But they have n absolutely nothing to do with um the believer. When we say our s to a person, your sins are forgiven, we're declaring what heaven has already declared. When we're saying to somebody who is in sin and unrepentant that your sin will remain, it's because that's what heaven declares already. So we're just, again, the messenger to send that message to the person that needs to repent and believe. Matthew 16, 24. Uh you gotta deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow me. Have you ever heard people say, Oh yeah, I gotta carry my cross today? Please correct them. Say no. That's not what the Bible is talking about. Jesus Christ, when he says, take up your cross, he's saying Just be prepared every day to die to yourself and to be alive to Christ. Again, you need to recognize that the cross was a symbol of death. It is what Jesus did physically for you to deliver you. So therefore, as we move through life and we see things happening in our life, we want to take up our cross. We want to die to self And we want to live to Christ and we want to do that on a daily basis. So again, this is in a in an imperative form, so it's actually a command and not a I think so. I'd have to double check it. I don't have a Greek uh text before me, but I think so. I think it is an imperative. I'm commanding you every day take up your cross and and die to yourself and uh live for Christ. Follow Christ. Again, this is what it means to be a believer. This is what it means to exercise saving faith. And then 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 10 deals with the issue of forgiveness and forgiving others. Yeah, so I'll let you read all of that. And then Luke chapter 13, verses 3 and 5. This issue of doing penance, this is really a poor translation. taken from the Dewey Reims 1899 edition. Literally that word there is metanao, which is the word for repent. So repentance is a but much better word. Penance is like worldly sorrow. You're just sorry. It's what Judas did. Judas was penitent uh when he uh again received the thirty uh silver pieces of silver. And he was so distraught over it that he cast it into the temple and he went out and hung himself. But that's what worldly sorrow will do. Worldly sorrow will not lead to repentance Godly sorrow does, uh Paul says in Corinthians. Alright, lesson. Here's the bottom line. Man has uh that it's that yellow part at the end of um page 55 Man has a natural inclination to want to make himself acceptable before or to God by doing good things. Is that not true? We do. We do. Even in the face of the truth that A, any genuine good that we may do is merely what is required. It doesn't offer any merit that would pay for many of our sins, our many sins. And B Scripture is clear that Christ's perfect life, his sacrificial death, are the only basis for anyone's acceptance by God. And again, to believe that Christ's life and death are insufficient to provide a and I would say a complete salvation here is a very low view of God. And it really is a rebellion straight from Satan himself. Has God really said that all of it's covered? Has God really said that if you just exercise saving faith, that that's enough? Yeah, he has. And hold to that. Hold to it. Because it's a lie from Satan, anything other than that Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace you've been saved through faith, that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not as the result of works, so that no one can boast. In fact, we don't boast about anything except whom. Jesus Christ. It's the same pronouncement. Exactly. You're just declaring what heaven has already declared, what God has already stated. All right. Um we are way over time, so let me just pray. And uh if you have any questions, I'll hang out for a moment. Father, thank you so much for this day. We thank you for the wonderful teaching of the Word of God, and we are just so grateful for how you have made it clear to us that there is nothing that we can do to ever remedy ourselves of the sin, but it is solely based on the work of Christ alone. And when that work is done, we are completely made perfect before you. We enjoy the perfect righteousness of Christ, not to go to a place of purging or or preparation for heaven, but to immediately go from death into eternal life. We're just so grateful for that. And likewise, I'm so grateful that our merits Our righteousness is a testimony of your saving grace and doesn't earn us anything, for it can't. So Lord, impress these truths upon our hearts and help us to understand as we walk faithful to you each and every day, that we have the joy of knowing that our salvation is complete, it is finished, it is in Jesus Christ alone, and one day we will be freed from the presence of sin altogether. We thank you for these wonderful truths, and we pray for this time and for our growth as we continue in these lessons. In Jesus' name, amen. All right. Thank you.