Okay, well um for those of you who I think most of you tuned in uh last week via Zoom. I apologize the the uh video the audio from the video wasn't communicating through Zoom. Um And so I sent out the link to the actual video. Were any of you able to see that? Yes. Did it work okay? Yeah. Okay. A lot better with the audio than without, right? Um so I encourage you if you haven't uh gone back and seen that uh and heard that to go ahead and do it. I sent the the uh links out through the Hookbook group, right? So I think everybody got that. So starting today, um we'll continue to have the audio recordings from our conversation or whatever comments I make each week. And then I'll turn off the audio recording that goes on sermons sermon audio And switch to the video, which I'm not sure if if they already have the link to the whole set of videos. Maybe what I sent last week was just the one video. But um that same website, the same page has all the videos that we're going to be watching. And if you miss a week or you want to redo one, you can go back and and see the actual videos. And if you're listening to this and you're not part of the class group on Hope Book, you can get the link to those videos by emailing Jeff Lipko, L-I-P-K-O, it's Jeff. lipco at Yahoo. com Jeff. lipco, that's J E F F. lipco, L-I-P-K-O at Yahoo. com. Is it Yahoo or Yahoo? Depends if you're where you're from, right? Anyway, Jess can get you the link to that. If you're in the group The class group in Hopebook, you'll get the link through email from Jeff there. Okay. So today we're switching to John Huss. As you can see from the timeline there, Huss overlapped in his life a little bit with Wycliffe, but mostly he lived later. And certainly his ministry was after Wycliffe. Huss was very much influenced by the writings of Wycliffe. And he says, Yeah, this guy is is is right. I'm not sure how much of it is stuff that Huss concluded on his own and was just confirmed by what he read from Wycliffe or or some of of both. Um uh he didn't necessarily agree with everything or didn't say, didn't write, testify that he agreed with everything Wycliffe said. For example, he didn't even I'm not sure if he even touched the subject of transubstantiation, which was one of Wycliffe's big concerns. But he's not on record as having um opposed that necessarily that that I'm aware of. But much of what Wycliffe was concerned about in terms of the nature of the church, the church hierarchy, um And uh uh we'll go into a number of his his concerns um afterwards. It's easier to do it after you've kind of seen the video. Um And so like Wycliffe, Huss was a Catholic priest. God's raising these people up from within the Roman Catholic Church In this case, not in England, but in uh Bohemia, what is now Czechoslovakia, or maybe now the Czech Republic, I'm not sure. And a very interesting history and a lot to learn from. So I'm going to go to the video And pause. Well, um They raised that point about uh John Paul II being asked about what they're going to do with John Huss. Turns out um they issued something of Um apology, regret, but they didn't resent anything. Yeah, that's where it stands as far as I know. Uh I wanted to clarify one of the things that uh came out and it's gonna happen next week too with Luther. And that is the church's strategy to um apply an interdict to the particular church. And um what that interdict did was shut down the church Which, you know, not like a snowstorm shutting down the church. Um with the church closed In that system, the people were helpless. Right? You needed the church in order to get right with God and to stay right with God and to receive all these um sacraments that the church uh provided. And if that were to happen for um a long time then those the absence of those things in their lives would accumulate and and make things very difficult. The Church, the Roman Catholic Church, had put itself in the position where the only way to have access to God was through the church. Nothing um no direct in fact even with us, right, they were complaining that he was appealing directly to God rather than through the church. And so an interdict was huge, and it was quite a tool that the church was able to use to enforce. It's will. So um some issues that came up with with us is the first one is Solas Christus, you know, one of the the five solas of the Reformation. Christ alone. It's not Christ plus works, it's not Christ plus the church. What we see in Scripture is that our relationship with God Um being restored to a relationship with God, salvation is only through Christ Christ, of course, said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but through me, right? Another issue that wasn't so much the content of the video, but you see it all throughout here is this church-state relationship. Right, that even the emperor, the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, um could be um Challenged by the church that if he were to support someone that they say is a heretic, then even the emperor himself could be excommunicated Um but speaking of excommunication, you know, why didn't they just excommunicate Puss? What they actually did is they burned him at the stake Where do you see that in Scripture for dealing with heresy? Well, you don't But because of this relationship between church and state that had developed over the previous thousand years A it it became natural for people to think that um Heresy, uh, forsaking sound doctrine uh forsaking the tenants of what they call Christendom Was tantamount to treason because you're forsaking not only the church, you're forsaking Christendom, all of society. And it became logical, apparently, to them, that the way to deal that with that and to root it out is to um execute, not just excommunicate, but actually execu execute the heretics. We'll see this coming up a few more times as well. And then the third issue here, the the priesthood of the believer. One of the the major uh tenants and areas of concern of uh many of the reformers, including Huss Um and that is that as as Huss in the film even quoted, that there's really only one Mediator between us and God, that's the man, Jesus Christ. The church is not the mediator. Jesus Christ himself is, being the head of the church. Um and so uh it was very um Obvious to us and most of the reformers that um approaching God didn't involve going through third parties other than Jesus Christ. And so praying directly to the Father in the name of Christ is all that's needed. And so even if there is an interact interdict on the church's functions People can and should still have access to God directly. That presumes that they're educated enough in the scriptures to know that they can do that And not have to rely on the church as an intermediary. Okay. Any thoughts, questions at this point? Yeah. The ceremony we saw at the end of his trial where he was called a Judas and stripped of That was part of yes. That was pronouncing him as a heretic. Yeah. I don't know much about the the ceremony, if you will, of it, but whether that was unique to him or it was common whenever they did that sort of thing. But the purpose of it was to officially pronounce him as a heretic, to give up, because he was refusing to recant. Almost kinda like a twisting of what happened to Aaron. You know, when he passed away when he was too soft and clothes were given to his son. But and Moses took his clothes off of him and but I don't think it was derived from anything like that, but there may be some parallels. Right. Right. Then the presumption of death and um obviously learning is not in scripture, but then again neither is crucifixion. Any other thoughts, questions? Now you know why we have a room called the Huss Room. It's amazing the power the Holy Spirit enjoying us to stand up for that and to just be so filled with the Spirit actually be singing while he was being burned alive. Do you think the Catholic Church I mean they had to know how internally they had to know how Christ corruptive we're protecting a system of basically power and wealth and all that So they were so in bed. Well you remember what we mentioned some weeks ago about the parallels of all this to Judaism at the time of Christ. Right? That um what started as as a God given um call it a system uh under the law. that got so misunderstood and misapplied and things added on to it that were sort of man-made accessories and and became as important to fulfill as even the basic law. And you get a bunch of people who are um just in thread with this mindset and then put in positions of authority and power And the ability to put down resistance, it just evolves into complete corruption. Even though it began, you know, as God intended it. Yeah. So it sounded like he was kind of implying at the end there But he was offering that question that we we'll never know, right? Right, right. But it kind of implies like he wasn't being asked to like renounce his faith. So like maybe you should have he stepped back. Like I think that's a that's a really personal question, but it it raises the issue like was it appropriate for him to die for bees Teaching? Should he have tried to learn? Yeah. Well good question. Um in case it wasn't clear on the recording, I'll try to r summarize the question. Uh the the question was arisen wa was raised in the video uh narrator uh whether it was going through John Huss's mind, whether in fact it would be more strategic for him to continue living and having some impact and so on than to give up his life I'm pretty sure the answer to that is, uh particularly given what we know about the way he died That in his mind to recant anything he had taught and preached would be to deny Christ. And that's tantamount to saying um um The church is right and scripture is wrong in his mind. And he just wasn't prepared to say that. And I don't think any of us should. Yeah. Well, and also listen that also they have to admit to things they didn't actually do. That's part of it. The impact of that could also like affect the s the salvation of the people that he taught. And I mean by that entire that by that logic too you could ask, you know, did Ananial Mishon Azariah couldn't they have done the exact same thing and just be like, Oh yeah, no, what about and then, you know, been able to go and continue to serve or even Daniel, Daniel. Yeah. You know, it's it's it's kind of one of those like a I think it goes that back down to like where's the heart of it? Right. You know, why are you saying these things? Is it you know, what what good does it do to design now and then to try to I mean, is your message now tainted and then who else is affected by that would be the answer to that. Right. Um and I think that at the end of the day it's it's it's who are you serving yourselves For God. Exactly. And I mean if the Lord wanted him to continue to do the that work and continue to preach that message, is it out of the Lord's power to deliver him from that fire? Or did he use the Senate ban to I'm pretty sure that John Huss thought that through. I mean he spent some time still back in his prison cell after the the sentencing you know, where he was trying to keep warm and they realized, ooh, the flame is hot. There's um the wheels are turning. Um I'm sure he remembered um Shadrach, Mishak, and Abendigo. And yes, God was capable of saving him, but that's no guarantee that he would, and I need to be comfortable with that And we saw like in and when Moses was teaching like the sons of Kor Korah, Korah himself was doing exactly where he did he wanted power. He wanted to why did he have to listen to Moses? Why did Moses come there and give him Why can't he or someone else be king and prince and it was, you know, from the heart of I want to be in power and then it's just power corruption. And they saw the miracles of God right in front of them. They saw God the presence in the fire in the and it still didn't stop them from trying to be elevate themselves. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. I think I just did a little bit of a Google search and not real good research. But it sounds like after his martyrdom, his followers were Hussites and there was Hussite wars that set the stage for Luther to come. So obviously it was God's plan Yeah. Yeah. Uh much can come and in fact in his case did come from his sacrifice. Um we'll see next week when we look at Luther that um Luther was actually accused uh at some point of being a Hussite. Um but He hadn't really heard much or read much about or from Huss, but when he finally did, he realized, oh, I was a Hussite and I didn't realize it Um and that of course didn't put him in in good favor with the church. But uh yeah God could have saved him, chose not to, and yet he had an amazing impact. Even in his death, and maybe because of his death. And what's interesting, in the notes that you got here, it mentions that in Czechoslovakia People from every walk of life in every societal um category in Czechoslovakia, both extremes, you know, communist, non-communist, and and um Catholic and Protestant alike Within Czechoslovakia particularly, everyone saw Huss as a hero And that's why the question I think was put to the Pope, what are you gonna do about this guy? Everybody agrees that it was wrong and he was a hero. And um yeah, Anyway, any other thoughts? Questions? Interesting to see the Emperor falls to say that he knew in his heart and yet when he It's a really good example of how we can be shut down easily by holding on to something I think you might need to be Yeah. Certainly from the church's perspective, if you got church and state in union The church is always thinking the church is on top. We trump. And the emperor was probably thinking, no, I don't have a a tool at my disposal as emperor against the church. Um so he didn't want to lose his position. Now what you say today with church and state, does the church still trump? No, I'm thinking that's that's what they were thinking. Right, right. No, I understood that. Um but it's not that way anymore because it's been with our church and state literally. We're we're going to bring this up again several times as we look at several Um episodes. But particularly when we get to the Anabaptists, it comes to a head. And um it's fascinating. Is Jandrus the one whose bones were um not interred but shoveled into a river so people would not respect his gravesite? No, that was Wycliffe. That was Wycliffe. At around the same time of Huss's demise, um they realized that they needed to deal definitively with d I mean this Constance this this counsel with Constance needed to deal definitively with Wycliffe who died before they could do anything to him substantively. And so they dug up his bones, burned them, and that was in the video from last week. And then they spread his ashes in the river. And the point that the writer who wrote about that, that they were quoting in the video last week, was ironically, that meant that his ashes spread down that river and then into the tributaries and ultimately out to the ocean and the whole world and symbolically um Um it says a lot. Yeah. So Hope Academy uh in the upper grades has a course on world history And what I've taught the course before, and when we get to this part about Jan Hoos that's in the textbook, I make the students get up and go to the door and look at the name on the outside of the classroom and it's our little field trip. Go to the door and see. See this is the person after whom our classroom is is named. Yeah. I don't know if they that makes an impression, but it makes an im on them, but it makes an impression on people. Indeed. Well this is the Knox room. Everybody know who Knox is? We're not going to cover him in one of the videos, by the way. But um Uh John Knox was one of the reformers, uh one of the chief reformers from Scotland. Spent a lot of time in Geneva with folks down there. Yeah. I have a whole I have a lot of problems keeping Keeping the James straight as the word of the needs into the four hours Fishbowl. Yeah. Named after John Fishbowl. Yeah. Well Any other thoughts, questions? Yeah. Uh I would like to add that I thought the the video shorts showed a good job of his trial just being Like a mockery, but he was not really given a good opportunity to speak. And that's the accounts that I've read, that's how it was. He was not really given a proper hearing. And a hundred years later when Martin Luther was summoned to the die of Bern, it was eerily similar very simple. He was promised safe conduct. All his followers were like, remember what happens to people like you. And what's by God's very smart who made it online. Yeah, what what's interesting about the difference between the two is that they didn't actually uh ex communicator. Or that didn't actually uh um execute. Execute. Yes, a different kind of X. Yeah. I think many of them wanted to. But um he's continued to have support um even without his knowledge he had support from from um his uh civil um benefactor. Yeah All right. Well, a lot of these issues are going to be coming up again in future weeks. Next week, we're going to look at Martin Luther. Of course, most people reckon the timing of the Reformation to be a the definitive time when Luther posted his theses on the uh church store Wittenberg. Um fascinating story again. Stay tuned. And again, you'll have access to each of these videos through the link that we'll give you from the Hookbook group. And so feel free. I'll send it out. Okay. Yeah. So if you miss a week, you can still access the videos. Or like last week, if it didn't if you didn't really see it or hear it, you can get access to it. Okay. Let's pray. Father, indeed. The life and ministry and even death of John Huss is a challenge to us, an encouragement to us, that that standing for what is right and true, biblical, and honoring to you sometimes costs. And and yet you're sovereign over that. Um pray that our our contemplation and application of of your word would have a similar impact on us, even if we're not uh challenged quite so um severely or persecuted, but um may our lives count. In in a maximum way as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.