Sorry, I forgot to uh do the recording at the very beginning. But um Uh wanted to say a few things about uh Tyndale. Um It was a little confusing to me for quite a while who which jurisdiction actually um tried him and executed him It turns out it was the emperor, the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire. I think it was Charles V. The same one who was confronted with Luther, but Luther had the protection of of his uh monarch, uh prince, uh whatever. Uh he had protection and there is in Germany um schisms and and uh differences in different localities. And so Luther, though he made a very strong stand against the Catholic Church's teaching Um never was um put to an end because he had protection. What Tyndale didn't have that kind of protection. And uh it it wasn't the church itself, but rather it was the civil authorities, the the uh emperor Who um did him in. Uh the other interesting thing about Uh Tyndale, they mention at the end his dying prayer, uh Lord open the King of England's eyes with regard to um having the scriptures in the common language. And uh that eventually happened, but who was that king? Henry the Eighth. Henry the Eighth. What do we know about Henry the Eighth? He killed a lot of his wives, even Anne Bowen. Yeah, he killed a lot of his wives. Why did he kill a lot of his wives and move on? An heir. He wanted a male heir. Um and that's all uh you know, it is what it is. But he ultimately broke from the Catholic Church to establish his own church where he would be the head, the Church of England. And so I'm pretty sure that his his uh commanding that the Bible in English be used in all these English churches was part of his plan to um disassociate himself completely with the church, with with the Catholic Church, the Roman Church. And um it was his mark on establishing a competitive church, the Church of England. What does that tell you about God? He can use anyone and even work through the the the sinful intents and whatever of of people. to accomplish um what he wants accomplished. I mean the the greatest example of that is the cross. Um but Uh I think it was also very much what was happening here in England. Um Yeah uh Margaret, did you have a question there? Well politics and religion have always been complicated, b particularly when they get combined. Anyway, um uh whether Henry VIII anticipated it or desired it Unleashing the Word of God in English to common Englishmen. Um well, like I said, it fueled the Reformation in England. Yeah, just like similar um results in Germany and elsewhere with the scriptures translated into the common language. Yeah. The the the prevailing um Thought, conviction, um policy both in the Catholic Church and in the Holy Roman Empire, was that the scriptures Essentially, that the scriptures were from the church. The church is the guardian of the scriptures, but of other things as well. like pronouncements of popes and um tradition and so on. And that um The common people couldn't understand the scriptures. The the um uh the prevailing for for a long time now, about a thousand years, the prevailing view was that the scriptures needed to be interpreted allegorically So that you have to look for sort of the hidden meaning rather than just take them plainly And that was an excuse basically for saying that only the church could interpret it for the people. But of course, what's underlying that? Yeah. It was a threat to their power. Control. And so putting like like Hunstall challenged Tyndale, you know, people aren't ready for this. Um And and the other reformers got the same the same um including Wycliffe had the same argument put to them, people aren't ready for this, they they would misinterpret it. And of course Wycliffe's famous answer was as if it hasn't been Misinterpreted and misapplied already by those who should have known better. Tyndale particularly was um convinced that this this method of interpretation where you looked allegorically at what scripture was saying to come up with its its meaning was Not the right approach. God intended his word. And in fact, his analogy, Tyndale's analogy, was How did the original hearers understand what Jesus was saying? Or how did the original hearers understand the law of Moses or the prophets? They were just using plain language that everybody could understand in their own language. And it wasn't subject to allegorical theories and this kind of thing. And so the idea of getting back to Scripture was not just the Scripture itself, but an understanding of how to interpret it straightforwardly. And that even a plow a plow boy could do if he had it in his language. So You know the the arrest of of those people in that little vignette where the the child was reciting the Lord's Prayer in English That was enough to execute the men. And that unfortunately was typical. And it was meant to be a deterrent because of the desire for control. So how much we have to be thankful for. Not only for the word in our own language, but the freedom to study it and to proclaim it. And apply it. So anyway, here I am on this slide. We've already covered Wycliffe. Of course he translated the scriptures. he and his team, uh, from the Latin Vulgate. So not from the original languages. That was very helpful, but it was suppressed and there wasn't a mechanism to continue it. And so the Bible in English by Tyndale's time was pretty rare. Tyndale, of course, translated from the Hebrew and the Greek, and a little factoid, um In doing that, he actually coined some new words that didn't have a ready English counterpart to what he was seeing in particular in the Hebrew One of them, and my understanding is the consensus is people understood that uh Tyndale coined this term, is the term atonement. You know, like the Day of Atonement and and so on in the Old Testament. Um and apparently his thinking was It captured the idea of of someone being made at one with God, at one meant. Um I think that's sort of a theory that that was what his thinking was. But um whatever it was He actually coined some words, um, developed some words in English that we still use um yeah in the process of translation. And so Tyndale almost completed, he did complete the New Testament, and he almost completed the Old Testament. Uh but Coverdale, a a friend and contemporary, uh completed what was missing and put together a complete translation of the Bible based largely on Tyndale's work. Estimates are that Tyndale Tyndale's work accomplished was responsible or is shown in the actual wording of the King James for example that came later, about 90% of it was straight from Tyndale. The King James Version was based largely on Coverdale, it was tweaked a little bit. And that of course also got official um blessing from King James who came along later, so it was the authorized version authorized by the king to be published. Um so the King James Version was And is very um very solid But since the time of that original publication, I don't have the date for it here. It's like sixteen something. Um since the time of that, additional ancient manuscripts of the Hebrew, particularly Hebrew and to some extent Greek manuscripts. um were discovered that were actually earlier than the earliest known at the time. No. No, way before the Jets Scrolls. Yeah. Um but includ I think including the Dead Sea Scrolls, but even before that. They're just manuscripts of portions of scripture that predated, it was obvious people could tell it w if they predated what was already known to exist. And so more modern translations um go beyond what the King James Version did by making use of those earlier and earlier manuscripts. And in the process of course, put it in the language that we now speak rather than King Jamesish English. Um But those differences are are somewhat few, and so the King James the the the basics of the King James are very solid But taking advantage of the earlier manuscripts is even stronger. Um So the life of Tyndale seems like, you know, he he wrote that book. Um The uh obedience of a Christian man, laying out the biblical basis for a submission to Um government authorities, particularly, but by extension, really anyone in authority, because all authority comes from God And up to the point where they command us, compel us to sin. Either to do something that we shouldn't do or to not do something we are commanded to do by God. And uh Tyndale, of course, um practiced what he preached. And part of what he preached, of course, in that book was: if you do need to resist the governing authorities, because you have a higher authority you need to obey, which is God. You need to be willing to suffer the same the consequences. But His obedience to God was not just translating the scriptures into English, but also distributing them By smuggling the getting them smuggled into England. Um and um running away when he was about to be caught actually running from England to Germany and elsewhere on the continent in order to have some limited opportunity to do his work. Uh so it's a very interesting study in the balance between um Obedience and submission to governing authorities and the extent you might need to go to to obey God rather than man. And The balance there has always been a subject of great debate. How far do you go? Right? But ultimately, um He was quite willing to give his life up for the the work God had called him to do All the reformers um are an inspiration to me, but Tyndale is probably um the biggest. His hard work, his dedication, and his willingness to even die for what he believed from Scripture. So where did King James fall in the hierarchy or the the lineage of the kings of England? I don't know. Margaret, you know. And even even during that time within England, you know, even Henry VIII couldn't prevent Um the Church of England and Catholics being at each other's throats for a long time. Um it continued. But um yeah. Not just in England, but that that's um even even today with translation work happening around the world in these pockets of of sort of isolated peoples, the translation of the scriptures and uh literacy go hand in hand. so that people can not only speak or write the word, they can read it, God's Word themselves. So if anything, we ought not to take that for granted. Right. Uh we have a great privilege of having the word uh in our own language in lots of forms, you know, I've got it in my pocket here. And so not only to have it and to read it, but to study it and most importantly, apply it. Um and having the freedom to do that is just such a blessing. It's not it's not something we should take for granted. Go ahead. Sometimes, but not usually, people sacrifice a whole lot, maybe not as much as Tyndale did, but um there's much sacrifice involved in translating the language so that You know the the um the translator's um compulsion, I guess you might call it, is fueled by scenes like in Revelation where it has people from every tribe and tongue and nation gathering before the Lord to worship him. How can that happen unless everybody has the word in their own language? So it's happening. And maybe within our lifetime with all the technological aids they have to help them to do that quickly, maybe the last of those languages will have the scriptures in their own language. I think the languages for the most part were prioritized according to how many people spoke it and how widespread the the impact would be. And so the focus now is on smaller and smaller pockets of languages and dialects and so on. This is exactly what Peter says. Christ is the example there. Yeah, just reading that this voice now, what do you think about that? It's true. Yeah. Yep, yeah. Yeah, there's certainly a lot of persecution still happening uh around the world. Um And I expect that to grow even here in the US. Um the question is whether we're ready to be steadfast. And uh follow Tyndale's example of submitting as long as we're not violating God's will. And um but willing to suffer the consequences by maintaining our our uh obedience to God first and foremost even if that results in our persecution. But let's um Minister freely while we can. Proclaim loudly while we can. And be grateful. For those who have gone before us. Let's pray. Father, thank you that um We do have these blessings today, largely because of the efforts of those who have gone before us. Um but Help us not to take for granted these blessings of your word in our own language and various Bible study tools that accompany and are are readily available. uh the freedom to gather in worship, the freedom to proclaim your word. May we be good stewards of those blessings. In Jesus name, Amen.