Well, good morning. We are uh beginning our series of biographical videos. Concerning some of the key reformers. And we're doing this via Zoom today, so this is quite an experience. And let me see. So our video series is going to feature John Wycliffe today. Next week, John Huss. Then Martin Luther. Then in our fourth week, it'll be Pear, Zwingli, and then Calvin. Then week five will be the Anabaptists. And then week six is William Tyndale Now there were clearly others, but this is a really good cross-section of a lot of the issues, a lot of the people, and Uh I think you'll you'll find it very helpful. So Just by way of introduction to to um Wycliffe, uh he's often called the morning star of the Reformation. The Reformation is generally thought to have begun in the early 1500s, particularly with Martin Luther. But Wycliffe was in some senses maybe ahead of his time. And so he lived in the 1300s and uh was raising many of the same issues that came up persistently in the years that followed He, like many of these reformers, were Catholic priests. Wycliffe himself at the time was a professor at Oxford in England uh teaching uh and of course that was basically a a school of the of the church and uh um Okay, so that's a little bit about his background. You'll get more in the video here. So uh I wanted to uh make use of the time we have remaining for some uh reflection and and uh conversation about uh Wycliffe and his So one was transubstantiation. We've talked about that a bit. Rycliff of course was I don't know the first, but certainly the most prominent early uh person within the church who realized that this just wasn't biblical. And you saw where that went. Likewise, indulgences. It says it's just not consistent with Scripture. And you pay the price for that. And then what he's most known for, of course, is his Bible translation into English. So Wycliffe. Uh himself. Um I think he had he had certainly enough of the um training in in Latin because they were translating from Latin. But he had lots of helpers. And so he supervised the the process of translating from the Vulgate to English. And one of the ironies, of course, is that the Vulgate itself was translated from the original Greek and Hebrew into Latin. Why? Because Uh that's the common language. That's that's what um um people would know in the uh Roman world. And yet a thousand years later, the common language where people were at uh actually prevented them from that's all they knew prevented them from understanding the scriptures. And so Wycliffe. You know, it's it's it's interesting how God closes some doors and then opens others, and that was sort of the theme here. And fortunately, God gave Wycliffe enough insight to see what was needed. And he devoted the rest of his life to it. And so today we have with the Bible translators, right, translating the word into uh the common language of uh people around the world. And of course their goal is um uh every single language And uh they're using uh better and better technology these days to accelerate that timetable. It's fantastic. Anyway, I'm not seeing any comments, so maybe I can give a little bit of um explanation of what you were seeing and maybe not hearing well at all. Um but there's several episodes where uh Wycliffe was um Demonstrating that his understanding of the scripture was that some of these practices, like Transubstantiation, indulgences, and so on, uh were not found in Scripture and they're actually counterproductive He was in that sort of um religious church court um to be officially confronted on his views, not just what he had said, but things he had written. And It was clearly a a kangaroo court where the outcome was was understood at the beginning. And so his his freedom to teach and his access to the university library for his studies um were eventually withdrawn by the church and his the chancellor at the university who he he saw him um conversing with when this was getting uh brought down to them. Uh the Chancellor was commiserating with him. They were long friends and he was supportive of his academic freedom. Um, but his hands were tied and the church was coming down hard on um both Wycliffe and to some extent on the university. Um and so that's what prompted Wycliffe to Think through what his options are, how the Lord would lead him at this point, and that's while in prayer, apparently uh the Lord really impressed on him uh the need to translate the scriptures into the common language of English. I don't know. And so he and his co workers did that. Um There was mention also of the um uh the economic Um turmoil, uh one of the robbers that he he confronted in early on in the video So well the reason he had to steal was just because um wages have been frozen for the last I think he said ten years and of course the price of food go keeps going up And of course Wicklus said, well, you know, I understand the problem, but uh we can't really break God's law um to not steal. And the um the robber said, Well, you know, um I'm okay with God. He didn't put it this way, but I'm not concerned about that because I've got I've bought an indulgence. Um and I pay good money for that indulgence. And I've got the stored graces of the church to be applied to me because of that. And of course Wycliffe said Um you can't buy God's grace. And um so he invited him to be counseled at his church Concerning uh repentance and faith in Christ alone. Um But anyway, the the that economic problem uh where you had the very rich church, the very rich um ruling class and the extremely poor um lower class, the serfs and so on Uh that came to a head and uh the uh the regular people revolted And it was put down fairly uh quickly, but The upshot for Wycliffe was that the powers that be blamed it all on Wycliffe because he sided with the plight of the poor. Uh it was just a pretext for their wanting to get rid of them anyway, I'm sure. Okay. Well, if there are any other questions, let me know afterwards, but I think we're we've covered what we need to, and I'll just go ahead and close in prayer Father, again, we um are just so grateful for your sustaining your church over many, many years, and that you raised up people from in from within the Catholic Church over um a couple hundred years in you're really going to uh seek to rediscover uh sound doctrine from your word and apply it and to reform the church which didn't which wasn't um uh Willing to be reformed and so um But anyway, Lord, we just thank you that so many were so uh strategic in rediscovering your word and its its impact on our lives and on the church, and that we really stand on their shoulders. Um We thank you for that period of time. I know it was fraught with much confusion and even bloodshed But Lord, you're sovereign over all that. We rest in your sovereignty, and we thank you that we can learn some key lessons from this crucial period of time in church history. Pray that our time of worship today would be um uh honoring to you that our hearts would be united even though we're not physically in the same room. And that you would be pleased and honored. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, well I'm going to stop the recording now and wish you all a good day.