All right, so we are on lesson three, page 29. 29 in the front. We have several numbering schemes going on here. The last couple of weeks we've been looking at, well, these first seven weeks were considering what led up to the Reformation. What were the issues? Uh how did they how did they uh evolve and and so on? And of course mostly what that is is a a study of what was happening in what became known as the Roman Catholic Church during those, well, 1500 years prior to the Reformation And so the last couple of weeks we looked specifically at um the uh the role of a pope and the uh the evolution of the thinking about there being a pope and so on And then last week we looked at the scriptures uh that the Catholic Church uh uses, including the Apocrypha. Today we're kind of continuing that and focus bringing all the pieces together On the question of authority, by what authority are they believing these things, saying these things, and so on? And that, of course, was a huge issue. Um the reformers were challenging the authority of the Catholic Church and what they were depending on. The Catholic Church was was uh uh sort of equally fighting back about well what you know by what authority are are you saying these things and uh they were kind of talking past each other in some respects. Anyway, the Catholic Church itself and and uh commentators have boiled down the question of authority within the Roman Catholic Church By focusing on these three components that I've listed at the top here. The Bible, yes, but also tradition And then also what's become known as the magisterium. We'll talk about that in a few minutes. Now if if you were to ask us and if I were to ask you what is our authority for what we believe, what would you say? The Bible. Period. Right? Not so with the Roman Catholic Church. It's Bible plus tradition plus magisterium. So let's look at those. And again, this fed very much into the issues, but certainly the response of the reformers to the status quo as they encountered it. Okay, so the Bible, just by way of review partly, Roman Catholic teaches, Roman Catholic Church teaches that the Bible is the Word of God. That's good. However, they believe that the Apocrypha, as we saw last week, is part of that. And as we saw last week, that Apocrypha Um isn't doesn't really pass the test of what is inspired scripture. And many people over the years have called that out and recognized it, but the Catholic Church has persisted. Um And unfortunately that apocrypha has led to several of the the practices and beliefs and so on that that the Catholic Church uh has i entrenched and the reformers were challenging. Um And we're gonna see this as we get into the Reformation period itself, but the second point here about Scripture, um The version of the Bible that we we mentioned last week, the version of the Bible that the Roman Catholic Church historically built its doctrines on was the Latin Vulgate. the translation of the scriptures into the Latin language, which at the time made a lot of sense because there were a lot of Latin speaking people And the church in Rome certainly had um some incentive to make sure uh Roman subjects and so on could speak in or could read the scriptures in their own language. The problem is though that as as um The church spread, spread into places that where Latin was not their language. And for many, many years, um a growing percentage of those coming under the influence of the church didn't know Latin. It was Greek to them, right? Um now if that were the case and and you were sort of in charge, what would you do? See to it that the scriptures could be translated into all these other languages, right? Just so people could benefit from it. Well, what the Roman Church did was solidify around the Latin, requiring that to be the official version. And since people didn't know Latin, and that not only the the scriptures were in Latin, but this whole um uh uh liturgy and and everything in the worship services was in Latin, so people couldn't understand it either. Um And so, because they solidified that, Latin use, and many, many people, including many priests, didn't know Latin. What that did had the effect, whether it's by intention or not, it had the effect of of people needing the church To interpret the scriptures for them. That's a problem. And that's a problem that the reformers really push back against. And so Luther translated the scriptures, others into English, um and uh Forcing people to depend on a church hierarchy to interpret everything for them And not just scripture, but all this other stuff we're going to be talking about. Uh l as you can imagine, it opens the door to Um and The doctrines that we're going to be talking about that that evolved. Um Fit right in with that. People, by these doctrines, people needed the church for their salvation. for their continued uh gaining of merit before God, as it was taught. Um people needed the church and it's the church and and th th they just had to accept what the church said Uh and without the scriptures in their own language where they they they can have it themselves and read it themselves and apply it, people had no choice. It was the church's way or the highway, really. So that became a a huge stumbling block. Point B here is interesting. Reliance on extra-biblical writings and flawed translations of the Bible are among the common characteristics of what? A Christian cult. That is a religion that claims to be Christian, but deviates from the core doctrines of biblical Christianity. And that unfortunately is what the Roman Catholic Church evolved into over a long period of time. Okay, so that's the Bible. Next is tradition. Let me go ahead and read here this definition of what's meant here in this context of tradition. The Roman Catholic Church values church tradition more than the Bible. They would say they're on equal footing, but practically speaking, the uh tradition trumps Scripture used tradition to interpret scripture as if that's the authority in our interpretation of scripture. Twisting specific passages of Scripture, taking them out of context to justify their traditions. For example, they treat as fact the presumption that the Roman Pope is the successor to Peter as head of the church. We covered that in our first lesson. Even though there's no support for that in Scripture for that kind of role. Now, the more I have come to understand the the history here and the nature of the Roman Catholic Church as it evolved. The more I saw parallels between that and the development of Jewish tradition by the time of Christ. And so um I've highlighted here in your notes, starting at at the middle or toward the bottom of page twenty nine Several characteristics that were true of the Jewish leaders in Jesus' day and his interaction with them And where the church, the Roman Church had gotten to by the time of the Reformation, and the Reformers were dealing with that. So, one, of course, is the reliance on tradition as even more important than Scripture. And so you see this often in the Gospels and the Ministry of Christ in interacting with Jewish leaders, uh particularly the Pharisees. And so here as an example, Matthew fifteen Then some of the Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? What were they referring to? In general, their the traditions were the things they added on to the law as rules. Presumably to help people understand how to apply the basic rules. But the the add ons became At least as important as the original law. And so why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread Now, hey, it's a good thing to wash your hands before you eat, but what were they talking about? A ceremonial cleaning that if you didn't do it, you wouldn't be acceptable to God. Right? So uh they had developed this as a an add-on to what the law actually said. And so Jesus answered and said to them, Why do you yourselves transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For and he gives an example. For God said, honor your father and mother, and he who speaks evil of father or mother is to be put to death. But you say, in your rules, Whoever says to his father or mother, whatever I would help you with has been given to God. Sorry, it's already given to God. And so he is not to honor his father or mother. And by this you invalidated the Word of God for the sake of your tradition. You hypocrites. Rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you, this people honors me with their lips, but the heart is far away from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men. Jesus was dealing with this all the time with the Pharisees and the other religious leaders of this day. And that's exactly what was happening in the Roman Catholic Church and what the Reformers were reacting to. But secondly, and second trait of this reliance on tradition is the presumption that one's salvation depends on doing good works. And as I mentioned uh before, uh maybe last week The assumption that we have to do good things to be acceptable in God's sight is a very human presumption. Everybody does that. Apart from Scripture teaching us that that leads nowhere because none of us can be perfect enough. Right? The only solution is God's solution of the perfect life of Christ And the substitutionary death of Christ being applied to us by faith, by grace through faith. So Jesus had to deal with this in his dealings with the disciples. And we we uh we read in Luke, for example. Luke 18, Jesus told a parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. What is righteousness? Doing the right thing. Viewed themselves as righteous and viewed others with contempt. And so Jesus gave this parable. Two men went up to the temple to pray. One a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself. God, I thank you that I'm not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even this tax collector over here. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. Aren't I an upstanding person? It's basically what he's saying. And Jesus is portraying that kind of attitude. But then Jesus continues, but the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to go to heaven But was beating his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, the sinner. And Jesus' punchline I tell you, this man, the tax collector, went to his house justified, that is, had right standing with God. Rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. Earlier in Matthew five, Jesus in the in the um Sermon on the Mount Said, I tell you that unless your righteousness, in other words, doing what is right, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, You will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Now that says two things. One, um that was a huge shock to the people who heard this. Why? Because if anybody was doing the right thing, it was the Pharisees. They were meticulous about always doing the right thing. And Jesus said, unless your righteousness, the extent of your doing what is right, unless that is better than the Pharisees, you're not going to see heaven. That was also a shock, right? What's Jesus saying? It's not about doing all these works, particularly in the way they were doing them. The doing the things that they did for the most part weren't all that bad. They were pretty good What was the problem? Wrong motivation. It was what? Wrong motivation, which was mostly this pride that Jesus was illustrating in his parable. They were doing the right things for the wrong reasons. What's God looking for? The heart. Doing the right thing for the right reasons. And as it turns out, we can't do that in our own power anyway. It requires God's grace And so in Jesus' woes to those Jewish leaders, Matthew 23, he says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you're like whitewashed tombs. Which on the outside appear real beautiful. But inside they are full of dead man's bones and all uncleanness. So you too outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. He didn't mince any words. Um and so Thinking that we basically earn our way to salvation by doing good works is very natural. Uh and it's a it's evidence of a man based religion Rather than a God revealed religion. Um Okay, you're all familiar with that. A third characteristic of this reliance on tradition and man's theology Is an increase in authoritarian hierarchy and control of the people. I don't know if you've noticed how many times In the Gospels, but even elsewhere, this phrase for fear of the Jews Right, so John seven. No one was speaking openly of Christ for fear of the Jews. What did they mean by the Jews here? Jewish leaders, right? Not the whole religion, but the Jewish hierarchy, the the leaders. Um In John 9, this man who was healed by Jesus having been born blind, and the Jewish leaders were trying to get him to say something evil about Jesus and to deny the fact that he was even healed. Even his parents um Challenge them. So, you know, go ask them yourselves. But it says here in verse 22, his parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed him to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. You see the control here Um if it's a man-centered thing, it's it it ends up being about power, control. And then several other times they're all listed here as well. A fourth Observation, if it's a man-based religion, is that it inevitably results in religious factions. because people can't always agree, right? And of course the two common religious or the most common religious factions at the time of Christ were the Pharisees and the Sadducees. That doesn't mean that the Pharisees were more fair and the Sadducees were more sad. The Pharisees Were the ones who you would say are the most orthodox in Judaism. Yes, they layer down a lot of man-made stuff. But they're the ones who held to the entire Old Testament as we now call it. The Sadducees and the Pharisees were the ones who basically influenced the people the most through the synagogues spread out throughout Israel. The Sadducees, their focus was only on the Torah, the first five books of the Old Testament. They got into the position of leadership in the temple in Jerusalem. And so the high priests and uh all the the surrounding uh uh Support of staff and and so on. The Sadducees were were all about power and control. And amazingly to me, we're not focused at all on anything outside of the Torah. But not the prophets, not the wisdom literature, not the example of David and so on. And as you probably recall in Jesus' interaction with the Sadducees, one of their characteristic doctrines was there's no resurrection. This is it. And so Jesus challenged them on that. Anyway, so you've got these factions. There's a reference in Mark. And I think a couple other places to the Herodians also. They were not so much a religious faction as a political party. But they were pretty closely aligned with the Sadducees because they were all about the the current power structure with Herod. uh kind of accommodating Rome and and Rome was their cover for exercising power and and this kind of thing. Uh-huh. Okay, so religious factions as well. So um You see these same kind of things developing within the Roman Catholic Church and were very prominent by the time of the Reformation. Um reliance on tradition, uh religion of works, authoritarian hierarchy, big time religious factions uh at the time of the well right before the time of the Reformation as we might um describe it today, but only just before, right on the threshold of the Reformation. There are three popes. Not just one. I mean talk about factions. Big time, yeah. Well were they the OR faction? Over the world faction In Judaism or in the Catholic Church? In Judaism. Um There were traditions and different um um writers and influencing documents over the peri time period, but just the the the factions between the Pharisees and the Sadducees is a good example of how if it's a man-made thing and you're not devoted to scripture, you're inevitably going to have factions like that. Yeah. Okay. So let's talk about the magisterium, the third leg of this stool, as they call it. I'm on page 31. The word magisterium is derived from the Latin word magister. I don't know how you pronounce that. But it means uh teacher in uh the Latin that the church was using. It originally had a more general meaning and could designate you know, any kind of official leader, president, chief, director, superintendent. Um it was only rarely a tutor or instruction instructor But the noun magisterium refers to the office of that register. So it's like president and presidency. Right? And the the office and the or the person and the office. So, number two, the magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church consists of People, the Pope, and the bishops. The Pope being one of those bishops. Whose teaching is based on their interpretations and their predecessors' interpretations, of scripture, official papal pronouncements, the declaration of church councils when they get together, the unanimous statements of all the bishops, including the Pope. And so this accumulation of of uh uh statements teaching assertions that accumulate over time is called the magisterium, the body of all that information, both current pope and bishops and all previous popes and bishops. And it's authoritative and binding on all Catholics. So uh it becomes basically Catholic law. Whatever they pronounce becomes Catholic law. Well, um like I've done the last couple of weeks, I wanted to quote exactly what the Catholic Encyclopedia how how they describe this for you. And so in the middle of page thirty one Their encyclopedia says, there are several points of controversy between Catholics and every body or group of Protestants. Indeed. And so the big question then is: is all revealed truth consigned to Holy Scripture? Or can it? Must it? Be admitted that Christ gave to his apostles to be transmitted to his church, that the apostles received either from the very lips of Jesus or from inspiration or revelation. divine instructions which they transmitted to the church and were not committed to inspired writings. Must it be admitted that Christ instituted his church as the official and authentic organ to transmit and explain in virtue of divine authority the revelation made to men. That is this body of revelation that's not entirely in Scripture. So those are the questions. Those are the issues. And they they continue by saying the Protestant principle is The Bible and nothing but the Bible, the Bible, according to them, is the sole theological source. There is no revealed truth save the truths contained in the Bible. According to them, the Bible is the sole rule of faith. By it and by it alone should all dogmatic questions be solved, it is the only binding authority They're absolutely right. That is exactly what Protestants have been saying all along. So you can't accuse the Catholics for misunderstanding that, right? But then they say, Catholics, on the other hand, hold a couple of things here. First, that there may be that there is in fact And that there must of necessity be certain revealed truths apart from those contained in the Bible. They hold furthermore, B, that Jesus Christ has established, in fact And that to adapt the means to the end, he should have established a living organ as much to transmit scripture and written revelation as also to place revealed truth within the reach of everyone, always and everywhere, i. e. , through the magisterium and tradition. Such are, in this respect, the two main points of controversy between Catholics and so-called Orthodox Protestants. As distinguished from liberal Protestants who admit neither supernatural revelation nor the authority of the Bible. And they got that right too. So that's the issue here And they go on and say that the Council of Trent, which happened in the mid-1500s in response to the Reformation Even while implying in its decisions and anathemas, the authority of the living magisterium, living magisterium, that is, it's continuing to grow, right, over time. It's the cumulative effect of all these pronouncements. While implying in its decisions and anatomas the authority of the living magisterium, that is, affirming the magisterium and tradition, which Protestants themselves dare not explicitly deny. I'm not so sure that that that's true Anyway, while appealing to ecclesiastical tradition and the sense of the church, either for the determination of the canon of Scripture or for the interpretation of some passages of Holy Scripture Even while making a rule of interpretation in biblical matters, and it's uh here again, the subject here is the Council of Trent, that council did not pronounce explicitly concerning the teaching authority, contenting itself with saying that Revealed truth is found in the sacred books and in the unwritten traditions coming from God through the apostles. So it was explicit and they're defending that. These were the sources from which it drew. Woulddraw. The Council, as is evident, held that there are divine traditions not contained in Holy Scripture, revelations made to the apostles either orally by Jesus Christ or by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost and transmitted by His apostles to the Church. And then in uh the middle of page thirty-two, they continue with a very interesting paragraph. Holy Scripture is therefore not the only theological source of the revelation made by God to his church. Side by side with Scripture, so they'll claim that they're of equal importance, but in reality, tradition always trumps Scripture. Side by side with Scripture, there is tradition. Side by side with the written revelation, there is the oral revelation or the magisterium. This granted, it is impossible to be satisfied with the Bible alone for the solution of all dogmatic questions. Such was the first field of controversy between Catholic theologians and the Reformers. The designation of unwritten divine traditions. Was not always given all the clearness desirable, especially in early times. However Catholic controversialists, those who were kind of dealing with, you know, um arguing their case with the reformers particularly. Catholic controversy was soon proved to the Protestants that to be logical and consistent They must admit unwritten traditions as revealed. Otherwise, by what right did they rest on Sunday and not on Saturday? I've got a footnote here that deals with that. But let me let me continue. How could they Regard infant baptism as valid or baptism by infusion. Now, this is an interesting point because You know, our understanding of Scripture is that there's no teaching whatsoever of infant baptism, no need for it. Baptism is a A public testimony of what's already happened in your heart. Right? You're in Christ already. You've already been baptized into Christ. And it's a it's a picture of your identification with his death, burial, and resurrection. Anyway, I want to actually read this footnote. Infant baptism is contrary to Scripture. Footnote 12. Most of the reformers carried this over from the Roman Catholic heritage And the Catholic Church is right to label this as inconsistent with sola scriptura. A lot of the reformers didn't get that. This was a key point that the Anabaptist reformers made. Anabaptist means re-baptizer. Baptized as an infant? Okay, we'll forgive that. But what really counts is being baptized as a believer. That's what the Anabaptists taught in practice. And several of them were martyred because of it. You know who killed them? Other reformers who believed in infant baptism Sad. Anyway, uh the Catholics here in their encyclopedia are right to say that is an inconsistency that the reformers, most of the reformers And picking up from there in the paragraph, how could they permit the taking of an oath since Christ had commanded that we swear not at all? Now that's uh a a pretty shallow understanding of scripture, and I've deal dealt with that in footnote thirteen The Quakers were more logical in refusing all oaths. No, they weren't. The Anabaptists in re-baptizing adults Um that that was logical, based on scripture. The Sabbatarians in resist uh resting on Saturday And there's a misunderstanding there as well. But none were so consistent as to not be open to criticism on some point Where is it indicated in the Bible that the Bible is the sole source of faith? That's what they really want to know. Footnote 14 gives you lots of examples of that. You see the reliance here on human logic rather than scripture? It's uh pretty discouraging in many ways. Anyway, um on the top of page thirty-three they continue. Going further, the Catholic controversy was showed their opponents of this very Bible, the the opponents that of this very Bible to which alone they r wished to refer, they could not have the authentic canon, nor even a sufficient guarantee, without an authoritari and authority other than that of the Bible. So what are they saying here? How do you know what the Bible is unless you have a group of people who tell you what the Bible is That's their point. You remember last week when we talked about um the um the tests for canonicity, how do you recognize what is the inspired word of God apart from some other writing? I mean, even the apostles wrote some other letters and items that are not part of the inspired Word of God. And the point is that people don't decide that People recognize what God has already revealed. And so it is helpful, and it was helpful, that there were councils that gathered together to to observe and and uh debate and come to an understanding of what meets the tests of scripture primarily is it consistent with everything else God has already revealed, right? Which the Apocrypha of course does not. So these people were not Imposing on a writing their decision about whether it was what God revealed, people can only recognize what God has already made clear. And that takes time. And it did. And that's from our perspective not a problem. Those first few hundred years of Christianity You know, they weren't bringing a Bible to church every Sunday. It was sort of in the process of of being uh recognized, let alone distributed, copied and distributed. Anyway, no, it does not require an outside authority to say, this is the Bible. The Bible defends itself. Okay. That leads us to The issue of the infallibility of the Roman Catholic Church and particularly of the Pope. And here again, I'm quoting from their encyclopedia That the Church is infallible in her definitions on faith and morals is itself a Catholic dogma. That's true. They teach that. Which, although it was formulated ecumenically for the first time at the Vatican Council, that is, it was it was affirmed officially by the church hierarchy. It had been explicitly taught long before that, and had been assumed from the very beginning without question down to the time of the Protestant Reformation. So what are they griping about? Um well that dogma is based on tradition, not on God's The teaching of the Vatican Council is to be found in this particular section. where it is declared that the doctrine of faith which God has revealed has not been proposed as a full philosophical discovery to be improved upon by human talent. but has been committed as a divine deposit to the spouse of Christ, the bride of Christ, to be faithfully guarded and infallibly interpreted By her, that is by the church. Invalidly interpreted by the church. That was what the reformers were pushing back on And then secondly, the Vatican Council has defined as a divinely revealed dogma, so they say, that the Roman pontiff You know what a pontiff is, by the way? What's a pont? It's a bridge. In this case it's a bridge to what? Between us and God. Yeah. The Roman pontiff, when he speaks ex cathedra, that is, when in the exercise of his office, his official office as pastor and teacher of all Christians He defines by his virtue or by virtue of his supreme apostolic authority, not that he's an apostle, but he has his apot he has his authority directly from the apostle Peter. A doctrine of faith or morals to be held by the whole church. It is by reason of the divine assistance promised to him, promised to Peter, and therefore to successive popes, they say, um, possessed of that infallibility with which the divine Redeemer wished his church to be endowed in defining doctrines of faith and morals. See, it's the de pro it's the role of the church to define these things, supposedly, with the um Authority of Christ. And consequently that such definitions of the Roman pontiff are irreformable. I think they made that word to to to combat the whole idea of the Reformation. Irreformable of their own nature, and not by reason of the Church's consent. So they're steadfast, even to this day, on the infallibility Not of everything the Pope would say, but everything he says officially because he's the Pope. Well, do we have any insight on these things from Scripture? Well, first of all, the apostles did not claim infallibility apart from Scripture. Paul very strongly at the beginning of the book of Galatians says, but even if we, us apostles Or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what you have we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. As we said before, I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you received, he is to be accursed. So Even apostles, anybody preaching something other than what Christ had revealed to his apostles and documented in Scripture. is treading on on uh dangerous ground. Yeah Anyway, um Paul encouraged his listeners and and readers To check whether what he said was consistent with Scripture. You remember the Bereans in Acts seventeen? And they were faithful enough to do that, to check the scriptures to see if what Paul was preaching was consistent with them, right? It's also interesting that even Peter was in error on a crucial doctrine that had to be corrected by the Apostle Paul. And again, we're in Galatians Where Paul writes, when Cephas, as Peter, came to Antioch, that's Syrian Antioch, just to the north of Israel. I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, that is from Jerusalem, he used to eat with the Gentiles And there were plenty of Gentile believers in Antioch. That's where they first came to Christ in in in large numbers. So he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when these folks came from Jerusalem, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. See this fearing again? What's the party of the circumcision? Jewish believers in Christ who held that in order to become a Christian you had to become a Jew And it's all built on works. Right? Circumcision, uh keeping the law, and all that. Um and um He continues, verse 13. The rest of the Jews joined him, joined Peter, in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by the hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, it's by grace through faith alone, right? I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? It's not working for the Israelites, the Jews, is salvation by keeping the law. So why force that onto the Gentiles We are Jews by nature, by heritage, and not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus Even we Jews have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. Peter needed a lecture at that point. And the evidence in Scripture is that he he um responded well to that. And regarded Paul very highly and warmly. Fourth, the divine origin of the apostles' teaching was authenticated by supernatural signs and miracles they performed, referred to in 2 Corinthians as the sign of a true apostle, or signs plural. What was the point of those miracles? It's it's the same for Christ, it's the same for the Old Testament prophets. Um those miracles were to get people's attention. Now they had some some of their own value, you know, healing someone that that has value. Um But, you know, parting of the Red Sea and and um all the various miracles They were there to authenticate what this person was saying. And if if I'm seeing this miracle, this can be explained only by God God's intervention. I need to listen to what this guy's saying because he's apparently sent by God. That's the purpose of the miracles. Remember what um Nicodemus Said to Jesus in John 3, he says, Teacher, we know that you have come from God. Because no one can do the works you do unless God is with him. And so Nicodemus got it. He missed the big point at that point, I think, but he got the connection that the miracles that Jesus was doing were authenticating his message. And that's always been the case. It was even a test of a true prophet that God gave to the Israelites under the law. Okay, fifth, the foundation of the church is the New Testament prophets and apostles And it's completed. There's no mention anywhere in Scripture of infallible succession to the apostles. So Ephesians 2 says. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. What's a household? Family. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets Representing and speaking for Christ specifically. Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone That part of the foundation that sets every the orientation of everything else. Right? In whom the whole building Being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together in a dwelling of God in the Spirit. Do you see how in verse twenty it says having the the this this building the church Having been built on the foundation of the apostles, is the foundation still being constructed? No, it's past tense. Past perfect. It's done. The foundation is complete. And the building is being built on that. Right? So claiming that that um there's modern day authority and accumulation of authority over two thousand years that uh is supplements the foundation that scripture refers to here is pretty haughty, proud to believe. And then sixth, Scripture exhorts all Christians to search the Scriptures alone to understand what God has revealed and to test the authenticity of any teaching. So again, we get back to this principle that if anything that is put out there as new revelation from God Is inconsistent with what we know God has revealed, guess what? If you add that on to what God has already revealed, you've become a cult. If you rely only on Scripture and and forsake the things that are inconsistent with Scripture, Then you've got the right path to understanding. And that that was the point the reformers were were trying to make So there's a warning here for all of us. Whenever anything or anyone else is given equal weight, authority to Scripture. It inevitably supersedes Scripture unless it is subjected to the whole of Scripture. Anything that teaches exactly what Scripture teaches is at best a useful commentary on Scripture. It doesn't have authority equal to Scripture. Only Scripture is God's word We might have a couple of minutes for questions at this point. Uh that's a good question. What do Roman Catholics believe is the role of the Holy Spirit? I think it's pretty clear that they affirm, and some of the things we've read here already, they affirm that he was And maybe he is, active in that process of revelation Um they certainly believe what Scripture says about his role in the incarnation. It was a miracle of the Holy Spirit. They don't deny the Holy Spirit I I think they presume upon some of the things that um they say he's maybe currently doing, like new revelation and so on. But it Yeah, I I I haven't studied specifically their teaching on the Holy Spirit. That would be an interesting study. But I think it would be a mixed back from what I have seen. Yeah. It depends what you mean by completed. Uh if what you mean is when was the last book, the inspired book of the Bible, written? That would have been revelation around the end of the first century. When was it recognized by the church? Recognized by the church was a process over the next couple hundred years. But I I'm trying to find out how it aligned with what the Catholics can is it before or after? Um Uh I think I can give you a timetable in Page eight of the appendix in the back of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eighth of the eight. There is a reference here to many of the in fact all of the church councils recognized by the Catholic Church. Um and You see, for example, uh just a few lines down, the Council of Rome in three eighty-two considered um the seventy-three book that included the Apocrypha to be the canon. It also, I'm pretty sure the Council of Rome also recognized the books we understand to be the canon of the New Testament, but also recognized those. Um so it was like in those first couple hundred years after the last one was written. So it's like between one hundred and three fifty, three eighty two at least. Um And so there was there was pretty broad consensus that the books we understand to be the inspired Word of God in the New Testament, that there's pretty broad recognition that those were indeed the respirator inspired books at the very latest by 382 and for most people probably a bit before that. And there were several councils, and some of them affirmed most of the books, but not all of them. There were a few hangers on, and it just took a while for all of them to be recognized. Yeah. So th those couple hundred years, well the first three hundred years, including before even the last book was written, uh was a time when The teaching was largely based on what Christ was applying to them from the Old Testament, plus what Christ himself taught. The teaching of the apostles. So so so the Catholic Church had that and then they decided to do something different. Well they had that and and and but they um the history of the bringing on of the Apocrypha We touched on a little bit last week. But and and uh unfortunately Augustine was a big player in that Um he thought for sure it was part of it and that he carried a lot of weight. Um Yeah, so it was it was happening kind of simultaneously over a period of time. Um Yeah, the question is um has the Catholic Church always persecuted those who were Judged to be heretics. I don't think it would be fair to say always. It certainly was not the case prior to Constantine. The persecution there was from at first the Jews and then from Rome. But that evolved. And it it was very much a problem during the Reformation. Several of the reformers themselves were not just persecuted, but martyred by the church. So we're we're gonna see some of that as we get into the Reformation period. But um Uh yeah. It's all based on tradition. It's all based on power. Um we're gonna see that um Uh yeah, we're not there yet. We're gonna present some more material that will help you to interpret that. Okay. Um You know, when we think of of how to best deal with false teaching, let's say. False teachers. What would be the mechanism for us to do that? The word of God. Okay, the word of God. But um in terms of mechan that's a standard, but what about mechanism? How do we deal with people like that? Councils. Right. Um where where sin is addressed as sin And false teaching, which is clearly false teaching, is sin. And does scripture tell us in those cases to kill the person? No, it says to remove them. Yeah. Well they are removing them around the body. Yeah. Okay, well I think we've hit our limit. But uh let me close in prayer and if you've got any further discussion questions we can pick up on that in a few minutes. Lord, thank you for your word So often we just take it for granted, and yet it is the source of truth that you have given us And we pray that we would be faithful handlers of your truth so that we would not be misled. For there, but by your grace we would be following in very much the same kind of behavior. And so Lord, rather than point fingers, help us to uh be uh vigilant in our own hearts. to be committed to scripture and what it actually says, what it means and how we should apply it All for your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.