Let's open in the Word of God again to the Gospel of John, chapter 16. Still in verses 5 through 15 from last week. We'll begin This Sunday, just by rereading the text and focusing our thoughts on what God has to say to us this day. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you But if I go, I will send him to you. And he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin because they do not believe in me, and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father and you no longer see me. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will disclose to you what is to come. He will glorify me, for he will take of mine and will disclose it to you. All things that the Father has are mine, therefore I said that he takes of mine and will disclose it to you. Well, we return to this text again, looking for how to rely on a greater work of the ministry of the Spirit of God in this greater age, a greater time than even the time where Jesus Christ walked Jesus said it himself that there is an advantage for the believer. It is better literally for the believer that he left and that the Spirit came. He is the Spirit of Truth. He is our Comforter. He is the one who guides us into all truth. There's plenty here for us to learn. We focused on three truths last Lord's Day about the Spirit's greater work. The first one was just that. The first truth was that this age we're in, this age of the church can be called the age of the spirit because it is an age in which the spirit is doing a greater work here than ever before. We notice that in verses 5 through 7 and we kind of covered that last time. This is the age of the Spirit. Christ said he was going to the Father that was great for him and what was great for them, even though they were sorrowful and did not get it and could not bear it now. We looked at all of that last Lord's day. The second truth, which we started also last Sunday is that the Spirit has a greater ministry to the world itself, and that's in verses eight through eleven. We're kind of in the midst of that. So if you'd focus your eyes on verses eight through eleven, that's kind of where we are Talks about the coming of the Spirit, who is a he notice. He, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. That's kind of where we were in the midst of there talking about conviction. The Spirit of God comes. He has a ministry to the world. And here we have a summary, maybe the best summary in all of uh the New Testament for what the role of the ministry of the Holy Spirit is towards the unbelieving world. Remember, John uses that term world in a number of different ways. Sometimes it's the unbelieving world system that follows Satan as uh that would be here. Sometimes it's referring to the Gentile nations as apart from the Jews, sometimes just all the world of humanity. And he uses it in a number of different ways. But the Spirit of God has come into the world, and He's come with a ministry to unbelievers, a ministry to those that are lost, a ministry to those that are part of the world's system. And it is God's operative plan that the Spirit has come here to convict them. And we stopped kind of there last time as to what is this conviction? What does it mean that the Spirit comes to convict them? It's obviously a very important role the Spirit has to the world. And so it is something we need to understand better The Holy Spirit of God, the third member of the Triune Godhead, he is here and has been here for 2,000 years, and he's doing something special in the world. And he is convicting the world. What is conviction? Well, conviction is a very interesting and I think it's a sometimes misunderstood term that's used in the New Testament. It's actually one of the more important terms for ministry used in the New Testament. When people say we don't need to learn Greek in order to understand the New Testament, that's only partially true. Obviously we have good translations in our hands here But the original language always adds a little bit of color and precision that can be slightly lost in any translation. This Greek term here is a verb. It's lenko The King James translates Alenko as, and it gives it this kind of view, to reprove somebody. to reprove them so as to correct them. The Revised Standard Version then translates it this way. It says it's to convince them. So we have convict, we have reprove, we have convinced, we're beginning to see what the term really means. One of the more popular newer versions just uh turns it into two words and says to prove them wrong And that also is partially true. Most of the translations, as you have the NASB and the NIV, the Holman or the ESV, they translate Elenko as convict And that's because the term usually had to do related to the courtroom. It was a word that would be used inside of the courts. when there would be a criminal that would be convicted of his crime. In other words, there would be evidence and there would be argumentation and it would be laid out well and then someone would become convicted that they indeed had done something wrong. Jesus asked the Jews who were refusing to believe his teachings in John 8. 46. He said, Which one of you convicts me of sin? No one could. No one could give a reason I mean people could say he's a sinner, but they couldn't convict him of sin because they couldn't lay out evidence to show that he'd actually sinned. They could murmur about him, they could not like what he was saying But they were unable to do that, and he kind of exposed their inability to prove that he had sinned by asking that question, which one of you convicts me of sin? And then he went on to say, If I speak truth, why do you not believe me? I love I love the questions of the Lord Jesus, right? If I speak truth, why do you not believe me? Can imagine that he will say that to many on judgment day, right? I gave you the truth. Why did you not believe me? Right? He's not a sinner. He's speaking the truth. He cares for us. Well, in the New Testament, elenko means more than just proving that somebody was guilty. It actually took on a personal sense where you yourself would sense or or experience or feel the conviction that was brought to you. In other words, it came home to the human heart You know, criminals can be formally convicted of a crime and stand up, receive their sentence, and go to jail and tell all of the other criminals and they're, you know, I was innocent. Right? They don't necessarily accept the fact that they were guilty. Even if they were guilty, they still maintain their innocence often, right? But this idea of Alanko would Would not just be that it was convicted to somebody somewhere that someone had done wrong, although that is part of the explanation, that's part of the word. But in ministry it was supposed to come home to the person where the person accepted the evidence against themselves and they had that sense that they were wrong. They were convinced, you see why it's translated that way, and so they came under conviction, and then a feeling of conviction might join that as well. So it wasn't just the objective conviction. It also came home to the person where they accepted that about themselves and they wanted them to change. By the way, how do you know when someone is really admitting that they are a sinner? Nowadays, you know, it's pretty common for people to say, Yeah, I'm a sinner So is everybody. Like, just shrug your shoulders, no big deal. I don't see you know God shouldn't take sin seriously because we're all sinners down here anyways, it's no big deal. That, my friends, is not confessing sin. Okay? That is saying I'm a sinner and it's no big deal. When someone is confessing sin, when you're confessing sin, it's when you not only say you've done wrong, but you understand that it was wrong. Right? Because sometimes we say it was wrong, but it's no big deal, so what we're really saying is it's not all that what? Wrong, right? That's not really a confession of sin. When you when you say I Sin, sin is a bad thing. It's not a delicious chocolate delight. Okay? It's a bad thing. It's something I did wrong, and now I understand that it's wrong, and I am willing to accept what The consequences for that. If someone says they're a sinner but they're not willing to accept the consequences, that's like a kid coming to their parents and apologizing and saying, But I shouldn't be punished Right? That's not really owning up to it. And so if we're really confessing that we're sinners, then we're saying God has a right to judge me. Did you hear that in Psalm 51, right? Where the sinner, David, he gives us the Psalm and he says, Wash me and cleanse me. And he says, God, you are right in your judgment. Now that's someone who's confessing sin, right? Conviction makes a person painfully aware that they are guilty. It's not a so-what, no big deal, everybody does it. The person has a sense of shame. There's a sense of I'm sorry that I did that. In fact, they may look at their actions or listen to their words and they may think, what was I thinking? That was so ugly That was not the way I should have lived. It's not what I should have said. I wish I could take the words back. I can't. It was just ugly. And they want to turn away from it. They don't want to keep doing it, right? Are you all following this? They're truly repentant there. And so really conviction brings evidence right in front of the person, and that evidence then becomes confronting of the person. They now have a self-confrontation. They now have agreed that is true about them. It's entered into their conscience, and in their conscience they now have a self-confrontation. They've accepted that. It's not someone else standing outside of them convinced that they're a sinner. It's they themselves being convinced that they're a sinner. It's penetrated. It's penetrated deeply. It's effective. It's come as a rebuke and it's worked. That's why in some contexts, the uh even the NASB translates this this verb elenko not as convict but as exposed as exposed isn't that interesting you wouldn't necessarily think that's the same verb that is being translated but when light shines on darkness what happens Everything in darkness is what? It's exposed. Oh! Now you see me for who I am. I don't want to be exposed! And so they run back into the what? The darkness, away from the light. Same word is used in John 3. 20, for example. Everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. Same word, Alanko. In other words, the Holy Spirit comes into the world. Jesus said he was the light of the world, right? He sends his spirit into the world. The Spirit comes to continue to shine the light. So the Holy Spirit comes into the world as a light to shine continuing the shining light of the ministry of the Lord Jesus But the thing is that people are in darkness in this world and they they live in sin. They don't like to think of their lives as all that bad, but when the Holy Spirit gets close, the ministry of the Holy Spirit gets close to their lives, it begins to expose them, begins to shine the light on them. And the first reaction from that is they don't like that. Do you remember what Peter and the fisher the fishing boat said to Jesus when Jesus came in and he told him to cast the net on the other side and he's looking at this carpenter saying, You don't know the first thing about fishing, but I'm going to do this because of who you are, but I know I'm right, you're wrong. And he throws the fishing net out anyways and he hauls in all the fish and he realizes This is no normal person, right? And his first reaction isn't to run and hug Jesus and while wow, you're the Messiah, we've been waiting for you for a long time. But he says to him, What? Go away from me, Lord. I'm a sinful man. I got the light of the world in this boat with me and I do not want him to know about my life. I do not want to be exposed He was uh under elenko. He was uh he was being convicted and convinced and the light was shining on him So this is what the Holy Spirit does. There's so much self-defense that we build up as human beings, right? We're tired of other people picking on us. Let's just explain why do we put up our defenses? Well, because this person judged me too quickly And this person was always saying negative things about me, you know? And and and this person, I don't like being around them. They're always negative, finding fault. My boss, oh let's not even go there. You know And you just so you put the defenses up. So now someone brings a legitimate charge against you, and it's a self-defense. No. No, that's not me. No, you have it wrong. You were worse, but you did this And you turn it right back around on the other person. Why? Because you don't want the what? The conviction. Send it all away. Grab the light, turn it around on them, right? Don't shine it on me. I don't want that here It's painful, isn't it? It's a painful experience, but it's a very, very helpful experience. God doesn't bring unnecessary pain into our lives, okay? It's kind of like intervention with a drug addict, right? Drug addict looks around and sees all the people there or the alcoholic. Well, what are you all doing here? Oh, this is one of those interventions, huh? Well I don't want it. I don't want to be here. No, you need to sit down and you need to hear what we have to say. See, because this person says the same thing about you and they see you in at the work and this person says the same thing about you and they they see you in the f in the in in the home and this person says the same thing about you and they've known you for a long time. We even got your wife sitting here and she says the same thing about you. No it's not true. It's just not true of me And trying to bring that light and that conviction upon them where they become convinced and they accept that as true for themselves, right? Well, this is what the Holy Spirit is trying to do, working to do, sent into the world to do for an unbeliever, bring them under conviction, expose them, convince them, convict them. You can see why the translators have a tough time with his word The world is the object of the conviction. As we said, the world means the unbelieving world. So this is clearly a ministry of the Spirit of God to unbelievers. Does the Holy Spirit have a ministry to unbelievers? Yes. Answer: Yes. That of conviction, that of convincing, that of persuading them of their sin, showing them their sin. Why is that necessary? Well Let's uh do this a little bit. Let's go back into the historical situation for a minute. Remember, we're in the upper room. We're at the Last Supper. Jesus is about to go to his trials. Actually, he had six trials, three with the Jews and three with the Romans And they found him guilty, and that was all a charade. That was all wrong. Jesus was innocent. He never did anything wrong. So the Jews and the Romans tried and condemned Jesus and they hung him on a cross, right? They put him to death So there was a trial. They sent him to his death like a criminal. They even mocked him, right? The Holy Spirit, in that situation, just several days after that comes into the world to convince the world that Jesus was not only no criminal, but he also was the Savior and was righteous. And the ones who were sinners were the ones who crucified him. You see In other words, the Spirit of God comes in and says, You had a kangaroo court down here on earth, you got it all wrong. Jesus was the right one, you're the wrong one. You're the ones actually on trial There's a greater court, and it's in the heavenly places, and you better get ready for that because you're guilty before that court. And so that's the historical context in which The Spirit comes into the world to reverse that false judgment, to persuade the world that Christ was right in his righteousness. Indeed, he was raised from the dead, but they were wrong. The Spirit comes to convict them of their sin. What true righteousness really is, and the fact that they're under the judgment of God. You see, the world is blind, and in their blindness, they totally misread Christ. The Apostle Paul alludes to this. Excuse me, I had six hours of teaching yesterday. It's kind of getting to me right now. We had a great time yesterday talking about the doctrine of salvation. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 7 and 8, Paul says, we speak God's wisdom in a mystery. The hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. And then he writes this: the wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood. For if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. That's how I know they didn't get it. None of those rulers understood it because they took the Lord of glory and put him on a shameful cross. They didn't understand wisdom. They didn't get it. Their judgment about Christ was totally wrong. They totally blew it. And so the Spirit of God comes into the world to put the world on trial. For putting Jesus on trial and condemning him. And the Spirit does it with three items. He convicts them of sin, harmatia, missing the mark, where they got it wrong. He convicts them secondly of righteousness. What's that? That's the opposite of sin, right? Sometimes those big words are easy to understand, just look for a smaller word inside of it. What is righteousness? It's doing right It's the opposite of sin. In order to understand sin, you have to understand righteousness. To know that you missed the mark, you need to know where the mark was, right? To know that your life is morally off, you need to know what a righteous moral standard is, and so Christ is that standard. And then once they're convinced of sin and convinced of righteousness, they need to also be convinced of one more thing, and that's judgment. Oh, how the world hates Christians carrying around their Bibles and talking about judgment Don't judge me. I didn't say anything yet. Yeah, but you're carrying a Bible. So you know what the Bible says, huh? Yeah. I'm gonna tell you why, because your king is being judged. Who's my king? Satan. So they don't know that They don't know that. They don't understand that. The ruler of this world has been judged. We'll get into that. This is the Spirit of God, then, coming into the world, picking up exactly where the Lord Jesus left off in his ministry. Just doing it better, as Jesus said. Remember John 7 7, Jesus tells his brothers, the world can't hate you, but it hates me because I testify of it that its bees are evil. So that's what Jesus was doing. Shine a light on the world. Your deeds are evil. Your deeds are evil. See, you're you've missed it with with God. You're you're not keeping the law of God. You're you're you're outside the kingdom of God. You need to get inside the kingdom of God. You need to repent of your sins. The Spirit of God comes and He comes to do exactly the same thing. John chapter three. This is the judgment that the light is coming in the world. Men love the darkness rather than the light, for their deeds were evil. Spirit of God comes in to continue that ministry that Jesus had In John 15, 22, Jesus said, If I had not come and spoken to them, he's talking about his coming to the Jews and ministry, if I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sinned, but now they have no excuse for their sin. See, that's what Jesus was doing. He was showing the world their sin. He did it patiently. He taught them an awful lot. He used parable forms. He confronted sin. He urged the meaning of the law. What does it mean to uh love your neighbors yourself? He teaches the good Samaritan parable so they get the understanding of that, and then when they realize they weren't doing it, they realize that they were Falling short of sin. He said, You see these Pharisees and these scribes over here, they act like they're the righteous ones. If your righteousness doesn't surpass theirs, you'll never make it into the kingdom of heaven. He taught them about it We talk to them about it. The paraclete, the helper, continues that same labor. And here is the blessing: that the Spirit of God makes it even more persuasive. The Spirit's ministry today in this age is greater than the persuasive ministry of Jesus when he taught on earth. Isn't that amazing? What follows, thank you. I have actually something to drink. What follows is the explanation why the Spirit must have this ministry to unbelievers. And this is what we need to look at. We need to focus at verse 9 there. Verse nine. He says, Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. I'm going to persuade the world of their sin because they do not believe in me. That concerning sin there is a preposition. It just means their conviction is going to be in this area. It's going to be concerning this. And the first area that it's concerned with is sin. Notice sin is in the singular there. Do you notice that? Because people have many sins and it doesn't say sins. It doesn't say concerning their sins, it says concerning sin. What does that mean? That means he's talking about sin in some unity. So it probably refers to their life of sin, that their entire life has been dedicated to sin. And what is the greatest manifestation of a life that's committed to sin? Here's the answer. They refuse to believe in Jesus as Messiah. What is the way to prove that their life is a life that has been lived for sin? And that all the morals that they think that are good, that that's not going to be good with God. The way to measure that is when it came time to believe in Christ, they said no. Why would you ever say no to believing in Jesus if you're not wanting to live a life of sin, you see? They did not believe in God's only begotten Son, whom he sent into the world, and that proves they're not on God's side. That proves they have sinned. Their unbelief is the rejection of Jesus, and the rejection of Jesus is sin. Why do they reject Jesus? Because they love their sin. They don't want to give it up. They hate the light. They won't come to the light. Their deeds would be exposed. Listen, rejecting Jesus or saying, look, I'm not going to accept Jesus Christ, saying that is a great sin. Did you know that? If somebody, if you witness to somebody and you say you have an opportunity to receive Christ, and they say, I'll think about it, they just sin They sin so greatly that if they die before they think about it, again, they will go to hell. God will reject them entirely. It's a great sin to reject Jesus. Why? Jesus is the only begotten Son of God. He's God in the human body. They're rejecting God when they say, let me just wait on the gospel and think about that. Maybe when I get a little older I'll do that grown-up thing and go to church and think about all of that. Unbelief is a sin. And rejecting Christ is no small sin. They're willfully saying no to God himself. Remember how God reacted when uh Moses was up on the mountain in in um Exodus thirty-two? And uh Aaron was persuaded to help them all build the golden calf down there. Remember that? God doesn't come down and say, Oh, I see you made a golden calf here. That's that's uh that's naughty. You shouldn't do that. And you know, you shake his finger at him or something like that He he he has many of them killed and he has the the golden calf pounded in the dust and takes the dust and puts it in the water and t tells Moses, have all the Israelites drink it, the bitter water See, their making of a golden calf was a rejection of God. It was unbelief. It was turning aside. It was no small sin. And so the ministry of the Spirit of God was needed in the world because Jesus had been rejected largely as the Messiah. He'd gone around to all the villages, he had performed miracles, he taught the truth from Scripture, he lived a godly life, and these Jewish people religious and dedicated as they were all over that country, said, no, we won't have him. And so they needed to be convicted of sin. Remember what happened after Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead. Man's been dead for four days. He raises from the dead. Everyone sees it. No one is questioning it. There's no hoax, there's no gimmick, there's no way anyone can can conjure that up. Everyone saw that he was dead. He was dead for four days. He was in the tomb. Mary was Martha was concerned his body was already stinking He raises them from the dead. The Jewish leaders look at each other and they say, We got to get rid of this Jesus. So obviously, in God's economy, if the world is to be persuaded, there's going to be something that is greater that is needed in the world to persuade them, other than the earthly ministry of Jesus Christ. We think of the earthly ministry of Jesus Christ as so great, but here the ministry of the Holy Spirit is greater. Comes to persuade those kind of thick, hard-hearted people. To bring full exposure, to persuade them to repentance. Listen, today the Spirit of God is still doing exactly what he did in the days of Peter and Paul. Do you believe that? He is doing the same thing in terms of persuasion to the world. He is convincing them they're sinners. He is convincing them that they have a need to believe. The proof of that is all of you sitting in here right now And other people and other gospel preaching churches. Why are they in there? How did they get in there? Because the Holy Spirit persuaded you, them, me You're a sinner, you've missed the righteous standard, there's judgment coming, and you're persuaded, and you're here worshiping, you're thanking God for the cross, you believe in the blood of Christ, you've escaped the judgment of God, hallelujah, because you have a Savior, right? And you want other people to know that. You are not smarter than the other people, folks. You need to understand that. You know, neither was I. We're not smarter, we're not more spiritually sensitive. There wasn't something great. It was the convincing ministry of the Spirit of God. The people you witness to, you need to remember when you go out and you look at someone and they look like they could care less what you have to say. As soon as you get one Bible word out of your mouth, much less a verse, they're tuning you off and you're thinking, you're sizing them up and you're thinking that's who they are. Don't you hesitate to tell them the gospel Because it's not what they look like in their face or the tattoo on their arm or the kind of car they're driving or whatever cuss words they just finished saying. None of that stuff Means anything to the Spirit of God. If He is going to move upon Him because you're going to witness to Him, you have all the power and all the persuasion that is necessary from the Word of God and the Spirit of God. Do you believe that? Yeah, but they have a foul mouth. I don't think that they they're gonna listen. You should have heard my mouth before I was saved. They'll listen They'll listen. You just give them the gospel and you believe. Yeah, but they haven't shown any interest before. The Spirit of God may work today. Don't rule it out before you even start. Now, the Spirit is also going to convict the world of righteousness. This goes hand in hand with sin. We saw that. Look at verse 10. And concerning you have the same preposition. Concerning sin, concerning righteousness. Why? Answer. Because I go to the Father and you no longer see me. Conviction about righteousness is needed because Jesus is no longer seen. What does that mean? Well, we know that in order to understand righteousness, there has to be something that a person understands to be righteous. The life of Jesus was a standard. The way he lived was a righteous standard. He always did the will of the Father, he said. He kept the law of God from the heart. He never sinned. No one could convict him of a sin. So when they saw him, his life guided them. They saw who he was. He's holy and he's godly and look how he prays and look how he responds in justice, but yet he has mercy also. He's upright. He he keeps the law of God in his heart. There he is. There's a person. That's Jesus. We're looking at him. We're listening to him. He's with us. But now he's leaving the world, right? And so what do they need? They need the Spirit of God to come in and say Let's make sure you're taught and understand and perceive in your own spirit what the standard of righteousness is. Jesus guided the way, now they need more guidance. Jesus was the embodiment of righteousness, but now the Spirit of God comes in to teach more. But Jesus said, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, and the Spirit of God comes into the heart and helps someone to hunger and thirst for righteousness and know what it is. Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and he taught that to his disciples there by the Sea of Galilee. Now the Spirit of God comes in and presses on the importance of seeking righteousness and what that righteousness is. The world's understanding of righteousness is woefully inadequate. Would you agree? What they call good often is bad. An NBA player comes out and he says, I'm homosexual, and the world says, You are so courageous. And the Word of God says, Your behavior is shameful. Stop it. How dare you? How dare you pollute the body that God gave to you? It's not something to celebrate. The movies glorify senseless violence and immoral sex. Sex between a husband and wife, when do you even see that in the movies? Filthy mouths are all over. You know that. You've seen that, you understand that. The businesses believe that uh doing their business is important, so it's okay to lie and cheat a little bit because the greater goal justifies all of that. That's not a righteous standard. People boast in their self-abilities all the time and they think that's good. It's good for me to be self-assertive and confident in myself and I'm going to tell you about what I'm able to do and this and that. They actually think that's good And it's shameful. Put your head a little lower. Other people are more important than you. They don't get it. They have no idea. They have no idea what's right. Our kids say they watch a lot of the stuff. We have to keep reminding them that's wrong. It's hard to find anything to watch that's not wrong in some way. And they're Christians and they stand for truth. Sometimes they just kind of squeak out a little bit of truth and boom, they're jumped on. They're maligned. The world has all of its standards wrong. Our president recently went to the Planned Parenthood, who support all the abortions, and said, God bless you. I I don't know how God's gonna bless people that are killing innocent human beings. The world doesn't get it, our leaders don't get it. Hollywood people come on and they talk about saving the baby seal or whatever it is Like that's the most important thing. I like seals, don't get me wrong. I'm not against the baby animals, they're cute. But they're they're things that are far greater causes, right? They just don't know The Holy Spirit teaches the standard. We have that now. How did He teach? He taught the apostles. He brought the truth. They wrote it down. It was collected. It was put in a book. You hold it in your lap. The righteous standard of the Holy Spirit of God. Why do you think when you carry it around, you know, just start carrying it around? Someone looks at you, spots that Bible down there like, that guy's a wacko. He doesn't fit in. Even our presence among unbelievers is a blessing to them. Did you know that? You ask sometimes, why do I have to put up with these people in the office place? Answer, God puts you there. You're a light. Right there. Does it have to be there? Well, it's not gonna be there, it's gonna be somewhere else. Think people are better in Missouri Some of you from Missouri you say, yeah they are. They're not. People are people. You always want to run somewhere else where the people are better. People are people. No one can see Jesus anymore, so the Spirit of God does this. We are a blessing to them. They're in darkness. We're like a bunch of little lights. The Spirit shines through us. And they see the product of the Spirit of God in us. Do they see perfect righteousness in us? No. But what you you misunderstand is that when you just are concerned about telling the truth and being kind, you're way ahead of them. Way ahead of them. Just the little bit that you've learned about following Christ is already a light, and it's already intimidating to them. And then there's the conviction of judgment. Verse 11, look at that. And concerning judgment The third time that same preposition is used. It ties it together. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. Conviction of judgment naturally follows conviction of sin and righteousness, right? What's the verdict that the Spirit of God brings into the world? Not merely the message. God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. The message the Spirit of God brings into the world: God loves you, but you've sinned. And you're headed to judgment, and he does not accept you the way you are. He will reject you. Other messages that are said to be the message of the Spirit of God that are preached from pulpits. Not the message of the Spirit of God. How do we know? Words of the Spirit of God in the Bible, right? It's not too hard The world is headed to certain judgment. I mean, it's not hard. Pick up 2 Thessalonians. There it is. Pick up Revelation. There it is. Pick up the Olivet Discourse in Matthew 24 and 25, the judgment. There it is. It's all over the Bible. It's all over the New Testament. People talk about the wrath of God, a judgment of God. That was the way God was in the Old Testament, you see. So would God go through a reformation? He figured out that he was too mean in the Old Testament, he decided to change his ways and repent and become nicer in the New Testament? It's the same God. In fact, the God of the Old Testament is Jesus in the New Testament. The one that was judging people in the Old Testament was Jesus Have you ever read Revelation recently? It's pretty tough. Read the book of uh 2 Peter, read Jude, read Mark, read Luke It's all about warning of judgment. It's a very long, prolonged period of time, these last 2,000 years, warning about judgment. Well, is the judgment really going to come? Yes, we're 2,000 years closer to the judgment than we were before. People ought to be more afraid now God's patience is not forever. Remember in the days of Noah? The world's going to be destroyed by a flood. Who is that old man? It doesn't even rain. And look at his sons, they're trying to build this ark. It's like it's in a field. What's even smoking? Longest period of time. He preached for 120 years, I think it was. Don't quote me on that. Long period of time. But when the judgment came, it didn't start drizzling. A little bit of drizzle. Well, maybe the old man had some. And then a little bit of sprinkling. And then a little shower that passes by. No, it says it all came down on one day. God shut the door. You think there are people that want it in? We were wrong. It was too late. You better ground now. God's gonna judge you. There comes a time when it's too late. People presume on God's patience. They don't know if they're gonna live tomorrow. They don't know what's gonna happen. They just presume on it. They've been right before, they presumed on it before, and they've been right, so they'll be right again. You don't know that. Judgment when it falls, it falls like a hammer. It comes hard, it comes fast, it comes violently. No one stops it, no one can talk about it, no one can reverse it, no one can have a little vote about whether or not they think it's right for God to do it or not. And they'll be judged by that standard of righteousness. What's the proof? He says here, the proof is that the ruler of the world's evil system has been judged. That's who? That's Satan, right? Satan. John 14, 30, I will not speak much more, Jesus said, for the ruler of the world is coming and he has nothing in me. No, he has no charge on me. He has no control of me. But he is the ruler of the world. The ruler of the world is coming. That's the title Jesus gives him. The ruler of the world. He is the world's true leader. 1 John 5. 19, we know that we are of God and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. He is their celestial ringleader. 1 John 3:8, the one who practices sin is of the devil. For the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appeared for this purpose to destroy the works of the devil. So he's come to destroy the works of the devil. The devil's already under judgment. When Jesus' disciples, the 70, had been sent out and they came back, and there was A lot of casting out of demons. Jesus said this. He said, I was watching Satan fall from heaven like lightning. He's judged. He's doomed. There's no mercy for him. Most of the world follows, all of the world follow all of the unbelieving world follows Satan, but most of the unbelieving world doesn't know they're following Satan. If you were to ask them what why are you into imitating the devil, they'd say, What? You all are rude in that church. Well, they espouse Satan's doctrine. What's that? Think for yourself, don't listen to God. That's Satan's doctrine. That's what made him Lucifer into Satan. I'm going to just do this my own way. I can run this universe. I can do it my own way. Frank Sinatra sang it beautifully. Satan's doctrine. I did it my way. It's life. They espouse his doctrine every single day. They deny the Word of God. They don't believe in the Son of God. That's Satan's plan. That's it. Reject Jesus. Live your own way. Oppose God's word. There you go. That's what he's all about. You don't need a pitchfork to be part of that. You don't need a long pointy tail to be part of that. Well, if Satan is doomed, he's a loser. He's a loser. You know, there's two sides. There's God's side, there's Satan's side. Someone's gonna win God's gonna win. Christ is gonna come back, he's gonna take the planet, Satan's gonna lose. Satan's antichrist, he's gonna get seven years. Whoop-de-doo. Seven years. That's not even as long as uh two terms for a U. S. president. That's all he gets. And then it's over for him. He's a loser. So, everyone who follows them, guess what? They're losers. You're winners, the world is losers. You ever think of it that way? You ever excited about the fact that you're a Christian? I'm a winner. I'm on the winning side. The world thinks you're losers. You're winners. Why? Because you're gonna win. Winners win. We're gonna win. Christ is gonna win. In the end, Christ wins, right? I'm following why are you following Jesus? Because in the end he wins. You ever notice there's a lot of Yankee fans? Why are all these Yankee fans and Laker fans and Steeler fans? Because they always win. You know, it's tough being a Redskin fan. It's tough being a Cleveland well, anything Cleveland fan. They don't win anything over there, right? You want to win. Christ is a winner. He rose from the dead. He's already shown that. He's coming back to triumph. We're winners. We're on the side of the winner. Satan's a loser. He's judged. He's doomed. It's very important that in the book of Revelation it specifically says the dragon of old is cast into the lake of fire. He's going to be tormented there day and night forever and ever. That's losing There's there's no there's not it's not a beer party. He loses. He gets nothing. He owns nothing, rules nothing, no one likes him, he's not beautiful anymore, he has no comforts, he loses. He's a loser. So the world needs to be convinced of judgment And of course, all of this happened on the day of Pentecost. I want, in closing, we'll just go to Acts chapter 2. I want you to see the ministry of the Spirit of God when he came and how this immediately happened. Turn to Acts chapter 2. We know in Acts 2 verses 1 through 4 it's the day of Pentecost and the Spirit of God comes. They began speaking in these supernatural ability to speak languages that folks that were gathered in that city from all over the world recognized as their home language. In verse 14, Peter takes his stand. He begins teaching What does he begin teaching about? The pouring out of the Spirit. Down in verse 22, he says, Jesus, the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. This man delivered up over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men, as the Romans, and put them to death. But God raised them up again, and then he goes and talks about the resurrection And he comes down to verse 34, because he's been quoting David. And he says, It was not David who ascended into heaven, but David himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. See, Jesus is the winner. Verse 36. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. And then he ends with this: this Jesus, whom you crucify. So, verse thirty-seven, remember the Spirit of God is there. And by the way, the Spirit of God is working through Peter and working through the Word of God next to the time we're After Mother's Day, we're going to come back to this how the Spirit of God works that conviction and how He uses us. I want I want to get into that a little bit. But um it's not just some some conviction out there. He comes and he works specifically through believers and through the gospel and through the Word of God. And you see this. There's this sermon. Peter's preached it boldly, and verse 37 comes, and you see this work of the ministry of the Spirit. Now, when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart. That doesn't use the word lenko there, but you can write that in. They were convinced. They felt shame, guilt. This wasn't something outside of them. This came home right into their own heart. Like a sword had pierced them through the heart, and the pain was there. We have waited generation after generation after generation for the king, the Messiah to come, and we just humiliated him and murdered him. Can you imagine what they felt at that point in time? And that's heavy conviction. They were pierced to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, and I don't know how they said this, brethren, what shall we do? Is there any hope for us here? What shall we do? And immediately the hope comes. Peter says, repent, turn from this sin, you see. And each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Show your faith and your loyalty to Jesus the Messiah right now. Be baptized in water in front of other people. Demonstrate your faith. Turn away from your sins, and then what? You'll get the Holy Spirit too, right? The promised Holy Spirit. They were under conviction. And this is the ministry of the Spirit of God, convicted them of sin, that Jesus was right, that he was vindicated, he was raised from the dead, and they understood I think particularly when Peter said, You crucified them, that they were under the judgment of God. And they were like, through themselves at the mercy of the court, what what can we do now? What must we do Let us know. They were ready. And was this genuine? Yes it was, because you see how many thousands were immediately added to the church. Isn't it amazing? Who did that? The Spirit of God. Spirit of God. Spirit of God is still working today. Don't think this is a Bible story. Think of this as an age that you are in and that God wants to use you. You just need to believe and you need to put yourself out there and you need to be used of God. Doesn't mean every it doesn't mean you're gonna go to the street corner here and 3,000 are gonna repent. That's not the point The point is you just get busy where you can and God will use you. We're gonna get our hearts ready now for Lord's Supper. We're gonna have a a hymn now, I think, to sing, and uh then we'll we'll come back. Okay.