So how is everyone doing this morning? Did you get enough sleep last night? Did you have a hard time finding a parking spot this morning? Any trouble dropping off the kids? If you have any? Dropping off your wife? Were you greeted when you came in? Are your chairs comfortable? Not too hard, not too soft. How about the temperature in here? Is it a little warm? Maybe even chilly for those of you that have short sleeves. Was the music okay? Wasn't too loud. Maybe we need drums, maybe not. Can you hear everything clearly? Were the projectors visible? Maybe the lights, maybe they're too bright, maybe too dim for some of us that can't see very well? How about this bulletin here? It's nice, and what you say? It's clear, simple, nice picture. Has this passage of uh today's message on there, the verse. It's pretty straightforward, wouldn't you say? It's got all the announcements in here. Maybe there's too many announcements for you to read right now. Maybe not enough. Maybe you didn't get your announcement in there. But what about the people sitting next to you? Take a look around everyone sitting next to you. Are they nice people? The people that you would hang out with? People perhaps you would invite them over for even like a steak dinner. How's the service so far? Especially for you guys. Too much standing, too much scripture reading, sit down, stand up, sit down. What's wrong with these guys? When are we gonna get to the sermon? Maybe it already has begun. So, beloved, all these needs and concerns. They're very important for us, especially for us Christians here at Hope Bible Church, as we gather every Sunday morning to worship our God. Because we want to worship Him with absolute reverence of the utmost. And there's nothing wrong with these things in and of themselves. But the past few weeks and even today we learned about missionaries that these are little concerns, maybe not even concerns for for Christians around the world. I mean, what a privilege it is to be a Christian in this country, isn't it? We just celebrated our Independence Day, our freedom of worship two weeks ago. We had one of our missionary families here last week from Africa if you weren't here. It was great having here the whole week. We had different events if they were able to encourage us. Share the testimony, how God's working in their country that they're ministering. And one thing that struck me what he said, which actually I wasn't shocked, but He said, for those missionaries, or he calls them international workers, if they are discovered Christians in this part of the country, in northern Africa, if you're a foreigner, you'd be forced to leave the country. You'd be exported. And if you're a citizen there, and you were discovered to be a Christian, it'd obviously be worse. You'd lose all your rights as a citizen, perhaps even be arrested, detained. Some other countries. You might be arrested and even killed if they find out you're a Christian. And furthermore, if there are some other countries Even like the southern part of the Philippines that we just heard in the vast city, that they may torture you before they kill you if you profess to love and follow Christ. They might even shoot you in the head before you even finish the word yes if they ask you that you love Jesus Christ. This is what exactly is going on, beloved. This is what happens with the first century Christians in Rome They were going under severe persecution, under various trials. And the Christians of the first century room During the time of Nero, the Roman Emperor, they were imprisoned, racked, seared, broiled, they were burned, scourged, stoned, and hanged. All those were lacerated with red hot knives, and some were even thrown on the horns of wild bulls while they were alive, just for entertainment. Now I'm not trying to belittle anyone's suffering here. Any any of you that are or many of you that are going through personal suffering and persecution in this room? I'm not belittling that at all. In fact, many of you that that I know Have been going through a lot of suffering, but have gone through a lot of suffering in your lifetime, and still suffering today. And we suffer here with physical ailments, broken relationships, loss of loved ones. Loss of jobs, financial hardship, and many more. Because of our freedom Because of our freedom in this country, Christians today in America seem to be more privileged than other Christians around the world, don't we? We might think that sometimes. I mean Pastor John Piper in Minneapolis said Christians today living in America is like living in Disneyland. But I want to talk to you about a far greater privilege today, a far greater privilege than our freedom in this country, a greater privilege for all Christians. A privilege that's a theme of the Bible, perhaps the greatest theme in the whole universe. A privilege for all who believe and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. And yes? I don't want to take for granted that our freedom in this country, it is a wonderful privilege to have. We must continue to thank our Lord for the government and the military that makes that privilege possible. So that we can worship here today and every Sunday comfortably. But today, this greatest privilege I'd like to talk to you about for all Christians is our salvation. Something we might take for granted once in a while. I'd like to talk to you today about the greatness of our salvation. I'd like to talk to you about how Peter writes about the greatness of our salvation. And that's the topic, that's the title of our sermon today, Remembering the Greatness of Our Salvation. Apostle Peter writes this to the first century Christians who are undergoing all these To various trials and suffering and persecution. He writes this epistle to encourage them. And this brings us to our text. In First Peter chapter one, verses ten through twelve If you please turn to me to 1 Peter 1, chapter 1, verses 10 to 12. Now Peter wrote these groups of Christians who are probably confused as to why these things are happening. They're probably delirious. They probably felt defeated, discouraged, even angry at God for all these circumstances and trials that God has allowed to happen in their lives. So let's please read with me here. 1 Peter 1, verse 10-12. As to this salvation, that's the faith, the salvation of their souls. The prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you made careful searches and inquiries, seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you. And these things which now have been announced to you, to those who preach the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit, sent from heaven. Things into which angels long to look. This is not a large passage we have here, kind of small, but it's a fascinating one, I might say. In this epistle here, Peter is celebrating salvation. And sometimes for Christians throughout the history of the church, there's been very little to celebrate about. I mean we can see if you have the Fox's Book of Martyrs, you can see the deaths and mutilations of all the church fathers in the church history. Even the apostles. I think all of them but one but John were martyred, crucified. Killed, even our missionaries. Verses 1 through 9, Peter's reminding Christians that no matter how bad our trials and sufferings get, no matter how deprived we are No matter how hopeless it may seem, we always have the hope of our eternal salvation. And in that we can be comforted. Comfort in our salvation. What a great word that is, isn't it? Salvation. I could say that over. Salvation. Salvation. Is there any word in the English dictionary in our language that's as comforting as that? Assuring, securing. Greater than any insurance policy, more assuring than any bank account, any stocks, any trust funds. That's spiritual salvation, beloved. That's being rescued from hell, from God's wrath, delivered from the penalty of sin, that's justification. Being saved from the power of sin, that's our sanctification And one day in which all of us Christians are eagerly waiting is to be free from the presence of sin and in the presence of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's glorification. Imagine that, no sin No matter what happens in life, no matter how hard difficult circumstances, Peter wants us to remember to focus on this salvation. To always go back to the blessedness of our eternal security. And in verse 4, he's talking about how our salvation is imperishable, it's undefiled. It will not fade away and it's reserved in heaven for you. If I don't find anything more encouraging than that, I don't know what will encourage you, Blood. Now after stating these f these words 1 through 9, Peter could have gone just to verse 13, gone right to the application, right? Encouraged an application. But the Holy Spirit inspired him to write these words in 10 to 12. And these words, as I've been studying them the past week or so. I was wondering why Peter would write these things. In fact, it's like a recipe to reorient our thinking about the greatness of our salvation. That's the title of our sermon. And I pray that this message today will help us reorient the way we think about our salvation day, beloved. Peter approaches the greatness of the salvation, our salvation in Christ, in such an unusual way, in these three verses. Now, if I were to talk to you about the greatness of salvation today, in my own words, or any of you personally, or anyone for that matter, perhaps I'll talk about what a great Savior we have and what a great sinner we are. I talk about what a great cost was paid. I talk about the great doctrines of justification, sanctification, glorification, the whole order of salvation, if we had time. Even the doctrines of grace. I mean, I had the privilege to have dinner with some of you. I'm sorry if I hadn't the time to have dinner with some of you recently. But you notice we always love to talk about the transformation of our lives, even our own testimonies, it just happens naturally. And I'd like to pick on the Millers. Carson and Shannon Miller have had dinner at their house a few times. The first time I went over their house They said the first thing they said, they said, Did you find the place alright? You hungry? They didn't ask that. They said, So how'd you get saved? I was like, whoa, slow down. I'm doing alright and I'm kinda hungry. But we're so excited about our salvation, that's what we want to talk. It's what I want to talk about, especially with like-minded believers. Well, Peter doesn't discuss about any of these things. He doesn't go into any deep doctrines, doesn't talk about testimonies of other recipients He doesn't talk about the greatness of salvation from our viewpoint, the recipient's viewpoint, but rather he talks about the greatness of our salvation through the eyes of three agents. For those of you that are taking notes, get ready for this. Peter expresses the greatness of our salvation through the eyes of three agents, three groups of persons. The first one he expresses to the prophets who predicted the salvation. The prophets who predicted the salvation. In case I don't have enough time, I'm gonna uh list the other two. The apostles who preach the salvation is a second group. The apostles who preached the salvation also express their per how they perceive the greatness of our salvation. And last but not least, the angels. Express the greatness of our salvation. The angels who long to look at this great salvation Now remember, beloved, Peter's saying that the prophets were deeply interested in our salvation, the apostles were deeply interested, and so are the angels. That's basically what he's saying here in these three verses. Now let's talk about the prophets first, in verse 10. As to the salvation, the prophets you prophesied of the grace that will come to you, make careful searches and inquiries. Stop right there He's talking about the Old Testament prophets from Moses to Malachi and even John the Baptist. Now look ahead briefly here at the end of verse 10. It says they made careful searches and inquiries of the things they prophesied. In other words, these prophets literally studied their own prophetic writings. To know all they could about the promised salvation. Now the Greek verbs here for to search and to inquire, the Greek verb for to search It means to exert effort to find out or learn something, to seek out and search for. And the other verb there, inquire It also means the same thing. It means to make a careful inquiry, to try to find out. They're synonyms. And both of these Greek verbs have the preposition ek in front of them, and that preposition is to intensify their meaning. So Peter puts two synonyms. To the same meeting next to each other with intensifiers to make a point that they diligently searched and carefully inquired and made an effort to learn about these prophecies that they made. I mean they searched intently. They were fascinated by the salvation. They're preoccupied with his prophecies, about their own writings, about our salvation. How many of you here have their cell phones on them? Come on. I know you do. Hold them up. Don't be ashamed, don't be shy. Hold your cell phones. How many of you have your cell phones here? Now take a look around you and see how many people here have cell phones. Well many of you are not holding them up. But it's amazing how we got around with these things ten, fifteen years ago. It's amazing what these things can do, especially if you have a smartphone. I mean just having instant ac uh internet access alone is amazing. Tons of applications that these phones can do. People buy these applications every day. I mean if you remember getting if you had a smartphone, if you got it, do you remember the first day you got it, how excited you were? I was. You study your phone. You look into the applications, even the camera, you can upload things to Facebook instantly. You can find anything you want or anything you need. You can even scan things to see how much they cost. Maybe I'm speaking for from experience or just to the younger generation, but imagine if we were to spend all that time used to study these cell phones, if we use them to study the scripture. And do we study scripture like that, beloved? Maybe you don't do that, but maybe your kids do. You see them study the phones intently. But do we study the scripture like the prophets studied their own writings? And the way they studied the other prophets' writings. I mean they studied so intently. They were so preoccupied with this. Why? Because the salvation The greatest theme in the Bible, the greatest theme in the universe. And he wanted to understand the salvation. They couldn't fully understand it, and it was their pursuit. Now someone might say, weren't these prophets recipients of the salvation also? Didn't they have the same salvation as we do? Well yes, they were saved. Even though they received a salvation, they received it without fully seeing its accomplishment. Does that make any sense? In other words, they received the gift of salvation without ever seeing or knowing the Savior Jesus Christ because Christ did not come yet in the during their lifetime. See, they received this gift Without ever seeing or fully understanding all that was involved in the life, in the death, and the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Yet they received the salvation with the full benefit of seeing the accomplishment of that salvation. Now, Dr. John MacArthur writes in this commentary: The Old Testament prophets studied their own writings in order to know more about the promised salvation. Though they believed and were personally saved from their sin by that faith Through the sacrifice that God would provide in Christ, they could not fully understand what was involved in the life and death of Jesus Christ. It's all these Old Testament prophets It's a lot of 'em. Isaiah, Zeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Nahum, Habakkuk, and all the prophets. Even King David, Joseph, patriarchs, Father Abraham, they could not fully understand what was involved in the redemptive plan of God the Father. And yet Christ's atoning work and death on the cross is so powerful that it not only paid for the sins of those who believed in him after he died, but it even paid for the sins of the prophets and the patriarchs and the believing Jews of men and women in the Old Testament before he even came. I mean that's hard to wrap our minds around that, beloved. That's probably that's the doctrine of the imputation of Christ's righteousness. You know what we call that in the Philippines? We call that a nosebleed Because when you try to grasp something, something really deep that makes you really think and really hard where it aches your brain, it's like you're gonna have a nose bleed. What about Scripture? Romans 4, what does that say? For what does Scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. You see, man has always been saved by grace through faith, not of works. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 says, For by grace through faith you have been saved, and not of yourselves. This is a gift of God, not of his old works. So the people, the patriarchs, and the prophets of the Old Testament were all saved by faith. This is the great Salvation that we also have here today. Now, with that, now notice the phrase here of that grace that would come to you. The prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you. That doesn't mean there was no grace in the Old Testament. It came in the New Testament. The prophets, there's no grace, and the prophets are predicting there's going to be grace one day. There's going to be grace. No, that's not the case. People always think maybe there's always old there's only law in the Old Testament and there's no grace. But remember, let me give just a few examples here to show that there is grace. When Moses had a vision with God in Exodus 33, God said, I myself will make all my goodness passed before you. I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious And I will show compassion on whom I will show compassion. Another example in the Old Testament of God's grace, the very first book in the Bible, Genesis. Joseph lifted his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your youngest brother of whom you spoke to me? He says, May God be gracious to you, my son. And the third and last example, remember Jonah? I hope you do. All your children know him. God told Jonah to go to Nineveh to preach to the Ninevehes. He didn't like the Ninevehites. In fact, that's why he refused to go to Nineveh and he fled to Tarshis. Why? Because he knew that God would save them, that God is the gracious God. This is what Jonas says. Jones please, Lord, was not this what I said while I was still in my own country, therefore, in order to forestall this I fled to Tarsus, for I knew that thou art a gracious and compassionate God. So the prophets, patriarchs, people were aware of God's grace in the Old Testament. God has always been gracious. He's gracious by nature, he never changes. So they prophesied of the grace that would come to you. Some folks find this grace very terse, unmerited favor. I can agree with that. But what does unmerited favor look like? I mean here Peter's talking about God's saving grace. I mean this is perhaps even a bigger word than salvation. This is God's act of saving. It's the motive behind his saving work. It's the reason why we're all here. And Sp Sp Spurgeon says all is of grace. That's like a doxology. But what does a marriage favor look like? Some people say, well, when a man goes to a homeless guy sitting on the city, if you ever go to the city in Baltimore, you'll s get opportunity. To give money to homeless people. If a man walks up to a homeless guy and puts money in his cup, that's unmerited. That's favorable to the homeless guy. But is that the amazing grace that John Newton was talking about, thinking about? Let me take it up with just an extra notch here. What if now what if this homeless guy slandered you? He stole from you. He even hated you. He bear false witness against you. He even owes you money. And then instead of just putting money in his cup, you feed him. You give him your favorite clothes to wear. You let him stay at your home. I mean that's more like the amazing grace John Newton was singing about. That's amazing grace, how sweet to sound. That saved a wretch like me. To show your grace to a wretched person. And that's the grace here that Peter's talking about. God saving grace to us. What does that tell us about us? That we're wretched. Have you encountered God's grace like that? God's saving's grace. Well, there's no any qu no question at all about God being gracious to the Old Testament. However, God's grace was manifested more in the New Testament. Through Christ's death and resurrection, which we will see as we continue to read. In fact, the fullness of God's grace has not even been manifested to us in In this lifetime. If you look ahead in verse 13, Peter says, fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. This is the second coming. Some theologians call it the future of grace. So the prophets were prop were writing about a salvation to come. And let's give me, I'll just give you a few examples for the sake of time. Psalm 22 details Christ's crucifixion. That's a prophecy there. Isaiah 53 details the suffering. Of the Messiah. And Isaiah 9 says that the government will be on his shoulders and that he would be a mighty God. There's so much prophecies. Messianic prophecies alone is over 300. Maybe 320 something. I never counted them. But there's hundreds of prophecies. Prophecies about the salvation grace in the Old Testament. Now let's move on to verse 11. They're seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of God within them was indicating as he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow. Now there are two ways of translating this part of the verse, beloved, the first part. Nazbi translates that the prophets were seeking to know what person or what time. According to this translation, the prophets were not sure who or what or at what time the prophecies were about. And some of you might be using other translations like the New King James Version or King James Version or even the NIV. This is the second way of translating this verse. Which is probably the better one, it says they wanted to know what time or what manner of time these prophecies were dealing with. The King James Version puts it what or what manner of time, and the NIV says what time or circumstances. And the Nazi is the only one that translated what person However, both translations are grammatically possible because the first word in the Greek, it could be masculine or neuter. That's probably why the Nazi translators use what person. Furthermore, the context favors both of these words referred to the time. So the prophets had an idea of the who. The who is the Messiah that they've been prophesying about. They even knew that the Messiah was going to suffer and to be glorified, as the end of this verse says. Now why did why did they what they did not know was when They didn't know what seasons or what times. They had a hard time deducing when these prophecies were going to be fulfilled. Just like we had the same problem today with eschatology. I mean we know when the events or we know what the events are going to be, but we it's just hard to know when when the timing of these events, to pin down the timing of these events. So moving right along, now it says, it was the spirit of Christ within them was indicating, as he predicted, the sufferings of Christ and the glories of Father. So all these prophecies were not acts of the prophets of the prophets' will. It was the Holy Spirit. Later on, Peter says, but know this first of all that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. So these prophets moved by God, and all their predictions and prophecies. Speaking about the sufferings and glories of Christ. What is the sufferings and glories of Christ? What is Peter saying here? I think Peter is saying here that the Old Testament is all about the suffering and glories of Christ, beloved. Everything in the Old Testament points to the sufferings and glories of Christ. In fact, Jesus said it himself in Luke 24 after his resurrection. On the road to Emmaus with his disciples after his resurrection, Jesus said, O foolish men and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? Then later in verse twenty-seven, the next verse says, Then beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained himself in all the scriptures. Explain it. Explain scriptures. And that's what we do here. I hope. We explain the scriptures, expositional preaching. I mean he expanded all the scriptures of them. How much taken all day? Might have been a week. But we get the idea here. Jesus explained the scriptures all concerning about him. And later on in verse 44, Jesus says, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you. That all things were written about me. Where? In the law of Moses. That's Genesis through Deuteronomy. And where else? And the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. That's all thirty-nine books. I know a recent class I took, I can't remember how many messianic prophecies there are in Psalms. But Tim Killer says, all of them, all of them Mystiprophees, because what Jesus says, they're all written about me. That's the entire Old Testament. All written about Jesus, all pointing about his suffering and glory. Did we read the Old Testament like that when we read our morning devotion about Nahum or Malachi? And one last example, beloved, John 5. 46, when Jesus was talking to the unbelieving Jews, he says, For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. Moses wrote about Jesus. In other words, Moses' writings prophesied about the sufferings and glories of Christ, according to Peter. Do we read Genesis through Deuteronomy like that? About the like a theme of Christ's suffering and glories in the Old Testament. You might say, okay, well, what about the David and Goliath? Do we teach our kids to be like David? You can face your giants. You can do it. I hope you don't teach it like that. They would go right out after home or after church we taught them that. They'd fail miserably right away. Instantly. They were smart enough to get a lawyer and do us for malpractice. But David and Goliath. In fact, if you look at the at the suffering and glories of Christ, we can't be like David. There's only one David. In fact David is poured into a greater hero. David won the victory for Israel, right? The soldiers didn't have to do anything. His victory was imputed upon the Israelites. Just like Christ's glorious victory. He defeated the greatest sign of all. Penalty of sin, and his victories imputed upon us. Do we read scripture like that? What about Job? He was a righteous man. He suffered. He didn't deserve it, did he? The story is Job is pouring into Jesus, a much greater man, absolutely righteous. He knew no sin. He suffered by far the greatest He didn't deserve to suffer. He's the only one that doesn't deserve to suffer. Now all the kings of Israel, all the bad kings, even the good ones like David. They have their falls, point to a greater need for a greater king. You read all about this in Isaiah, Jeremiah, minor prophets, major prophets. Now let's move on to verse 12. In the beginning, it says, It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you. In other words, the Holy Spirit made them aware, made the prophecies aware that they were predicting prophecies of the salvation grace. It was to be serving us, not them. John Paper, John Piper puts like this. The whole Spirit of Christ just tells them in their in their visions and prophecies, prophesy these things. These are not for you. These are for a greater cause. A greater grace to be manifested through Jesus Christ, through the Messiah. For the sake of time here, I'm gonna run through my my last few points here. The apostles, this is a really shorter one actually. The apostles Who do you think knew Jesus the best on earth while he was here in his three years of ministry? Before he was crucified, resurrected, and seven, and ascended to heaven. I'd have to say the apostles and even the best, don't you think? They spent three years with him. Jesus trained them. He taught them, discipled them, even gave them authority over unclean spirits, cast out every Unclean spirit to heal every disease, every sickness. That's Matthew 10. These are order ordinary men, fishermen, uneducated, unlearned. Some of them eyewitnessed his transfiguration in Matthew 17 to see his glory. So in these things which have been announced to you, these things, the salvation grace. These things are the who, the what manner, the what time, the what circumstances that these prophets are looking for. The apostles preach Christ crucified and resurrected, the who, the what manner, Jesus Christ. Something the old prophets, the Old Testament prophets, couldn't do, could they? The apostles preached by the power of the Holy Spirit, this is the same Spirit. That moved the Old Testament prophets to prophesy. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2: For I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. He's been preaching the gospel. And the apostles were all martyr because of the faith in Christ, except for John. Because they knew the greatness of the salvation. It's worth dying for. Paul said, so it does Christ die's gain. So let me end my second point with this. Peter reminds the first century Christians it was the apostles that preached the gospel to them. That in itself, Christians should be grateful to that. Do you remember the first time you heard the gospel when someone preached it to you? Perhaps your your father or a dear loved one that's not here anymore or Maybe you heard it in a seminar or in on a college campus. Without you hearing the gospel, you could have not called upon the name of the Lord to save you. Paul wrote in Romans 10, Whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved, how then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they not how will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they are spent? Just as written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news of good things. The preaching of the gospel after Christ's resurrection began with the apostles Then the birth of the church in Acts 2, and the Christians were scattered at the Diazbora from the persecution. They scattered Christians preached the gospel to the ends of the earth, generation after generation, after father, son after Friend to friend until it came to you, beloved. Are you grateful for that? That these martyrs, these apostles, these patriarchs and fathers died? for this great salvation that you that you have today. What a privilege that is. I'm grateful they did. Now this brings us to our third and final point. So only a few words here. Things into which angels long to look. This is probably the most profound one. I mean these things into which angels long to look. These things is a salvation. It's the gospel. The word long here, the Greek, means it's epithemia. It's a very strong word. In a negative sense, it's used other words elsewhere in the Bible to describe lusting. The strong desire for sin. Paul uses it in 1 Corinthians 10, 6. Now these things happened as examples for us so that we would not crave evil things as they also craved. The word crave there, long for Crave for evil things. In Matthew 5. 28, Jesus uses it in the same in the same word sense here. Jesus says, But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust, for her heart has already committed adultery with with her in his heart. So Peter uses this word long to describe how the angels look at their salvation. They're obsessed with the gospel. They're obsessed with our salvation. They're obsessed with the greatness of salvation. They can't get enough of it. Do you remember the first day you got saved? How excited you were? Looking, searching the scripture. And looking at the testimonies of our forefathers. And this vergoved, long, it's present active, meaning it's continually. The angels continually gaze and long to look at this gospel, at our salvation. It's not like they looked at it once and then they started, okay that's enough, I'll put it down, let's look at justification. Let's look at God's sovereignty. No, they keep gauging and looking at it. And the if you keep thinking about the angels, I mean they're not stupid people They might be even smaller than us. They've been around longer than us when they're sinless. Peter's referring to holy angels here. I mean they were even there at the nativity. They saw our Messiah. They what did they do in Luke 2? They sang praises. Peace on earth. Rejoicing. Multitudes of angels. And this is not even their salvation, beloved, this is ours. They don't even have a salvation to experience the grace of God like we do. And they're fascinated by the greatness of our salvation. They intensely look at it. They don't even sleep, by the way. And the next word here, aims long to look. The last word here, look. It's an intense looking, like long gazing. It's like when Peter, it's the same word used by uh In the gospel, I believe in Luke, when Peter stoops down after the resurrection to look intently at the empty tomb to see that Jesus rose again, just stooping down and looking. Actually I encountered, I had the opportunity to hang out with the Montgomeries this week, and I was talking to their daughter. She was sharing with us, she used the same word actually, it struck me because I was studying this. She used the same word looking, but she used the word scrutinized. You know, because her and her younger sister can look they're almost look identical. They're all about the same height, nice pretty hair, same eyes Same skin tone and sometimes the parents dress them the the same way. It's gonna make this make it more confusing, but but Hannah was saying, how come mom that people make us people think we're twins? Don't they need they need to look a little harder? They need to scrutinize. They need to look more intently. I'm like, amen. We need to do that with scripture too. They're smart children scrutinized. That's three syllables. Three or five-year-olds. But the angels aren't stupid. The holy angels, sinless, they've been around longer than we have, and they're fascinated by this great salvation. They will never experience the salvation. There's no salvation for the fallen angels. They have no hope, no blessed hope. And so, beloved, running out of time, our last reference here, Luke 15, Jesus says, In the same way I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels. of God over one sinner who repents. How many angels are there in heaven? You can't count how many there are. All of them rejoicing over one person saved. Over one sinner. Let me ask you one question before we close, beloved. Is this salvation precious to you? Is your salvation so precious that you study the scriptures intently? To s study the Old Testament, New Testament, all the scriptures that describe your salvation just like the prophets did? Is your salvation so great to you that you're willing to share it, to proclaim it to your neighbors, even to die for it like the apostles? To go to go out around the world like on missionaries or even on next year's medical mission. Is your salvation great to you that you gaze at it every day, like the angels, praising God for it, rejoicing when you hear someone? Here's the news that's on repenting. Well, if we know the gospel Which I hope we all do that profess that we know the greatness of our salvation But why do we sometimes live like the way we do if we say we know the gospel? Maybe we don't gaze at the gospel long enough. And why sometimes we don't share it with other people. But they won't listen to me. Maybe we need to gaze at the gospel a little more, beloved, in our own time. Maybe we need to scrutinize and study the scriptures and remember our Lord, Savior, what a precious cost that was paid for the blessed hope, the eternal security. The amazing grace that we have received from our God. Close with me in prayer, please. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this greatest gift, the greatest privilege, greater than any freedom, greater than any than any insurance policy lower, but better than anything that we can receive from the government or any human affairs lower, our salvation. Through our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, Lord. Help us not to lose the fire, the burning passion for our salvation, Lord. May we not forget our first love. May we be faithful to proclaim the greatness of the gospel to all those who have not heard it, Lord. We pray these things in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.