I'm particularly pleased and thankful to the Lord for this morning that I can be here at this special occasion of the graduation of 11 men. from the three year spiritual leadership program here at Hope Bible Church. Uh Pastor Mike has done an outstanding job with it this third year and Carla and I were able to attend their graduation dinner this past Tuesday night and hear the testimonies of what God has been doing, and I believe we'll continue to do through those men and through this church in the future. But because of this special occasion, I've picked 2 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 4 as our text this morning. And so let's dive into God's Word. In 2 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 4, the Apostle Paul says, suffer hardship with me. As a good soldier of Christ Jesus, no soldier in active service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life, so that he may please the one who enlisted him. as a soldier. In this passage, Paul is exhorting Timothy and any man in spiritual leadership And then by inference, every Christian, because we're all in God's army, to suffer hardship for Christ with singular devotion of a soldier. And there's four ways that I think that Paul has mentioned it here. First of all, if you're going to suffer hardship, you need to endure hardship. You need to embrace your calling. You have to eliminate any distractions as a soldier so that you can serve, and you absolutely have to establish your priorities. Men of the program, God is taking you through three wonderful years, and I'm here this morning to encourage you and also to exhort you to be good soldiers of Christ, embrace your calling, and come after Him. Let's dive into the text together. Paul begins in verse 3 to say, suffer hardship with me as good soldiers of Christ. Paul here is telling Timothy, do this now. Join me. And as my sermon title suggests, ride out with me. For those of you who are Lord of the Ring fans, You'll remember that King Thaedin and Aragorn are stuck in helms deep inside what is a castle fortress. Their enemies surround it and are about to break through the last remaining door to the few soldiers who remain. King Thaedin is absolutely no beginner. He's been in multiple battles, but he sees the end of his life coming. And he says to Aragorn, such reckless hate. How can you stand against this? What is a man to do? To which Aragorn responds, ride out with me. Ride out with me. To which then the bolster king says, For death and glory. If you're already gonna die. Then do the most noble thing and ride out and meet them. And that is what Paul is suggesting to us, no, commanding us as spiritual leaders in his church to do. Ride out with me. When Paul talks about suffering hardship, he's not talking about the kind of things that come to us because we're sick or something happens to us, but things that are happening to us because of outside of us. Paul is saying as a good soldier, be ready for persecution. Be ready for things that come against you because of your decision to follow Christ. And as a father in the faith and a fellow soldier, Paul is saying right out with me. I just want to refresh your holy minds about Paul's life. This is a man who could say with no question, I am paying a price that I am inviting you to pay. Remember Paul's context. It's 67 A. D. Paul is most likely in the Mamertine prison in Rome, most likely chained twenty four hours a day to a Roman guard. His thirteen minute walk to the Colosseum where he's most likely beheaded. He is writing his last letter to his men and saying, embrace the calling, come after me. And this has always been Paul's message. Let me refresh your minds about a couple things that Paul went through. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, Paul has been challenged about his apostleship. And the Corinthians think they've got super apostles. They don't need the Apostle Paul. And he says this, are they servants of Christ? I speak as if insane. I more so, in far more labors, in far more imprisonments, beaten times without number Austin in danger of death. Five times I received from the Jews thirty nine lashes. When you think that thirty nine lashes is probably s enough to kill many people, which it did, five times. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I've spent in the deep I've been on frequent journeys in dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from my countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the wilderness, dangers on the sea, dangers among false brethren. I've been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure, apart from such external things. Think about that. There is the daily pressure on me of concern for all the churches Who is weak, he says, without my being weak? Who is led into sin without my intense concern? So when Paul says, join me, He is talking about something that he himself has experienced. What about Timothy's context? The young man in the race that Paul is about to hand the baton to. What about Timothy's context? He is not a raw recruit. He's been with Paul for more like 15 years at this point. And Paul is talking to an officer, not simply an enlisted man. Timothy has suffered greatly already for the gospel, and according to church history, Timothy will be stoned to death. In the city of Ephesus. But this is what Paul said to Timothy, or said about Timothy in the book of Philippians. But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly. so that I also may be encouraged when I learn of your condition. I have no other one of like kindred spirit who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare They all seek their own interests, but not those of Christ. But you know of his proven worth that he served with me in the furtherance of the gospel. Like a child serving his father. So first of all, Paul calls Timothy and spiritual leaders within the church to be willing to suffer hardship from outside of themselves that they didn't create from being a knucklehead. But rather to suffer because of that which comes for a stance for Christ. But secondly, you have to go ahead and embrace your calling. Take a look at verses 3 and 4 once again. Paul says Timothy, suffer hardship with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus, because he is the one who has enlisted you as a soldier. The beauty here is that we sometimes think when we call men to spiritual leadership, that they have to embrace the idea that they're a soldier. They have to become soldiers. But the reality is that every single Christian is a disciple, and every single Christian is a soldier of Christ. What we are doing when we call men to spiritual leadership within the church is for them to become officers as such. who lead leaders and lead the rest of us towards the battle that God has called every single Christian to be in. And so that is what Paul is talking about here. What does it mean to be enlisted? This word that Paul used means to be drafted. Christ has drafted us into his army. It's not a volunteer army, it's not citizen soldiers. We're not minutemen. We're not weekend warriors. We're not in the National Guard. We're full-time soldiers of Christ, right? Wherever we are, whether that's at work or at home, whatever calling. But in particular, Paul is saying to Timothy, who is a spiritual leader in the church in Ephesus, Timothy, as a leader. You must embrace the reality that you are of Christ and that he is the commander of the Lord's armies. Think about Joshua chapter 5 in the Old Testament. where you have the pre-incarnate Christ visiting, and he visits Joshua, who is the commander of Israel's army. And then Joshua is going to get a surprise visit from the commander of the Lord's army. In Joshua chapter 5, it says this. Now it came about when Joshua was by Jericho, he raised his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing opposite him, with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went to him and said to him Are you for us or our enemies? I love this response. Because we often are like, hey, I'm in the Lord's army. He's for us. He's for our church. He's for us. But what does the Lord say? He said, No. Rather I have come now as the captain of the army of the Lord. And Joshua fell on his face to the ground, bowed down, and said to him, What has my Lord to say to his servant? And the captain of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Remove your sandals from your feet, just like the burning bush. For the place where you are standing is holy. And Joshua did so. You know what? The Son of God is saying to Joshua, I'm not here to take sides. I'm here to take over. We are in his army. And he is the commander of that army, and he can instruct us for that purpose. I want to say one thing. Christ has not just invited us, because he's the commander of the Lord's army to join him, but he's actually demonstrated to us what it means to fulfill your mission. He has embraced his mission, so he came to suffer, even though he knew what was going to happen to him. When we embrace our mission and we say, Lord, we'll do whatever you tell us to do, we'll suffer any hardship, we have no idea what we're about to get into. I had no idea 40 years ago as a young person, 40 Eight years ago, when God saved me, what I was about to get into. Yesterday, Carla and I had the privilege of going to my home church's fiftieth anniversary Which was super cool. And in the morning the man who planted the church and started it and was the pastor for forty seven years, then left. He came back to preach. And we had a great service together, then we had a picnic, and then last night I had the craziest, wonderful, most amazing thing spiritually, and that is forty or fifty of us who were teenagers together in the youth group from nineteen seventy-five to eighty-one. We got back together as a reunion last night. And our youth pastor came and spoke to us. You're tempted to do all the crazy stuff you were doing then. And for several hours we shared testimonies of what God has done. Uh several have gone off and were pastors, missionaries, others have lived reality life. And all of us have something that God has been faithful over fifty years. I know I don't look that old. I had no idea what was going to happen to me. The first night I came I got saved at that youth group. One week later there was a hayride and in the 1970s when you went on a youth group hayride, it ends with a bonfire. And you sort of throw something into the fire and you commit something to the Lord or whatever. I've been saved a week. I'm like and everybody's doing stuff. And when it came to my turn, I said what was in my heart. I said, I believe God has called me in the ministry. I've been a Christian for a week. A leader came to me and he said, Well, that's interesting. And he sat with me for about an hour. You know, and he talked to me, but he talked to me about the reality of it. He never said, That's crazy. But he gave me an idea. He'd been to Bible college. He became a medical missionary. But that guy talked to me. He was there last night. It was just a beautiful evening of what God did. And so I had no idea what would happen to me then, but I can say with Jim Elliott. He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. I would not give up one hour, one moment of suffering, one anything in the last forty-eight years of my life that God has been faithful to me in ministry, and He is good. Men, if you have any desire in your heart, men of God in this room, that you feel that God has been working in your heart to be in spiritual leadership in this church. It does not necessarily mean a call to eldership. It means spiritual leadership is more than discipleship. It's not simply saying, I'd like to disciple people better. Great, we can do that But spiritual leadership is to lead multiple people in the framework of either programs or initiatives in which you are leading others spiritually towards the goal of Christ-likeness and evangelism of the nations, to make him known and to know him. Men, if you're in this room and you have been feeling that God is working in your life, In such a way that he has been assuring you, yes, it's time. It's time to come forward with that You cannot possibly give up anything that would be more of a treasure than knowing and serving the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, how do I go forward with that? By knowing that Jesus Christ came and he knew what he was getting into. He knew Herod would try to kill him at his birth He knew his own family would think he was crazy. He knew his hometown would try to kill him. He knew the religious leaders would hate him. He knew the Romans would try and have a kangaroo court. He knew the Jews would choose Barabbas instead of him. He knew who would betray him. He knew his disciples would abandon him. He knew that he would be denied three times by Peter. He knew he'd be crucified. He knew that the thief on the cross would mock him. He knew that he would receive the wrath of the Father. He knew he would be separated from the Father on the cross, and he knew he would bear the penalty of sin, and as a man, he knew he would die. And he came anyway. Whatever you might be counting as a question of the cost of discipleship, men and women in the room. The cost of disobedience is always higher than the cost of discipleship. Right out with me. What do you have to do? If you believe that God has called you to go further and deeper with Him as a soldier of Christ, and particular in leadership than this church, then you have to eliminate your distractions. This is where I'd like to hone down for the remaining three hours of my message. Take a look at verse 4, if you will. No soldier in act of service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life. It's pretty obvious many of you are in the military or have been. My father was. It's pretty obvious that when you were enlisted and then you're trained and you've taken the oath of service and all that's entailed and perhaps you've been assigned, uh you are not your own The type of soldier that Paul is talking about here is not simply, as we said, National Guard are coming in, but this is a full-time soldier in military duty. who is most likely either preparing or is in war. Josephus, the historian, said of the Roman soldiers, why they were so dominant in war, he said this. Their military exercises differ not at all from the real use of their arms, but every soldier is every day exercised, and that with great diligence. As if it were in time of war, which is the reason why they bear the fatigue of battle so easily. In order to eliminate distractions to serve God, we have to see ourselves as not Sunday soldiers, right? We are soldiers all the time in preparation, and again, directly to the men. The three-year spiritual leadership program was boot camp. Now you don't go home and just stay there. You're a soldier. Right out with me. What does it mean that does not entangle himself in the affairs of everyday life? Does that mean I don't eat anymore? You know? I don't go to work if I have a job, that's it. I'm just going to serve the Lord and the church. When Paul says does not entangle himself, the Greek word there is kind of cool, which is it means self-entanglement. does not purposely get themselves so locked into the everyday affairs of life that they weave themselves in there in such a way that they cannot do anything but pull the fabric and destroy it. That is, the person does not get entangled by the world in this verse, but they entangle themselves in regular stuff that's not sinful. Isn't that always the case? The enemy of the best is the good It's a dumb illustration in some sense because it's been so long, but I used to play fantasy football. I'll see you men for counseling afterwards. I gave up about twenty years ago because of verses like this. When I was a teenager, I got really good at it at picking games and then I started a betting system. I wasn't a Christian. And by the time I was done in high school, I was just really great at picking games. And when they invented fantasy football, I started winning national contests in it. And God just gave me this ability to pick games, put players together, do all this stuff, and I became really good at it. And I was a pastor. It was fine when it was just a hobby. And then it became an obsession. Well, nobody in the church knew until we started a fantasy football league in the church. And I won. Pastor J is a sinner. You know? It was harmless. But it became an idol for me. This verse here, Paul is not talking about Give up sinful things in the world. That that is certainly true. Don't love the world. But what he's saying here is don't entangle yourself in regular things, like normal life, commonplace, work a day, typical, routine, usual, ordinary things. Things that aren't wrong. If you want to be men, an officer under the Lord and lead other people spiritually. you are going to have to sacrifice those things which others can do. They're not wrong in themselves. But you are going to have to sacrifice. For everyone in the room, this is really the cost of discipleship, and then questioning the cost of leadership. You know, in Luke 14, when Jesus calls the cost of discipleship. He says, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me, he cannot be my disciple. And he ends with this. So then. None of you can be my disciple who does not give up all of his own possessions. The church is looking forward afterwards for all of you to come up and bring them up here. Is this just hyperbole? Yes, in one sense. He's not asking every single Christian to bring everything they own to church or to sacrifice it, but he's talking about what do you love This is a statement I wrote a few years ago to myself reading the book of Hebrews, and of course, and I just wrote down, Jesus is better than whatever you love. He's better than what you trust. He's better than what you're hoping in. He's better than what you go to He's better than what you enjoy. He's better than what you long for. He's better than what you are attracted to. He's better than what you hide in. He's better than what you seek refuge in. And he's better than whatever you're medicating with. The idea of being called to spiritual leadership is not the idea of just being a soldier. It's a call to a person. It's a call to a person. Paul says this in Philippians: more than that, I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ. A call to spiritual leadership and a call to be a good soldier of Christ is a call to him. Because Paul says in these verses, so that you can please the one who enlisted you. Thomas Guthrie says this If you find yourself loving any pleasure better than your prayers, any book better than the Bible Any house better than the house of God, any table better than the Lord's table, any person better than Christ, and any indulgence better than the hope of heaven, of course, be alarmed I've already quoted it, but a dear friend of mine who is distinguished professor of classics at the University of Colorado and a committed Christian says this. The cost of disobedience is always higher than the cost of discipleship It's coming to a reality that this, if you don't seek first the kingdom of God, then it will in the end not matter what you chose instead. Are you willing to give up and sacrifice things that you know other people can enjoy? The Apostle Paul said, Hey, am I the only apostle who doesn't get a believing wife? Am I the only apostle not taking a salary? What would it be, brothers and sisters, to go deeper in your discipleship? What do you know? That you care about, that's not sin in itself, but you have been thinking for some time that the Lord is saying, This is a distraction. Not just a distraction to get involved in church, but a distraction of knowing Jesus Christ. Well finally I want to talk about establishing your priorities then. Obviously, there has to be a change of mindset. And in first four, it says this, we do all of that so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. I am tempted when you look at a passage like this to simply preach the side of be a good soldier, do it all on your own. But the reality is that enduring hardship, embracing our calling, and eliminating distractions are not ends in themselves. We're not stoics, we're not super soldiers, we are Christians. And so our singular devotion is to Christ, as the Westminster Confession says, what is the chief end of man? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever. The singular devotion of a soldier, then, is to please the one who enlisted them, is to please Christ, to know him relationally. A number of years ago I was thinking about Paul's statement for to me to live as Christ, his singular devotion. And I wrote down nine or ten things that a I won't preach them all through, but just to suggest to you, what does it mean when he says, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain my singular devotion? That Christ was Paul's model, he said, be imitators of me, just as I am of Christ. That Christ was Paul's master, Paul, a bondservant of Christ Jesus. That Paul was, I'm sorry, Christ was Paul's message, for I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. Christ was Paul's mission. I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself so that I may finish the course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify solemnly of the gospel of God's grace. Christ was Paul's means. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Christ was Paul's meaning. That's the point of that passage. For me to live is Christ. Christ was Paul's merit, and not be found in my own righteousness, having been derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ Christ was Paul's motive for living. Brothers and sisters, I do not regard myself as having taken hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead. I pressed on towards the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. And then Paul, as we had suggested before, measured everything in life. against knowing Christ when he said, but whatever things were gained to me, these things I have counted as loss because of Christ. When I think of Christ's calling to spiritual leadership, I think of Peter on the beach and the experience that he had with Christ, and namely Jesus asking him three times, do you love me? And of course then he says, feed my sheep. Peter says, Of course I love you. Of course I love you. Oh man, you know I love you, but I'm really in trouble here. Then feed my sheep. It's the balance of love him, then do ministry. Because your ministry is not your life. Your life is your ministry. And if those things are not in order, don't try to be a spiritual leader in the church. Be a better disciple. Follow Christ and get to a point when you are ready to do that. Last two things I want to say. In any call to men to consider deepening their walk and going into spiritual leadership, I have to say this. There's a return on investment. You get a Lexus. Matthew 19. The end of the run, during the last few weeks of Christ's life, and Peter turns to Jesus after he Jesus had had the encounter with the rich young man who had come up to him. And said, what do I have to do to inherit eternal life? Jesus says, follow all the commandments. The rich among man says, oh yeah, I already did those since I was young. Jesus knows he doesn't didn't. But he loved him, it says, and so he said to him, Then sell everything you have, give it to the poor, and come follow me, and you'll have riches in heaven. And of course he walked away sad. A few verses later, Peter says, See, we've left all and followed you, therefore what shall we have? So Jesus said to them, Assuredly I say to you that in the regeneration, in the kingdom, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of his glory, You who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. I'm wondering how many of us are going to get one of those thrones, right? Okay, you all know that's not true. Okay. That's for the twelve apostles, though only eleven survived out of that. But then Jesus goes on and says, and everyone who has left houses. Or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands. For my sake shall receive a hundredfold and inherit eternal life. And in a parallel passage, it says a hundredfold in this life and in the life to come It's a pretty good investment. I mean, Chester works for Fidelity. But he can't tell you for sure that you get a hundredfold return. That's only happens if you're with Vanguard. Super spiritual people then say I I don't need to hear about rewards. I just love Jesus. I'm super ethically Christian. I don't need any of that. I'll just follow him. Then of course, why would Jesus offer them? But C. S. Lewis in his famous quote about this, it's worth thinking. The New Testament has lots to say about self-denial, but not self-denial as an end in itself. We are told to deny ourselves and to take up our cross as an order. that we may follow Christ. And nearly every description of what we shall ultimately find if we do, so contains an appeal to desire. If there lurks in most modern minds the notion that to desire our own good and earnestly to hope for the enjoyment of it is a bad thing, I submit that this notion has crept in from Kant and the Stoics. It is no part of the Christian faith. Indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the gospels, it would seem that our Lord finds our desire not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered to us, like an ignorant child. who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are too easily pleased, Lewis Sims Thank you guys for doing Izzy Worthy. That's my favorite song. And so I just have a couple things to say, gentlemen. There is no practice life. This is it. Rise up, O men of God. Have done with lesser things. Give heart and soul and mind and strength to serve The King of Kings. Holy, holy, holy. Was the cry of angels there? For the one clothed in righteousness and light beyond compare. Day and night did they attend him and fall prostrate at his feet, for the very name of Jesus is so wondrous and sweet. But a hush fell over heaven and over all of God's domain when the angels saw the Son of God as a lamb for sinners slain. How is it that he's going to be beaten, scourged, and mocked, and on a cross of wood to die? But the angels, I think I've lost my place But the mercy of the Savior kept the angel's legions still when he for you and I went up Calvary's dark hill It was finished was the cry. The price is fully paid. They took him from the cross and then they laid him in the grave. But in three days he was risen. And he's now in heaven above, having shown the world of love men that God is truly love. Holy, holy, holy is the cry of angels there, for the one clothed in righteousness and light beyond compare. Day and night did they attend him and fall prostrate at his feet, for the very name of Jesus is so wondrous and sweet. It's worth your investment. He is worthy. Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending your son. Lord Jesus, thank you for coming. You knew the cost. We cannot do any of this on our own. We must stand in the grace of God. But I ask that in this church that you have so blessed over the years with faithful men and women, Soldiers of the cross, disciples of Christ, and you've given such faithful stewards, leaders here who've loved the word, loved your church. And I pray, Father, that you would raise up an entire new generation of men to help lead this church for your glory. For their good and the good of this church. Father, I pray that you would give the 50th anniversary of this church, that they would be faithful in the Word 25, 27 years from now And Father, I pray that even today, you would get the glory through what you've begun with the men who've been in the program. I pray for them in particular that you'd protect them from the enemy. protect them from the engagements of entangling themselves and things which are good but are distractions to the mission And I pray, Father, that these men would serve you deeply. Their families would flourish. And I do pray for their wives. Father, they have paid a cost. And they are called as soldiers. And Lord, you have given grace to those men you've called into leadership and blessed them with such godly wives. I pray for them that you'd protect them and their children. Pray their children would grow up to be mighty in the scriptures and mighty in the spirit. And that, Father, you would use this for your glory and the good of this church in Jesus' name. Amen.