All right, well welcome back. We're in the book of Romans. Surprise, surprise. And we're in lesson thirty and we're in that section of the the book of Romans on sovereignty chapters nine to eleven and today we're looking Lord willing at Romans nine nineteen to thirty 33 to complete chapter 9. As we've talked about, the section, chapters 9, 10, and 11 are in a larger section that address the question, whatever happened to Israel? And that is a question that comes out of Paul's clear teaching throughout the scriptures. of justification by grace alone through faith alone and all those things. And then when he gets to Romans 8, as we have said, Paul addresses the question of, you know, if you're elect and you're one of God's people, you cannot be lost. You cannot be separated from the love of Christ. And then the implication would be, wasn't that what God said to Israel? Right? So that's where we've been. And if he said that to Israel, and we think then that everyone in Israel was elect because they were his chosen people, the nation, therefore whatever happened to all those people because many of them, and in Paul's time most of them had rejected the Messiah. And Paul has to address this question. If God is faithful and he has to defend God's faithfulness and his righteousness. Because God said, all of my elect will be saved. Okay, so that's the larger picture. We're back to it. And so here are the three things on page one I want to address before we get into the text formally, and that is three things. There's a theme in chapter nine We'll talk about that. Number two, I want to talk about what we talked about last week, only literally for two minutes to review that we had ten points that we went through. And then finally, what is the outline for today in Romans 9 19 to 33, and then we'll jump into those four points. Alright, so the theme of Romans 9 is very simple. Three things are in this chapter. Number one, God's word always accomplishes God's purpose. My word never comes back to me void. And so God saves everybody intends to save. Number two, God's purpose is to bring glory to himself. It everything he does, he accomplishes that. And then thirdly, this chapter in particular addresses the question and the point, God is glorified in the salvation of the elect And the damnation of the lost. This is a hard doctrine, and yet Romans 9 speaks to that very point So what are the ten things that we said last week in Romans 9, 1-18, just quickly to review if you weren't here, because it would be hard not to speak about those things first. The Word of God causes salvation only in the elect. These were points from the passage last week. Only the elect will respond to the outward call and the means of growth. Election does not follow bloodlines were children of Abraham. Ishmael was, but he wasn't chosen. Uh election does not follow that. Fourth, the Abrahamic covenant, the promise of land, seed, and blessing, is rooted in sovereign election. It is not rooted in Abrahamic faithfulness. Abraham gave his wife away twice, you know. He couldn't even become an elder at Hope Bible Church, let alone let alone serve as the leader of anything, but none of us could do that. None of us are faithful. Election does not follow airlines, okay? Anne had a very good thing last week, but uh just because you're the firstborn doesn't mean you get the rights to it. And God switches the rights of the air, often switching the primogent Giving another right to the younger person. And then election is not based, number six, on the foreseen merit of the individual. That's very clear. God didn't say, who are the good people? They'll be in heaven uh nobody would be there. Number seven, election is based solely on the eternal sovereign purpose of God and choosing to save whoever he desires to Number eight, Romans 1-18 says, election determines who are the recipients of divine privileges and demonstrates God's favor towards some and the passing over of others. I've had mercy on whom I have mercy. Uh I harden who I harden. I raised up Pharaoh for this very purpose. And all of that is accomplished in there. Number nine, election is a mercy Election is not arbitrary, it's a mercy. No one deserves it. Mercy has been extended to some, and God does not extend mercy to everyone. And so, just like a judge or a political official, a president who pardons people, uh, you can pardon criminals. Uh if they pardon some but don't pardon others, is it unjust? No, it's a mercy. To pardon anyone is a mercy because they're guilty. So a pardon by its very nature is mercy. And that's what God has done. He has now He has paid, it's not simply a pardon, He paid the cost of all of us But he has pardoned some and others who are just as guilty. One murderer walks free and the other doesn't. It's not fair. You're both murderers That's what happened on the thief on the cross thing. They had that conversation. Right. He's like, hey, we deserve this. This guy doesn't deserve this And one of the guys like, well, this is not fair, and the other guy's like, you deserve this, man. And that's the point of Romans 9. We all deserve help. That God chooses to pardon a few is his mercy and it's his right. He is the supreme ruler over all of mankind. And that is just the point. And then number ten, as we saw, election and not so-called free will is the backstory for every saved person. Romans 9, 16. So then it does not re depend on the man who wills or on the man who man who runs, but on the will of God and his elective choice. Okay? So that brings us back up to today. Oh boy. So what's today's outline? I wish it was like rabbits and bunnies. Just today we're gonna talk about bunnies. When I was leaving my house this morning, across the street He does a bunny. Boing boing boing boing. Such a good morning. You're just like, I feel good today, you know? I saw a bunny, you know So four things today I see in the passage, verses 19 to 33. Number one, that election demonstrates God's sovereign right as a creator. to do as he pleases with his creatures, while justly holding them accountable for their sin. How does he do it? I don't know. Paul, I'm gonna just tell you up front, Paul doesn't tell you how, right? Paul just says, hey, that's how it rolls. That's how it rolls. God gets to do what he wants, and then he gives the two examples, one of which is the potter and the clay. And we'll talk about that Number two, election does not follow ethnic lines. Okay? It doesn't follow airlines, the oldest born. It doesn't follow national lines through the big inheritance of Abraham. But it's also not an ethnic thing, and we'll look at that. Thirdly, election is the key to understanding all of Israel's past, present, and future. Whatever happened to Israel is embedded in Romans 9. What happened in their past was predicted. What's happening right now in this age was predicted by the prophets. And what's going to happen is in Romans 11, it's predicted already. They're going to be restored. And Jeremiah told us, they're coming back. Ezekiel said they're going to bring life to those dead bones. God's not done with Israel. But all of this has been portrayed in Scripture, and Paul's picking those themes up and saying, listen, it's going to come back But what's happening now is exactly what God told you would happen. They're going to be out of the way. The Gentiles for a time will look like they're ascending, and then God will bring it all back together in the kingdom And then finally, election is the key to understanding the current church age. Why aren't more Jewish people believers in this age? Because God is giving mercy to the Gentiles. It's not because we're better. As we're going to see in a few minutes, we got in the same exact way Israel did. Paul's point in Romans 9 is: you know, only people who are elect in Israel got saved? No way. Only Gentiles who are left get saved. No way. And it had nothing to do with us. And so there's. Okay, we're on page two then. And let's start on the first point then. Election demonstrates God's sovereign right as a creator to do as he pleases with his creatures, while justly holding them accountable for their sin and rebellion. The passage says this, you will say to me then, Paul anticipates that question based on our ten points from last week. Why does God s why does he still find fault for who resists his will? So if God sovereignly chooses, doesn't that make everybody a robot? And they're not responsible for the robotic actions. Verse 20. On the contrary, who are you, O man, who answers back to God? The thing molded will not say to the molder, why did you make me like this? Will it? Or does not the potter have a right over the clay to make from the same lump? one vessel for honorable use and another for common use. You know, it's a principle that it would be very difficult to receive Jesus as Savior. if you reject him as creator. Chapter 9 is about the creator God. And we hold we have a God who is creator and savior. And his as creator, he's sovereign. He made the world the way he wanted to. The world is what he wants. He governs it. Weather is under his command. Everything's under God's command. He's the creator, sovereign God. Who happens also to be our Savior. And so chapter nine is about, do you embrace him as creator? If you're already saved, you should, right? And that's what chapter 9 is. Do you embrace his sovereignty in all that he's doing? So, um, verse 22. What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath And to make his power known, endured with much patience, vessels of wrath, prepared for destruction. And he did so to make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory. Now I'm gonna shtick, but let me shtick before I shtick. Uh what might upset many is even if you agree with all that the apostle says, and you should, we sh w w this is all we've got. This is what God said. These words prepared. uh fumble. We know that foreknowledge and everything from Romans eight is part of election and God prepared you beforehand does not mean for the elect. It does not mean he put a special little chip in the elect so that it would get activated, some sort of natural you know what I mean, or inside of your spirit. He did not prepare. He did nothing to the elect, the individual spirit, to cause it to come to life and believe. That's all done in time and space. Because Roman Ephesians 2 says that we, the elect, were by nature children of wrath. There's nothing different in the elect. To be prepared beforehand is not to be changed or d you didn't exist beforehand. But rather to be prepared beforehand is the same as foreknowledge and predestination. It is the choosing of you and prepared for your destiny What troubles Christians at uh often is that second part, or the first part, vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. God did not make unbelievers want to go to hell. He did not cause unbelievers. He allowed us, without doing something different in them, to do exactly what they wanted to do. So they were prepared before him. What does that mean? Chosen? God predestined people But the distinction is, and we're going to get into, he causes one to believe. He does not cause anyone to reject that is sufficient in themselves. That's th why Romans chapter three was, everyone's depraved, no one seeks after God. It troubles the mind to know that God knows. But other our other alternative is God didn't know that they were not going to believe. But God prepared beforehand the vessels of wrath. He knew who they were, he knew what they would do. He chose to make a world in which that was the case. He did not force anyone into hell. That's different. The scriptures say that God gets no pleasure in the death of the wicked. However, It's double predestination, but it is not double causal. God predetermined the elect's final destination. Then in time and space he causes you to believe He predetermined those who would reject him that their final destiny is hell. For those who reject him, their destiny is hell But he did not cause them to disbelieve. They naturally did. And left to ourselves, we're all on that train. It's a mercy. God said everybody on the train is going to hell So I'm gonna choose some to show my mercy on. That's the nature of God's sovereign work. Um the idea that God is like Oh no! It's messing up the plan! Uh it's uh Alright, so let me make some points then. I don't even know if I finish reading. Uh yes they did. Alright, A through D. Some quick points. Uh Paul finds this objection disrespect respectful and rebellious. You know, at this point, typically you're asked by Christians, someone will say, how? And I'm like, I don't know, Paul doesn't tell us. Paul doesn't even try to address this question. Why does he find fault? Who can resist his will? Aren't we just robots? And Paul's like, give it up, man. You know? Be a Christian. Do you believe God's sovereign? Yes. Can God do whatever he wants? Yes. Are you offended by his choice? That's Paul's point. You're offended, aren't you? That God didn't do something different. And Paul's point is he finds it disrespectful. He says, Who are you, O man, to answer back to God? That is that's Paul the Apostle's response to us. Don't be disrespectful. Accept God's sovereignty and be grateful. And be grateful. Be Paul launches a counter-attact, right? On the contrary. Who are you, O man? I think what Paul's done here is he's fast-forwarded to a scene in heaven, if you will. As if we got to go to heaven and ask a question. I got a question. Oh, this doesn't seem fair to me And Paul's like, this isn't gonna go well. This is gonna be a bad scene. And Paul's just like, listen, stop. Accept what I'm saying. If you have this question, you understand the apostle is teaching sovereign election Otherwise you wouldn't have an objection that says, so who resists his will? But Paul's saying, don't go any further with that. Trust the sovereign God that he will do the right thing. No one is going to hell in an unjust way. Nobody it's not unjust. Secondly, people are totally culpable for their sins. How can the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man work together? I don't know. Paul doesn't tell us. They're both true. But one does not negate the other. What people try to do is say, because man is responsible, God can't be making choices. No. Or if God's making choices, men are robots. No. God says they're both true. People justly and sovereignly go to hell because they want to choose against God On the other side, God chooses some of us. None of us are good, but He chooses some of us to be saved. He chose the weak things of the world. He chose, you know, and that offends some. They're like, no, I'm I'm major league, you know. No, that's a great question uh in Peter where it says God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance Who are the all? Yeah, and you go, oh that's just your theology bearing. Uh that passage is written to Christians. Okay. He calls them the beloved and all those things, calls them his And it's in the context, I'll just quickly. The context is Paul uh Peter's talking about the end times and how God seems to be taking forever to get to that point. People are like, Well, he's not coming. There he's he's never gonna come. And then Peter says, A thousand years is like a day to the Lord, days like a thousand years. I he's not slow concerning his promises. He's going to get there. But people are like uniformitarianism, they're like, oh the world's just the same. He's never coming back. This is all a hoax. And Peter's argument, I believe, in that that verse is to say this. Because p Peter starts the book by calling people elect. To the elect who are in Bithynia and whatever. He starts talking to the elect. And what he says is, Peter's really saying God has elect people that he hasn't saved yet, and so the world's not going to end until the day they're all in. God is not willing that any should perish, any of the elect that I've talked about. But all should come to repentance. And so God is slow in his wrath, and he's allowing the world to go through these things, uh, is just one of the possible explanations. Is that helpful? Good. All right Um have no idea where I'm at. B. No, no. I just make this stuff up anyway. Yes, guy. No, really well said, because even in verse 23, and he did this to make known the riches of his glory uh of pond vessels of mercy, right? He did it to show the richness of all of it. Yeah. But we're so smart we got it. No, the the acceptance look and and then just look the week I just had is nothing compared to some of the weeks of the prayer request that we are praying for as a church, right? We all know that people go through various times. But when I look at all that happened in my last week, I truly, not just because I believe in the theology of it, but truly, I believe that God is good And whatever happens to me, I deserve worse. And it was for the purposes of making me more like Christ. I really believe that. And so when the first thing I ru when I heard about Glenn's death was Lord, you're gonna use this for your glory, you're gonna use this for purposes. Um and then I cried, but then you know, all of that. So Alright, um so B. So he's talking about the creator versus the creature, the potter and the clay. My sister-in-law, Kim, uh is an art teacher, has been for 40 years, and she's a wonderful potter And we have some of her glorious stuff that she's done by hand. I've never made more than one or two little things in a class, you know, in pottery. Are any of you potters who do hand pottery? Oh, Jessica? Okay. Could you come forward? No, just uh Um and I'm fascinated, right? We've all seen it, we've all watched it happen with the molding and all those things. And uh we know that you can't really go in and tell a potter while they're doing their thing, hey no, do it a different way or move your hand or whatever. They are sovereign over the clay. And Paul's illustration is just to that point. The potter gets to make the call, not the clay. Um and then see vessels prepared for destruction, as I said, God endured with much patience. He demonstrated his wrath, he made known his power, and as Scott has well said, the distinction being In God's mercy to us who are vessels of honor is not because of the the clay. The clay is the same. They're they're they're both evil. But he shows his mercy and his grace and his love towards those, and he shows his wrath and his justice towards those who perish. And all of that demonstrates the attributes of God. Right? All of that. God's glory, the the showing forth of who he is, is done in salvation. But it is also done in God's just passing over of those who are going to perish. And like Scott has said, when we get to heaven, there's no doubt that we will see this in a much broader light and be able to embrace the sovereignty with much more worship, much more joy. And then D, Vessels of Mercy, made known the riches of his glory. Um that's what our salvation experiences. Every day we live we have opportunity to learn more of the mercy of Jesus towards us. And every day that we don't fulfill our side of the covenant, of the new covenant, there's one more day where we're saying Jesus is awesome. This is not about me. All right, but the dilemma. Man's condition is terminal, we know that. He's a prisoner to sin and Satan. He's blind, deaf, hateful towards God, dead spiritually, completely powerless to response. But doesn't man have free will? You're free to choose anything off the buffet of your fallen nature. Right? Here you are Welcome to the buffet. Remember, this is Dave Isn't that what isn't that what Paul said he buffeted his body? Oh he buffeted his body. Oh, oh, okay, all right. So the will, is it free? The implication of this is who resists his will? If God is sovereign in his will, Who then could resist his will? Just quickly, the idea that man, mankind, could get out of their predicament of their sin by the exercise of their will. My will will get me out of this problem of sin. This will will get me out of this depravity. And does men have free will? And that's what we're going to talk about, three options. But basically, is the will free From the man himself. That is, you have a free will that's free from the man. You'd have a will that's sovereign and autonomous and none of the nature of the person affects it. It's its own little castle of power. Then you don't have a free will. The will is free. You see what I mean? It's not part of you. Or is the will free from your nature? Your mind and your affections telling your will what to believe and how they what they want? Is your will free from your nature? Uh no, we're gonna look at scripture. And your will has to do, your will is not a separate thing, it's not a thing acting on its own. No one has a free will free from its own nature. Not even God God does not have the kind of free will that some people want for human beings. Say, what do I mean? God cannot choose to be not God. Can you choose to be not depraved? Some of the verses that we're going to look at, Jesus said, so a bad apple tree can't make itself good. A leopard can't change its spots. It just is And so we can't change that. God cannot stop being God and God cannot sin. It's against his nature God cannot choose not to be God. It's God cannot sin. Not it doesn't just say God doesn't want to sin By very nature of God he cannot, and so his mind and affections, if you will, cause him constantly to do that which is right, because he always does he cannot do otherwise. But man wants to posit. But I'm I got a better will than God. See, mine is free to do whatever I want against my nature? No! You will do what but you will make free moral choices. God makes free moral choices. He's not caused by his nature to do so, but he cannot go against his nature He cannot be constrained to do otherwise. So when you say Bangkok would is uh in his free will isn't bonded to him. Mm-hmm. Look at the bottom of page two, you already killed it That's right. The the will beautiful, beautiful. The will is in bondage. How many of you have read Martin Luther's book, The Bondage of the Will? Anybody? Yeah, John? Philip? John Philip Souza? Okay. Right. Luther's book is called The Bondage of the Will. It was a key to the Reformation discussion. And yes, e excellent book. And it's all on this principle. That inside a closed system of depravity. You're making free moral choices all the time inside the system, but the will is in bondage to the nature of man. and cannot be otherwise, so God comes in and brings power into a dead system from outside and regenerates the person, making them alive so that they can now with their now freed will Choose Christ freely. And regeneration is what brings you back to life. It's good. Good stuff. So man, does he have a free will? Let's talk about that really quickly. So what do we mean by free will? Or what do we mean by the will? The ability to choose, the power of choice, so is man's will free? And I give some things, is it free from these things? Is it free from God? No, when people talk about free will, they want to talk about autonomous will that is not influenced by anything. It's not free It's libertarianism in theology, not in politics. Libertarianism is my will cannot be constrained by anything or else it's not free It cannot be influenced by anything, or it's not free will. So theologians who posit this want absolute free will, that it can do anything Well, you don't have free will against God. He can restrain it or do as he wishes. Um, influenced by Satan? Are you free from that? Yes, no. Not as an unbeliever, you're a you're a slave to Satan, Scripture says. How about your heredity? I choose not to be Irish. My will wills it. Fine, you're still Irish, dude. And by heredity, of course, I mean physical characteristics, etc. or your mind or affections or your IQ. And I mean that is if your IQ is that of a Las Vegas Raiders fan. You can't I can't I can't I had to go there. Um but if it if but uh IQ tells your will something, right? You only have so much to filter. Are you able then to just change your IQ because your will no How about gravity? You know I choose not to die after I've thrown myself out of an airplane that's from thirty-five thousand feet without a parachute My will chooses it when I hit the ground. No, you don't you can't control gravity. Uh blah blah blah Your environment, and then finally his nature, that is not God's nature, but the person in question. Can you go against your nature? Your nature will influence your will. That's the point And so no one has free, autonomous, completely libertarian will. There is no such thing. Everyone's will does that which you believe to be the best action and you desire to do Everyone chooses their own good. So yeah, but blah but you always choose what you think is the best course of action, even if it's thin. You think it's best for you at the moment. Okay. All that's a w is the will of man free from what he himself is? Let me just do a few verses. Um make a tree good and its fruit will be good. Or make a tree bad and its fruit will be bad. For a tree is recognized by its fruit. You brood of vipers, how can you who are evil say anything good? For out of the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks. The good man brings good things out of the good stored up in him, and the evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in him. Now we can study this passage. Jesus is not making two categories of people the good people and the bad people. He's saying the regenerate and the unregenerate, but we'll c we'll continue. For as you think in your heart, or as he thinketh in his heart, so is he And can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then you can do good who are accustomed to doing evil. Jeremiah 13. The point is we are by nature what we are. Nobody can change what you are. Uh that's just the way it is. And so the will is either part of what the man is, and therefore it proves the point. Uh it's part of what the man does, and it proves the point out of the heart. flows the issues of life out of the will. You are what you are. Or, as I said, it stands between the man and the action or outside of it. Then there is no free will, as the man is not making the decisions. The will is Right? The will is a separate being on its own, making decisions. You're not free, you're just going along with it anyway. See, you're trapped. There is no such thing as autonomous free will As my brother said, it's the bondage of the will. Please all go home and read that book. It's really f really fun. Yeah, it's really good. Really good. You know, wait for the movie. If it's a Christian movie, it's like Bondage Breaker. You know? James Bondage. I'm waiting for the Born Conspiracy movies to come out with Born Again. This is a Christian version, yeah? So all right, enough said. Alright, second point, top of page three. This is our second of the four points today. Election does not follow ethnic lines, right? Paul's very clear here. And that is verse 24. Even us Now let's go back. Who's he talking about in the verse before? Verse 23. He did so to make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy Which he prepared beforehand for glory. Then look at verse 24 at the top of page 3. Even us. Even us. whom he also called not from the Jews only, but also from among Gentiles. Thank God. For he says also in Hosea, I will call those who are not my people my people, and her who was not beloved. Beloved, we all know the book of Hosea. There's the story of Gomer. She was a prostitute. God told the prophet to marry her. And he does, and she's an unfaithful wife. She runs off in prostitution several times. And eventually, because he had every right to divorce her Every right. God tells him, now go find her. And she is in a market being sold as a prostitute. She is naked, she's standing in a market, and they're going to sell her. And Hosea shows up and buys her back That is God's picture of what He's doing with Israel in history. I chose you to be mine. You've been unfaithful to me the entire time I've known you. And Romans 11, and I'm going to buy you back. And that's what God does to us in the new covenant. I chose you, I saved you. Lord, I'm not worthy of it. I don't do what I'm supposed to do. I mean I did go to Dave's class because that was the best I could do. You know. Oh dear. And God's like, I own you, I love you. Uh you're mine Alright, a few points then A through D. Oh, I didn't even finish reading. I'm sorry. Wow, I'm so excited. Verse 26. And it shall be that in the place where it was said to them You are not my people. There they shall be called sons of the living God. So A We are the vessels of mercy that Paul has been describing. God can make children of Abraham out of rocks. I can call Gentiles my people and begin to save them. Why? Because remember the whole passage is about God's sovereign choice. I can even turn to people who are not my people, who don't want me, who are in another olive tree, the wild one. They don't know anything. They rebel against me. They're idolaters. And I can save them and bring them to holiness. And that is us. And then see, election is not based on heritage, family lines, blood lines, nationality, ethnicity, or social status, but only on the sovereign pleasure of God. I have mercy on whom I have mercy. And thus in heaven it's a great multitude of all over the world. Um and then D, Israel's privileges and promises do not inherently exclude the Gentiles from being included Uh what we're about to read uh is that Paul's um Paul's description of the Jewish rebellion is that it included not just rejecting Messiah, but the idea that they thought they were the only people of God and that they were worthy of that distinction. And Paul is being very careful here to say their their privileges doesn't mean that Gentiles could not be included. Now I have to do something here. And that is described calling again. Okay? We've done it in brief and in if you listened to my sermon last week for some reason, uh, when you were there that I talked about the word calling, bear with me, because there's a lot that I didn't talk about. And so in this passage, he says in verses twenty-four to twenty-six, even as whom he called And I will call them my people, this whole theological calling. Let me do that quickly. I'll try not to bear too far down on it, but I think these points are very helpful. Again, what is effective calling is an act of God the Father, speaking through the human proclamation of the gospel in which he summons people to himself in such a way that they respond in saving faith. The general call we know is the proclamation of the gospel, the effectual call, it's a gracious work of the Spirit whereby he causes us to embrace Christ freely as he's offered to us in the gospel. Again, we've talked about this at some length, but I just want to again say this very thing. Calling is that big picture in which God regenerates, come to life, bring somebody back from the dead, and that person, you. At the moment of your conversion, your mind was reawoken spiritually. You were able to see for the very first time. You understood the gospel. You did not three minutes before And light rushed in like Wesley talks about in the hymn, and your chains were broken. And you could see for the first time in the dungeon. And at that moment God opened your affections to love him and to choose him and to desire him in ways that you have not, and for his glory. And it is then with your now, I'm going to use the word freed will. It was free now from the bondage of depravity and now able to choose Christ. And it was at that moment you turned to Christ. And you believed in him and you loved him and you wanted to be saved. And it was in that glorious moment of conversion that your faith was a gift. God did not believe through you. Right? Faith is not a thing. God didn't give you faith because there's no such thing as faith the thing. Faith is an operation of the inner person. It includes the mind, will, and affections. But God's the gift of faith is God's regenerative work. And the part we don't understand, the mystery of the Spirit Causing you to see Christ and embrace Him freely, causing free. Not a contradiction, but it's a paradox. God in that moment causes by the work of the Spirit Your free desire to know Christ and you choose him. But three minutes before, as I said, nothing Why? Because you were dead. Right? God's coming in a you know Another movie. Freed Willie. Very good very good, Julie. Very good. Freed Willie. The bondage of the Freed Willy, so um the Freed Willie. I need to stop teaching this stuff, it's just um So I've lost that point. But anyway, moving right along. So when we talk about irresistible grace, let's put it in its context, you talk about the five points of Calvinism. In a few minutes I'm going to talk about Calvinism. At Hope Bible Church. We're not trying to say we're Calvinist. I call myself a Calvinist, but what I mean is different than what some people mean. But we don't preach Calvin. We're not followers of Calvin He just happened to get it right on a few points. Okay? But one of those points, and tulip, is irresistible grace. Understand that when we use that phrase, it is equivalent to calling In this moment, that action of God on your soul was irresistible. But if you think of irresistible as you did not act, then that's not true. God resurrected you, and then you wanted to follow him. It's the picture of the of several of the healings of blind men in the in the New Testament. Or the demoniac in the Gazarenes He's brought back and he's clothed and in his right mind. And he doesn't say, well, if I got that's over with, I'm gonna go become a taco salesman. You know? He's like, I want to follow you That's what the inclined and new heart does, right? And so it's it's that desire. You wanted to be saved because God opened your heart. Yes, sir? You have no you have no sovereign choice. But yet in God's mystery, He made it so that you did choose. And again, the mystery is He did not choose through you. Right. He made it so that you would. You know, it's a silly illustration, but we've talked about some of the things about hardening and those things. Uh think of this. Water. Water reacts to its environment. If the environment is such that the air temperature goes to a certain low point, water will freeze. Uh if you bring the temperature around it to a high point, it will boil. It's still water. And yet water just did what water does. The new, revived, regenerated, new person Loves God. And so God raised the temperature or he froze the moment, and in you did what you do. But you did it You believed because you're also culpable for not believing. It's a mystery, it's a paradox, but God has made it so that man is real and man's choices are real And we're not robots and we're not just godbots. Because God said, I could make believers out of rocks. If I want people to worship me, I just make robots. But I've made people in my image and they have wills. And so he doesn't bypass the will. He causes the will by actions that when he regenerates it, it's like the ring wants to be found. For those of you who love Lord of the Rings. It wants to be found. Alright, so irresistible grace, let's quickly do that. It's a term that refers to the fact that God effectively calls people, gives them regeneration, both of which guarantee that we will respond in saving faith. That's what we've been saying. Alright? So here's some bullet points. The general call of the gospel is not merely an invitation, but a moral command of God. When people do not respond to the general call, it's not just like, yeah, they weren't uh you know, God what does this say in my in bold? I say, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent It's the summons of a king. It is not simply the call of a lover. It is not God just saying, I really love you guys, would you come home? It's the summons of a king. I command you to repent and believe the gospel. And to reject the gospel is disobedience. Many hear the general call. We've said this passage several times in the last few weeks of the gospel, but only the elect will be saved, for many are called, but few are chosen. The call is irresistible. Excuse me. I use it from the parable, but then the master told the servant, Go out on the roads and country lanes, and make them come in So that my house will be full. Now you don't want to get your theology out of a parable, but I'm theologizing this parable. Everyone God calls effectively will be saved and will have eternal life. And those he predestined, he called, he called, he justified, he justified, he glorified. The preaching of the gospel of the general call is the general call, which we will be resisted unless God overcomes it in the elect Those who receive the effectual call will believe the effectual call is based on God's choice alone, not on our foreseeing good, and this is to ensure that all the glory goes to God alone. This is a longer passage, I want to read it because we usually don't use it from Corinthians Excuse me. Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles. But to those whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than man's wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than man's strength. Brothers, think of what you were when you were called I have no idea. Page one page three. First Corinthians uh one, I'm in the bottom of page three. And uh in the bold when you were called Is that helpful? Not many of you were wise by human standards. Not many were influential. Not many were of noble birth. You know that famous quote from Queen Elizabeth, who had come to Christ, and she said, Thank God for the letter M. Not many, could have been not any. Not any noble. Not any wise. She said, thank God for the letter M And so. But verse 27. But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong. He chose the lowly things of this world and the despised things and the things that are not to nullify the things that are. So that no one may boast before him. If it's God's choice and it's God's election, then no one can boast. It is because of him that you are in Christ Jesus. That should kind of settle it Just have that tattooed. Was it my faith? Was it my it is because of him that you're in. That's what this whole passage is about. Who has become for us wisdom from God, that is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Therefore it is written, let him who boast boast in the Lord That verse is about sovereign election. Boast in the Lord that He saved you and not you yourself. All right, a few others on page four. God's choice to effectually call is based on his Sovereign purpose and grace alone. We're said this thirty-six times. God's choice to do this was before time, who has saved us and called us to a holy life, not because of anything we've done, but because of his own purpose and grace. This grace was given to us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time. It is not only possible but imperative that we understand our calling election, to make your calling election sure. And then after giving a general gospel call, Jesus explains why some believe and others remain in the sin of unbelief. The difference according to Jesus is in God and not in man. While Jesus is instructing his disciples and he takes them on the road and they go into these different things, it was the incident in John 6 where he is preaching and there's thousands that are gathered. I think there's 5,000 there, but there was thousands that are gathered, and Jesus is preaching at the megachurch. Right? And then he gets up and he speaks on two subjects that are offensive. Eat my flesh and drink my blood. And they're like, that's a hard thing. And he also said this, none of you can come to me unless the Father draws you Well the Pharisees were sure they were number one already in. And number two, they had every faculty within themselves to come to whatever they needed to do. And he's like, and those two things offended them, and so they ended up with twelve people. Everyone else left. Right? And so this is the passage on that, sorry. Then Jesus declared, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry, he who believes in me will never be thirsty. But as I told you, you have seen me and still you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. So all are going to come, right? The elect No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. So those are the combo, right? Everyone the elect's gonna come. But nobody's going to come who's not drawn. And I will raise him up on the last day. On hearing it, many of his disciples said, this is a hard teaching. Who can accept it? And he's talking about divine election. Aware that his disciples were grumbling about this, Jesus said to them, read Calvin Does this offend you? That's that's Paul's point in Romans 9. Does this offend you? Okay. What if you see the Son of Man ascend to where he he was before? He's he's the supreme authority. The Spirit gives life, the flesh counts for nothing. The words I've spoken to you are spirit and they are life. Yet there's some of you who do not believe. For Jesus had known from the beginning which of them did not believe and who would betray him. He said, He went on to say And he's saying to his disciples who've just watched a 5,000-person worship service going down to 12. And this is what he says to them as a lesson for ministry. This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has enabled them. I wish every seminary student would get this. Jesus said, I told you they weren't going to believe. That's why I told you that they cannot come unless they are drawn by the Father. Because the guys are like, what just happened? 4,988 people just left. That's why I told you about election From this time, many of his disciples turned back and no longer followed him. No man, that can't be right. That's not right. And then but Peter in that famous scene says, Where were you to go? You have the words of eternal life. I think I'll accept the election. Number three then, election is the key to understanding Israel's past, present, and future. Simply in these these three verses So Isaiah cries out concerning Israel. This is Paul's point now to say, so why is Israel on the side? It's not simply election, it's their disobedience. It's man's responsibility and God's sovereignty. Here we go. Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sands of the sea, it is the remnant that will be saved. For the Lord will execute his word on the earth thoroughly and quickly, and just as Isaiah foretold, unless the Lord of Sabia Have left to us a posterity, we would have become like Sodom and would have resembled Gomorrah. Sovereign election is the only thing that kept Israel alive, not their keeping of the law. And that is how churches are too. There's always a remnant in every age. Sometimes there's very few. Elijah said there's nobody who still believes And God said, Well I got seven thousand heaven bow bow bowed the knee to Baal. There's always a sovereign remnant that God is saving. But don't look at the exterior of the church to determine if the work of God is being accomplished. You just don't know. In any age. Well they're not in the churches in America or blah blah blah. They gotta raise the Zillion people in China, or Zillion people in Mongolia, or God's work is doing its thing. It's not national, it's not ethnic, it's not a place, it's not it's not any local church. Local churches come and go, the seven churches of Revelation They're all gone. And they were terrible by the end of the first century anyway, four of them. So, four points. The remnant equals the elect in every age. Not all Israel is Israel His point is, though the number of the people in Israel is huge, only the people who I'm saving, the elect, are true Israel. B. God's word always accomplishes God's will. Verse 28 That's where I got that. For the Lord will execute his word on the earth thoroughly and quickly. God is always saving and always accomplishing his glory, even though it doesn't look like it to us. Thirdly, the prophets predicted Israel's current Unbelief. That's what Isaiah said, and Isaiah's saying, hey, unless of the lecture remnant, there isn't going to be anybody left. Everybody's going to be an unbeliever. And then finally, D, unless the Lord sovereignly elects and saves, no so-called people of God will endure to the next generation. But if we homeschool, we can pass it on if they're elect This is look no matter what I say it it can be read either way that I'm reducing I'm minimalizing effort of parents or I'm overdoing sovereignty or I'm not whatever but Just a word for parents in the room who have young adults or adult children, and they're not all believers. Um I said this in church, but God's hand is not shortened that he cannot save. Many of us have seen people come to Christ at near the end of their life or at an older age. That's one thing. Number two, it did not necessarily mean your parenting failed. You cannot change the hearts of other people. You can roll away the stones, you imperfectly parent, you will imperfectly love Jesus. It is not your fault that anyone goes to hell. They will choose that. But what about the watchman? The watchman was responsible to be a watchman, but it's just like, again, with Jesus and Lazarus Coming back from the dead, you roll away the stones, God makes them alive. Don't give up. And if you've done poorly Confess it to God, confess it to your children. I wasn't as good a parent as I should have been. I I failed as a parent or I I did I I could have done this better. Those are all true things Have a soft heart. Work with your young adult children and tell them, I could have done a better job or I was moralistic or I failed you in this regard or I wasn't home when you needed help. Those can all be true, but at the end of the day, that person is a hundred percent morally responsible. And I used to say this to my boys in jest and truth. I said, until tw you're twenty-five, you can blame me After that you're on your own. Both of my sons are over twenty-five, right? You know? So All right. And then number four, election is the key to understanding the current age. Why is Israel rejecting the gospel? Verses 30 to 33. What shall we say then, Paul says? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness attain righteousness, even the righteousness was by faith. So let me get this straight. There's an award ceremony. The guy didn't work. He's been out in the parking lot busting open Budweisers. And God's going to give out an award ceremony where tremendous riches are going to be given. The guy just walks in the room and he gets it. I'm not trying to blend the moral versus whatever, but that's the implication that Paul's addressing. So the Gentiles who've been completely out of the game, who hate God, who are idolaters, who whatever, these terrible people are getting in. Uh, that's Micah, the book of Micah, that's other books, it's like, how could God use unrighteous people? to accomplish his purposes. Now at the end of the day, 1500 years we're following you, and now you're just going to willy-nilly give it to the Gentiles who are horrible? Oh great That doesn't seem good or fair. That's why Paul says, what should we say then to this? That the Gentiles who didn't even pursue righteousness attained it? Even the righteousness was you're saving these people? This is the prodigal son's story. And we know that the prodigal son story is not about the prodigal son. It's about the older brother, right? That's what it's about. And that's what this is addressing. Paul's saying as it uh from the Jewish perspective, this isn't fair. I've served you this whole time, I'm the older brother. And you're gonna give this to these people from the pig pen who just want you're doing this And then verse 31, but Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, a law of righteousness, did not arrive at that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as though it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone. This is Paul's way of ending this chapter, in which he has said, God is sovereign, and only those he has chosen will be saved. But this is his appropriate way of saying, but don't think that the choice of people does not matter. They rejected God's revelation, they chose their own way of religion, and they decided to turn it into works because of their pride. As a Roman Catholic, that's exactly where I was, thinking I could get saved by my good works. And so that's his warning to us. And verse 33. Just as it is written, now he goes to Scripture to make his point from the Old Testament. Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And he who believes in him will not be disappointed. That's Christ, as we read in Corinthians, right? To the unbeliever, he's a stone of offense. He's a rock of stumbling. But to the believer, oh, he's the rock of salvation. That same rock can kill you or can hold you up. And so that my final points there are very simple. We've read the text. The Gentiles have received sovereign mercy. They did not pursue it. That's Paul's point in all of this. Nobody pursued it. It's always been by sovereign grace. And the Jews rejected salvation by grace alone through faith alone in the Messiah and created a religion of works. It's not simply a religious mistake, but rather a rejection of Christ as Lord and Savior. And the offense that is being spoken of comes in not admitting I'm a sinner, I can't save myself, or thinking that it's my ethnicity or family or religion that gets me in with God rather than his grace. Alright, I have one last thing I want to say today, page five. Pages six to eight are the same Last three pages I had in there last week, which we're never gonna get to on election. They're for your enjoyment I want to talk about Calvinism for a moment, because people will say, is that Calvinism or whatever? No, it's the apostle. Deal with the apostle. Okay. Um the last church I was in, the pastor, just like Pastor Tom had a radio program, uh Pastor Philip had a radio program in California, and you can hear it here locally if you want to from the pastor I served under. But in his radio program, of course like Pastor Leek, you would get letters from listeners. Asking theological questions. I had the opportunity on a number of occasions to write an answer to those theology questions. This was one of them. And a listener wrote in and said Are you guys Calvinist? And said some pejorative things about it. It's like, well, I'm not sure I'm gonna listen and all that. I get it, I get it. And so I answered the question, are we Calvinist? I said, and here's what I wrote. You've asked me, I've turned it to me here, in the thing as Uvast does. If I am a Calvinist, then this is my response The answer to your question, are you a Calvinist, depends on what you mean by Calvinist. Let me give a few examples. If by Calvinist you mean the person who doesn't evangelize, then the answer is no I'm not a Calvinist. If by Calvinist you mean the person who's cold and uncaring. No. I cared, like Apostle Paul says, I am grieved by those who are not believers If by Calvinist you mean the person who doesn't believe our choices matter? No. If by Calvinist you mean the person who doesn't believe in reasonable self-determination, the answer is no. That is, people are making reasoned choices that are accountable. If by Calvinist you mean the person who idolizes John Calvin, I mean just because I got a tattoo of them doesn't mean The answer is surely no. I disagree with John Calvin on many things. If by Calvinist you mean the person who believes that God is the author of sin, well, if God made this world and it sinned, he started it. Yeah, he started it, but he didn't sin, right? Then the answer is no. If the c by Calvinist you mean the person who doesn't have a sense of humor? Okay. I wrote that in there. The answer is no. It's not it's not the picture we often have of the Puritans That's what people picture when they think Calvinism, they just think Puritans by pictures. They have no idea what the Puritans were really like, who were quite joyful people from what I can read, except for they made lousy counselors compared with what some people said. But if by Calvinist you mean the person who thinks they're better than others, and we know this doctrine and you don't. No. But if by Calvinist you mean the person who believes the following, then yes. I'm not going to reread all of that because I read that two weeks ago. This bottom part is what I wrote about Total depravity, you know, the five points of Calvinism basically, in which I say man is depraved, but God breaks in, irresistible grace, unconditional election. If you mean that, then yes, I'm a Calvinist. But I take all of that from scripture I I never read Calvin until I was in college. I was already committed to these doctrines because I read them in the Bible. It happened to go to a college that then made me read Calvin and I was like, oh Okay, well then I agree with him on these five points. I don't agree with him on his eschatology and whatever. Okay. All right. That's all I have to say today. Um the rest of it is if you ever want to read three more pages on passages about election in the Bible, then you may do so. Hey guys, really enjoying this. I hope that we can Uh continue in chapters 10 and 11 to look at Paul's answer to whatever happened to Israel. Let me pray for you, okay?