Alright, we're back in the book of Romans. We're in lesson 37, which is in the fifth part of the book of Romans, which is we went through sin. And salvation and sanctification and sovereignty and it started in chapter twelve on the issue of service this is a second talk within that. And as you know we only have one more week in the book of Romans, so I will not be trying to do five chapters. And as we mentioned last week I'm hitting the high points of the last couple chapters and that is today in chapter thirteen verses one to seven we're talking about human government. And so I simply say at the top of page one, Romans thirteen one to seven teaches us the following four things. First of all, that we are to submit to civil authorities. Secondly Rebellion against civil authority is rebellion against God. Thirdly, that civil authorities are God's ministers to mediate God's rule on the earth And that fourthly, we are to pay taxes and honor those in authority. For every person who is a believer today in an evangelical church and a Bible believing church, We'll have wrestled at some point with this passage. And the four things that I'm suggesting here, if you are a believer for any amount of time, you will have agreement with those. Maybe you don't agree with what it means or how you live that out, but you'll certainly agree as we go through the passage that these are the expressions that Paul is using. This is just my summary. But what comes to bear is for every Christian is what do you do when you actually are imposed on by the civil government to do things which you don't think are cool. And so what when I taught the Book of Romans in the past It was sometimes Romans 13 was a theory at times. But when COVID hit And every Christian absolutely lost their mind. You know, in the last three years, the great exodus of pastors from evangelical churches The retirement and the full out just, hey, I quit the ministry has been enormous. Now you can point that to a lot of things and you can say, hey, those are bad guys or whatever they are, but a lot of guys were like Must be time to retire. Because we all know that in 2020, in about February, when you're preaching on the Book of Romans, chapter thirteen, you're saying we must obey civil government and this is the way it would work, and everybody's like, Amen, brother, yes, amen. And by April 15th or May 1st, people were like, burn the government, burn the government, burn the government. And the church was split. And I've talked about that. Not just this church, but the church in America. I'm talking about evangelical Bible believing churches where people are all like, We believe the Bible But we have to admit this, that it is possible to agree with the same doctrinal statement and yet have a completely different worldview. about how things work. And so when you come to Romans thirteen, you have the reality of what just happened over the last couple of years And you have a divided house among Christians. You have Christians who clearly still believe that any pastor who closed his church for any number of weeks is of the devil. And the number of letters and and talks and emails that pastors got during those years uh were um enormous of people saying You gave in to the devil, you you don't believe the Bible, you're not real pastors, you you just work for the state, you're hiring shepherds. Why? Because you decided to close down for six weeks or eight or whatever it is you did. On the other side, of course There are people who are convinced that we did not obey the government enough. I was not here at Hope Bible Church. I was in California at that time. And uh but there are many Christians who are convinced that pastors and the leaders and whoever the church decided are complete renegades. That if they ever decided to go back to church, even though the government didn't want you to, or whatever the restrictions were, or whatever. You guys are renegades. You're not obeying Romans 13. You're taking us down that road And then there's the whole mask thing and the non-mask thing and the whatever. There's even a bigger question though if you're an American Christian. And that's this. Should we have ever had a revolution? For those of you who are Romans chapter 13, you're like, the government's to be obeyed no matter what. Welcome to the United States. Declaration of Independence. Have everybody ever heard of that? Where we decided, you know what? It's a long train of abuses by King George and the boys. And so we are dissolving our bonds with you. And we are rebelling against the King of England. And we are resolved now to be an entirely different nation based on the fact that we don't want to obey you anymore Now is there more to it than that? Of course. But the question comes for good and godly Christians, how does Romans 13 apply to things like COVID and things like revolutions that end up with countries like the United States. Should we do that? More eggs like more eggs like you should never disobey the crown. King Charles. So With that ado, let's jump into the text of Romans chapter 13. Romans 13, 1-7. Every person is to be in subjection. To the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God And those which exist are established by God. Therefore, whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinances or ordinance of God. And they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves. For rulers are not a cause of fear for good behavior, but for evil. Do you want to have no fear of authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. For it is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid. For it does not bear the sword for nothing. For it is a minister of God, an avenger, who brings wrath on the one who practices evil. Therefore It is necessary to be in subjection, not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For because of this you also pay taxes For rulers are servants of God, devoting themselves to this very thing. Render to all what is due them. Tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, and honor To whom honor. Or, as our American colonial pastors said, no king but Jesus That's an interesting view. So number one, or point one, we are to submit to civil authorities, as we just read. Verses one to two. Please let me read them again. Every person is to be in subjection to the governing authorities, for there's no authority except from God. And those which exist are established by God. Therefore, whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God, and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves, for rulers are not a cause of fear for good behavior, but for evil do you Want to have no fear of authority, do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. Number one, God has established human government. There is no authority except from God You know, in Isaiah 45 I found the interesting account of Cyrus, of course, and God says of Cyrus, thus does the Lord to Cyrus his anointed. whom I have taken by the right hand, to subdue nations before him, and to loose the loins of kings, and to open doors before him, so that gates will not be shut. God names of course a ruler, Cyrus. that he is going to use for his purposes. Am I losing content here? Okay. Um what's interesting is that Cyrus isn't even alive when God makes his prophecy through the prophet. He's naming a guy who doesn't even exist yet. I'm going to raise up a guy named Cyrus and he's going to do this. God is over the kings and over nations. A. God originated civil government in order to restrain sin. That's why civil government exists, right? Genesis chapter 9, just after no. And God's giving him how's the new world gonna look, he says, Surely I will require your lifeblood from every beast I will require it. And from every man, and from every man's brother I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed, and in the image of God he made man. Now of course we know that uh A little bit from the creation. At the beginning you have what theologians probably call innocence and you have just those first couple chapters. And then you go through a time of conscience Where there there seems to be civil government in some sense, but not anointed by God, not started by God. And then you have the whole fiasco that leads up to the flood, which is Everyone was doing right in their own eyes, they were killing each other, the world was terrible, and you have the flood, and after that you have a time now inaugurated of human government, which God in Genesis 9 and other places essentially tells them, you're going to have to govern yourselves under human government and accept the fact that they are agents of God To keep the world from becoming the chaos it was just before the flood. Where everybody just did what was right in their own eyes. So God allows uh humans to take the life of other humans for judicial purposes in the case of murder Then B, God appoints all human rulers, Daniel chapter two. And Daniel said, Let the name of God be blessed forever and ever, for wisdom and power belong to him. It is he who changes the times and the epics. or epochs. He removes kings, he establishes kings. He gives wisdom to wise men and knowledge to men of understanding. And more specifically, Daniel chapter four. This sentence is by the decree of the angelic watchers, and the decision is a command of the Holy Ones. In order that the living may know that the Most High is ruler over the realm of mankind, and bestows it on whom he wishes, and sets over it the lowliest of men And of course now you get into a ruler and when Jesus and Pilate are talking, and Pilate gets a first-hand instruction about how he should view his authority. Like, I've got authority. I'm a dude. And Jesus said, well, you might need to look at that a little differently. And John chapter 19. So Pilate said to him You do not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and I have authority to crucify you? And Jesus answered, You would have no authority over me unless it had been given you from above. For this reason, he who delivered me to you has the greater sin. Human governments are established by God. He raises up leaders. He puts them down, and they are accountable to him. They're not simply placed there and now you do what you want. But all human government, all civil government, is under the authority of God. It's under the accountability of God. And it does not matter in what nation All human government and all governors and their assistants are under the authority of God and have been placed there. Now we have to talk about in a few minutes what does that mean, right? Why are there different kinds of governments then? Why doesn't God just establish all kinds of one kind of government the perfect kind of government and he puts only perfect people in those perfect spots in perfect government. Right? Hi, I'm from the government and I'm here to help you. Right? So see, God works his sovereign will through human rulers. That's the point. Proverbs twenty-one The king's heart is like channels of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he wishes. Now imagine that the king's heart, with water flowing through it, is sort of back to the idea of what he did with Pharaoh. and that he hardened him in the direction. What this motif is that the water of life, things are coming out, the decisions of life come out of the king, and God channels those in any old way that he wants If he wants to give favor to people, he'll chant out of those favorable things from the king. And if he do not, he works with kings, kings being the illustration here, but governors. And Acts chapter four For truly in this city bless you for truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod And Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. Human responsibility They were against your anointed, which you pre-planned and used for your glory. So what the big starting point leads to D, that there's no particular form of civil government. That's endorsed by the Bible. Now, when I say that, people would like what isn't Isn't democratic republic or isn't a balance of powers or isn't free labor or isn't capitalism? Uh by principle, yes, but not by command There's nothing in the New Covenant, for example. The New Testament doesn't say this is the form of government real Christians ought to have if you ever get in power Nor does it say in the New Covenant, in the New Testament, any kind of government that pagans ought to have Uh the reality is the New Covenant was written under Roman rule and under the Caesar, and uh none of the New Testament authors challenge the validity of such government. Um and there is no one kind of government that they say must be the case. Christianity is really cool. Unlike the Old Testament of Israel where Israel is a theocracy Where that nation not only has rules and regulations, but God has made his people part of a nation. And in that situation where God is the supreme ruler over them That motif required them to be in the land, have a king, all those things, and it was not very flexible. Whereas now in the church, we can go anywhere, live in any kind of government. And thrive. It's great for missions. Christians can thrive anywhere. Now I don't mean they're happy. Nobody likes persecution or whatever. But Christianity does not require any kind of particular government or format or socioeconomic pattern to thrive That's what's cool about the church. Because it's not required or it's not uh waiting for a particular place or structure. You don't need the government to join the church in its beliefs in order to enforce the church's gospel mission. The problem with the early church was after a few hundred years, of course, that Rome, uh the Roman church became the standard of how you force people into conversion. Constantinian evangelism I call it, and that is you take the sword and you walk into a village in some remote place and say, you all want to be Christians, right? Yeah No. Okay, kill them, right? And so the reality is the church has struggled for a thousand years. Roman Catholicism acted as if it was the center of the quote unquote Holy Roman Empire. And that never works. The sword of the Spirit and the Sword of the Word uh are not the same thing So it doesn't matter whether you have a republic or a democracy or a democratic republic or a monarchy or a constitutional monarchy or a plutocracy or an autocracy or an oligarchy All forms of government, lots of interesting things, rich people, government, small group of people governing, it doesn't matter. Whatever the form of government we find ourselves under, we are able to do Romans 13 We can obey the government. Is it easy to obey the government? Depends on what form of government and who's leading. There are monarchies that are wonderful because you have a benevolent king or queen. There are dictatorships. uh which are to some degree more safe for the people because the rules are really defined and things are clear, versus At other times when there's total chaos or anarchy. I remember Carla and I visiting Singapore in 1986 and um uh de a democracy of sorts More like a autocracy, but but the point is that place was amazingly safe and the rules were like, I wouldn't want to live there long term. for freedoms that I I would not have had. But visiting there I was like, dude, this is awesome. Because I didn't have to pay taxes or do stuff. Nobody's spitting on the sideboard. Nobody's been on the sidewalk as we've talked about. I think I mentioned this a few weeks ago and if I did I apologize in advance, but we were there the summer that they put two young Australian young people to to death in all in Singapore, um because they came across the causeway. Singapore's an island across the causeway into it from Malaysia and there's a big giant sign, it was in nineteen eighty six, it's been a long time ago. Huge sign, I should say, that says death to drug traffickers. And they had their policies was pretty much known throughout the region that any amount of marijuana was the death penalty. And a couple Australian twenty-year-olds or whatever decided, eh, they're not really serious about that. They were found with marijuana and they put them to death within four weeks There's no like, hey, let's take a year or two. Whatever one thought of that, that whole summer and people were caned there and those things, it was an eye-opener to how crime was dealt with It was very straightforward. You kind of knew where you stood. Um it's also it was a dictatorship You didn't get to make a lot of the calls. So, I don't know why I'm belaboring that. There it was. Alright, number two. So to this point then, there is no theocracy today. There is no theocracy. What is a theocracy? Well, depends on who you're def who's defining it. If it's just a dictionary defining, it's basically a person or persons who ha who are the elite who dictate the religious values of the country and suggest to you that their religion is the overarching power of authority and you must be under it. Okay, that that's sort of a secular humanized vision. Theocracy is properly understood in the Old Testament is Almighty God was directly the king over his people without any mediated kings or priests. Until they got a king, because they asked for a king. But there is no theocracy today. Uh of course Israel was a theocracy. God wanted it to be a theocracy. But there is no nation today that is God's anointed people There's no nation today that is God's holy nation. There is no nation today that is favored status with God. There's no new covenant nation uh that gets that status. Israel was a theocracy. There is no earthly theocratic nation under the new covenant, but the church today is functionally God's nation, if you will, without boundaries. It says in 1 Peter, a rather long passage, but you're a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him. who's called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. For you once were not a people, but now you are the people of God, and you have now received mercy But I'm sorry, you had you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. What is the church then? Again, it's a holy nation Without boundaries, without a king, uh King Jesus, but there's no earthly king, there's no earthly parameters to it. And so what is the church? It's the infiltrate, it's the occupy till I come. Uh it's we are secret agents. Uh there's no one nation with a boundary that we form and and do together. So what about the American Experiment. America has had an interesting history Um I'm not here to do a huge American history lesson. I have a lot of teachers and homeschoolers in the room. Uh though I have a degree in church history, but that's the that's a little different. Um But the reality is it's been an interesting experiment from the very beginning. At Jamestown, uh in sixteen oh nine And all that happened in Williamsburg and all that happened in the the pilgrims uh at uh in sixteen twenty. Um There's been experiments with what does it mean to be a Christian colony? What does it mean to have Christian laws What does it mean when no one in Williamsburg can worship differently than that which the king says or the Church of England says? Uh if you ever been in Williamsburg and done the the cool stuff right by the uh the jail read by the central place is the stocks, you know, where you put your head through and all that stuff. And if you know the history there, is of course those were criminals did. But that's what they did to people also who decided that they wanted to be Baptist. Or they wanted to have some other form of Christian faith. And occasionally in Williamsburg when you play with the characters who, you know, they walk around and they act like the people, occasionally you run into the Baptist minister And that one's always a c fun conversation. Usually hangs down where the King's not King's Arms Tavern, but the place where they sell the ginger ale that's down the hill in that little building. Anyway, uh usually the Baptist pastor will find you and be like, Hey Like, have you seen the King's Men? Blah blah blah and you're like, no, what's going on? Well, we're trying to have a worship service and but we've been put in jail a lot and then they'll go on and talk about it And so it's been an interesting experiment in America as to what it would mean for America to be something of a theocracy. From Sea to Shining Sea, anybody read that book? uh Peter Marshall. Alright. And the idea that America was somehow a theocratic nation with a covenant with God was not We have no covenant with God. People made covenants in their heart. They're like, we come and we are going to worship you, O God, and we covenant to be your people here in America. God didn't make a covenant with America. There's no sign covenant, there's no whatever. Covenanting your heart to worship God is different than our nation is a covenanted people. And so what are we? We're a nation that was originally many Christians. Uh are we that now? Uh So my final statement on the bottom of page two, some of you are like, man, where is this going? All rulers are still accountable to God. Top of the page. Daniel chapter two and chapter four, just a reminder that God is the one who raises them up. God holds them accountable. It does not matter what country they're from. Alright, top of page three. Let's talk just for a minute back to this bigger picture, the nature and realms of authority. Nature and realms. God has established at least three, perhaps a fourth realm of authority, under which they have uh under him they have authority to act. The church, the family, the government, and by extension of a form of government, work or your boss. Because the New Testament does talk about, for example in Ephesians and other places, serve your master, not with eye service. And it is not talking there of a typical slavery position, but it is talking about the new covenant age in which they lived in Rome, in which they would have been equivalent to your boss in this era. The point of it is whether you're working for someone Whether you're under your government, whether you're in the family or you're in the church, God has established leaders and authority to act. But in all four of those realms They are equal under God in terms of their authority level. No one of them has ascendancy or authority over another. They do in certain aspects, right? But they don't completely. And so that has always been the difficulty. We'll just put church government. I'll put family over here. I don't know why. And we'll say work. Your structure there. The difficulty is balancing those middle life. And also when one tries to take over on a realm of authority that they've not been given. And So let's talk about homeschooling for a minute. Okay How's therapy going? So homeschool family Z. They attend this church. Uh they attend a church. Well they live in the United States. Oh, they are the family. And Papa does work outside the home in this illustration Then we'll come back to wife and husband both working. So now you have to the difficulties. What if the government says no homeschooling Yeah, like Germany. Okay? State of Maryland comes down with it. Let's start there. State of Maryland, across the board, not a county thing. The state of Maryland legislature just says no one is allowed to school at home. What should a Christian homeschool family do? Vote them all out. Move to Texas. That's that's it. Okay, that's one possibility. You can flee. That is a possibility. You can leave where the the rules are better in the favor of the the Okay, that was one legitimate option. What else could this these people do? So the yeah, fight against the law to represent to the money. Fight against the law to see if we can change the law, right? Okay, so uh vote 'em vote 'em all out. Attempt to vote them out and and do that. Okay, that's a second legitimate option that a Christian could follow. What else? What's that no novel? Send them to a Christian school. Okay. So send them to a Christian school, you can't homeschool anymore. Okay, Greg? You can actually disobey, but you have to be willing to accept the consequences. Okay, that's the fourth one. If you disobey government, you'd have to be willing to accept the consequences And at what point, Greg, I'm going to push you a little farther. At what point do you believe that a Christian is or is not biblically following scripture according to Romans 13, where would you apply that on homeschooling? Do you think that homeschooling is something that a Christian should feel like I can disobey the government over this? Or are they in the position of having to obey and just accept, you know, whatever. Uh fair enough. Let me let me let me stop there. Conviction and conscience And then preference. You know Uh I'm gonna say big preference and then little preference. There's gotta be a different category. But this is typically how those kind of things come Some people have a preference for homeschooling, but when pushed, they'd be like, it's not in the Bible, it doesn't say you have thou must homeschool. I have to take care of my children, blah, blah, blah. So it's a little preference. It's a big preference I think it's the only way I really am willing to do it. And then a conviction, of course, is I believe this is what God would intend for my family to do because of what I understand of Scripture Right? It may not be commanded, but by everything else my my conscience requires this of me and I cannot not do it. And that's when that's when you get into the struggle of what are you willing to pay the price to do. Yeah, Julie, I'm sorry Right. The let me let me I'm gonna put these as levels because there is the level of command up here. Which is not the same as a conviction, but this is one where if you believe the Bible commanded it, and then I have a conviction because I add everything up that this is the best way to do it. But it's more than just a good way. I would say if you feel like it's a conviction, then we should explore leading the state, not just away the state. Yes, because uh what um Whatsoever blah blah blah is sin to you, what is it? Whatever is not a faith is is sin, and then there's the other corollary passage I'm thinking of. As far as it depends on you, VSP No, those are all good verses. All right. So does somebody else have their hand up? Whatever is not of faith is sin. And that's when it's not good against to go against conscience. Now I'm in Luther at Diet of Worms. Uh but yeah, John What were you saying? Right. And and that's a motivating factor that people have to consider. But you know, at the end of the day, I think no, no, good, good. At the end of the day Um these are the type of conscience issues and that Christians have to deal with with Romans 13 Uh they make up a rule, they make up a law, can I change it? Can I vote and act like a g well in this form of government that we are in right now, they still allow you to vote Okay? In theory. Maybe your vote counts, but the point is disband. It's a great point. And yeah, exactly, because Paul's living in an era where he's writing you have Caligula, Nero is about to be at the throne. You know, Paul's writing to them in Rome. They live there. This is DC Right? They w they work with Nero. And he's like, hey, so you know the Nero thing? Uh he's not the governor, he's not the Caesar at the point of this writing But he's about to be. But the point is, uh Paul's writing to that very thing. And uh to Caesar. Yes, ma'am. Right. So on the level of the kind of motivating and the kind of the kind of matrix of decision making about whether I should homeschool, whether I do this type of form, what I do with my children, that that what you've just suggested is a large part of that conversation, and that's really important, is is all about At the end of the day, whichever one you decide, you're going to run up to some form of the question of what to do with government You know, at some level, so I think I'm gonna move forward. Oh, except for Mr. Kane has his hand up. That's a good point. If my Fidelity account or Vanguard account or my four hundred one K is doing well, then hey, I I think I can tolerate this. If it plunges, this government's evil. Just don't touch my nested so I can move to Portugal. Carrie, great point Great point. And obviously taking the the taking the uh mark of the beast uh is is under God's condemnation. Yeah, he did. Alright, back to page three then. Government. Church family government work all have authority under God to act in their realm, in their circle, but not to violate other circles by demanding of them uh or try to usurp them or take them over. You can speak into them. The church can speak into all of those. Has the authority of God's word to speak to government, to speak to family, to speak to work, and to say this is God's word and this is the standard, but not to wield the sword of those things. They're different. Alright, so Matthew twenty two, we need to talk about the nature of authority just for a minute. And Jesus was challenged on this and he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this, right? They were like and why? Because they were asking him By what authority are you doing these things? And he said, they said to him, that's Caesar's. Then he said to them, then render to Caesars. the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. Ultimately in Romans 13, that's the message. You can just close with that as the application. Paul is telling us in Romans 13 that the application of the justification, everything he said is, in the realm of human government you are to submit to them Because God has placed them there. And so insofar as you are, you are to obey them. But not to the point where when they ask you to give to them what God alone is to be given You can render to Caesar all the coins, you can render to Caesar all kinds of stuff that is just doesn't matter, ultimately. But you cannot render yourself to Caesar and his lordship over your life. You cannot render to Caesar your worship. You can't render to Caesar whatever that is being demanded of you, and there's a line Render to God what is God's. What is God's? You. And that's where Paul started in Romans 12 He starts with render unto God, chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. Present yourself to God. Render to God. Then in chapter 13 he starts out and in the first seven verses, render to Caesar. So it's it's a it's a it's basically an overview of all of that. So Romans twelve as I said and then Romans thirteen render and render. That is the very point is render to God the things that are God's. You cannot give your body to the government in the same sense that Romans twelve is. Give yourself to worship God. Very good. Okay, A everyone has an authority, by the way Matthew 21 is where Jesus was asked, and when he came into the temple, the chief priests and elders of the people came up to him as he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? By what authority and who gave it to you? Here the word authority is going to be defined nicely by the Websters, but authority is both the right and the power to act. the right to act and the power to act. They were asking him on both cases, who gave you the right to do this and by what power are you pulling this off, these miracles? Like we don't know who you are. Where are you coming? Where's this authority coming from to do this? And Jesus uh of course said to them, uh Well, I won't even get into that whole thing. Let me just define the authority. The power or right to command, to act, to enforce obedience, or to make final jurisdictions or decisions. And so Jesus had both the right, he's God, and the power to act. The problem is with all kinds of governments today, you have some governments that have the right to act, but they have no power. And so they have a constitution, they have a whatever in their country. But they don't have army backup, they don't have the whatever, and so they're a puppet government. Everybody knows. Uh they really can't enforce anything. On the other side, you have people who have guns And they seem to be in power. But they don't have any authority. They it's a junta or it's a it's right, whatever. It's Machiavellian. Whoever has the c power, whoever has the guns is in power. But they don't have a constitutional right, perhaps, in that government. But they're the de facto government, right? You guys in government and and know the word de facto, right? They're the de facto hey, they're the guys in charge, no matter what. how they got there. So now what do you do with their in charge? Okay. Alright, B, your authority determines your beliefs, your practice, and your final author your destiny. I don't mean your government does, but rather Who you choose to be your ultimate authority will determine your beliefs, your practice, and your destiny. Today we live in a time when authorities are all over the place, let alone trying to obey Romans thirteen and God's uh authority and government. People have all kinds of it socialism, Judaism, Raiderism Come on guys. Communism, humanism, existentialism, Catholicism, agnosticism, Buddhism, Mormonism, Islam, Satanism, Atheism, New Age, Rationalism, Postmodernism Ma'am, just witnessing in our age when people appeal to authority. I mean the final one is humanism, right? I am my own authority. I'm my own thing Hey, but the Bible claims divine authority, that's the point. Second Timothy. And from childhood you've known the sacred writings, which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scriptures is theopnustos is inspired by God and prophets. So under the nature let's go to the next page, under the nature of authority is the reality Your final authority is going to dictate to you what you should do with other forms of authority, and we're back to the Bible. So, what is the purpose then of human government in verses 3 and 4? For rulers are not a cause of fear for good behaviors. Behavior, but for evil. Do you want to have no fear of authority? Do what is good, and you will be pr you will have praise from the same. For it is a minister of God to you for good But if you do what is evil, be afraid, for it does not bear the sword for nothing, for it is a minister of God, an avenger, who brings wrath. on the one who practices evil. Governors are God's ministers. What I love is that the Greek word there is diakonos. Right? They're deacons Dude, I didn't know everybody at the IRS was a deacon. The word is deacon. I want to have fun with the word deacon for a few minutes. Alright? And here we go. These are incidents where diakonos is used in the New Testament. First of all, you have to become a deacon to become great. Did you know that? It says it is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your diakonos Apparently you have to become a deacon in a local church to be great. Only deacons are great, but the greatest among you shall be your diakinas Come on, Ann, go with it. Mary was the pastor of a church that had deacons. Did you know that His mother said to the diakonas, Whatever says to you, do it. This was at the wedding of Canaan of Galilee. Did you know that all government officials are deacons in local churches? For it is a diakonas of God to you for good, etc. etc. That's a passage we're in. Some of you are not in the spirit of this. That is how a word in the New Testament When it's applied in the wrong way, we as Anne said, the word means servant. But it can mean the office of a deacon in f in 1 Timothy chapter 3 But other than that passage, I don't well, and Philippians 1-1, to the deacons and to the elders, but when it's not specifically to the deacon office, there are a number of people in the New Testament that are called deacons that they want to make deacons But the reality is that person's not a deacon, they're a servant. And so, by extension, Jesus served as a deacon in a local messianic congregation. Did you know that? Dana, come on. For I say that Christ has become a diakonos. To the circumcision on behalf of the truth of God to confirm the pep promises given to the fathers. And did you know that Paul and Apollos were deacons in a church at Corinth? Some of you don't think this is as funny as I do. What then is Apollos and what is Paul? Dionos, through whom you believed even as the Lord give opportunity to each one. I did not put the most controversial one here and that is Phoebe, Romans 16, 1. Phoebe was a Diochanos at the Church of Sancria, the same church that Paul is supposedly a diakonos to also And everyone in the feminist approach believes that Phoebe therefore is a deacon in the local church, which uh no, she was a servant and she carried the book of Romans on behalf of Paul and delivered it Well we may speak about those matters later. See, they act on behalf of God. That's the point of these they are ministers of God. They act on behalf of God Let's get this like really straight. God has set up people. God is mediating his kingdom Through representatives in each of these realms. And the purpose that God has placed them there is to demonstrate His authority and power, but to act in a manner of the character that God wants to be shown. The reality is though that human government is almost never under God's laws in terms of its practice, but God has put mediators and leaders in each of those realms in order to D. Their character does matter. Proverbs 8. By me kings reign, rulers decree justice, that is by wisdom. Proverbs 16, it's an abomination for kings to commit wicked acts. Throne is established on righteousness in Proverbs 20. Loyalty and truth preserve the king, and he upholds his throne by righteousness. So number two, government is to praise those who do good and punish those who do evil. First Peter also backs that up. Submit yourselves to the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether to a king, you mean the DMV also I don't know. Whether to a king is the one in authority, or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right. The punishment is to reflect God's justice, which is swift. impartial and proportionate. Ecclesiastes 8. 11 on this regard, because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed quickly, therefore the hearts of the sons of men among them are given fully to do evil. Proverbs eighteen to show partiality to the wicked is not good, nor to thrust aside the righteous in judgment. And they go to court and the judges decide their case and they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked, then it shall be that if the wicked man deserves to be beaten, the judge shall then make uh him lie down and be beaten in his presence with the number of stripes according to his guilt. He may beat him forty times But no more, so that he does not beat him with many more stripes than these, and your brother is not degraded in your eyes. Even though it was under Rome. Genesis nine. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed, for in the image of God he made man. What's the point of all this? That it's proportionate. to that which the crime was. The crime and the punishment are fit for each other. Alright, render unto Caesar your favorite part. Therefore it is necessary to be in subjection, not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake, for because of this you also pay taxes. Dude, for rulers are servants of God, devoting themselves to this very thing. Let me stop there. Paul also has a parallel to pastors, elders. Right? He says that among pastors and elders that they should be paid, that the servant is worthy of his labor For the laborers worthy of his hire. And he talks about don't muzzle the ox and all the things. And Paul gives a parallel, if you will, is why? Because they're serving God and Sort of like the priests in the Old Testament. This is their full-time job, so you should give in such a way that you help them have a living. And Paul is also saying that about government workers. Where does government Finances come from? Well there's all kinds of things, but whether you're a king or you're Caesar or you're a democracy, it comes from taxation. Some form of taxation pays for human government. And that's why we pay taxes in order for God's purpose for human government to exist, which is in order to punish evildoers, to praise those who are doing well, and to protect and to guide. You know, on the side of police cars it's usually to protect and to you know to serve, right? Okay. Yep, they're diakonized. And to Diakanize, right. So pay your taxes. Some of you underpaid this year. And God's gonna get you. Mark chapter twelve, of course Then they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to him in order to trap them in a statement. They came and said to him, Teacher, we know that you are truthful and defer to no one, but you are not partial to any, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay a poll tax to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? Because Caesar's what? Evil and he's they're abusing us. But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them Why are you testing me? Bring me a denarius to look at. They brought one and he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? And they said to him, Caesar's And Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they were amazed at him. Apparently Caesar wants a lot of our money right now. Right? So and that's it. Compared to other countries, perhaps not. So respect your leaders even if you don't approve their character. And Paul said, remember when Paul was up at trial, he didn't know that the particular man was the high priest that year. He kind of lost touch with who's the high priest, right? And the high priest had him slapped on his face. And Paul says Said of him, you whitewash, you know, whatever, God's gonna slap you on the face basically. And then he was told, that man is the high priest, and Paul said in Acts twenty-three, five, and Paul said, I was not aware, brethren, that he was the high priest. For it is written, you shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. And so Paul applies that, realizes This man was acting evil, he was doing what was wrong, but Paul's acknowledging not his character there, but his office. So God gives reasons to submit to civil authority. Let me give you five really quickly from this passage. A Because your government is ordained by God. That's why you should submit to them. B because resistance to government is rebellion against God, first first Samuel fifteen, for rebellion is the sin of divination And insubordination is an inquir is an iniquity and idolatry. I wish I could read today. Because you've rejected the word of the Lord, he's rejected you from being king, he says to Saul. Other reasons to obey that are given in this passage, disobedience. Brings divine judgment, not simply the wrath of the government. And you should obey because your conscience towards God. If we obey authority Conscience is a good pillow, I think somebody said, right? You can sleep at night. You know that you've done what is right. Rebellion is a very difficult place to live in And it's uh it's not proper for the mind. And then E, submit, because of your witness to a watching world, that is not in the passage, but by implication, there it is So why we should pay our taxes? Civil authorities work for God, should be paid for their labors, and they are called here not only diakonas, but they are called servants, and for rulers are servants of God. Liturgos, uh Latinized liturgy, uh they they do service for God Diakonas serve God, that's who they are. Laturgos are those who are performing acts of service on behalf of God. This is how God looks at human agency of his to do this. All right. And then civil authorities work for God. We do this because of wrath's sake, but also for conscience and to fund God's purpose for government, as I've already said were to render to all what is due to them. Render, I put like fourteen different ways to say give to them. What is due to them. Then summoning him lo his lord said to him, You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with him. You should have given that to him. And the husband must fulfil his duty to his wife conjugal rights, and likewise also the wife to her husband. Why it is due to them is the custom. When it says in this passage, give to them taxes, give to them custom, custom is not what is customary, but rather you're paying customs. when you come in and you pay customs on something, that's the concept of that. Let me take you to the final page, because really Romans 13, 1 to 7 It's like a three or four part part talk, right? It's it's not like you just cover that in one day. I haven't even gotten to the other side, which is when can we have civil disobedience or what do you do in the point of the American Revolution? These are questions that need to be addressed in a full conversation of Romans 13. I've written these out for your in consideration, but how do I appeal to authority Do we have a right to protest? What about other forms of civil disobedience? Is there an inherent right to free speech? Uh number five, where's the line in terms of limits placed upon the range of authority of human government How did Jesus respond to civil authorities during his ministry? And during his own trials? How did the apostles respond? Number eight, in regards to obedience, does it matter if the civil authority is Christian or not? Number nine, in regards to obedience, does it matter if the civil authority is good or evil? What number ten, what difference does this form of government make? Number eleven Um I'm sorry, what difference does the form of government make? Uh if the government changes, how are we to handle the transition? I misspelled transition, I believe. Put one extra S. Apparently I need to transition that word uh out of a should we seek to establish a Christian government? That's what some people are, the moral majority Should the laws of the land be the laws of the Old Testament or the New? Are we going to stone homosexuals? That's the Old Testament. You want the whole thing. Just do it. Number 14, does anyone Does any one realm, should be any one realm of authority, have more authority or final authority over the others? Was it right for the colonies to rebel against the British Crown? Was it right for the Confederacy to succeed from the nation? I'm not talking about whether it's right about about slavery. I'm talking about do states in the United States have authority to do that or was it wrong inherently from the Federation to a Confederacy. Was it right for Dietrich Bonhoeffer to participate in the plot to assassinate Hitler, right? The German pastor Was it right for Corey Tenboom and her family to hide Jews from the Nazi soldiers? Corey Tenboom was was um Buried i i uh in a cemetery right down the street from where I lived in California. She was dead, that's why they did it. Good point. And uh I always said to Carla, man, if I died in California, I want to be buried right near Cory Tenboom. Uh so Was it right for Rahab to assist the spies and to lie to the soldiers? Is it right for yes, yes, it's right to do anything we say. Is it right for Christians to resist persecution? Hey, so to flee persecution. And this is the new the the early church, the first three hundred years of the early church dealt with almost every one of these questions. They're like, so if the Romans come to take you and your family away because you're a Christian, they're gonna kill you, is it right for the husband to run out of the the house with a sword and try to attack Or defend his family. Now the early church largely took a pacifist approach to that particular notion. In fact, they frowned upon running from persecution Now does that make it right? I'm just saying the early church tried to deal with all these things. Personally, I'm not sure I agree. I mean Paul was let down in a basket. to get away from persecution on one occasion, right? But Jesus told Peter to put the sword away on another occasion. So is it right for Christians to resist? Was it what is the just war theory and is it just Uh if human government is an agent of God, are human governments allowed to fight with each other? See now you're talking about the clash of the titans. It's one thing to submit to the government. Are governments to submit to each other? And can they fight each other and is there a just war theory? Those of you who work for the Defense Department in here have already settled that theological matter in your mind Uh but what is just war? Uh Augustine's early view. Should Christians seek to change unjust laws? Yes. Is there a divine right of kings? I was born a king and therefore I'm the king. You'd have to take the divine right of kings all the way back to the beginning in Genesis and say there has been some unbroken chain then of people who have a divine right given to them by God to rule. Is that what we are to imagine? Is law fixed or fluid? Should there be religious liberty, should cults and religions be fined, jailed, or executed in the United States? And is it right for Christians to flee one nation in order to seek political asylum in another country? These are the kinds of questions that I myself have. I mean I have theoretically my own answers to them, but if we did a three part series. That would be where we would go. Hey guys, it's been a lot of fun not getting to anywhere today. And uh hey we have one more week left in our book of Romans study. And so, um I have no idea how I'm going to close it next week. Oh yeah, I think I'll just do Romans fourteen. Okay? I'm going to do Romans fourteen because it's what do you do when Christians disagree with each other? about things that are in the gray area. Right? Alright. Alright, let's pray.