Well welcome back. We're in the book of Romans. We're in lesson 34, Sovereignty Part 8, and we're in Romans chapter 10, verses 16 to 1110. You're into the chapter 11 You made it. All right. And uh you'll notice in my little blue blocks there, I usually have what the passage is about. I have Romans ten, sixteen to eleven ten God. Um it's supposed to say God's faithfulness to his covenants, and I forgot to type that in there. So but it is about God, so ostensibly that's what they're all about, right? So there we go. The whole Bible. I could just summarize. It's about God. Well today we're looking at three parts in these in this passage. And that is Israel's rebellion, the rejection and the remnant. In simple fashion, this is sort of the history of Israel. Right? Right? You know? After after Mount Sinai It was pretty much downhill from there. Right? You know, never got better. Oh, we were not supposed to build the golden calf. You know. That was a mistake. Um and so the rebellion of Israel's rejection of God's grace is really the old Testament story in a nutshell and the whole prophets after you get past the law and the history, the poetry, all of the prophets, minor and major prophets, really have three themes that they're speaking about. The first one is repentance. I mean all the prophets are speaking about repentance. Why? Because they're pointing back to Sinai and the law and God's promises and covenants and they're basically saying in the entire time Turn back, turn back, turn back. You've gotten away from God's commandments. Second part is they always talk about what is going to happen, the repercussions. So the prophets tell them what's going to happen. You're going to leave the land po leave the land of Palestine, you're gonna be thrown out. And this is the problems that are gonna happen by rejecting God's grace. But the third message of the prophets is the one that points not only to remnant, but to restoration. And redemption. So that's the whole history of Israel in a nutshell. That's what the prophets are preaching. You're in rebellion to God. You need to repent. Uh there are consequences for that and that's the Old Testament story. The history books explain the story of what happened to the nation. But then the prophets point forward to painting the picture of that. But the prophets always remind that there is a remnant according to election that exists in this whole time. And that eventually that remnant will blossom into a giant flower But that's basically the thing that all Israel will be saved. There is a coming day in which not only a few Jews will be saved in this dispensation, but God is outright going to bring revival and restoration and redemption. to many Jews at once, flowering in the kingdom. Okay. So that's the big picture where we are as we get into chapter 11. So is chapter 11 the one they talk about when you go bankrupt? Or is that chapter thirteen? Your CPA. Okay. All right, let's jump in. We'll talk about the rebellion, chapter ten, verses sixteen to twenty-one. Israel's rejection of the gospel as it was in the Old Testament. However, they did not all heed the good news. For Isaiah says, Lord, who's believed our report? So faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ, or about Christ. For I say, verse 16, but I say, surely, they have not heard, have they? Israel didn't know the gospel. They didn't know that the Messiah was coming, did they? Indeed, they have. Their voice has gone out into all the earth And their words to the ends of the world. Verse 19. But I say, surely Israel did not know, did they? That would be the common argument. Well back then they didn't know they didn't know the Messiah was coming, they just had the law. But this whole chapter, if you've already been here the last couple weeks and suffered through that, you already know that Israel knew the gospel and it was right close to them they could believe just like we could and it was about the Messiah who was coming. But back to verse nineteen. But I say surely did not the Israel did not know, did they And then Paul makes the first argument. First, Moses says, I will make you jealous by that which is not a nation. By a nation without understanding will I anger you This is going to point forward in a few minutes to Jesus' point. Because you don't believe, this is going to be taken away from you and given to a nation. who does. And we're going to talk about that. Or people who does. And verse 20, Paul backs it up. Not only Moses, but Isaiah. And Isaiah is very bold. I love that. And says I was found by those who did not seek me. I became manifest to those who did not ask for me. But as for Israel, he says, all the day long I stretched out my hands to a disobedient and obstinate people. That's that history, right? That's almost a summary of the prophets. All day long. 1,500 years almost from Moses to the rejection of Christ, in which they said, crucify him, and let his blood be on us. And on our children. So, number one, Israel knew and rejected the gospel. That's the point. That's Paul's point. They knew in the Old Testament the Messiah was coming, it was by faith, it was never by law righteousness. And the Lord warned them that the Gentiles would take their So what do we do with that? Well, I'll talk about that in a second. You notice that up there in verse 16 it says, however They did not all heed the good news, right? Paul is saying, Uongelion, the Greek word Same word we use for gospel? All of them did not heed the gospel as it was preached in the Old Testament. And he quotes Isaiah fifty-three, Psalm nineteen, Deuteronomy thirty-two, and Isaiah sixty-five verses one and two. All in that short little section all to demonstrate from the law and from the prophets and from the writings. Do you see that? From the law Deuteronomy, from the writings, Psalms, and from the prophets, Isaiah. Paul's basically saying the whole ark of the Old Testament teaches they knew the truth of the gospel and they rejected it In each of those sections. Disobedient and obstinate. You know, verse 20 really points to divine election. I was found by those who did not seek me. I became manifest to those who didn't ask for me. This goes along with Paul's teaching in Romans 3, right, where he says, There's none good, there's none righteous, there's no not one. No one seeks after me, no one can, everyone is depraved. And so this verse is saying, of the Gentiles, they didn't seek for me, they weren't religious, they didn't know what they were doing, and yet God saved them. That's sovereignty. Verse twenty-one is responsibility. But as for Israel I stretched the gospel out to them for fifteen hundred years, and they obstinately rejected. Now I just want to say this, Pastor, before we get into some more theology Um this obviously is a message to us too. Paul's not just writing a history lesson here, right? He's not just saying, hey man, you know they were Uh this is always a reminder to us as Christians in this age that both of those things are possible for us. As he's gonna get to the olive tree, the point is that you're going to see in all of this it's an encouragement And it's a warning. The encouragement is this. If you're a real Christian, then you're elect. You don't become a Christian, become elect, but if you're really a Christian, then you know you're elect And if that's true of you, then you know this, that God never gives up on his people. That if you're a true believer, God never leaves you in one spot. He doesn't go, well, we're gonna go on, everybody else come on with me He still works in every Christian's life no matter where you are. So even in your disobedience, even in my disobedience, even in those dark times, God is still working in every individual Christian's life. He does not leave anybody on the road. That doesn't mean everybody's enjoying the full fruit of Christian faith. Right? Right? You can be left on the road there like, God has left me. No, he hasn't. But we've left him. And you can't lose your salvation, but the truth is every Christian has come to places in their life. They get off the road, uh, they camp out. We've all done it. And what does God do? He's like I love you. I'm not going to leave you here. Discipline is meant to bring us home to the Father, not to leave to to take us away. So that should be an encouragement, if you're a real Christian, that the history of Israel, that there is a remnant And that God has a restoration for his people, that's a big picture view of our own Christian experience. If you're his, he will not leave you in rebellion or rejected, but in that he will always bring you to restoration. In this life, not totally. It is possible to die as a Christian in this life outside of God's favor in terms of fellowship, but not outside of his favor in terms of salvation. Uh the book of 1 John of course tells us that there are there is a sin unto death. And if that's happening, don't pray for them. They're like, what? We don't even know what that sin unto death is, and I could go into a our exposition. But my point is, God never leaves us as Christians where we are. He always takes us further. And even if that means taking us home. But let me finish my warning and and then I'll come back. The other side obviously is this passage is a warning. If you're under the preaching of the Word or friends of ours are under God's preaching and they reject it constantly, but they hurt it the whole time, then there are terrible consequences for rejection of grace. Not rejection of works, but rejection of grace. And God is giving his grace. God gives grace to the humble. But he rejects the proud. God gives additional grace. That's not saving grace because you wouldn't be earning it by your humility But as a believer, God gives more grace, the ability to do his will to those who will humble themselves and say, I can't. I can't do that on my own. So Ann, were you going to say something? I was just going to say that reminds me of the state of the If you feel a distance between yourself and God's forfeit to the joy of the boat. You too. You too. And yeah, that's a bad place to be in the world. That's a bad place to be. It's a bad place to be. We've all done it and we're all in God's goodness. Um you know, it's only a prayer away to for restoration. Yes. And God can restore the years at the locusts of Eden. He can. So number two, Israel knew that Gentiles would be saved, but they didn't know about the church age. That's an important theological point. Some people are confused about that. So Paul is saying in the Old Testament, they knew the gospel. They didn't know it would be Jesus of Nazareth, but they knew the Messiah was coming. They knew in Isaiah that he was going to die. knew the whole picture, they knew he was going to atone for sin, they knew he could save, and they knew they had to believe that, not just do the rituals They that was all there. That's why they were they were being punished for not believing that. But what they didn't know, and what was not revealed in the Old Testament That was the Gentiles were going to be one body with them. What they knew was Gentiles were going to be saved also. They knew they were saved. But the view of the Jewish person was that Gentiles could only be saved by becoming Jewish in practice. They had to become a proselyte. And so for them, the Old Testament taught salvation is only through the Jews. It's through through Judaism. And so the view was that a Gentile would have to come and be saved through that, whether it's Ruth or whoever, would be saved through Israel. What they never saw because it was never revealed was the church age. And that is the age in which Christ I mean Gentiles and Jews would form one body instead of The Jewish tree, if you will, and Gentiles got to hang out, but rather one body in Christ is the church. And so let me kind of go through that really quickly. Here's just three passages very quickly in which we would know that the Jews would know that Gentiles were going to get in on it Psalm 22. All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will worship before you For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he rules over the nations. That's in a messianic Psalm, Psalm 22. Psalm 86, 9. All nations whom you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and they will glorify your name. And Isaiah 49, 6 is talking about the Messiah's mission. I love this passage. He says, this is the Father says about the servant, that is Christ. It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved ones of Israel I will also make you a light of the nations, so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. Right? So these are the passages, there's a lot of them, but I g you know I only have five pages. But these The ones that would know God's not just going to save people in Israel. The Messiah is going to come and He's going to spread this to everyone This was part of the blessing of the new covenant, right, that was given. And so they anticipated, were saved by faith through the Messiah to come. Even Gentiles are going to get in on this. What their surprise was, hello, you're all rooming together. I thought there would be separate dorms. No, everybody's in on this We got Gentiles in on this? Yeah. Yeah. And that's the book of Acts in so many ways where that begins to collide, right? And where Peter and Paul in Galatians, where Paul says of Peter, so Peter's eating ribs with the Gentiles. Gentiles. Right? He's finding this new freedom, right? We've talked about. And he's like, I get it. The nations are in. He's eating ribs, and then what happens? The men come from James and Jerusalem. The legalists. The moralist. You're eating with Gentiles? Yeah. Uh no? No? You know? He's got a napkin rib fest, you know. Nope, never saw any Gentiles. We didn't coach her the whole time. Right? That's what the law will do. But then Ephesians 3, we're not we're not into a lesson today, it's more in next week's packed. into the the tree. But Ephesians three, one to twelve tells us the second part. That Paul says this mystery of the church together was never told before, but now it's one body as it is in this age. Let me quickly, if you will, verses one to twelve twelve. For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles, if indeed you've heard of the stewardship of God's grace which was given to me Incidentally the word stewardship in Greek there is oikonomeo. And you're like, oh cool. It means um the laws of the house. It's the word that's translated y typically dispensation. And that is an age or or a particular manifestation of God's purpose for an age. But if indeed you've heard of the stewardship of God's grace which was given to me for you, that by revelation There was made known to me the mystery, as I wrote before in brief. By referring to this, when you read, you can understand my insight into the mystery of Christ. Mystery in the Bible does not mean It means something not previously revealed that now comes to light. Verse five, which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men. I love that. Paul saying, hey, I got a revelation from God, a dispensation in which he is telling me this material that no one's ever heard before. And now he's going to tell us what it is. Back to verse 5. in which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets, New Testament of prophets, in the Spirit. Verse six tells us what? To be specific. That the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the body and fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Welcome home, boys. This is the story of the prodigal son. Played out. The prodigal son, of course, is the Gentiles And the older brother is the Jews, and the older brother has been serving him the whole time. And the younger brother has been eaten with pigs. And the older brother's mad because the father embraces the younger brother And he's like, son, you've had all of this fifteen hundred years. You've you've had everything. You you're always mine. You can you can you can have everything. But his heart wasn't with the father It was all a bunch of rules. And the Gentiles get in, which is an offense to those who believe they're saved by law keeping Verse seven, of which I was made a minister, according to the gift of God's grace, which was given to me according to the working of his power. To me, the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles. the unfathomable riches of Christ. Verse 9. And to bring to light what is the administration, oh there it is again, the dispensation, of the mystery, which for ages has been hidden in God. Who created all things, so that the manifold witness wisdom of God might be made known through the church to the rulers and authorities in heavenly places. God kept the mystery of the church at bay so that at this point it was revealed in a way that even the principalities, the powers, everyone could see. God had a plan we never saw. Never saw this coming. Verse 11. This was in accordance with the eternal purpose which he carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and confident access. through faith in him. So there it is. Israel knew and rejected the gospel. Israel knew the Gentiles would be saved, but they didn't know the church age was coming. And that's the glory of this age. So if they had that for fifteen hundred years, why didn't they believe it? Well, because they're so much less spiritual than we are. They're they're less devout than we were as people. Um number three, but why did Israel not see these things? Uh I'm simply going to quote mainly Martin Lloyd Jones here Uh that's always fairly safe. Why were they blind to the plain teaching of the scripture? Martin Lloyd Jones tells us. He observes that the quote that the quotes that Paul picked hit the Jews with three of their national sins that blocked them from the gospel. First, they were proud nationally. We alone are God's chosen people, is their view. So God provokes them by those who are not a nation. We're the greatest nation. We're God's only nation. God says, well, I'm going to make a nation, the church, and I'm going to provoke you with that. Secondly, they were proud of their knowledge of the scripture. We alone have God's law We're the holders of the law. So God provokes them to anger by those who are a nation without understanding. Those who did not understand sought me. Oh not sought me. I uh they can't I brought them in We didn't know anything. We didn't have an olive tree that was cultivated. We didn't have that heritage. God just saved us. And third, the Jews were relying on their works to gain righteousness, so God confounded them by saving those who didn't even seek him. We saw them, so we're righteous. God's like, I can make children of Abraham out of rocks. Next, believers, you know, God's like, it's the heart. Mr. Hart. Alright, that's the rebellion. And now simply in verses one to ten of chapter eleven, the rejection. And the remnant. Is there any questions about what I've just said or anything? Yeah, yes sir. Of the Jews, sim basic was the blessing was a blessing for the Gentiles. Absolutely. Absolutely. If you didn't hear that and I think you probably did, but yeah, the rejection of Israel is a blessing to the Gentiles and as you know, that's chapter eleven. Really, you've hit the main message that that God has given this intermediate period, if you will. Whoops, I don't have a gun. there but the church age as that time in which Gentiles get in by his grace in large measure and allowing for our their s disobedience for a time allows for our being gathered in And then God is going to restore all of that, of course, Romans 11. So that's good. Alright. Verses 1 to 10 then. The rejection and the remnant. Now I'm going to say up front, this is going to tell us they have not been rejected. You say, well wait, were they? But then later in this passage, which I'm not getting to today, Paul is going to say, now their rejection is only partial. So we're going to get to the point is we're using the same Greek word, but for two different purposes. They're not ultimately rejected. The promises are still true God is going to give them their promises so they're not rejected from their promises. However, they're under the ban of being disobedient, therefore they're in a time of partial rejection. That is, they're out of their land The time that Paul's writing, they weren't out of their land, but they were under Gentile dominion under Rome. And so it's a time of both rejection from God, but also a time to prepare for restoration. So let's read it. Verses 1 to 10. I say then, God has not rejected his people, has he? May it never be. For I too am an Israelite Because he's like, hey, if they're not saving Jews, why am I a Christian? I'm sorry, I'm giving my whole message before I get there. I say then, God has not rejected his people, has he? May it never be. For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Or do you not know what the scripture says in the passage about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel? Lord, they've killed your prophets, they've torn down your altars, I alone am left, and they are seeking my life. But what is the divine response to him? I've kept for myself 7,000 men who've not bowed the knee to Baal In the same way, then, there is also come to be the present time a remnant according to God's gracious choice. But it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works, otherwise grace is no longer grace. What then? What Israel is seeking, it is not obtained. That is law righteousness. But those who were chosen obtained it. You notice the use of chosen here three or four times. It's election that determines the outcome. All Israel's not Israel, but the elector So back to it, verse 7. What then? What Israel is seeking is not obtained, but those who were chosen obtained it, and the rest were hardened. Just said as it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes to see not, and ears to hear not, down to this very day. And David says, Let their table become a snare and a trap, and a stumbling block, and a retribution to them. Let their eyes be dead. darken to see not and bend their backs forever. So then the rejection. God has hardened Israel Now we've talked about that in other passages and I'm not going to do an exposition on hardening, but just the simplest, perhaps silly uh picture, but if you think of water Water is in its one form liquid. If you put a lot of heat with water exterior. it will boil. If you put a lot of coldness it will f pard pardon me, it will freeze. Very very scientific and technical, I've just done on you not to talk about the boiling po point or freezing of water. The point is Neither of those activities, the freezing or hardening into ice, does not change the nature of the water. The water was what it was. The exterior work on it only hardens it into a form that it itself is taking. If you look at biblical hardening, it is that. God does not harden people by changing their nature We love God, but God's gonna harden me against God. That'd be changing the nature of the water. God takes the water which rejects him and which pours out in its you know, we do not love you. And God says, well then you're frozen that way. Uh think of uh think of Lot's wife in her disobedience is frozen like salt. But she she looked back. She's frozen in her disobedience. And so whatever one makes of hardening, God never causes anyone to sin That's right, like Pharaoh in Egypt. Pharaoh hardened his own heart, scripture tells us. And then God then, let it be then. Because I will crush your evil and make good out of it. And so it's it's a but God hardens those he hardens. And in a moment I'll say a little more about that. But so number one, what are God's plans for the people of Israel then? Some people believe the Jews are God's people and have unconditional promises from God. That be one of me, right? I believe that. That they have unconditional promises which will yet be fulfilled. But it doesn't look like it. Or, others believe because the Jews rejected Jesus the Messiah, the church has replaced Israel and inherited all the promises. So that when God said, I'm going to give it to another nation, he did give it to the church permanently. And that's a possible rendering if you want to take your s passages of scripture, what we have to talk through. So did the church replace Israel? God's like, I'm done with the whole Israel thing. So I'm just gonna get Jews and Gentiles together, we're doing church. And church is going to replace all that and that's the end. That's the end game. And that's how we roll. Or the other view, which is held here by the truly godly is the view that their rejection is neither total nor final. It is a rejection, but it's not total, there's a remnant, and it's not final, there's a revival So you can go through a period in which God has rejected the outward Israel, but has never given up on saving all the elect Israel and we'll save a whole bunch of them at one time. That's our view, uh ours being the church's view here. Which is of course correct because it agrees with us in in the room. So Um so let's take a look at that then. Number two, Paul in Romans chapters nine to eleven addresses the question of God's plan for Israel. That's what we have been saying for about eight thousand weeks A. Israel's falling away is in accordance to God's sovereign purpose and election. That was chapter nine. Not all Israel's Israel, but God will save all Israel that He wants to save who elect. B. Israel willfully rejected the gospel. That's what we just were talking about. C. God's rejection of Israel is neither total nor final. These verses out of Romans 11 help us to know that. It's not total. In the same way, then There has also come to be at the present time a remnant according to God's gracious choice. Right? And that has been the truth throughout all the ages. God has always had a remnant of his believers, even in the midst of Christ. crazy village. And not final. That's the point that our brother here has t said, that it is not final. That God is going to use all of this to bring them back. Romans eleven, twenty five and twenty six. For I do not want you brethren to be uninformed uh oh of this mystery. What is the mystery? That the mystery of the church does not take away the promises of God and that the mystery now revealed is that God is going to restore them as he promised, and in a way that the church is not the final solution. Oh, this is crazy, but here we go. For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed to this mystery, so that you will not be wise in your own estimation. That's replacement theology that Paul's telling you not to do. Don't think Israel's done. This is it. Finally we get some religious people who know what they're doing That was supposed to be a lot funnier than it was. And I don't usually beg to laugh because I know once you've given it you don't l but At the moment I was like, that was pretty funny. That was that was that was that was that was pretty funny. So there there is only a partial hardening. So that you will not be wise in your own estimation, that a partial hardening Is that like in Princess Bride where you're mostly dead? If you're mostly dead So you know, versus what is tree victory victory that you just try That's right. Mystery means something that God had not revealed, but then he does reveal it. So it was a mystery to us, but it's now we know what it is. Yes, yes, it had not been revealed, but now it is. That's good. Yeah. Alright. So again, Romans 11, 25, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, and so all Israel will be saved. I just want to unpack two points, because we're not doing our full eschatology till next week. Okay? We're going to do eschatology. Alright? But just a reminder, Paul's packed a lot in those verses, and two things stand out. One of them is until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. We know scripture tells us about the times of the Gentile or the time of the Gentiles. And that started in 605 BC when Babylon came in, took the southern kingdom away. to Babylon. And from that point until pretty much in our age, Israel has been under Gentile dominion. has not had its full nation, does not have its temple worship since 70 AD, and does not have a king. Israel has not had a king in like a zillion years They're waiting for King David to return, the true king, Messiah, to come in through the wall and said, Okay, everybody out of the pool. So the time of the Gentiles Is both a political age when Israel does not have its king yet promised that the Messiah will come as king. And restore Israel to its proper place. But there's that age of the Gentiles, in which also it's a blessing to the Gentiles because God begins to save Gentiles. He doesn't just use them as overlords. And it's a beautiful time And so all Israel will be saved, and we'll talk about that next week. So D, God's plan for Israel displays his magnificent wisdom. That's how the passage will end. Okay? Yeah. Don? Um excuse me, but can you go back to I understand that part. I feel like it's it it needs to be an additional change because it's hard to do much in your nature. But Well then it becomes like a a a hero movie, right? Uh freeze. Yes. Um He right. Lots of different words would work, seal, harden. He causes He allows their moral choices to come to their ultimate ends without mercy The Saint Augustine said the punishment for sin is sin. So it is a give it's the same as Romans chapter 1. He gave them over. Four different times. He gave them over down the ladder. He gave them over. He gave them over. He eventually gives them over for full degradation of their soul. So that they're stuck in one gear You want that? That's what you got. All right. That's good. Helpful. Alright, pastry. That should be a warning for everyone Uh not simply to us. I recognize it, but that is a warning for every religious person who attends church in America. who will not bow their knee to Jesus. Yeah, Karen. Keep on sinning. Those who are holy, keep being holy. Last chapter. Yes. That's what's like so you don't want this? Right. Right, but recognize what all those warnings were in the book. Very nicely done. Very nicely done. Alright, page three. Page three is a mess in terms of formatting. You know, when you get you like This one of everything on this page. I wouldn't want to go to a restaurant and see this on the menu. You know? You ever go to a restaurant where like the menu is unreadable? And you're like, I don't want anything. I I I don't trust I don't trust anything you're doing back there. Just make it simple. We went to a new restaurant, n it's new to us, well it's actually fairly new, uh in Colombia last week, and the menu was simple I was like, dude, yes! Like, 15 things, everything's clear, just eat that. Have any any of you guys been to Peter Chang's? It's over yeah, it's over by Merriweather. It's in uh Chang's Peter Chang No no no. Peter Chang's I know what Peter Chang's is. Have you Ian, have you been no. Peter Chang's. It's over by Doc Cow? It's over by Merriweather. There's a beautiful section over there with little little outdoor place kids can play soccer and everything. Go check it out. Peter Chang, XLB, Shaolong Bao. It was pretty good. It was pretty good. It's Chinese food. Yeah, Peter Chang. So Peter's PS brother. That's different than BFF, it's PFF. Okay. Enough of that. I think I I think Peter Changs is gonna owe me something from All right. Top of page three and number three. God is presently preserving a remnant, verses one to five. Has God chapter eleven. Has God totally cast away his people? I say then, God has not rejected his people, has he? May it never be. Right, we've seen that in Romans four different times where Paul's like, no way. That's not possible. Possible. Okay, just get that in your theology. Um I'm gonna say this to younger men in our room. Where is that line? Well I I'm sixty four, so but if you're less than 42 It's totally arbitrary. A phenomena that I've watched for the last twenty-five years. Young men who become Calvinist. Some of you are like, what And there's a danger in Calvinism, it's intoxicating. Because two reasons You got the whole picture now. You feel like you're watching it in color and everyone else is watching it in in some sort of sepia brown. And it's intoxicating because you're like, I know the mystery. The problem is it's true. You do know the mystery And Calvinism, let me take it down to Pauline sovereignty, is true. But it is also possible to get to a point where You can misuse that and begin to think that you know too much. And I'm gonna admit at sixty-four that I've forgotten my point. That was a big build up to a dud Where was I going with that? I if I had notes that you didn't have, I would know. But I only have your notes, so Okay, God is presently preserving a remnant. Maybe the Lord will give me my mind back. Has God totally cast away his people? No. I say then God has not rejected his people as he may it never be. God says that's not going to happen. Uh why might one think God is finished with Israel? Well, put passages like Matthew twenty one. Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. and given to a people, producing the fruit of it. And he who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, that is Christ. But on whomever it falls, it will scatter him like dust When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they understood he was speaking about them So Jesus told them just what the Old Testament told them. If you reject Messiah, God is going to reject you. Now, in the Old Testament though, just you gotta remember all those other verses that said, and after that God is gonna restore you. Okay, th they're both true. What was not known was the church age in which that centerpiece would be there. In which that rejection would look final because the church would grow and it would be almost all Gentiles after the first century. Not only, but just So it looks like God's not going to do it, but both of those are true from the Old Testament. And Jesus warns them of what Moses and Isaiah and Deuteronomy said that if you reject me, I will raise up a different different people who will follow me. Now understand God always has a remnant and he always has his administrators of his covenant on earth at any point. And so at this point it's the church he's working through the church So my point here, may it never be. God has not rejected his people, Paul says. So what does all this mean? Well, Paul gives some personal evidence that it's not true. Paul himself is an Israelite of unquestioned Pedigree. I decided to use that word, even though when I think of it, I think of my golden retrievers. Paul says, For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. Okay, but Bible people. Alright, you know the little Abraham thing. He's saying I'm Jewish, I'm totally in line. Why does he mention the tribe of Benjamin? And you're loved. Go ahead. I think because Benjamin was the one that saved the United States and the time we see when the ten tribes went north. Beautiful. When the ten tribes went north, Benjamin said, nah, we're not going up there. We're not gonna do false worship, we're not gonna have uh alternate temple, we're not gonna just worship up there in and Shechem and all that. We're not doing that. We're we're sticking with God's people and the true kingdom. And so Paul is proud of that by saying, I'm not just from Abraham. I'm from that little faithful tribe that never gave up on the true kingdom. Right? Very nicely done. So it's personal evidence. If there ever was a hopeless case, it was Saul. So Paul's point is twofold. Hey, he saved me, I'm Jewish, and number two, he saved me, and I was unsavable So God can save anybody, therefore God can save a remnant at any point. Again, he just refreshes those in 1 Timothy. Even though I was formerly a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent aggressor Yet I was shown mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was more than abundant with the faith and love which are found in Christ Jesus. It is a trustworthy statement, deserving full acceptance that Christ Jesus Jesus came into the world to save sinners, among whom Dave Doyle is most. So true. Carlos is gonna get such crowns in heaven. It's gonna be like a three hour ceremony, you know. And now for the year two thousand four, you know, among whom Paul says, I am foremost of all. Yet for this reason I found mercy, so that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might demonstrate his perfect patience as an example. For those who would believe in him for eternal life. If he can save Saul, he can save anybody, is Paul's point. Now I just want to say one thing just think about it, but maybe you've never looked at it this way. When Paul says it's a trustworthy statement, and then he quo then he says that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners among whom I am for most of all, this apparently comes from an ancient hymn. When Paul says it's a trustworthy statement, he says that three or four times in the pastoral epistles, he's quoting ancient literature of the church. And he's because he's not saying this is scripture, and he's not simply saying this is true. But if you go and look, you will find that he is almost certainly quoting in the other passages as well, ancient hymns, and which the church was singing. What I think Paul is saying here because we've always been confounded, how can Paul say he's the worst sinner who ever lived? I it it would be hyperbole, which hyperbole is fine in the Bible. It makes a point. Paul's like, I'm the worst and God save me. Can still be true. But I think what Paul is quoting is a hymn that everybody was singing And acknowledging, hey, I'm unsavable unless God saves people. So something to think about. You can look that up. There's lots of literature on that. But I'm convinced that when Paul does say Uh it's a trustworthy statement. He does it, I think it's four times. Uh he's always quoting, and you'll see he'll uh something uh looks like a poem uh in those passages. You know, Great is the mystery of godliness That comes after that. Great, you know, trustworthy statement. Great is a mystery of godliness. It's like a poem of the ancient world. All right. God chose Saul Paul as his instrument of bringing the gospel to the Gentiles. Theological evidence. God cannot read the government. Now guys, we have gone through foreknowledge and predestination like forty-six times, so let's do it forty-seven. Um In the left side is 6. 5 font with a hole in it. Remember what foreknowledge is relating to the doctrine of election, the personal relational knowledge by which God thought of certain people in a saving relationship to Himself before creation. This is to be distinguished from the mere knowledge of facts about a person. The selective knowledge of God that makes one an object of God's love is more than mere knowledge or cognition beforehand. That is, he doesn't look down the timetable, but rather he chooses you in advance. He knows you in advance in terms of choosing you. And then a lot of other Cool stuffs, motivation to act, relating to persons rather than what the person will or will not do. So Paul's point is: God has not rejected his people that he foreknew, they're elect And therefore they are going to be blessed. Israel is foreknown according to God's sovereign will. Here's what he says in Deuteronomy 7. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession. Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the people. The Lord did not set his love on you, or nor choose you, because you were more in number than any of the other peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples. But because the Lord loved you And kept the oath which he swore to your forefathers, the Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. God has foreordained this people the privileges and blessings which cannot be revoked and the hardening of the majority should not be interpreted as a complete rejection of his people. Jessica. But uh uh let me see here. Um the terms The term blah blah blah on God's motivation to act. The term before knowledge? No, no, no. Knowledge of no beforehand, but the term Blank. Relies or class changed perhaps. Realize? Perhaps. Alright. I gotta look up my file, right? Oh there it is. Okay. You see, yeah, I got it here. And my PDF. If I didn't have a PDF, I'd be in trouble, right? It is oh it's a circle. The word a circle. No, it is. Uh this term focuses on God's motivation to act Okay. What was it? Focuses. Focuses. All right. There we go. Page four. Very good. All right. I've attempted to teach something on the Abrahamic Covenant like ninety-two times in the last six weeks or eight weeks. I put it in my notes, right? At the back of my notes, and never get there. So this time I was like, it's in the middle of the notes. But I truncated four pages into about a page. So what is the point? God is going to be faithful to what? To himself and to the covenant which he has made. Everyone in this room has heard of the Abrahamic covenant. Everyone in this This room, if you've been at this church for any amount of time, knows about the Abrahamic covenant. So this is not a deep dive, this is a refresher because Paul's point is God is going to be faithful to the ch people he foreknew and that he has promised in his covenant. So let's do a Quick dive. God promised Abraham a land, a seed, and a blessing. To many passages, and that none of this was conditioned on his obedience. but rather on God's eternal purposes. Through his line would come these three things. The land, of course it's Palestine, over the Euphrates, down to the river of Egypt Very, very technical. No one actually knows that I used to work for the US Geological Survey. Yes, yes. I did, but that's not one of the drawings that they do. Okay? That's not a two point five topoquad, right? So the seed is because the word seed can be plural and singular, just like in English, it is in Hebrew. So the seed was plural. They would have lots of people come through this line. But it's singular as Paul points out in the book of Galatians that it's Christ. The seed is coming. And then the blessing Is salvation, but other things are under it. There's more temporal blessings too, and we'll get into that some other time. But salvation would be a blessing to all nations. There are three covenants. After Abraham is given this major covenant, there are three covenants that are given that are simply a broadening or explaining of the other covenants. They're not separate from them, as you know. And they explain them. The first one is typically called the Palestinian Covenant. And then the second one is called the Davidic Covenant. And the third one is called the New Covenant. This is in Jeremiah, this is 2 Samuel, and this is in Deuteronomy 28-30. And what these covenants do are expand and explain the nature of how these covenants will be fulfilled. So God said, to you and your seed will be a land, a seed, and a blessing. Awesome. What will be the seed? It will be Christ, the King, Savior, Prophet, King, and he will reign. The new covenant is a promise of salvation. includes the Gentiles, in which we are in the new covenant. This is the new covenant in my blood. Christ has inaugurated the new covenant. The Davidic covenant, while Christ is king, he's not sitting on the throne which he's promised over Israel. And that's yet to come in the Messianic kingdom. And then the Palestinian covenant. What is this? In and out. It's a burger. How many of you have eaten it in and out? All right. The elect. Conditional. The land is unconditional. You, the elect, through Abraham's line, will have the land in the future forever. But it is not a promise that you're going to be in the land all the time. Because they were told, now here's how this land thing works. I'm going to give you a future land with your king To all saved people in the kingdom of God. Amen. However, during this time between that and the coming of Messiah the Prince, you're going to be in and out of the land. Because Deuteronomy uh uh twenty-eight thirty says, If you obey me and you keep my statutes, you get to live in the land, it'll be fun If you don't, another people will come, they will take you out of here, and you will suffer under them. God told them That's what happened. That's the history of Israel. So people point to that and say, see they're out of the land. So God rejected them. But God told them he was going to reject them And he also told them he was going to restore them. So you see that it's it's that complete picture that we have to keep. Alright, so the chart at the top of page four says that in less awesome ways It was the promise of a national land, the promise of redemption, the promise of numerous descendants, and the seed itself, the Palestinian, the New, and the Davidic. So the Abrahamic covenant summarized, here we go. Abraham's name will be great. A great nation will come from him. He will be a blessing so great that all the families of the earth will be blessed through him. That's awesome. To him personally and to his seed should be given the land forever to inherit. The multitude of his seed will be as the dust of the earth Father Abraham is the father of faith. It's not just Jews that are being mentioned, but all believers, Galatians 3. All of them are under Father Abraham, had many sons. Okay. Father Abraham. I am one of them. Are we bringing Lauren back up here? Is that I still think when Morgan came up and sang for us that day was one of the highlights of our course and thank you again. Yeah. What do you mean, here, here? I was just paying her homage. Go out as our homage. That whoever blesses him will be blessed, and whoever curses him will be cursed. He will be the father of many nations. Kings will proceed from him. The covenant will be perpetual, an everlasting covenant. The land of Canaan will be an everlasting possession God will be God to him in his seed, and in his seed all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Again, excuse me. The idea that it's an eternal covenant Well number one, i it didn't start in eternity past. It's the idea that it is perpetual and it's going to be kept by God. But again, God put parameters on it. We just have to remember that. Because you say, well he told them they were going to be in the land and they're not, so it's not true. It's true. But rather he told them you're not always going to be in the land, but you're eventually going to be always in the land. And that's the motif. So the scope of the Abrahamic covenant excuse me is individual, national, and universal. It's individual to Abraham. Abraham, all the land that you see I will give to you and your offspring forever. Uh we do have a team over in Israel, right, right now. From the church, I think fourteen people? They're getting to see portion of that land. How many of you have been to Israel? Dude, the super elect. If you've been to In N Out California and Israel, it's my status bar today. Okay. Alright, national, Genesis 13. I will make your offspring like the dust of I will bless those who bless you Whoever curses you, I will curse, and all the peoples on earth will be blessed through you. Alright, page five. And just a point of its unconditional character. Well, what if Abraham disobeyed? He did. It's called eternal. There are no named conditions for its enjoyment or for its fulfillment. There are conditions of its enjoyment. And again, we'd have to say, We're sorry to see you go. It's Shari, right? Wilson? Right. Okay. Take her off the list. She's a nice lady. Um There are no name conditions. Like the New Covenant, we have no conditions of salvation. Believe, but there are no conditions to keep it or good works. However You can live and not enjoy the new covenant. It's confirmed by a blood covenant in which the Lord alone swore to Abraham to fulfill it. That was the point. Genesis 4 God saves Abraham by faith. It's counted to him as righteousness. Abraham did nothing for it. God did all of the work, cut the animals, put Abraham to sleep, and God made the promise. I am going to give this to you. The promise is repeated in the next generation. The promise is are often repeated to Abraham and his seed after major acts of disobedience. That's the thing. So Abraham, welcome back from that adventure of selling your wife away twice. You know, I think I mentioned last week uh i and just but Abraham couldn't even be an elder at our church, you know. Uh and uh yet he's fifty times more godly than probably anybody in our church Uh except for the Moreg and and Mel. I think maybe Ann. That that might be it. That might be it. Okay. Uh no, well actually there's a few people okay. But every time he measured messes up God seems to come back and say, Abraham, Abraham, yes Lord. And he's like, he tells him, I'm going to give this to you. Even during a time of apostasy and exile, the nation of Israel is still reminded of God's faithfulness. Jeremiah 31 They were they were going into exile and God said, I'm going to bring you back. And the New Testament declares the Abrahamic covenant is immutable Hebrews chapter 6, and then eschatological future of Israel in Romans 9 to 11 in the book of Revelation. So Paul then gives historical evidence that this is true by talking about Elijah. Or do you not know what the scripture says in the passage about Elijah, how he pleads with God about Israel. Lord, you've killed your prophet, they've killed your prophets, they've torn down your altars. I alone am left, and they're seeking my life. Lord Everybody is in on this terrible stuff in America today and I am the only one who still believes. But what is the divine response? I have kept for myself seven thousand who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So Israel's present situation is my Much like it occurred in Elijah's day. Elijah thought he was the last faithful Israelite. God declared that he's at work in Israel in spite of human appearances. And God has faithfully preserved a remnant through the history of Israel, no matter how widespread their apostasy or unbelief. Again, warning and encouragement, right? If you're a true believer, this should be encouraging I know there's days when I'm generally not overwhelmed by the news or something, you know. Uh but there are days when I'm like This is just rampant ungodliness. This is crazy village. This is like what in the world? And the temptation at that point, there are many temptations, at least, you know, you can tempt it to get a human answer to spiritual problems Man, if I just had a wheat grinder and a gun, I'd move to Montana and say, come and take it, coppers. The last faithful remnant. I'm gonna be up on the mountain with Rambo. That is some Christians' answer. Store food, get a gun, you know, restore America to freedom. I hope we uh have freedom. I have guns. Okay, those of you who want to come take them, come take them. Molanabi. Come and take it. Um but that's not the solution, is it? Or then you get fear. You know, sometimes we're in fear. God God, you know, this thing's collapsing around us. And God doesn't promise any empire to stay. He doesn't promise any nation to stay. He doesn't promise any church to stay. He doesn't promise any individual to stay. God will have his will. But if you look at history, and that's the point Paul's making here God preserves his own even in the midst of chaos. At the time that Elijah felt that, it looked like no other believers existed in the nation. It looked that way But he was alone, if you will, on the mountain of all the prophets of Baal. And so just as a word of encouragement, Paul's point is, God has a remnant. Even when the church looks like, what? God has a remnant. So contemporary evidence, God is presently preserving a remnant among his people. Israel in the same way There is also come to be at the present time, Paul says, fifty-six AD, a remnant according to God's gracious choice. Even though the majority Rejected the Messiah, God saved many Jews in the early church. I'm going to give another little factoid that you can go do fact check on. Many people feel that after the 3,000 or whatever saved on the day of Pentecost, and then I think there's 4,000 more saved a couple chapters later, and then you start looking at the timeline and the the history Um there's fairly good evidence that between 75 and 100,000 Jews were saved in the Jerusalem area during the first 15 plus years after the cross. So when people think, oh, there was those few thousand people saved, y you have to add up other revival type things in the book of Acts and look at other pieces. But the point of it is, it wasn't a small church and it wasn't a few Jews who got saved at the start. It was a lot of Jews. In fact, in the book of Acts is says a myriad of Jews came and believed at one point in the book of Acts. A myriad. What does that mean? A lot. A whole lot. A lot more than the three or four thousand that were named And it's kind of like in the book of Revelation. How many Jews will be saved in the Book of Revelation? How many Gentiles? Uh again the view is like, you know, when you you applied the narrow road and the large road and Nobody will be saved and I I know there's a view that once you get to the tribulation period people are locked in. They're all hardened, if you will, and nobody's gonna get saved. But the two things we know is in the book of Revelation that Billy just quoted um bahuka amounts of people are gonna get saved, uh a number that they couldn't even count, uh, in the tribulation period. And we know about the hundred and forty four thousand Jews who are going to be Probably missionaries, it sounds like. They're not just 144,000 people who get saved. They appear to be 144,000 missionaries. Man, what mission board right now would not take 144,000 believers who are fully sealed? They're committed to the the gospel. They want to go and they'll pay any price to do it. You know, I took I took that. There's a hundred and thirty hundred and ninety-three nations right now that are recognized. Uh if you divide 144,000 by 193, you come up with about seven hundred and forty-six missionaries per country. And if you took the United States as it's currently constructed, fifty states, right, seven hundred and forty-six fifth divided by fifty. It's a lot. And then you've even took counties. The point is, 144,000 missionaries could spread out throughout the whole world. and cover most of the population. I don't mean like one on one, but you can have a missionary in Howard County. It's not inconceivable or a missionary within a couple of counties who's preaching the gospel out in the street while stuff's falling out of the sky. You know, God is God is going to send a missionary wave of revived Israel. They're not just sealed Christians. They're they're not the only ones getting saved. They're the missionaries. They're the Apostle Paul's of the time. What if God replicated Paul 144,000 times and said, Go and preach the gospel. Zillions of people are going to get saved, and Jews are going to get saved in the tribulation period. Alright, contemporary evidence then, and God has continued to save a remnant of the Jews throughout the history of the church. Number four, God saves and hardens according to the to his sovereign good pleasure. Page five. The faithful remnant exists by God's gracious choice. In the same way then. There's also come to be at the present time a remnant according to God's gracious election. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works, otherwise grace is no longer grace. What then? What Israel is seeking it is not obtained Law righteousness. But those who were elect obtained it, and the rest were hardened. The seven thousand in Israel uh Elijah's day were kept by God's sovereign, efficacious grace. Grace and works are mutually exclusive. Those who obtained salvation were not, those who saw it, but those who are chosen by God. Those who claim God's election is based on God's foreknowledge of our worthy acts, even faith, undermine the grace. And if you've been preserved from the world, that is Baal, it's God's work. Man, I'm gonna finish on time to say. I always try to. But the rest are hardened, and we've already talked about that. But then they were hardened. They refused to seek salvation. Many professing Christians make the same fatal error today. I can hold that off. Oh yeah, I got it in my head. God has sovereignly judiciously hardened them, and here are two things I want to point out. Hardening like election is God's act. Hardening unlike election is deserved Israel's disobedience has not frustrated God's plan but fulfills divine prophecy. And finally, verses 8 to 10, Israel's present hardness is in keeping with their past history. As we read, just as it's written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, verse 9, let their table become a snare. Verse 10, let their eyes be darkened. God gives them a spirit of stupor. God brings a snare, a stumbling block, retribution, darkness, and servitude upon them. Even when God hardens Israel He preserves a remnant through whom he will bring great future blessing. Friends, the Holocaust is an extension of God's warning in the Old Testament. It was evil. The people did all we're not talking about it was good. But the continued persecution of Jewish people throughout history is satanic But allowed by God. Because they're under God's wrath for the rejection of the Messiah And every single person alive who knows about the Messiah will have the same fate if we do not trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior. It's not just a Jewish problem, but the point is God told them this is what's going to happen if you do not come to me. And the existence of the remnant implies hope for the future. So next week the olive tree. Romans eleven, eleven to thirty six. Coming attractions. There it is. Carla and I had two olive trees in our in our yard in California when we first moved in. And then we'll talk a little bit. about that. Alright, let me pray for you