All right, we're back in the book of Romans. We're in lesson thirty-eight today. We're in the section of the book of Romans we've entitled Service. We're in part three of that, Romans 14, 1 to 23. And today, oh, today Romans 14, 1-23 teaches us the following. How to accept other believers who differ from us. on non-commanded matters of conscience. Let me say that again. Because you know what you're doing right now? You're looking around going Yep, that's right. How to accept other believers who differ from us on non-commanded matters of conscience. Well, we all probably have stories of good and godly Christians. who are well intended, but who differ from us on matters where you can't find a particular Bible verse that tells you absolutely how to apply that which is principled from Scripture. And good and godly people can disagree. And insofar as that works and you can love each other, it's all beautiful. But when it becomes a matter of judgment and tearing each other down and ruining each other over our Christian liberties, uh that becomes a matter that the Apostle Paul jumps in on. And he's like, friends, don't do that. Don't destroy each other with your liberty. Or If you're the person who is quote unquote being destroyed by others' liberty, don't be the person who judges everybody else for their freedom. And that's what Paul will get into here. You know, I find that in the fact that we together at Hope Bible Church are in a teaching church. Where we love the Bible and we have not just some convictions, but we have a lot of convictions. Dude, we're more convicted than anybody And when you get together with Bible believing Christians who are convicted about the scriptures and details We can get to a point where we devour one another. I use this phrase about homeschooling, but it's fair game since we homeschooled, okay? Being more homeschooled than Tao. And what happens among good Christians who love the Bible is that we're all up for a good fight, but sometimes our war is because our world is too small. We begin to war with other Christians with our own camp about theological matters that don't matter. And we make them primary rather than secondary issues. and which you can have fellowship with other Christians who disagree with you about many things, as long as they are not the central and core things of the Christian faith. So let me get into that today. Because what I found, and I'm gonna say this in a minute, but let me say it before I say it, that in a room like this I'm gonna imagine that point C on here is true. Very few think they are weak or regarding their convictions as matters of liberty. Oh, you're talking to the people who are kind of gray area people. But me, I've got this all mapped out. Okay. Christians often differ on matters of conscience. Now, Paul says in verses 1 and 2, now accept the one who is weak in faith, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his opinions. In other words, well we need weak people in our church so we can make fun of them. There's always somebody I'm better than, right? Verse 2. One person has faith That he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables only. Well, you just saw it. Pada? They're weak. Nobody thinks that's funny. Vegetarianism is weak, Paul says. I'll go on. Verse five. One person regards one day above another, another regards every day alike. So is Paul saying by this, accept one another? Is he saying you be you? Is he just saying, look, everybody get along no matter what everybody believes. Kumbaya. Yeah, kumbaya. That's right. Kumbaya. No, he's not saying that. So A, there are doctrinal and moral issues which cannot be ignored or tolerated. For example, someone in the church denying the gospel. Alright? Galatians 1. I am amazed, Paul says, that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel, which is really not another, only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel, contrary to what you received, he is to be accursed. Or immorality in the church. 1 Corinthians 5, verse 11. But actually, Paul writes, I wrote to you not to associate with any so-called brother if he's an immoral person, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler. or a drunkard or a swindler, not even to eat with such a one. So there's certainly a a list of things in the New Testament that Paul and others would tell us that are not to be ignored or to be tolerated. B. We're not postmodernist. Let me explain. As you know, postmodernism's view, philosophy is there's nothing true And we get it down to that cultureized phrase of, hey, if it's true to you, it's true. That's not my truth. Okay, we're not postmodernists and Paul's not accepting the idea that on absolute truths He's not saying, hey, if it's true to you, it's true, just everybody have their own opinion. He's not saying that. So what is he saying? Just because you're convinced doesn't make your belief true I am convinced that my my view on this matter from Scripture is what Scripture says. Right. That's your view. But I have convictions over it and I've built my life around it. I get that. Yet, Romans 14:5, Paul says, each person must be fully convinced in his own mind Even though it's true that if you're convinced in your own mind it's not necessarily true, right? Even though that's true, Paul says on these matters of quote-unquote Christian liberty or conscience, Paul says, but be convinced in your own mind about this. These are not issues in which it doesn't matter Right? Paul is saying, be convinced in your own mind. Act in a way that you're convinced what Scripture says regarding your behavior and application. Be convinced in your own mind. But be knowledgeable of what Scripture says. Don't be convinced on no knowledge. Be convinced on knowledge. Alright, see. Very few think they are weak. or regards their convictions as matters of liberty. So let me explain at the bottom then. Paul is going to talk about, in this chart at the bottom, he's going to talk about the two central blocks, that is stronger brother and weaker brother. in this passage hi. Um and so he's going to explain to us on matters of Christian liberty. In this passage he'll speak about the stronger brother and the weaker brother. That's what he's going to focus on. But he's warning both of them not to be another person He's warning the stronger brother not to be libertarian. That is not another way of spelling librarian. Alright? He's warning in this passage those who consider themselves strong brothers or sisters on an issue not to go too far with your liberty and use it as an excuse You see? So he's warning about a person he doesn't mention, but he we're going to give the name Libertarian to it. He then warns the weaker person not to judge the person who's exercising freedom. This person I'm calling the Pharisee for good reasons. So Paul is giving us these two, but warning us not to be these two. Right? And we're giving names to them whereas he names these, these are names. Don't become the person over here who judges everybody's liberty. Don't become the person over here who says, I don't care about their conscience. I'm gonna do whatever I want. Right? So there are four people who are in this passage and we don't want to be either of the extremes And then we have to understand where we are in terms of the other question. Now in a minute we're going to get into what is a weaker brother and what is a stronger brother in more detail. But let me say this because this is going to be super important in this passage. Paul is not talking about categories. Of Christians who are, you're a stronger Christian, and over here are the weaker Christians And he's not talking about overarching the entire person. What Paul is talking about is on particular issues Are you stronger or weaker on the issue he's talking about? He's not talking about categories of Christians in their entire life. It's talking about weaker or stronger about issues. Like music albums from the seventies. And the eighties, thank you. Oh, you're gonna go full ACDC on me and police, right? Okay. I see where this is going. And journey and whatever. By even doing that, I may have violated somebody's conscience already. So On these type of matters, like when I became a Christian at 18 years old, I had a collection of albums, not huge, but at that time In my coming out of that into Christ, I thought, I don't want anything to do with that. And my conscience, according to Paul, was not strong, but actually weak. But my passion for Christ was strong. But my conscience is weak towards this matter because I'm not able to have freedom to exercise towards things which would have been acceptable. We're not talking about the demon albums. I didn't have any of those. But the point is I took all those albums, threw them all away. Okay? It was 1970 something. I could have financed my retirement by now. Elvis' red album, no, you know, whatever. And so at that time I tossed all those away. And but forty whatever years later as a Christian, 47 years later, uh, if I hear any of that music online or whatever. It doesn't offend me. I'm not I'm not hurt by it. I'm not tempted to sin. But at eighteen I would have been. The point is there's some in this room though who came out of certain things And there's certain music or genres or places or experiences you've had that are associated for you with that was my old life. And that tempts me to be other than what I should be in Christ. And so for me, I can't do that. But others might be able to The problem is in the mind is when we force this, no, the things that I don't do have to be universal because I see they're evil. And that's the problem. It's not a problem to have those convictions. It's a problem to universally apply them to every other Christian and saying Doesn't don't these people get it? And that's our problem. Again, one can there are lines. This is not about a no-line. So this is the overall picture we're going to go to. And Paul's going to mention a number of things He's going to mention diet that is eating and drinking and whatever he is, dancing. No, he's not. So that's what Paul's going to go through and explain. There are principles for dealing with this and how we should look at one another. Okay? Big picture, everybody in? All right. So that's the bottom of the page. Let's go to page two then. Matters of conscience in the New Testament sampler. Diet, drink, and daze. We'll just do those three as examples. Diet. Some weak brothers from Jewish backgrounds may have especially scruplus about eating only kosher foods. The strong know we are no longer under Old Covenant dietary restrictions, Mark chapter 7, before the cross There is nothing outside the man which can defile him, Jesus says, if it goes into him. But the things which proceed out of the man are what defile the man. They come out of the heart. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. Food is not the issue. And after the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, the food laws have been abolished for Christians, and we know we can move forward. But During the age of the Book of Acts, for example, those were issues in the early church. Some felt that they had to follow Jewish dietary restrictions, and that's what Paul and Peter among other things, Peter's hypocrisy, but Peter eating with the Gentiles was an issue, and the men who came up from James, we've mentioned that a few times, and challenged Peter and said, Hey, why are you eating with the Gentiles? and uh you know, I lost my mind. Or and then Paul rebukes him for being a hypocrite and saying, You've been set free and in your normal everyday life you s you You eat with Gentiles and you do all this and you know, you go to In N Out in California when you get a chance. And so freedom is a funny thing Sometimes we're free in areas that when other people are around we act like we're all in on, not for conscience sake because they're weaker, but because they're Pharisees And we don't want them to think that we're a weaker Christian in some real regard. So and some from pagan backgrounds may have worried about eating meat which had been sacrificed to idols. Paul dealt with that in 1 Corinthians Uh the strong know that idols are nothing and material objects are not sinful of themselves. I think I've told this story, but I like Thai food and uh there are occasions when you go to a Thai restaurant that they have statues and stuff. I never think about it. You know? I mean f I'm gonna use the word lived in, but Carl and I lived in Singapore for three months at one point and I just I saw the idolatry And I was concerned for the people, but I myself don't feel dirty by seeing them or you know what I mean? It doesn't do that. But there's some people who come out of idolatry or lived within it or in their home or whatever, who they cannot go into a Thai food restaurant and feel good about it. I know 'cause I have brought people there and on one occasion I brought a man to that not thinking about it. I didn't know his background on this. And he came in, he sat down, he's like, I don't I don't feel good here. I was like, What? I said, the food's really good, you know? But their conscience. So we had to move on. We had to go somewhere else. You know, that's the kind of thing. You know, so hey, there's people who cannot see the Oakland Raiders play on television. You know? You've seen it all. Okay, 1 Corinthians 8 really is the passage that sets up our conversation in Romans 14. It's worth reading because we all know it. It's Paul's parallel passage to the one we're in, but he's dealing with a different issue. In our passage, Romans 14, he's dealing with all kinds of matters of eating and drinking and personal liberty. In Romans, in Corinthians 8, he's dealing with, can I go and eat the food that was sacrificed to idols that's now on the pagan's table who's my neighbor in the apartment building And they bring me into their house and they're like, here's our food. And you know, you you all know this passage, they went to the market. Where it had been already offered to idols and placed on the market for sale, and then they bought it and they brought it home and they cooked you a meal And the Corinthians were asking the question, can I go to my pagan neighbor's house and eat that? Because it was offered to idols, so therefore it must be demonic. And Paul addresses that in 1 Corinthians 8. Now, concerning things offered or sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Paul's saying, we all have knowledge of Scripture. Not everyone has the same knowledge. Knowledge makes arrogant, he says, but love edifies. If anyone supposes that he knows anything, he is not yet known as he ought to know, but if anyone loves God, he is known by him. Verse 4. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, We know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world, and that there is no God but one There aren't the demon of hookie-dookie living in the idols. There's not the demon of Pad Thai living in the food. Not even the one that made you sick. Verse five, for even if there are so called gods whether in heaven or on earth, that is in the imagination of people, as indeed there are many gods and many lords imaginate Yet, for us, there is but one God, the Father, for whom all things and we exist for Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and we exist through Him. However, not all men have this knowledge. That's the point. In these areas of weaker and stronger issues, not that you're a weak Christian on certain issues we all have less understanding of scripture or more. And sometimes our freedom is like, I've really investigated this. I've looked all the way through scriptures and I find that I have a freedom to do this or not do it. And I understand where that falls. But in areas that we don't have understanding, we get locked into certain perspectives. And we're like, that's it. That's the only way to look at this. on a non-commanded issue and we get stuck. But Paul says, not all men have knowledge, but some, being accustomed to the idol un until now, eat food as if it were sacrifice to an idol. And their conscience being weak. is defiled. You see that. Verse 8. But food will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do not eat, nor the better if we do. But take care that this liberty of yours, that's why we often call this Christian liberty, of yours, does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. For if someone sees you who have knowledge dining in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be strengthened to eat things sacrificed to idols, that is, tempted To give up their own conscience and say, well Pastor Dave, he's doing it So even though they haven't thought scripture through, they jump to the experience and the practice of it without filtering it through their conscience, and then they start practicing that thing and they violate their conscience Well, I guess good Christians do this. And then they do it and they're like, I feel bad about this. They violate their conscience. Okay. Verse 11. For through your knowledge he who is weak is ruined, the brother for whose sake Christ died. And so by sinning against the brethren. and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat again, so that I will not cause my brother to stumble. Remember in context, Paul's talking about meat sacrificed to idols. He's not saying here, I would never eat meat again if somebody doesn't think eating meat is good. but rather over a a matter of conscience. So that's the setup. Paul says in matters of conscience, it's okay to go to a pagan's house and eat meat that's been sacrificed to idols. By that very notion, you recognize Paul's freedom. Paul is saying, I can do that. You're free to do that But for many they were like, mm. Okay, B. Drink is in the New Testament as well It is good not to eat meat or to drink wine. We're back to our passage, verse 21, or to do anything by which your brother stumbles. Apparently, some felt compelled in the New Testament to abstain from wine. The strong know that they are free to partake of wine in moderation. Again, in this room, in a room like this, we don't have a standard in our membership covenant that says no Christian shall in part or partake of alcohol of any kind. There are membership covenants like that. uh from some kinds of churches, right? Uh we don't have that in our membership covenant. It's left up to the freedom and the responsibilities of each Christian. So in this room, uh my assumption would be there are Christians who drink and Christians who do not drink. Some just because you don't like it or you do like it, others over matters of conscience. Like I could not possibly drink. Why? I know there are people who don't drink because they grew up in homes where they had an alcoholic parent and abusive situations and like I never want to see that again Uh there are others who grew up uh they abused alcohol, for example, and before they knew Christ and when Christ saved them, they're like, I'm not doing that anymore. that I'll never go back to that. And others have used it as cre the point is it's a matter of conscience. The scripture does tell us, right, on on alcohol. uh regarding strong drink in the book of Proverbs that it is unwise because it tempts you to go further. But we also know in Scripture I'm not here to explain every one of these principles, but on the next page, I'm going to go through about 15 different places that Christians disagree about. Just hang on there, okay? But these are the kinds where people are convinced in their own mind. as to using it or not. Okay, and then days, of course. One person regards one day above another and and another day regard another regards every day alike. That's right, that's what we're getting. Many from Jewish backgrounds continue to observe the Old Covenant Sabbaths and feasts in the New Covenant, in the New Testament. And the strong know we are no longer obligated to observe such days because they have been fulfilled in Christ. Colossians 2. Therefore, no one is to act as your judge in regard to food or drink. or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day. Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Alright. So what about matters of conscience today? Ah, there's so many of the same ones, right? Let's talk about some of these before we get into the principles from this passage, not principles, commands of Paul, on what we should do regarding our differences. Uh a Diet and Health. Things like health food, alternative medicine, smoking cigars What about such issues? Uh 1 Timothy 4, we all know that Paul says, For bodily discipline is only of a little profit. Amen. That's why I avoid it like the plague. But godliness is profitable for all things, since it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. Paul's obviously not saying don't ever exercise, he's saying it has it has little profit comparatively to the greater things. The point of it is though, what about that There are some Christians in our age, perhaps more than maybe more than any time in the last 2,000 years. There's a focus on b on Christians and their health. Maybe that's good, maybe that's bad There have been different times. But health foods versus non-health foods. Alternative medicines. Now in a minute or two, I'm going to get down to some other issues like birth control and um uh getting getting injections, uh all of those things. Christians differ today about child rearing, for example. and what you should allow as far as vaccinations. There are Christians today, younger Christians who are having children who are like, no vaccinations. They're from the devil Or it's just scientific. I think they're bad. Or it's government control. I'm going to go off the grid. And you're like, who are they? Hey, I know at our church in California, there were a lot of younger couples who thought like that What about it? Well you can do that if you want. But when you set that the standard of the Bible, and you're not a really godly Christian unless you do or don't do that Then you get schools that are homeschool, you get churches that are homeschool churches, or vaccination churches, or Republican churches. Where it's like non-biblical issues where that's the dividing line instead of the Bible. So How about drinking alcohol? We already said that. 1 Timothy 5, Paul says to Timothy, and he's telling Timothy to be all kinds of liberal. Don't exercise. And no longer drink water exclusively. The apostle tells him to do this. But use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments. Man, the apostle's like, don't exercise. Drink wine. Instructions to pastors. I'm doing the first. Now, those of you who have a conviction that you shouldn't drink will know that I'm a godly man. I have not had a drink in Couple hours? And forty-six years. I drank before I was a Christian. But when I became a Christian at eighteen years old, uh I had two convictions. One is I don't need it or want it. I don't want it to ever use that again wrongly But it was this. I had felt even at 18 that God was working in my life so that I would become a pastor. And I noted that around me, I didn't have any alcoholism in my family, but around me in the culture and in issues with pastors, I thought it would be complicating, so I just decided not to drink. Uh I don't however, this is a freedom liberty. I never once think of anybody who's a Christian who drinks in some lower sense or w I don't have that conviction Uh I have a freedom in that area and I extend that to other people. So days, Galatians chapter four. You observe days and months and seasons and years, Paul says to the Judaizers, okay, in Galatians I fear for you that perhaps I have labored over you in vain. Paul's concern in Galatians, of course, was that they were attaching significance spiritually and in terms of justification to these things. uh Sabbath day or not, of course Acts twenty, on the first day of the week when we were gathered together to break bread. First Corinthians sixteen two, on the first day of the week, each one of you is to put aside and save. This is the Sunday motif. In Colossians we just read there's uh Don't don't let others influence you or judge you regarding particular days. So the question that Anne had raised earlier, celebrating Christmas and Easter fall under these kind of things in our current day. I mean, i it was not only a week ago that someone in the church talked to me about Christmas, I think it was, and their concerns about celebrating Christmas. We're down to this issue where I keep having to say good and godly Christians can disagree. If you're convinced in your mind that Christmas and Easter as such are not to be celebrated by Christians because they're not commanded. I'll start there. Okay? The New Testament does not command us to celebrate the birth of Jesus. Nor does it command us to celebrate Easter Sunday. So, if it's a non-commanded issue and you feel good, I don't celebrate those because they're not they're not commanded, you might say A second level that I've found in people is I don't celebrate them because um they're pagan backgrounds Okay? Alexander Hislop's book, uh the two Babylons and all that, you know, they came from the roots of the different pagan gods and Ishtar And now we've got the isgar bunny. Okay, for those of you that know the Near Eastern things. But the point is, because of their pagan roots, there are Christians who don't do them. No problem Until you start to say to the other Christians, you can't celebrate Christmas and put up a tree because seventeen hundred years ago in some remote village in Honky Dunk, that tree meant the life-giving source of Ishtar, and Ishtar and the woman cult, and you know you get all into that and you're like, dude It's a tree. We put bulbs on it. They're shiny. I've never worshipped the tree or the Ishtar bunny or anybody else. I know I'm combining them Well that's the the deal. Is Christmas acceptable? Uh if your conviction is it's sinful, then it is not, right? And that's the kind of things Paul's talking about. And good and godly people can disagree about what they're going to do about it. The question is Are you allowing other people freedom of things which are non-commanded? And the on some of these issues you'll be like, but the other command there's like nine commands that you have to put over there That's why there's no Christmas, so whatever yeah, Amy. Amy's question is, is the situation in the book of Daniel where Daniel and the men will not eat the king's meat a matter of conscience or is it the same issue? Here's how I understand it. Uh I I could be totally wrong. Uh but as I see it, Daniel is saying he has a conviction that he cannot eat the food because he believes it would violate God's uh dietary rules under the law. So he is saying I can't eat the food. So what he did was he appealed to authority. So he didn't just say Nope. He appealed, which is a wise thing to do, and said, how about another plan? You let us do this for ten days or whatever and see we'll eat this other food and if we can't perform our duties and stuff, then Kill me. Because I don't think Daniel's gonna start eating the food in that can case. I don't think that one I don't think Daniel's just saying I don't like Babylonian food or it upsets my stomach or I think it was idols. I think he's saying there are dietary restrictions I can't do. I think that's what he's saying. But he appeals to authority and the authority allows him to do it and He's not then violating his conscience and they don't kill him over it. So that may be it. Alright. Great stuff. So Christmas and Easter are scratched. All right. Uh my favorite Christmas story is about Saint Nicholas, right? Told the story before, but it's always worth telling again. And of course it was a actual Saint Nicholas in the ancient church, and he gave gifts to children, and uh, you know, all of that. And he was a godly man and he was actually at Nicaea, the Council of Nicaea in three twenty five AD. He was one of the representatives who came to that council. And they were trying Arius who had denied the deity of Christ. And Arianism of the ancient church is the modern day Jehovah's Witnesses. So in three twenty five AD, Arius was brought before the council of these bishops to answer for his charges on heresy. And at a certain point they allowed him to speak for himself, and Arius got up and he was blaspheming Christ. Not saying cuss words, but by saying he's not truly God, he was blasphemous. And Saint Nick was sitting there and couldn't take it anymore. walked up and punched him in the face. True story. Not necessarily the way you're supposed to deal with it. I uh Yeah, he he he punched him in the face. So I saw some t shirts uh in the last few years that say something like this about Saint Nick, he says I came to give gifts to children, but I'm fresh out of gift. Oh wait. I came to give gifts to children and punch heretics, and I'm fresh out of gifts. That was what it was, yeah. Okay. another note. What about the way we dress? Good and godly people can disagree. Uh women, skirt length. How short is short? This always shows up in youth ministry. The teens are those aren't short enough. The youth pastor and his helpers, they are too short These are issues that good and godly Christians disagree. What kind of swimwear? Can you go swimming with other people? Uh humanoids, right? Modesty. Jewelry issues. How do you do your hair? Um should men wear ties on Sunday morning and dress up? Should you wear your absolutely. In forty years of being a pastor This is only the second church where I've ever been I wore a tie. As well. That's right. That the other years I didn't or what? And good and godly people disagree about that. Some people feel like unless you wear your very best outfit, you're not giving your best to the Lord. Others are like uh like Lacrae, uh th the the rap uh guy whose albums I enjoyed until whatever, but where he talks about I'm in church, jeans and a t-shirt Front row, blah blah blah. So okay, some of you just lost me anyway. First Peter three, your adornment to this the ladies must not be ex merely external with braiding the hair or wearing gold jewelry or putting on dresses But notice it says not merely external. In first Timothy two, likewise I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing modestly and discreetly, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly garments. Alright, ladies, nobody can wear gold. Is that what Paul's saying? That's a whole different conversation. But these are the kind of verses that Paul is referring to in 1 Corinthians 8 about food when he says Now not everybody has knowledge, because, what is he saying? You could have gone to a church or you read your Bible and you read two verses and you read that verse out of context Or you heard a Baptist preacher yell about it and call people forward at the end? And after which it's like, women you cannot, you know, whatever it was. And now you're that's that's the fox. Women cannot do this, can't wear they can't wear pants to shirt church because I grew up in Hiles Anderson or Bob Jones or whatever whatever the deal is. And that's it. Everybody else gets judged. And you live with a matter of conscience If you're good before the Lord, ladies, wearing those things and your husband's good with if you're good before the Lord with that, that's good. Paul's not saying Whether you wear pants or not, he's saying be convinced in your own mind and do it for the Lord. That's the point Okay, so more quickly on these. Entertainment, like movies, plays, TV, internet, music, dancing. Cards. Gambling. I've often thought of this interestingly of those Christians who are against gambling play the stock market. But just saying I know those are different. There's a commodity, although I I know there was a distinction. I've read the books and I agree with it. But just we don't always think through all of our implications of things. Uh family issues, like I mentioned, birth control. Um I did a sermon one time, like fifteen years ago in a church and I did it on Psalms where it's a blessing. Children are a blessing from the Lord. He gives you a quiver full. And I talked about birth control and I said something along this line Um because children are a blessing from the Lord, and we don't want to deny God's blessings, you have to think through whether using birth control is against God's blessings. Um I got quite an avalanche of hate mail on that. But I also got a lot of thank yous, you know, whatever. The the matter is, what about that? Well, I don't I'm not teaching on birth control here. Paul is not saying on any of these issues it doesn't matter. He's saying be convinced in your own mind and study the Bible And make sure it's scripture, not your own conclusions on the matter. Schooling. I know this is the homeschool, the public school, the Christian school. Um I have noticed that, oh wow, this can be fun. I've noticed that this lesson probably requires at least six more weeks, is what I've noticed I've noticed that there's a certain movement that goes something like this. It usually starts with homeschoolers, sorry to those people who can't see it behind me. We're homeschooled and we don't do what those public schoolers do and even private Christian schools or what have you. We we don't do that. So you can do that and not do that and love Jesus and love the other people, but there you go But then that doesn't seem to be enough for some people. So then they extend that from we don't homeschool to we don't do church children's ministry or youth group. Now hear me out. That's fine. There's no command in the Bible and that's your kids and you do what you understand. I think that's totally 100%. I have withdrawn my children from a youth group one time and I'm like, we're not doing that I don't have any problem with saying that you have the freedom to do that and responsibility to take care of your kids as you see. But there's a movement in our world, in the evangelical world, that moves from here to here to where Everybody at church. Children, we're the holy ones. And we need to keep you from those sinful people. Now I'm not talking about everyone who does this is in that attitude. I'm talking about that attitude not only exists, but it creates a movement. And then eventually that dad says, that's enough, boys and girls. We're gonna home church. Because we're gonna get away from those tainted Christians in the churches. There are bad churches that you should leave There totally are. And you have the freedom to do all of this stuff, in my estimation, until you get here. Uh you're the pastor of your own home, but you're not in a church, brother. You're in a family. And those are different. Now There's a world in which the apocalypse happens and Christians are no longer allowed to go to church and they're shooting people in the street and you take your kids out in the forest and you have church. Everyone in the world knows that's what you should do We're talking about it in the world right now. But you can get to a point where over matters of I just don't think you're really as spiritual as we are because you don't homeschool to you're not as spiritual as us because you don't have a wheat grinder and a goat and acreage, come on, acreage. And then We're gonna just home church because there's no true churches anymore. And then what Uh I don't even know where you go from there. Oh absolutely. Yes you can. And you centralize one particular truth. And make it as you said, you twist the others because one thing has become the primary which was never meant to be. Yeah, it uh I I think so. I mean yes, uh that's Paul's concern too Paul wants you to be convinced in your own mind about what? Matters which are matters of conscience and not command. Not command. Then options on schooling or whatever. And I think clearly you could s extend that to we don't use the children's ministry or the youth ministry of the church. We don't we think it's detrimental to our kids. We don't want them having foolishness that's not being well cooperative. I get that. I totally get it. But it's there's a movement Of we all gather at the river together in our disregard for church and other Christians who do things differently It becomes the dividing line of fellowship, not simply relationship. Like it's okay to be totally different. We public school, you homeschool Look, if you ask me what do I think in our culture, I think public school is really in trouble, right? And is transgenderism and all those things, man, you ought to think about this But to act like it's commanded in the Bible is the only way, we're back to last week's conversation. But the point is, people get to a point where it's like the Bible says And then we homeschooled. We're glad we homeschooled. Both of our boys, therapy has been really helpful for them. But But I but I've watched and you Julie, you y you guys homeschool. I I've watched how some Christians use that as a they weaponize it. And they talk to other Christians in the hallway of the church like, oh W where are your kids going to school? Well we go to such such Christian private school over oh. I've heard kids say to other kids, homeschool kids say to non-homeschool kids, I'm not allowed to talk to you. And you're like, you know, that never Yeah. Yeah. So do I think that the children or the teenagers who are being homeschooled have a responsibility to somehow fix the church? No, not at all. It's a freedom thing, but this is the very kind of issues Paul's dealing with. When it becomes divisive in the church. When it becomes like the homeschoolers versus the non-homeschoolers, who's really holy? And you're like, I understand all their arguments for homeschooling, I did it myself. But as a pastor and as a Christian, the church was founded on Christ and his blood atonement and is not in Scripture commended about schooling choices. And if we're going to divide over those, because you have camps, then it's wrong. If you divide over it in terms of experience, you could have eighty percent homeschool and twenty percent don't But if everybody gets along and that's not the issue, then the church is then not divided over Christ, but over other issues. Alright. Let me move forward then. G, lifestyles. Tithing, luxuries, social issues, politics. I've lumped a bunch of things where wait a minute, Dave, there's all kinds of issues in the issue. Yes, there are. Yes, there are But it's no less a question of many of the things that we decide on these have to do with liberties and luxuries and love And then there are lines of truth that must be kept. And then worship. Should women wear head coverings? I would start that at home first, Mel. Make it work at home, okay? Um good and godly people disagree You guys ever go to Lancaster? If you guys ever go up there, Carl and I used to go up there regularly to a bed and breakfast that was run by Mennonites. And uh always remember that the Amish and the Mennonites are totally different, right? Amish is a cult. It does not believe in salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. They believe that their stuff they're doing is is getting them right with God and Amish stuff is a cult, okay? It had some roots in Germany and evangelicalism, but it's totally a cult now. But Meth uh Methodism Uh Mennonites uh largely are still evangelical, not all. Uh but the point is good and godly people like Mennonite women wear head coverings. And this is one of those issues, just to say that uh it's one of those issues where there's plenty of biblical evidence for why you should Paul says in Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 11, he says to the church at Corinth, Corinth, he says, okay, three reasons why women ought to wear head coverings. Because of the angels Because of the order of creation and because women sinned first and were deceived. None of those have changed. Those are theological matters. And then on top of it, Paul says culturally, he says, oh, and by the way No other church in the world practices differently. You know that. That's what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11. He says, no other church in the world. Has their women not wearing head coverings? Okay, let's move on. Why don't our women wear head coverings? Because we're convinced that it is not commanded and that there are explanations of those passages which make sense for not doing it. But that's where good and godly people disagree. Nice, by the way. Nice. and uh respect. I want Carla to do it but she won't. So just kidding. Just kidding. But we went through a phase where Carla had a conviction on it and she did for a while But the the irony of that is if your husband doesn't think it's a symbol of authority and you wear it, are you actually under submission to authority? the very symbol for which it is, but it's an interesting question. Anyway, worship, musical styles. Oh that one. Yep. And Bible translations. I just say this before I go to the next page. I went to be the best man in my college roommate's wedding. and uh after college was over and he was a worship pastor somewhere and I was supposed to give the charge or whatever I was supposed to do and I was supposed to speak to the men beforehand and everything and I showed up and I had Not a King James Bible with me. I didn't know it was a King James only church. I had like an NASB or whatever, I think I had this kind of Bible. And I came in, the pastor noticed that and he said he's not allowed to speak in the church. He's not allowed to be participate and we had to go over a whole night of conversation whether I was allowed to be in the wedding. Oh my God. Yeah Because I brought a non-King James Bible. I was like, hey, it worked for the Apostle Paul, you know. This anyway. Alright, next page. This may be all we're gonna get to do, and then you guys can just study all summer In the book of Romans. So remember, top of page four, that when it comes to interpreting scripture, we must always distinguish between a command, an example, and a principle. Right? See, look Commands. Obviously we need to obey those if they're commanded. Examples. If there's no command on an issue, such as the frequency of how often you ought to do communion Then you're free to determine the wisest and best use of communion for the glory of God. There are people who are convinced it has to be every single Sunday Uh some people are convinced in their own mind it's once a month. Others are, hey, you have freedom, you can do it any old time you want. Some say it's based on the Passover. Well, they only celebrated that once a year. So just think about it. Alright, or is it a principle? You look at the examples and commands, you know that there's some basic concept from Scripture to guide you And this is to be done without becoming a law. 1 Corinthians 10 23. All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful, but not all things edify. Here are some of the things that Christians argue about. Some of these are silly, but I put them in there between distinguishing between a permanent and a temporary is helpful to think through your convictions about these liberty areas. Was this a temporary issue in the New Testament or was this commanded forever? Here are some examples. Greet one another with a holy kim kiss. Not seeing a lot of that happening here at Hope Bible Church. Abstain from meat that's been sacrificed to idols. wash one another's feet. Why don't we wash feet? Uh I was offered a job in California two years ago, or last year, that near my house, in fact it was two minutes from my house, and it's a great church And when I sat down with the pastor to talk through these issues, realized that footwashing was an ordinance to them. It was not simply something Christians practiced. I've been to Christian Fort Washings and have participated in the past, but not because it was an ordinance An ordinance being it's commanded to be done, just like communion and baptism. I participated years ago in a couple of those were Christians get together and let's do that symbolically, to you know, whatever. Fine But when I realized no, they were saying Jesus commanded this, I understand the arguments for it, but good and godly people disagree. Extend the right hand of fellowship. You're to be ordained by the laying on of hands. Do we have to lay hands on him to be ordained? Abstain from eating blood. Acts fifteen, twenty-nine. At the Jerusalem Council, three three requirements were given, actually suggestions, but uh for converts, Jewish uh Gentile converts, so they don't offend the Jews who were becoming believers. Hey, listen guys, don't flaunt your liberty of eating meat with the blood still in it Okay. So if you eat a rare steak, that's against that viol so you're violating Acts fifteen's r desire that the apostles put together. Abstain from eating blood. Do not make any oaths. Anoint the sick with oil. We're coming to your house tonight. Don't be sick. Permit no woman to teach men. So well, amen. Or is that cultural? Or is that just because of the first century? Uh go into Jewish synagogues and preach. Women should pray with their heads covered. 1 Corinthians 11. Drink communion from a single cup. Can you imagine that in April 2020? I remember when Carla and I uh were in Singapore, like I said, uh I think it was the first or second Sunday, I don't remember where we were at church, but they passed the single cup around and this is even back in the nineteen eighties. I was like, uh uh man No, I know they were wiping the thing and I was like No, no, I'm not no, not today. Uh speak speak in tongues and prophesy. Cast lots for decision making. Acts chapter one. Support no widow under sixty years old. You know, as you know in First Timothy five, Paul puts uh gives several things about are we to support widows from the church? They have to be at least sixty years old They cannot have a living relative who's the believer, who's close enough to be supporting them. Right? So if a widow who's fifty-eight years old and has believing children That person should never be on the list of the church to be taken care of. What's wrong with what? What do you mean, Mark? Yeah. Um yeah, so it's on my list because it's one of the kind that's Christians disagree about some think it was a temporary thing. Paul was talking about a cultural situation, whatever. Others are convinced that this is Paul's requirements forever And that's where good and godly p people can disagree, unless they have the right view on it, which would agree with us. Wear sandals, but not an extra tunic Use unleavened bread for communion. Allow no one to eat if they will not work. Give up personal property to others at your church. Acts chapter 2, right? On the day of Pentecost and they stayed and they gave each other all kinds of stuff, that little commune going for a while. And men should not have long hair. Amen. Should have seen me at eighteen years old. Alright. Well, let me look at this. Have seven minutes. I could quit, but I'm not going to. But I am going to take you to page six and finish with that actually. It's a chart that I have uh Uh taken from the same book I quoted from a couple weeks ago, Gary Friesen's book, Decision Making the Will of God, Used Word Permission from Gary. And uh simply his points on Romans 14 and 15, quickly done, let me do those in principle and close. He says about uh the weaker brother, stronger brother, learn to distinguish between matters of command. and matters of freedom, on debatable issues, cultivate your own convictions, allow your brother the freedom to determine his own convictions, even when they differ from yours. Let your liberty be limited when necessary. What not to do for a weaker brother? Do not put a stumbling block in his way. Do not destroy with food. Do not let your good thing become evil. Do not tear down God's work. Do not give offense. Do not cause a brother to stumble. Do not please yourself. Those are pretty clear. So if I know that my brother, obviously sister, but my brother in the Lord at church Has very strong personal convictions about something that I think is a non-commended issue. How do I handle them? I don't flaunt my liberty. Why are we saying liberty or not? The stronger one that Paul mentioned is the person who can. Every time. They can drink the w the wine. They can eat the food. They can. They have the freedom of the mind to do it. The person who's the weaker person in the issue always cannot. That's not the other way around. The weaker person cannot celebrate Christmas, cannot do the thing in that one issue. And so to that, Paul is saying to the stronger brother, don't use this as a means of destroying your weaker brother on this issue. Don't laughingly invite them for Christmas, you know? Uh whatever. The question will come down though in a minute, what if I know that people have convictions that differ from mine? Do I have to stop exercising my freedom? If I know that everybody in the church feels like pastors should never go to a movie theater, should I stop doing that because everyone else's conviction The answer is yes and no. Well what do you care about most? Your brothers, the gospel, Jesus, the church? You exercise wisdom and realize after Paul said, I'll never eat meat again if it'll keep my brother from stumbling. At the uh at the other extreme, though People who have convictions and they're weak in their conscience can move to being Pharisees, where they now hold judgment over people who have freedom. And Jesus showed us, and the apostles have commanded, don't give in to Pharisees. Rebuke them to their face. Because they're always saying, well your guys are eating this, your guys are doing this. On the Sabbath they practice dance. And Jesus is like, Dr. We're going to do that So there's this line of is the person being pharisaical and unteachable, or does this person actually have a matter of conscience? And you have to be sensitive to that. Okay, what to do for weaker brother? Walk according to love, serve Christ, pursue peace, bear the weakness of the weak. Please your neighbor for his good and edify him. I think this chart here is brilliant at the bottom that Friesen put together. The weaker brother, he differs from my opinions at times. He is not fully convinced. He is sincere He needs teaching and is open to it. He's surprised at my use of freedom. Why can you do that? He does not think he can teach me. He is influenced by my example. That is, can be tempted. I can cause him to stumble into sin by operating my freedom too much. He's caused to sin by my wrong use of freedom. And when I cause him to stumble, it's an offense given I'm being careless. The convinced brother, the stronger brother, he differs from my opinions at times. He's fully convinced. He's convinced and humble. He's been taught, but is open to be corrected. He accepts me with my differing opinion. He's willing to discuss why he differs. He's not improperly influenced by my example. I cannot cause him to stumble into sin on this issue. It is not caused It is not caused to sin by my use, he is not caused to sin by my use of freedom. Since he does not stumble, there's no offense at all. That's how we all ought to be Is mature enough in Scripture to give other people liberty without being caused to sin by their freedoms on issues that are not commanded. But then the Pharisee He differs from my opinions at times. He's fully convinced. He's convinced and proud. He has been taught, but is not open to correction. He judges or rejects me for my differing conviction. You're now being shunned. He seeks to make me conform to his viewpoint. He is not influenced by my example. His pride will cause him to stumble. He becomes upset by my use of freedom. And when he stumbles over my freedom, it's an offense taken But not given. Some good things to think about. Look, you guys are the best. I've been a pastor forty years. This is the best class I've ever had. Pretty close to the best class I ever had. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Guys it's been a privilege, honor. Uh I know that every quarter doesn't end with some sort of soliloquy, it doesn't need to. Hey, this summer's courses are awesome. Please look into those for the next week. They start in a week and we have an Old Testament survey taught by Christopher. Uh there is uh Fundamentals of the faith. There is a class taught by Pastor Allen, which is coming up on basically reaching local cults and religions. It's kind of evangelism meets apologetics meets worldview. This is a combo platter. And I am forgetting a class. Carrie Kane. Carrie are you in here? Carrie's teaching a class on hermeneutics and Bible interpretation. All of those are excellent classes. They start next Sunday. You go for the summer and uh should be an awesome summer. I intend to be attending those. I'll see you there. Alright, that's going to be fun. Let me close in prayer.