Okay, so all right, we're back in the book of Romans. We're in lesson 35. Wow. We're in sovereignty part nine in chapters nine to eleven. And uh in Romans 11 11 to 36 today, in which I believe this section teaches us that God always keeps his promises. Now I'm aware that John Piper, when he taught through the book of Romans, did 252 lessons. So you guys can cut me some slack, right? All right, I f I believe there's four points in the rest of this chapter eleven that helps us understand God keeps his promises to Israel because the Question in chapters 9, 10, and 11 is whatever happened to Israel. So let's jump into the top of page 1. 1. God's purpose in Israel's stumbling as we read about last week and now again, is not to completely reject them. That would be their fall, their ultimate fall. But rather to use their sin It's called transgression here in this text to bring salvation to the Gentiles. Let's read the text, verse eleven. I say then, says Paul They did not stumble so as to fall, did they? This situation will not lead to their ultimate rejection, will it? May it never be. Paul likes that phrase No way, Jose. Alright? But by their transgression singular, salvation has come to the Gentiles. to make them jealous. Interesting. Number one, this whole idea of their transgression. God is using Israel's singular transgression. To bring salvation to us who are Gentiles and who He has saved. What was that singular Transgression. Well, I think you know, and that is it was the rejection of Christ as king and messiah. For Israel, their rejection of Messiah when they were offered the kingdom by the king. The kingdom of God is right here in your midst. Uh and we're gonna look at that. And a lot of the questions that people have about this text are around the question of Okay, so salvation's to the Gentiles, less Jews are being saved. Why is that a big deal to them? Yes, there's always going to be a remnant, so shouldn't that be okay? Israel lost more Than simply personal standing of salvation in the rejection of Christ. They lost the kingdom But is it forever? So we're gonna have to define some things. What is a kingdom? What kingdom did they lose? How long is it to be lost? And what does that mean to individual Jews and Gentiles in this age? So we're going to talk about that for a minute In the Old Testament, of course, they are promised a seed of David, who will be the king in Jerusalem. Jerusalem and he would be the eternal king. The promise of the Davidic covenant. They're promised that that king would have a realm. And namely, it would start in Jerusalem as the center of that realm. And that king would would reign over a realm. And that is the land. But this land and seed also had a blessing, the Abrahamic covenant And the blessing would only would start with this realm, the Jews, through the New Covenant, but then it would also be given to the nations That the blessing of the new covenant would go to the Gentiles also, by faith in Christ, and thus we become children of Abraham. as well. And so let's take a look at the big picture of how that all kind of came down. Their transgression. Think of Romans chapter 5 where it said Adam's transgression Plunge the whole human race, one transgression. And in this case, Paul is saying the transgression of the Jews, singular. plunge them into rejection for a time so that Gentiles could be saved. So the rejection of the king's messenger was the initial part When John the Baptist came on the scene, Malachi 4. 5, behold, I am going to send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord. So John the Baptist shows up. What's his message? Make straight the path. Repent. The kingdom of God is near. Matthew chapter 11. This is the one about whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way before you, for all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And if you are willing to accept it, John himself is Elijah who was to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. A lot happened in the rejection. The messenger comes, he says, the king is coming. And Israel says, no, thank you. No, thank you. So when Christ is reflecting with his disciples on this after John is beheaded, he's saying If you had accepted the message of John the Baptist as the forerunner and me as the king uh then he would have been Elijah prophetically speaking, not resurrected the person Elijah. But he would have fulfilled the role of Elijah, having made straight the path for the king to come. But in your rejection We now move to another program, Matthew 17. And he answered and said, Elijah is coming and will restore all things. Jesus was asked the question, we thought Elijah had to come first. And he's saying, um, combine Matthew 11 with this, uh, he did come in the prophetic sense, but he is still going to come. You get two shots here. He did come and he was rejected, but Israel's not done He will come at the end. So back to it. And he answered and said, Elijah is coming and will restore all things. But I say to you that Elijah already came And they did to him did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished. So also the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands. They killed John the Baptist, they're now going to kill Me is what Christ is saying. No, you don't have to pray up here. This is we can You want me to keep going? Okay. Maybe he wants to wash his A new tradition. We now become a brethren church. Let's see. Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist. So in those two combined passages, Matthew 11, Matthew 17, what we have is the rejection of the messenger Christ said, if you had taken his message and my message, you would have had the opportunity to have the kingdom of God. But as it is, you have turned down the kingdom of God and the king and his messenger And so now we look at the rejection of the king formal at the bottom of the page, Matthew 2. Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. Hey, these guys from Babylon, basically, come over and they get it. They know that Jesus is the king. But the nation will see three and a half years of miracles or three plus years of miracles and say, oh, this is being done by Beelzebub Guys who live over, you know, come over, where's the king that we've read about in the Old Testament? Three years of miracles. And their conclusion is it's being done by Satan. So Matthew chapter 27, then more formally. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor questioned him, that is Pilate, saying Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, It is as you say. And after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand. And they knelt down before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. Now that is Rome doing this. But in the next passage it's the formal final rejection of the king by the nation of Israel through its leaders and through its representative people at the crucifixion. And that is Matthew twenty-seven. So when the people gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to f to release for you, Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ? We know where this is going. For he knew that because of envy they had handed him over And while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message saying, Have nothing to do with this righteous man, for last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of him. What if Pilate had done something? Then none of us could go to heaven. Thank God Pilate did not Listen to his wife. Listen to his wife. For those of you who are visiting, that is my wife. I the irony the irony of sovereignty. In this passage and and in this whole motif we're looking at today I almost said instead of God always keeps his promise, I almost said God never waste anyone's sin. Because it's equally true. Israel's sin is our riches, is what it says And then our decline, not our personal, but the Gentile nations and the Gentile church decline towards the end will eventually be riches from the dead for Israel. God's gonna bring them back. And so God never wastes our sin. And thankfully Pilate didn't answer correctly because by putting Christ to death it was possible for us to live. Verse twenty. But the chief priest and the elders persuaded the crowd. The leaders to ask for Barabbas and to put Jesus to death. But the governor said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release for you? And they said, Barabbas And Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus, who is called Christ? And they all said, Crucify him. a formal final rejection of him not simply as Savior but as King. Because the question is above who Jesus is the King And he said, Why, what evil has he done? But they kept shouting all the more, saying, Crucify him. And when Pilate saw that he had accomplished nothing, But rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See that to yourselves. And all the people said, His blood shall be on us and on our children Then he released Barabbas for them. But after ha having Jesus scourged, he handed him over to be crucified. So conclusion of of all of this, Barabbas uh Pilate has the last say though. He's like, okay. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross, and it was written, Jesus the Nazarene, the King of the Jews. Therefore, many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew. and Latin and in Greek. Now the order of that which is on the little sign there, the picture, is not in that. It is Hebrew, Greek, and then Latin on this sign, but uh for those who know all three languages. Um my Latin is not very good. So the chief priests of the Jews were saying to Pilate, Do not write the king of the Jews, but that he said, I am the King of the Jews. I love Pilate's response. Talk to the hand. Not in my house. He says what I've written I read. Again, sin, providence, prophecy, all coming together. And Pilate's even putting that up there is just another reminder. He is the king, but the other reminder is he's coming back. So number two, God's rejection of Israel. and their loss of the kingdom. They did not simply reject the king, but God rejected the nation. Matthew 21, 43 to 45. Jesus said regarding that nation which was at that time already rejecting him, therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing the fruit of it. And he who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on whomever it falls, it will scatter him like dust. And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they understood that he was speaking about them. They are going to have the kingdom of God taken away from them Now, good and godly people disagree about what eschatology teaches, what the end times are going to look like. I mean good and godly people I mean R. C. Sprohl was a person who's a partial preterist. Okay? That sounds like an evil person, but you know, whoa. No, not him, you know, yeah. Uh but A partial preterist is somebody who believes that in seventy AD when when Jerusalem fell to the Romans again, that in that moment Uh that was all the prophecies were leading up to. When Jesus says, hey, this bad stuff's gonna happen, when the book of Revelation says stuff's gonna happen in the future, it was all fulfilled in 70 AD To the partial preterist. That's all done. Except for the return of Christ. And then the preterist, another view, is that all of it was completed in 70 AD and Jesus already returned. in 70 AD, which is a long story. They're all millennialist, they're post-millennialist, they're pre-millennialist. Let's talk about that really quickly. Good and godly people who believe the gospel have differing views about how this all ends. What good people all agree on, that is good theologians and good Christians all agree, is that Jesus is going to come back and there There's an eternal state in which we are with him forever in bliss, and it won't matter at that point what our eschatology was, because it'll all get fixed. Right? It's kind of like R. C. Spool right now is a pre-tribur. He's in heaven. Okay? God is going to take away your kingdom and give it to another who are bearing the fruit. What do you do with that text? Well some would say Israel's completely done then God gave the kingdom, promises of the Old Testament, to the church now, and the church is all of God's final program. There is no revival of Israel ethnically or spiritually. That's done, and it's assumed under the promise. promises of the church because Jesus said the kingdom has been given away. Others would say, which has been our position at church Uh that you have to understand what the word kingdom means, and there are four uses of the word kingdom in the New Testament, and which kingdom was taken from them, and is it ever going to be given back That's the question. Even if something's taken away for a period of time, like the land, they're taking the land away in the Old Testament, but God still says you're gonna get it. So we need to kind of look at those bigger pictures as you look at scripture and try to bring all those pieces together. Okay? So let me dive in. Number three, what kingdom has been taken away from Israel? A word about kings and kingdoms. Now of course in my planning to teach this, I didn't know they were going to have coronation weekend. So most of you, if you looked at it at all, had your fill. I know that uh I know that some in the room had rather elaborate coronation parties. And I hear that they were wonderful and uh and and entertaining and interesting Um I didn't go to a said party, so I looked up online the Coronation and you know what I found? I found a video that said the coronation in three minutes And I was able to watch the entire thing. Get him in the carriage, get him in the building, coronate him, get him back in the carriage and back into his building three minutes long. Okay? That's the American way to do it. The the British way the British British way to do it or the uh i is is is a rather elaborate affair. Um and so what about kings and kingdoms? Let's talk about this. First of all, this is big news Kings have kingdoms. So Jesus was rejected as king And so he's the owner of that kingdom. B. So what is a kingdom in scripture? Actually, what is a kingdom at all? Because the Bible is telling a story about a king and a kingdom And the whole motif in the Old Testament and New Testament is Jesus is the king, excuse me, and he's coming back for his kingdom. And all the parables that are told in Matthew 13 are some reflection on the kingdom, how it looks now and how it's going to look. We don't have a king in America. Um and so Elders. El Elvis. He never left the building, really. He's still in Graceland. Man, Elvis, Bigfoot, Amelia Amelia Earhart. All missing. Alright? Wow. I wonder if they're ever gonna fight never mind. So what is a kingdom? Just a refresher, very simplistically. Kingdoms have kings Those kings have authority, those kings have realms, and those kings have subjects. Here's a few things to think about. When we talk about kings, we talk about monarchies and and sovereigns and crowns and thrones and dynasties and scepters. Those are those words are all over Scripture. Why because God is a great King? And Jesus is King of kings. Secondly, those kings have authority and they exercise it in different ways. Okay? How do you demonstrate authority? The very nature of authority is the right and the power to rule You can have the right to rule and no power. So you're a puppet government. You can have power but no right to rule. So you are usurpers. of authority. And so both of those constitute duly constituted authority is the right and the power to rule And so kings exercise their authority through laws, through covenants, through principles given, through decrees they make, through rules, through their reign Through dominion is the word we use, they send out their representatives, their messengers, their ambassadors, their stewards, their mediators, their princes. And they often have an heir Uh these words are used in principle throughout the scriptures. Uh that that God has covenants and he has laws and he's the great king and he makes these these kingdoms and he has subjects who come to him and he has an heir. And one of my favorite parables in Matthew thirteen is the is all about this, and that is the parable of the owner of the land And right, and I've told it in my version, but is basically all these people work in the land and then the owner owns it and so he keeps sending them messengers saying, hey, you need to repent and you know, get ready for my my son and nope, we don't want that. And then they send them more messengers, they kill the messengers, and finally he sends his son. And they kill him right there in the vineyard. And then the parable ends with this question What then will the Father do? This is pointed to this very point of Romans 11. They sent him messengers. They sent the son. What's the father gonna do? He will take away their kingdom from them. What will that mean? Uh Kings have realms. We call it the kingdom, the domain, the state, the sphere of their power or influence, their empire Depends on what the king rules. And finally they have subjects. My people. I just love that my people. Reminds me of Princess Pride. That one scene My people. Okay, never mind. Saying it fifteen times doesn't make it any funnier. I get that, right, right. And my royal subjects. Okay, things Alright, so what's the point? God is the king of the universe. So when we say that God is the king in that sense, he has a perfect and eternal kingdom. Apart from creation, apart from places, apart from stuff, apart from subjects, God is the eternal king, and he has a perfect kingdom. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit live forever, eternally, in this kingdom in which they rule and nobody else is ruling Secondly, they have authority. When that king, when the f when God exercises his authority, it's the powerful, effectual kingdom That is, he creates laws, he does miracles, he does things to exercise his power and authority. Thirdly, he has a realm. The realm of scripture is talking about a kingdom to come in the eschatological promise kingdom. Great. How's everybody doing out there? Huh? All right. I'll draw stuff. All right. The perfect eternal kingdom I'll do it in a triangle. God's the king over everything. The second part of that he has authority. And that is his powerful Effectual kingdom. What does that mean? God exercises his authority in his Realm. What is this third realm the scripture keeps talking about? Well, places like the earth is my footstool and all the heavens are mine, but the eschatologically promised realm that we call a kingdom from scripture is the one thousand year millennial reign of Christ on earth, in which as a king he sits in Jerusalem, among his people, the church and Israel gathered who are believers, And in that thousand years exercises on earth the final conclusion of the matter and question who's the real king. And so that is the eschatologically promised kingdom of God. And then the fourth one that I mentioned here is the personal experiential kingdom. That is, you're talking about people as subjects of the king. A person who's a subject of God in his kingdom is experiencing the kingdom of God on a personal experiential level, level in which it has done something to you. The power of God's kingdom has changed you. and made you into his subject, therefore you're prepared for both the eternal kingdom to come and the millennial kingdom to come. Uh without holiness you cannot see the Lord. Good question. Good question. Um both. We are changed now to be subjects of the king, but we're being prepared for in the future to enter the kingdom of God both eternally. God's eternal kingdom and his earthly kingdom. Alright, let's go to the next page. God through the Abrahamic covenant promised Israel that they would be partakers of the kingdom And even be administrators or mediators of the kingdom, representatives of the kingdom, ambassadors of the kingdom. Do you understand that when Israel's effect is that God had promised all this wonderful stuff to Israel. You are going to be Mediators of my kingdom, you're gonna be the ambassadors. The place is gonna be your place. We're gonna be at Jerusalem. We're gonna use your house. That's where I'm setting up my kingdom. Wow And we're going to use one of your lineage to be the king. Wow. And uh what is going to happen is people were going to come from all the nations are going to come and bow down in that kingdom To the king in Jerusalem. Well, were the dudes. And they were given the law of the king. They're given the whole Old Testament, the five books of Moses. They're given the law. They are the ambassadors of the law to all the things. They thought that would last forever. Except for God kept telling them, like we looked at last week, if you disobey me, I'm going to take you out of the land and I'm going to give this to other people. But then the prophets always said, you know, it's like read the fine print down at the bottom. But it's not over. In the case of complete stupidity, read this And every age that has existed in which a remnant has existed and the scriptures of old have existed, a Jewish person could read God has promised us a future. So if you were the remnant at any particular time, you could you could look forward to something God had promised. The scriptures could tell you something encouraging. That is what Daniel did in reading the book of Jeremiah when he was in Babylon. Daniel chapter 9, it says he's reading Jeremiah the prophet. Who had said, you're only going to be in captivity 70 years. Daniel's like, had an Apple watch, apparently. Daniel could calculate at that point how far he was into that. captivity and realize God's going to get us out of here pretty soon. And so that is what a remnant can do. They can look to a future that looks like no way. And friends, that's who we are. When we read the book of Revelation, that should be just like a Jewish person in the Old Testament reading the prophets who promise a future despite complete national disaster. It doesn't matter what it looks like now. It matters what God says in the book that says the future is wonderful. The eternal future is awesome, and God is going to win. So some things to think about then. When I've just said all that stuff about the king, the authority, the realm, the subjects Just tracing it again back to what are we saying from Scripture? The king. That is the seed, the Davidic King that has been promised to Israel and to us. authority, the right and rule and power to rule. And so where has God exercised it? In creation. Where He spoke it into existence through miracles, through providence, through sovereignty, through mighty acts, through decrees and laws, through saving sinners. who were his enemies and turning those subjects into his subjects. That's the parable. Go out into the way, the king's wedding of his son. Go and get some people to come to the king's wedding, the bride of Christ Force them to come in was the final motif. Thank God. Um he exercises his rule and authority over Satan and fallen angels over man even in rebellion and over the kingdom of men. Guys, basically the seven year tribulation at the end, I'm just putting stuff up here that cannot be fathomed. But that whole tribulation period It's not just God pouring out his wrath on those people who are on earth because they were particularly bad. If we were there, we'd get punished too if we weren't Christians. But rather it's this It's the culmination. Yeah, seven year tribulation, thank you. Um what what's happening here is God is punishing both the nations for their rejection of Israel and the coming Messiah. And he's punishing Israel for the rejection of the Messiah. And he's demonstrating his power, but in the seven year tribulation he will then turn Israel's heart to him. And then the realm, uh the land, Palestinian covenant, it's going to be Jerusalem, the king's City, the land of Israel, and God has also got a realm. The universe, the earth, the heavens, hell is within his realm. Nothing happens in hell. You know as as much as Dante's Inferno was helpful in some regard, actually, actually, even though it was a terrible book to read in ninth grade or whatever it was. But it's actually helpful to understand that there are levels of punishment. That's not a unbiblical thing. You know, it's what Jesus said uh when he said, Hey, if what had happened here with my miracles had happened in Sodom and Gomorrah, they would have repented. The the theory of and it will be worse for you on the day of judgment, he says, than it was for them. Or will be for them. Why? Because you have more light. You saw God in the flesh do miracles and you rejected him. There are levels of punishment. It's worse to do certain crimes than other crimes. So so we we shouldn't think the afterlife is just a combo platter. Everybody gets an egg roll, you know. I mean it's individual dishes, dude, it's not family style Man I don't know. That's a bad bad motif. But yes. No, no. Uh the question they'll ask was, uh some people believe that the church will still be here During the seven year tribulation, and some believe that uh we will be gone because of the pre-tribulational rapture. Yeah, my belief is pre-trib rapture, and that is the position of our church, but I because I'm not because I don't have time to go through it all. Uh that I will just say that is my position. But to clarify her question if is when will the church age end We'll just get rid of these people. All right. So Israel, Old Testament, church age, we're in it now. Uh it ends at the end of the seven year tribulation, but the the belief is that Christ will Take us, rapture us out at the beginning of the tribulation, because the church is not made for wrath. And the Israel was promised this time, the day of Jacob's trouble and the wrath to come and the nations that were promised that in the Old Testament, that they who have, Psalm two, if you don't bow to the king's son will be trouble to the nations. So the tribulation is not meant for the church, and thus we will not be there and we'll return with Christ at the end of the tribulation is our belief. Now there are other good and godly Christians who disagree with that And uh but they'll be uh they will certainly um be in our classes in heaven when we teach 'em about it. All of us are gonna be in class, okay? Nobody's teach nobody's teaching in heaven. Okay, we we get that. Good and godly people disagree about that. Um and that's why it's not a matter of fellowship, it is a matter of It is a matter of leadership. Uh in churches you have to agree with the doctrinal statement like here at Hope, in order to really teach and and lead in our church to agree with our doctrinal statement fully. But you can be a member and and be in our fellowship without agreeing to all of that as long as you don't teach against it. That's the motif. Okay. Alright. And then um finally the subjects in Scripture. Those subjects are all through the New Covenant, if you will, and that is through the New Covenant's work in our life. And our life and hearts are changed, and the king's law becomes part of our heart, if you will, and the message. Abraham's offspring, uh, to you and your descendants, Abraham was promised by faith in every age. They are justified through the eventual death of Christ as the basis, as we've talked about throughout the book of Romans. And Israel and the church and the tribulation saints, everybody in all those periods is saved by faith By grace and not through works. And then representatives. They were the mediators of the covenant. In the back, we had Adam, God's talking to Adam, you're my special guy. Noah, you're the representative. Abraham, Moses, Israel became his mediator of the covenant, David as the king, and then Christ ultimately as the ultimate mediator. Messengers, Christ is the messenger of the covenant, according to Malachi 4. Ambassadors, prophets and apostles, Christ the profit, priest, Christ the ultimate son and heir of all things. Christ, he's the King. of kings. So when we look towards the New Testament or New Covenant blessings, we see that Christ is the ultimate fulfillment of all of those. Alright, this wonderful uh diagram here, which will change your life. So if you get into a conversation and they say There's no thousand year millennial kingdom, so there's no kingdom. You're like eh That's only one aspect of the kingdom. Okay, so again, what are the four? what I've called the powerful effectual kingdom. That is, God exercising his authority is part of what a king does. And Jesus said, but if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Now, if you only think the kingdom of God is a place, then this doesn't make any sense. You look through the Gospels and you'll find four different kinds of use of the word kingdom by Jesus and then ultimately by the apostles. When Jesus says, here's the deal If I'm here and I'm casting out demons, that's a show of authority. In this realm, or you can look at it this way: there's a veil, and a hand comes into this realm. And throws demons out. Some bigger than this demon and bigger than this realm. An authority is acting. That's what Jesus is saying. And he calls it the kingdom. Why? Because kingdoms are led by kings. It's kingdom authority he's talking about. He's not saying the kingdom a thousand years is here. It's not a place. He says, if I'm casting out demons in this world, then the kingdom of God is acting in this world. That's what he's saying. That's one use of the word kingdom. You can find that in many scriptures. I do a whole a whole course on kingdom and covenants. Then there's the personal experiential kingdom that makes us subjects. The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. If you only think the kingdom of God is at hand means he was like the thousand-year realm is tomorrow, and it didn't happen, so it's not going to happen. That's not at all what the point is When it's being preached here by John the Baptist, it is the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. That means You need to become a subject. Repent and believe the gospel so that you can become a subject of the kingdom of God. Because the kingdom of God is right here. It's being preached to you. It's the offer of the gospel of the kingdom is what the scriptures tell us. And the third one, it's the promised eschatological kingdom. Truly I say to you, I will never again drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God. That's a place. That's a time. He said, I'm not going to, it's future until this happens, and I'm going to drink physical stuff in a place that's going to be a physical kingdom. That's what we believe is the prophetic eschatological thousand-year kingdom that the scriptures talk about. A real place, real time where a king sits and he has a banquet with real people, where Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Esther and Hopefully the rest of us are going to be at that banquet. Is that the marriage that we're doing You know, Anne, you know the distinctions and no. Um this would be more the banquet that ha happens in the kingdom of God when we all get in after the back end of the tribulation. I would take it as that. There's there's two, the marriage supper of the lamb is probably what happens in the seven years while the church is in heaven. Yeah, because the church is there. And then we all come back and have the big banquet. Israel church Magicians, I mean I don't know who's gonna do that. I know one thing they're gonna have though. Let's be honest. A jumbotron and kung pao chicken. Alright? Right, Steve? Steve and I like kung pao ch Okay, and the fourth one, I'll just go a little quicker here. The fourth way that the kingdom of God is used in the New Testament is the perfect eternal kingdom, which is only the references where it basically is telling us God is an eternal king and he has a kingdom. The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and will bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul says in Second Timothy four. That's the eternal, forever kingdom that outlives the thousand year kingdom, the new heavens, the new earth, the new Jerusalem Still Jerusalem comes down to earth where the king is. Okay? So just remember when you get into a discussion with somebody or yourself and you're in there and somebody says See, that verse says eternal kingdom, so there's no thousand years. There's four kinds of kingdoms, but they're all under the king They're manifestations of his authority. Okay. Nice piece. Yeah, Steve. Um so uh when sins you know, if you have certain sorts of sin, you won't inherit the kingdom of God. Did that relate to Yeah, where would you put that, Steve? Well I'm just thinking in terms of personal salvation, but also the eternal kingdom. I agree. So I'm just making in general says those who do all these sins will not inherit the kingdom of God. Exactly. They will not inherit the kingdom of God as as you said. Um so say ye. I would agree with you that it there it's talking about the experiential personal kingdom and probably the eternal kingdom, because that's where we live forever, right? You'll never see that kingdom And you're not part of it because of that. Exactly. It helps when you read through those passages to realize, hmm, there's at least these four ways of talking. Yeah, no. Just the uh in the confusion, your last verse down there is two Oh, thank you. Man. I was looking at it and I was wondering what word you would use because I want in the scripture, I make up verses. Very convenient. No, thank you. Second Timothy four eighteen should be the reference. I don't know what four eight is, but it probably disproves whatever I said. It's similar. Okay. You're like, wait a minute, that didn't look right. All right, page five. So God's purpose in the top of page five in the salvation of the Gentiles. That was just one verse, by the way. God's purpose in the salvation of the Gentiles is to provide Israel uh I'm sorry, to provoke Israel to jealousy and to bring them back to himself. So verse eleven, his purpose in putting Israel down through allowing their sin was to bring Gentiles to salvation. Verse 12 begins the point, why did he do that? And then God's purpose in the salvation of the Gentiles is actually to provoke Israel to jealousy and to bring them back. So there's a cycle And this whole chapter is going to end with the wisdom of God. It's going to say, isn't God amazing? He used the sins of both groups to bring the other ones to Christ. And there's an amazing plan. So we all are the one people of God when it's over with. Okay. Here's the verses then, twelve to sixteen. Uh but by their transgression transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles to make them jealous. Not the Gentiles, but looking back, uh the antecedent actually would be the Jews. Verse twelve. Now if their transgression is riches for the world, and their failure is riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their fulfillment be? But I am speaking to you who are Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry. I'm saying, look at this, look at what God is doing in the church. If somehow I might move to jealousy, my fellow countrymen. And note, save some of them. This goes along with his remnant teaching. For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? If the first piece of dough is holy, the lump is also. And if the root I love that word, right? You're just going along the lump. And if the root is holy the branches are too. Let's do a quick analysis of all those terms there. We've already talked about the loss of the kingdom, their transgression and failure as singular And they did transgress much, but their great transgression was the rejection of the king and his kingdom. It says that it will be riches to us, that is abundance and wealth, not not financially But wonderful riches that we have received in Christ because of their rejection of him. But what about this idea their fullness, their fulfillment is going to be awesome? It's just like in Galatians 4, same word. But when the fullness of the time came God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. Motif, when it was the right time, God sent the Messiah. It was the fullness of time. And Israel The fullness is coming. The complete promise, completion of the promise to them of the salvation of the nation. But Paul did say to save some To save some. He didn't say, you know, if I do this, it's going to get amassed. Everybody in Israel will believe. If that was the case, Jesus, the greatest preacher of all time, would have led all of Israel to himself He preached to Israel and they killed him. So Paul has no illusion that if he preaches everyone in Israel is going to be a believer, but he's hoping to provoke them to jealousy to see some believe. Number six, rejection is the reconciliation of the world Reconciliation, the removal of enmity and the restoration of fellowship between two parties, 2 Corinthians 5. Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to Himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation If this means eventually they will be reconciled, if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, but what world? Weird word alert If, verse 15, for if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be? Man, you can take a lot out of that and create a cult. You could create universalism there if you wanted to Their rejection led to the whole Gentile, all Gentiles being reconciled to God, the world. Or who does it mean Guys, it's not really germane to this as far as a long thing. I've put more information here than you absolutely need. The point of the word world though, for example, in the Gospel of John, Steve Lawson mentions there are ten different uses of the word world in the Gospel of John alone. How is the word world used in Greek? I'm just gonna read I'm not gonna read the verses, just the headings Sometimes it means universal or all of creation, the world. It means the physical earth sometimes. Sometimes it means the world system. Sometimes it means all of humanity minus believers, the people of the world. Sometimes it just means a large group. I will read that one. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that they're gaining nothing? Look, the world has gone after them after him. That's not literal, right? It means a whole bunch of people representative of the world. Okay. The general public. Number seven, large groups, both Jews and Gentiles. Number eight, the human the human realm in general, John three sixteen, it does not mean every individual will be will be a believer. The non-elect, I'm praying for them, I am not praying for the world. So if the word world meant everyone in the world, including the elect Then Jesus would be saying he doesn't pray for the elect, but he's saying, I don't pray for the world, I pray for those the Father gave me. And then number ten, the elect. Sometimes it means that. The point of it is, just to make the point of verse fifteen, for if their rejection, Israel's rejection, is a reconciliation of the world I think what it is saying there simply is reconciliation is now afforded in this realm, in this world. It's possible to be saved now because of that. And then acceptance means receiving. Their acceptance means to be brought back into the kingdom. And it says, what will it be? It will be their life from the dead. Rather long passage. For those of you who are thinking about your roast in the oven or that summer project that's coming up, you might want to tune out for a minute, but I just want to remind you of the dead bones, Ezekiel thirty-seven, this is almost certainly has to be what Paul is telling us, that their reconciliation, their fulfillment, their acceptance back is going to be life from the dead. Alright, here we go, Ezekiel 37. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out by the Spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley, and it was full of bones. And he caused me to pass among them round about, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and lo, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, Oh Lord God, you know. Verse 4, again he said to me, Prophesy over these bones and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. And thus says the Lord God to these bones, Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, that you may come to life. And I will put sinews on you, and make flesh grow back on you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, that you may come alive. And you will know that I am the Lord. That's Israel. That's what's going to happen to Israel. Like, it's over. And then the tribulation comes. And then God says, rise. So verse 7. So I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to bone Dude, that sounds like a doctor appointment I had. Your cartilage is gone. And I looked and behold, sinews were on them And flesh grew, and skin covered them, and there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, breathe on these slain, that they come to life. And so it prophesies as he commanded, and the breath came into them, and they came to life and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army. Not 144,000. Oh blood. Then he said to me, Son of man. These bones of the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones dried up and our hope has perished. We are completely cut off. Therefore, prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, my people. I will put my spirit within you, and you will come to life, and I will place you on your own land. Then you will know that I, the Lord, have spoken. And done it, declares the Lord. Um yeah. Israel's not done Then they will be holy unto me. And then there's this weird reference. It's not weird if you read your Bible, but it's always weird when we're reading the New Testament and we don't know the Old Testament. You know what I mean? And we're like, where's that found? And you're like, I did where is why is Paul saying that, you know? Uh but apparently when Paul is saying the first fruits, the lump and the the the the the piece and the lump is almost certainly a reference to Numbers fifteen, seventeen to twenty-one, which I decided not to teach here. It's evidently a reference to the origin of the nation, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. So what's the point? Paul says if at the beginning The fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, are the first fruit, and what they were promised, the Abrahamic covenant, then the whole lump eventually is going to be holy. That is, it's going to happen. It was all dedicated to the Lord. You only saw a piece of it, and then the book of Hebrews tells us that they did not receive, every one of them, Isaac, Abraham, but they did not receive all that they were promised. But they are waiting for a day when that will be received so that we can receive it with them. They were set apart as first fruits, and the rest of the lump is a remnant and the final ingathering of Israel. A quick history of of what we've already talked about in the last two chapters. Rebellion, rejection, and restoration, Israel's history. The rebellion was exile, Gentile dominion They're in the time of the Gentiles. They rejected the Messiah. Their rejection is during the church age. There is a remnant. They are currently enemies of the gospel, it says in Romans 11. But there's a restoration coming. All Israel will be saved Tribulation period at the return of the king and then see Steve. And verse Luke 21, 24. And they will fall by the edge of the sword. And will be led captive into all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. That was predicting No, it would have been a great point. I I'd written down point that changes everyone's life. But I d I just I just can't get there. Alright, I'll go to page seven. If I think of it I'll come back. Um the olive tree pictures the relationship of both Jews and Gentiles to the Abrahamic covenant. This is not the way an olive tree looks. You got a picture of an olive tree? Okay, here we go. They are promised a land, a steed, a blessing. That is Abraham's descendants, and in particular his descendants. through Isaac and Jacob, not through Ishmael. That is Israel's blessing And as we're going to talk about here in a second, the olive tree is that very thing. It's the Abrahamic covenant. The covenant promises made to Abraham's descendants through Israel. The issue is here. It's an external reality. These are the promises flow up here, and you can be part of those promises by two means You can be a promise you can be in that by being part of Israel. The nation. You're born in Israel. You're a Jewish person. You are automatically under the Abrahamic covenant. It's automatic by your birth. But you don't get it unless you believe. Right? We're back to Romans 9, verse 6. Not all Israel Is Israel. They're not all elect and they're not all saved. What is required? Faith. And thus what we're about to read is the whole thing of think of branches grafted in Um I'm not a horticulturalist, but I will make a few statements in a moment of things I've read that might be helpful. But the point is, in the old covenant Time, the Old Testament. If you're Jewish, you're in, but you're not a believer in those. You have to believe just like Abraham did. If you don't individual branches will be broken off. You won't have eternal life. Fair enough. New Testament period, New Covenant or the church period I should say, that we live in, guess what? It's the same motif. We are grafted in. But you can fall. The problem is if you do this with this theology, you go, I see that. That's a nation. They have rituals, all of that. I could see where it's externalized. And I get grafted in, but I could be broken off. I don't lose my salvation. I never had it. But it's harder to imagine over here, because if you just imagine, well, I'm grafted in individually, personally, by my faith, it's not true. By being part of a New Testament local church. There's a sense in which you're not ethnically grafted in But the Abrahamic covenants are preached, and the covenant of the new covenant is the preaching of your reception of all that that promises in being a child of Abraham. It's possible to be here and be broken off. Paul's going to say in a second, which makes it alarming for people. You need to stand by faith or you could be broken off. So Paul's point is, to me, what he's trying to say is this is always externalized through religion Through the new covenant preaching, through the old covenant, anticipating the new, but the only way to actually be a recipient of the root of it, which is probably Christ Christ is the root of John 15, all that, but the root that s supports this tree is almost certainly the work of Christ and the person of Christ. But anyway, it's external because you can be broken off, but you can't lose your salvation. So there's a lot of confusion. John chapter six, Jesus said, Only those who are drawn by the Father can come to me. But all that the Father has given me will come to me. So the paradigm there is it takes faith, but those who've been chosen by the Father will be God will work within them to regenerate them, to cause them in their own to believe, but he will do a work in them. So. Alright, good. Top of page seven. The olive tree pictures a relationship of both Jews and Gentiles to the Abrahamic covenant. But if some of the branches were broken off, that is Jewish branches, and you being a wild olive why I need a t-shirt that says wild olive, by the way, were grafting in among them. and became partaker with them of the rich root of the olive tree. Do not be arrogant towards the branches, but if you are arrogant, remember that it is not you who supports the root, but the root supports you. You will say then, branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in. I might be special. Verse 20, quite right, they were broken off for their unbelief. But you stand by your faith. Do not be conceited, but fear, for if God did not spare the natural branches, he will not spare you either. It's not about losing your salvation, it's about never having it. He's saying the only way you're really grafted in long term how this graft works, because grafted in items don't always work, right? Right? In horriculture, they grafting something does, oh, automatically that's gonna grow. A lot of grafts don't work. And that's Paul's point here. He's keeping that as a motif He's not saying once you're grafted in, you're all the way in and you got the root, you could lose it, but he's rather saying just because you're grafted in by your religious experience or you're at the church or you've heard the gospel doesn't mean you're okay You have to believe. And verse 22, behold then, the kindness and severity of God To those who fell, severity. But to you, God's kindness, if you continue in his kindness, otherwise you will be cut off. Now friends, you know enough about Scripture to know that in the book of Romans, Paul has done every kind of possible way to tell you you cannot lose your salvation. And that the elect will be saved ever every possible way. So he's not turning now, right? He's not turning now to you could lose your salvation. His point is a picture of a tree of grafts You can be grafted in, but if it doesn't hold by faith, faith is the holding product, then you'll be cut off. Verse 23. And they also, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in. For God is able to graft them in again. If you were cut off, I'm sorry, if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are the natural branches of the Abrahamic covenant be grafted into their own olive tree. Here's a few things I have to say in an attempt to finish chapter eleven. The olive tree is the Abrahamic covenant, the place of promise. Branches are grafted in externally through religion, that is through either from the Old Testament or New Testament experience, but individual branches are saved by faith. Jews whose olive tree it is by virtue of the promises to the patriarchs, needed to have faith in the coming Messiah or they were individually cut off. Notice that it says that some were broken off, not all Not all Jews have been broken off. Believing Jews have not. Gentile believers in the church age are grafted in, but can also be cut off if they do not believe Jews can be grafted back in by faith, and the wild olive tree that we came from is evidently probably man-made religion. Both of them represent some sort of religious experience And contrary to nature refers to the fact that cultivated branches are grafted into wild olive trees and not vice versa. in nature as I understand it. I'm not a horticulturalist. This is my understanding as I read, but this is not the normal. That's why Paul says contrary to nature, contrary to the way people do horticulture, you're taking a wild olive branch and putting it into a cultivated tree, but typically Typically you take a cultivated good branch and graft it into something else in order to grow that. Now, you can see me after class. That's not the most important point, but as I understood, why Paul said it not according to nature, and that is I think he means the nature of grafting things together So the point of it is all of that leads to Israel be revived, and the current hardening of the nation is temporary For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery. Remember, mystery is something not before revealed, but revealed in the New Testament, and so that you will not be wise in your own estimation, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, and so all Israel will be saved, just it is written. The deliverer will come from Zion, he will remove ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. From the standpoint of the gospel, they the Jews are enemies for your sake But from the standpoint of God's choice or election, they are beloved for the sake of the fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. That's the point of this whole passage. I believe in that as God keeps his promises, he promised them these things, he will fulfill it. Verse 30, for just as you once were disobedient to God, but now have been shown mercy because of their disobedience, so these also now have been disobedient, that because of the mercy shown to you, that they also may be shown mercy. For God has shut up all in disobedience, so that He may show mercy to all. I know it's a lot of content. I am going to complete the reading. So that I actually finished chapter 11. Oh, the depth of the riches, both the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, unfathomable his ways, for who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him that he might be paid back to him again? For from him And through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Alright, last comments here at the bottom of the page. Almost done. You can go if you have to, Henry. Gentiles are warned not to become arrogant by falsely reasoning that the church has replaced Israel. That was his point. Israel will be revived when the times of the Gentiles ends and God will re save quote-unquote all Israel. Currently, Jews are enemies of the gospel But God's promises given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, are unconditional and eternal. Both Jews and Gentiles should be grateful that God saved any of us. God's eternal plan to save the elect of Israel and the church should cause us to worship God. For his wisdom and knowledge. Amen. That's all I can do. Are there other things I'd love to say? Let me pray for you guys.