And let's go to start to pray. Precious Father, we are just grateful for this day that you have made Um we specifically lift up Pastor Dave and uh Miss Carla uh ask that you restore their health. I know there's no other place he'd rather be than right here this morning. Um but he needs his rest and we do pray that you grant him that. We are grateful for the leadership in what you're doing here at Hope Violet Church Lord, we lift up our pastors this morning specifically that you give them strength, endurance, that you protect them from the enemy. From temptation, uh keep their thoughts and their eyes focused on you, Lord. Um for the rest of the ministry leaders, deacons, small group leaders, Sunday school teachers Music and a Pope Academy, there's just so many, Lord. Strengthen them. May they be encouraged that we might glorify you and glorify this church. Lord, we just want to glorify you this morning. So be with us this morning as we're in your wonderful, exciting word of Romans. And may you be glorified in Jesus' name Amen. Alright, let's uh if you're in your word, let's go to we're in chapter eight and we're gonna start in verse thirty-one Let me read, what then shall we say to these things? Alright, we've got to stop What things? Thank you, Anne. Whenever you see that in scripture, pause and go back to what was just read, right? The therefores. So we're going to spend a little bit of time just refreshing what we've gone over the last couple weeks, even going back to to when I was up here last time. Because I I think the truths are so vital and tie directly into what we're going to be talking about today. So just real quickly you can see in the notes there Starting back even in verse 16, we've been talking about this idea of assurance, right? And Pastor Bates talked about the order of salutis last week And for most of us, hopefully all of us, we are in that period of sanctification, right? We have been saved and we are being conformed into the image of Christ. And so how can you know, how can you have that assurance that you have been saved, that you are persevering? We've talked about that, and we're going to talk more about that today But verse sixteen, one of the great ways is the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. Like that's one of those avenues or tests of assurance is that the Spirit testifies with our Spirit. The assurance in 17, the assurance of salvation through suffering. We talked a lot about that the last time on this up here And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Remember that the suffering was all part of sanctification and it was needed. It was on the path to glorification. It's required. That's how we are sanctified often is through our suffering. And Paul admonished us in verse 18, though, to do what? To keep our eyes focused on the end game, that point of glorification. And he even said our current suffer is not worthy to be compared with that future glory. So a reminder, what is glorification? You see the definition there. I just want to read it again. The final step in the application of redemption, it will happen when Christ returns and raises from the dead the bodies of all believers for all time who have died, and reunites them with their souls, and changes the bodies of all believers who remain alive, thereby giving all believers at the same time perfect resurrection bodies like his own. Yeah, amen. That beautiful time when we are reunited with resurrected bodies, right? Not these decaying bodies, but resurrected bodies. And it talked about Jesus Christ as being the first fruit. of that resurrection, giving us a symbol or a um an idea of the likeness of what that's going to look like. It's going to be a glorious time. And Paul said, stay focused on that. And we talked about the three groanings And I think often we think of ourselves groaning, but I thought it was very interesting to know that creation, also groaning, creation was under bondage after the fall, and we talked about what that looks like, fires and earthquakes and disease Creation is waiting for that time. They're anxious when we get glorified, because that's the event that's going to trigger their restoration. And then we obviously talked a lot about our own groaning for that period, that time of glorification. And then lastly, we talked about the Spirit also groaning. How? It is intercession for us. Said because we are we are weak. We don't even know how to pray. And so the Spirit intercedes how? According to God's will, God's perfect plan. And we talked about the beautiful fact we actually have two divine persons That intercede for us, right? Jesus Christ Himself and the Holy Spirit. So Pastor Dave last week started to introduce this idea of God's sovereign plan Let me pick that up in verse 28. And we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he foreknew he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. For those who call according to his purpose. God's eternal, sovereign, mighty purpose for us. And then Pastor Dave took us through the order salutis, right? The order of salvation. Um I do want to make a quick comment on that. As a young believer You know, there's that clear distinction, and I drew it up on the board last time, is you're a non-Christian and then you're a Christian. And that that that event is what? Salvation But when you now start to parse out all the the elements of salvation and redemption, right, when we talk about election and foreknowing eternally before creation even existed all the way to glorification. I I really encourage you to study those people pieces and parts because it says a lot about the Trinity, about God and His interaction in our life. You know, it's not just the simple salvation. It is when when maybe you're preaching to a non-believer or you're discipling or evangelizing, right? But as believers, mature yourself and really understand those pieces and parts. It's fascinating and should be extremely encouraging. The sum of all that, of those truths, right, and we're going to talk a lot today about our security in these truths, is that there is no fear and there is no despair. No fear and no despair. So we're in this avenue of perseverance, right? We're in this realm of sanctification. It's hard, isn't it? It's a struggle sometimes. It's tension. We're pressed on. And so we're going to talk a lot today about the perseverance of the saints. We will be kept until the day of glorification. And there's the description of it. The doctrine that all those who are truly born again will be kept or are secure By God's power, and will persevere as Christians until the end of their lives, and that only those who persevere until the end have been truly born again. So the next set of notes you will notice have a little bit of a different format. These are actually Pastor Daves. So he did do a little bit of work. So I do want to go over those because I think they're extremely helpful. Two biblical principles which must be held side by side when we talk about the perseverance of the saints, and when you see it in the definition of verse You must persevere until the end. It is God's requirement of us to be here. You must persevere. God does not merely command us to begin to believe for a time and then fall away He requires us to continue to believe until the end. Living lives of repentance and covenant faithfulness. Granted, he does not ask for a perfect faith, but he does ask for a real faith, one that produces This is real lasting change. And how do we do that? Just through the power of the Holy Spirit, right? So that's the first element. We must persevere until the end. Top of page two though, you will persevere until the end. God's preservation of his people. We will persevere because God preserves us God will keep us from falling. Not one will be lost of all those who belong to the Son. True believers are not able to leave Christ, for Christ is at work within them. Isn't that a glorious truth? You must persevere and you will. However, not everyone believes this. And you can see listed there the three basic views of salvation. So we talked a little bit last time about Arminianism, right? That believe one must persevere in faith to be saved. Okay True believers true believers though can lose their faith. Those dying without faith in Christ are condemned So the summary, the believer who loses his faith is damned. Can you imagine living under that weight of not having the assurance? From not knowing that God will keep you to the end. That's heavy. That's scary. Similarly, antinomianism. One need not persevere in faith to be saved? True believers can lose their faith. Those who lose their faith are saved since they once believed. So the summary, the believer who loses his faith is saved. That's scary too. However, here at Hope Bible Church, we are classic Calvinism. One must persevere in faith to be saved. True believers cannot lose their faith since it's God's gift. Those dying without faith in Christ are condemned. Those who lose their faith never had at the beginning. So you remember we threw on the the chart here this the sanctification when you're in that period and we talked about sometimes there's dips right sometimes uh you you fall away a little bit or you get caught up in sin but you never fall below that line Right? You cannot lose your faith. Let's see. Um God will persevere, will preserve true believers, and they will be saved. The believer who loses his faith never really had it, or at least it wasn't in Jesus. Okay, so that's some views on um on the possibility of losing the faith. I grew up uh Catholic. And it gets there's a lot of dynamics there, but you know, I had a good friend who was just a staunch Catholic and and again he he did not have the assurance that here on earth he he is saved, right? So it always has this mindset of faith plus works. Um and there's again a lot more dynamics there, but a another group that doesn't have that assurance, which is Heavy, heavy burden to carry. Alright, so Pastor Dave listed some evidences of the preservation of the saints, and I do want to read Most of these because I think they're extremely helpful. You remember I I talked about when you see these these um truths in scripture that validate who we are in Christ. You know, underline them. Meditate on them. These are scriptures you can be using to share with others in their time of need. Verse 1, God's decree to elect us has a predetermined outcome. Romans 8, 29 through 30. We just read that. For those God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his Son That he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those he predestined, he also called. Those he called, he also justified. Those he justified, he also glorified. We're going to talk a little bit more this morning about this. This topic of justification. Number two, Jesus is under promise to the Father and to his sheep directly to keep them so that they never perish. John 6. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. For I have come down from heaven not to do my will, but to do the will of him who sent me And this is the will of Him who sent me, that I shall lose none of all that He has given me. But raise them up at the last day. For my Father's will is that everyone who looks to the Son And believes in him shall have eternal life, and I will raise him up as the last day. John 10. My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my Father's hand. Wonderful truth. And and bear with me guys, I know I'm reading this, but but really let these truths sink in because they're powerful. Uh number three, Jesus has, is, and will Pray for us, Hebrews seven. Now there have been many of those priests since death prevented them from continuing in office, but because Jesus lives forever He has a permanent priesthood, therefore he is able to save completely those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede. We're going to come back to this concept of his intercession, which is really, really important. Number four, God can and will preserve us. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory blameless with great joy. Sorry about that, presence of his glory blameless with great joy. Number five, faith is a gift of God. Ephesians 2, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. Our inheritance is guaranteed. Who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. Remember this is Ephesians 1, that's the Holy Spirit, right, that we were sealed with. Number seven, the new covenant promises that believers will obey. I will make an everlasting covenant with them. I will never stop doing good to them, and I will inspire them to fear me So that they will never turn away from me. And that fear is a reverence, it's an awe, it's not a scared fear Number eight, Paul was sure God would preserve his faith. 2 Timothy, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. Nine, good works are the promised birthright of all true believers. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. Again, you talk about that order salutus, him foreknowing us, him choosing us before eternity. That includes the good works that he has prepared for us. It's just it's a mind blowing thought, to be honest with you. Number ten, eternal life begins at conversion, not at death. I tell you the truth, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and will not be condemned. He is crossed over from death to life. I I told you about my friend who is a Catholic He did not have this assurance, right? He needed to wait until death to have that assurance. Number 11. The elect cannot finally be deceived or removed from the faith. For false Christs, false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to the evenly elect, if that were possible. Again, we're going to touch on that one a little bit in our study today. So those are some, again, some great truths, some evidences. And then I, as a refresher, I highlighted again the evidences that I talked about a couple weeks ago about how how can you know How can you have that assurance? How can you know that you are being kept? And the three questions you could ask, you know, do I have a present trust in Christ for salvation? versus you know maybe a testimony that I gave as a young person at a youth camp. Again, I'm not saying that's not legitimate, but you should have this consistent sense of Christ as as your Savior and your Lord. Important, number two, is there current evidence of a regenerating work of the Holy Spirit. So we talked about the fruit of the Spirit, right? You should be seeing those evidences in your life. So these these questions are good ways to examine ourselves. and to hold each other accountable in a good way as brothers and sisters in Christ. And then lastly, do I see a long term pattern of growth in my Christian life? The line, right? The line should be an upward trend in our sanctification. We should be maturing. We should be growing in our faith. We should be exhibiting those fruits and growing in the follow of those fruits. So, again, just a little bit of refresher of the assurance of salvation, the preservation of the saints, and some evidences to hopefully encourage us. So we're now going to get to our passage today, starting in 831. And I title this God is Sovereign and You Are His Child. Alright, so Pastor Dave started this introduction of the sovereignty of God and you're going to see that continue to be displayed. But just a reminder that these truths are applicable to his children. And it should be Give us great peace and joy to have these assurances. So you're going to see what Paul does, and Paul's literary style is just, it's masterful. It's passionate, it's convicting, it's encouraging. I I would tell you as you study scripture, take time to to really study the authors. You guys know that this scripture that we have, God inspired, but it is used through human vehicles, through the Holy Spirit But God purposely chose each and every one of the authors and their experiences and their different styles. It just creates a fascinating book. But you will see that Paul is going to use this style of questions and answers to address some of the concerns that he felt many of his readers might have in in concerns that maybe we still have. Again, through this period of sanctification, it's hard, guys. You know that. And he wanted to encourage them and he wanted to instill these truths. So he uses this Question and answer in one commentary called it a um a poetic expression of praise for God. A hymn of security. I really like that. So as we go through this, I want you to think about that. This style that he's using as a kym of security. So we saw in 31. What then shall we say to these things? What are these things? We just talked about it, right? That's the the intro that I just gave. All the truths that we just talked about are the assurance of who we are in Christ. If God is for us, who is against us? So Paul, again, putting it in context, we have been saved from the bondage of sin. We are children of God, right? So go back to Romans 8. 15 For you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption as sons, by which we cry out Aba, Father I mentioned you won't be able to cry out in your heart, Abba Father, unless you are a child. So if you're doing that, that's another assurance. Specifically, these truths we're going to talk about though, and that we have talked about, are for the elect, those people knew. So I do want to pause. There may be some in this room that don't have that assurance. I encourage you strongly, if you have questions, come see me afterwards. Right? You don't want to live another day without Jesus Christ because all these assurances, all these truths that we're going to talk about do not apply to you if you do not have Jesus Christ as your Savior. Okay, and a reminder that suffering is the path to glorification. So there is suffering that is happening in the midst of our sanctification, I've talked about that, are being conformed into the image of Christ who is pressing and and hardness and joy and laughter, all of that combined and but but Paul is trying to drill home our security in God's solving. So The question, if God is for us, who is against us? That grammatical term, if God is for us, really should be interpreted since Since God is for us. So he's not questioning, is God for us? That's not what's happening here. Since God is for us, who is against us? What does it say in 32? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how will he not go with him? How will he not also with him freely give us all things So the point being is he gave up his only son for us. Who could possibly be against us? So the truth here is in Christ we have no adversary. And we have no unmet need. No adversary and no unmet need. Alright, the next question in 33. Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. So let's talk about again this idea of justification. And I like this definition from from Paul Enns. I shared the one from and I think Pastor Dave did too from from Brutum, which is a good one, but um I like the elements here comes from a Greek concept meaning to declare righteous. It is a legal act wherein God pronounces This quote there. That's a um that has the believer. That's a believer. No no no. That has the beginning. Sorry about that. Yes. Legal act that the sinner has been credited with all the virtues of Jesus Christ. Whereas forgiveness is the negative aspect of salvation, meaning the subtraction of human sin, justification is the positive aspect, meaning the addition of divine righteousness. Um Grutom is is he's kind of a visual guy. And he had a really neat diagram that I liked. He had three circles. And uh you engineers that might like your neutrons and protons or positive and negative charges, but here we are in this sinful nature, right? And and when our sin is taken away You can consider yourself as neutral. That sin is gone. But that's not enough. You can't stay there, right? You have to be clothed with the righteousness of Christ. So when you think of justification, you know I I want this visual in your mind because it's so important. It's not just about our sin being taken away. It's about being clothed with the righteousness of Christ. Right? And both are both are necessary. And and why is that? Because God is holy, holy, holy. He hates sin. He separates himself totally from sin. That's how he must see us as righteous And that's how he does see us if you are in Christ. That's a wonderful, wonderful truth And so who brings who brings a charge? Who can bring a charge if God is the one who justifies us? There is no indictment for those in Christ. I want to share a little vignette. I'm going to do a couple vignettes as we go through this. Again, maybe just to get to know me a little bit better, but to bring some of these points home. Who brings a charge against us today? One example is ourselves. How often do we bring a charge against ourselves? So I want to share share a little experience. So I shared with you that I was in the Air Force 24 years. And it's not uncommon that I often get the question, did you fly? Of course, right? You're in the Air Force. And I kind of did, but I didn't. And here's the story When I was in high school, I think that's when the first Top Gun movie came out, right? I was fired up. But but I'll be honest with you, I I I don't think that was the driver to say, yeah, I want to join the military Because I I I went into college and I went through a couple years of college and and I I was not in the LTC program. I did not join the military but God, I think, put just that calling on my heart for something bigger. And so I did. I joined the Air Force. But I joined ROTC. But I wanted to be a pilot. Not just any pilot. I want to be a fighter pilot, right? Super cool, exciting. It was a period of time and and the Air Force, the services go through these cycles where They need pilots, they don't need pilots, they need pilots, and this is one of those cycles where they didn't need pilots. So it was it was very tough to get into the pilot training program. And long story short, I I didn't. First goal, I didn't get it Um, which was fine. I was at an engineering school. I went in as an engineering officer. Um, actually got to my first assignment got to work on the flight line, so I was around planes and it was all good. But I still had this desire um to go be a pilot. And so I kept trying. And I kept trying and I kept getting denied. I was a young captain. um Air Force Captain, not Navy Captain. I was a young captain. Um I forget where we were, but anyway, um the the cycle was starting to was starting to turn, right? They started to need pilots. And I was in a a special program that I got selected for. I said, I'm gonna try again. And so I did, and guess what? I got selected. I got selected. Not only did I get selected, but there was one pilot training course at Shepherd Air Force Base in Texas that trains all the NATO fighter pilots. So US and then our NATO allies. I got selected for that. If I make it through, I'm a fighter pilot That was an answer to prayer. Answer to prayer. Now, I should note, in the run-up to trying to better my package I went and got my private pilot's license on my own. You know, I paid for that. And guess what? You know, I got done with that and I never flew again on my own. I didn't like it That could have been a clue, huh? But but really I just I had this desire in It's a longer story, but I still felt this conviction and thought, boy, if I if I get through the training, I'm probably gonna like it a lot more, right? But That that should have been my first group. But anyway, I got selected. So who's a family and I think we had three kids at the time and Cream I think was pregnant with another So we had a full family and the rest of the pilot training class were folks just out of college, you know, a bunch of young folks. So I was the old guy in the group. Long story short, um uh it didn't go well. I mean I got sick often in the airplane. Um and you have to process stuff, you know, knowledge. The knowledge wasn't difficult, but then processing it into what you had to do in the airplane, so many different things. I just I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. And it was um it was a huge stressor. I mean long, long days. Um I thought about it all the time. I mean it was I just really felt hard, hard pressed. And so I got to a point where, you know, I a lot of praying, a lot of counsel. I was a Christian at the time, a young a young Christian But I said, I Lord, I can't do this. I I gotta quit. And so I I had to go and volunteerily to say I'm done. And they worked so hard to say, Christopher, we can do this, we can do this, we can push you back to class, and my greatest fear is they would force me to keep flying. I started to become fearful And they would never ultimately force you into that. So they did. They let me leave. And the counsel I got, you know, going up the chain of the flight instructors up to the colonel was, you know, this this can be a career buster You know, you you quit this. You know, you you someone else should have been here and and so the guilt and the shame and uh Um so bottom line I got out and it wasn't a career buster. You know, things worked great because of God's providence, right? But I share that story to say after that fact It was a very difficult time for me because I condemned myself. I was a failure. I don't struggle with that guy anymore because There were some incredible sanctifying truths that came out of that, right? Number one, great humility. Number two, just a complete dependence on Jesus Christ. That's a great place to be. And number three, just how grateful I was for the family and the spouse that I had. I mean cream was just Incredible, incredible, incredible. Now you've got to realize we move to this new base. Six months later, we're moving again, moving our house, moving our household goods. She's ready to pop You know, she's just just incredible. So some incredible truths, sanctifying truths that you know, I'm grateful for the experience today. I can look back and say I'm grateful. But during that time Again, I condemned myself. I had to work through that. There was probably some depression I had to work through, but I just share that, being vulnerable with you guys, that we can often condemn ourselves So what are some other ways that that we are condemned or the world condemns us? Just shout them out. Culture. Culture. Okay. About image, right? Our young people are just getting inundated with, here's how you need to look, here's how you need to act. You know, here's how smart you need to be. The world is going to condemn you. Again and again and again. And and we ourselves can condemn ourselves. How about others? How about when we judge others? Are we condemning them? Are we indicting them? Alright, be very, very careful. So, okay, I just wanted to share that. Alright, let's go to 34. Verse 34 for another question. Who is the one who condemns things? Christ Jesus is he who died, as rather who is raised to us at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. So again, we see this idea of Christ, you know, in his full glory, where was he seated? Seated at the right hand of God, so he can be our high priest, so he can intercede on our behalf. Again, it's just a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful truth. And we saw in Romans 8, right, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So the summary there is there is no condemnation Here's the vignette though, and someone someone shouted it out. Who is the great accuser? Right? Satan. So I want to look at a couple of those verses. You know that, but I I saw um as I studied this something something interesting as far as um The latitude that Satan has. And I'll show you what I mean by that. So in Revelation 12, and I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down, who accuses them before our God day and night. And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb, and because of the word of their testimony, and they did not love their life, even to death. Like Satan, the great accuser, but he's relentless. Day and night. Don't be deceived. He is relentless. Alright, Job. If you want to turn to Job, you can. You don't have to, but um Job 1. And you guys are familiar with the story, but I thought it would be helpful to uh just highlight it again, again to show to show the the latitude or freedom that um Satan was given for for God's ultimate purpose. Job 1, starting in chapter 6. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. So he had an audience before God the Father. And the Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? And Satan answered, The Lord said, From roaming about on the earth and walking around on it And the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? For there is no one like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil. Then Satan answered the Lord, Does Job fear God for nothing? Has thou not made a hedge about him and his house and all that he has on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased the land. But put forth thy hand now and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse thee through thy face Right, trying to condemn Job, saying, yeah, he's a righteous man, because you're protecting him. Take that protection away and he will curse you. That's what Satan's do. Alright, then go over to 2, chapter 2, verse 4. Very similar. He gets this audience before God and he says, and Satan answered the Lord and said, Skin for skin, yes, all that a man has he will get for his life. However, put forth thy hand now and touch his bone, and his flesh will curse thee to thy face. Good. Again, right? Relentless. Relentless. That whole story of Job obviously needs further explanation, but I think it what I wanted to impress upon you is this um ability that Satan has to come before God as as the accuser. He's given that freedom. We saw that in Revelation, we see that in Job. Let's turn over to Zechariah, because this is, I really like this. This is pretty precious. Oh no, it's written in there, so you can see it. Zechariah 3, 1 through 4 Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. Again, there he is, right there, accusing. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, Satan. Indeed, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and standing before the angel. Then you see the bowl there. This is so beautiful. And he spoke and said to those who were standing before him, saying, Remove the filthy garments from him. Again he said to him, See, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and will clothe you with festal robes. Here we are in God's divine courtroom God is the one who justifies. And this is the picture he just gave. Right? He removes the filthy garments But it doesn't stop there. Right? What does he do? He clothes him. That's what happens to us when we are justified. When we are declared righteous, right? It's like God has his righteous glasses on, and that that's how we seize each and every one of us who are in Christ. He sees you clothed with the righteousness of God. And how is that done? Through imputation, right? This idea of our sin is imputed. or or uh thought of as belonging to Christ, Christ's righteousness is imputed or belonging or clothed on us. It's a beautiful, beautiful picture. So even in the midst of of Satan, the great accuser, you see this beautiful um design or divine um justification of God in the passage of Zechariah. I thought that was really special. So again, no condemnation to the question of 34. Who condemns us if you're in Christ? Nobody can condemn you. And maybe the biggest culprit is ourselves, like I shared. That's what you've got to be careful about condemning yourself. All right, one more question, 35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And then he goes into this laundry list. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine? For nakedness, peril, or the sword. And then he quotes the scripture, Just as it is written, For thy sake we are being put to death all day long. We were considered as sheep. to be slaughtered. That is a reference back to Psalm 44, 22, and I have a title there. It should be 22 And then I like um Acts 20, 24 as well, but I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself. In order that I may finish my course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God. So this this passage that is quoted, and again, anytime you see all bold letters, that should let away be a clue that that's a reference to something. Go look it up. Go understand the context of what that means so you can understand it. But he he talks about can can persecution, right, cause us the separation of the love of Christ? That's why I love the the Acts 20 passage, right? We can't. It won't I'm willing to give up my life. Ah, but let's look at another vignette. Are we really ready to give up our life? We say we are. But when you're met with the circumstances, really. A very familiar passage, but I I do like it, so let's go there. Peter and the rooster crow, Luke twenty-two. Luke 22, and I'm going to start at 31. I know this is a familiar passage, but it's it's good to be uh reminding. Simon Simon behold Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. This uh demanded is obtained by asking You see again Satan having this this audience before God and supposedly asking the ability to sift Peter. You see that again, the great accuser But I have prayed for you. So here is Jesus the intercessor even while on earth. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your father. Right? So his faith is preserved. You will turn back. And he said to him, Lord, would you aren't ready to go both to prison and to death, just like we read Paul talk about, right, in Acts And here's what Jesus said. And I say to you, Peter, the cock will not crow today until you have denied me three times that you know me. Alright, flip over a page and let's pick it up in fifty-four, verse fifty-four. And having arrested him, they led him away and brought him to the house of the high priest. But Peter was following at a distance, and after they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter was sitting among them And a certain servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the firelight and looking intently at him, said, This man was with him too. But he denied it, saying, Woman, I do not know him. And a little later another saw him and said, You are one of them too. But Peter said, Man, I am not And after about an hour it had passed, another man began to insist, saying, Certainly this man was also with him, for he is a Galaan too. But Peter said, Man, I do not know what you are talking about. And get this picture in your head. And immediately, while he was still speaking, a cock croose. And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had told him, Before a cup crows today, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Can you imagine what Peter felt at that moment? Lord, I will I will go to prison for you, I will die for you. denied him three times while he's being while he's suffering. He's wept bitterly. I don't know if any of you have been there to those days. But God will keep Right? There is no separation. That's the encouragement that you should have. So Paul's encouragement, let's look back at verse 37. But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. There is no defeat, you see in John 16, these things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but take courage. I have overcome the world. 1 Corinthians, O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory to our Lord Jesus Christ. We are overwhelmingly conquered through Him who loved us. Christ has done the conquering. And if you are in Him, you are overwhelmingly conquering. So there is no defeat in Christ. Alright, verse 38 goes on with an extra list, if you will, of things. Not death, nor life, no angels, no principalities, no things present, no things to come. No powers, no height, no death, no any creative thing. That's just about everything, right? Make sure the list is exhausted. What is potentially happening here is that they were fearing, you know, because there's a lot of talk with principalities. um demons, powers that they were fearing the apostasy that was supposed to come before Christ's second coming Right? And it would have been possible, we're going to read this passage from Thessalonians, which was written before the letter to the Church of Rome. So they would have known about these things 2 Thessalonians. Now we request you, brethren, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and are gathering together to Him, that you may not be quickly shaken from your composure. or be disturbed either by a spirit of a message or a letter as if from us as to the effect of the day of the Lord has come. They thought they might have missed it. Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction. who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God. So again, I think they probably had an understanding of how difficult it was going to be, as well as the persecution that they were seeing around them at the time And so Paul encourages them again that they are conquerors. And he sums it up this way. And it's in Thirty-eight and kind of thirty-nine, but the beginning of thirty-eight. For I am convinced, right? Nor death nor any other crazy thing shall be able to separate us. I'm convinced that nothing can separate us from the love of God. And it really speaks to Paul's faith And faith has three components as you see written there. It has a knowledge and an assent or a proval or a confidence. And then trust or a conviction. So think of knowledge as you know you read the word or it is spoken to you and you understand it. There's a knowledge piece of that But then you approve of it. And you see an example of this with with uh the exchange between Paul and King Agrippa, right? Where he's King Agrippa probably understands it and he approves of it But he never takes that, or it doesn't seem like he takes that last step to trust, that conviction. That's the conviction that Paul is talking about here. I am convinced that nothing can separate us from the world of God. And I want to leave that with you. I want you to walk away with those truths. Again, I love this hymn of security. You know, think of that when you read this passage, but This question and answer technique is really trying to reinforce who we are in Christ, right? And the security that we have in Christ. Okay? Let me pray. Thank you.