Well welcome back to the book of Romans. We're in lesson 36, and uh we're now in the fifth section of the book of Romans on service. We've been through sin, salvation Sanctification, sovereignty, and now the fifth and last part of the book of Romans on service. Chapters 12 to 16. Today we're only looking at chapter 12, verses 1 to 21. And with uh Three weeks to go in the Book of Romans, you're probably already guessed that Dave's not expositing every verse in the Book of Romans, chapters twelve to sixteen. And so uh With only a few weeks left to go in the quarter and our our book will be done for us. Uh what I've decided, and I agonized over this, I I r I planned one where I just do a giant overview And you just fly over the whole thing, you're like, Is that land down there? Or what what is what is that? And then the mid range and then I finally ended up with this, which is um lots of notes, but it's an entire chapter. That's done in a in a way that's a little bit summary, uh, but highlights the larger picture, and that is In the chapter 12, there are typically two things that drive people crazy. So I'm going to focus on those. I'm going to walk through the text, but I'm going to focus on two things that Christians typically lose their mind about if they're not grounded in these things. Now most of you in here are mature Christians. You've walked with the Lord for a long time. So I don't mean you will have lost your mind, but Christians have a difficult time in answering these two, and that is, how do you know God's will? And whether you've been a Christian 70 years or seven years or seven weeks Uh there is still some difficulty as to knowing God's will. How do I ascertain that? And in particular where Christians lose their mind is over the big ones Uh, who do I marry? Where do I go to school? Do I buy this house? What's my career? Um, you know, am I gonna remain an Oakland Raider fan? Uh those kind of things. And it's typically there where Christians lose their moorings and in the midst of a difficult decision just decide to put out a fleece. Uh the second thing that comes up in this chapter and most Christians uh need a good ammunition for is the question of spiritual gifts and how do I know Not only what my gift is, okay, that that's a whole play, but actually how do I know where I should pour the greatest part of my energy in for the glory of God? Life is complex. We have lots of things going. Uh you have work, you have home life, you have family, you have your own devotion to Christ, you have your responsibilities, and you have church. And the American church, as it is in the twenty first century is such that a lot of things in the American church aren't in the Bible. Um they they're not evil They're not bad, but the Bible doesn't mention Sunday school for children or parking lot duty or uh you know, about ninety percent of the stuff we do in our family life as a church Isn't mentioned specifically in scripture. They're decisions of wisdom that the church has decided, oh, we'll have Sunday school so we can educate our kids beyond the blah blah blah. Or we will do this. The difficulty it arranges for the Christian Is how do I exercise my spiritual gift in the context of the church? And you go, well, isn't that where it's supposed to be? Yes. But the difficulty is The church ends up with so many layers in order to keep it running it becomes a machine, it becomes an overarching thing, in which then you're asked to volunteer to keep the machine going. And there's this tension for every Christian as to, okay, I have this spiritual gift. I want to exercise it. I have the gift of hospitality. Where exactly can I exercise that at church? And you go, I can think of a million ways to exercise that at church. Yes, but it depends on what one you get involved with and whether you're going to be exhausted or useful If you join the hospitality team, then you'll be at every event handing out brochures. Okay? And you're like, that's not quite what I meant by hospitality. So every Christian who loves Jesus struggles with some aspect of how do I use my gifts and the grace that I have in order to serve Christ and how do I know his will. for my life in the direction and use of it. And that's typically the two issues in chapter 12. So let's jump in. At the top of page one, we get to chapter 12. Yay, you made it And I simply put the word therefore there because we have to ask the question, why is it therefore or what's it there for? And the whole last section of the book is hinged on this word therefore. Paul, of course, is talking about therefore you should give Give yourselves to God because of what? All of God's mercy that He's shown you in saving you and justifying you in Christ. And in specific, we just finished chapter eleven where Paul told us Uh God saved the Gentiles and the Jews with this marvelous overarching story, and we should be thankful for that. And based on the mercy of God saving both Jews and Gentiles, none of us deserved it. We should therefore give ourselves to God. Now Pastor Plumley just preached for the last two Sundays, Romans chapter 12, 1 and 2. So I'm not going to. I'm going to highlight other parts of chapter 12. And so I've simply put this together. So let me read it. Therefore, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. Do not be conformed to this world But be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. In simple fashion, verses 1 and 2, I've simply put this little picture together for you, and that is on the left side. Well, Paul is saying that our motivation for giving ourselves to God is mercy, not guilt. Says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, or I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God. Man, you get a lot farther. with God in our service for him when it's motivated by love and mercy, right? Like God has been so kind to me, therefore I want to respond to him. And so this passage begins, this entire section that's going to end up with five chapters of telling us how we can love God and serve Him begins with mercy. And so what are we to do in this passage? Three things. We are to dedication, separation, and transformation That's what chapter 12, 1 and 2 is. Dedication, separation, transformation. Dedication, present your bodies to God as a sacrifice. Now, this is in the eros tense in the Greek, and very simply, that simply means this. It's a one-time transaction, but it has ongoing effects. And so uh as Pastor Allen even brought up, I pray this almost every day of my life. Some some portion of Romans 12, 1 and 2, as a prayer morning, sometimes I forget later in the day. But I give myself to God in this sense. But I recognize that's a daily re-upping to something that my own Christian experience at the very beginning, I did that Now hear this. When you become a Christian, you're already signed up to serve Jesus, whether you say, I now will give you my body or not. But Paul is commanding Christians to present. Their bodies. He doesn't simply say, Well, your body has been given over to Jesus, he's Lord of your life because you got saved. But he's saying in light of these eleven chapters In light of the eleven chapters that now you know as a Christian and how the depth of this mercy, present yourself to God, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto him, which is our reasonable act of spiritual worship. And so we dedicate ourselves to God and to his purposes. And I have noted in life as a pastor that There are people who are Christians in every sense of their testimony and even fruit in their life. But occasionally I will note And have asked them when there have been difficulties, have you ever given yourself to God in a Romans 12, 1 and 2 sense? They're like, no, I never have. And it's almost palatable palatable of of it's like, yes, I can see that in your life. Now I'm not talking about a magic thing that happens if you give yourself to God, no magic thing happens. But that dedication is just as real as giving the sacrifice in the Old Testament. I am available to do whatever you tell me to do Secondly is separation. If you give yourself to God, just like the National Park illustration I gave months ago of national parks are dedicated pieces of property dedicated for a special purpose, but then they are separated from other things then Once you dedicate it to something, it is not the other. It's negated. And that's what Paul says to do here. Separation is don't be conformed to the world. Give yourself over to God's purposes Now use your mind and body not to be part of the world. And then thirdly, transformation takes place by the renewing of our minds. I know that we know that our minds are renewed by what? The word of God, exactly. It's not a magical thing it happens in a moment of transferring power from your energy source. Or in a yoga prayer or something. Paul is simply telling us, your mind now has to be transformed. You dedicated the property to God You're not going to use it for the worldly purposes it was, but you have to fill something in now to the void. And that is the word of God now transforms this property or the body and the mind into God's purposes. Well then at the end of chapter uh twelve, one and two, you have this phrase, so that So if you dedicate your body to God, you separate from the world, you begin to be transformed by the renewing of your mind, then there's something that happens. So that, for the purpose, that you may prove what the will of God is. That which is good and acceptable and perfect. There are many Christians who believe that this verse and ones like Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, trust in the Lord with all your heart and believe No. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not to your own understanding, and all your ways acknowledge him, and he will direct your paths. Those type of classic passages, this one and others, combined have formed a theology of guidance for many Christians, and that is something like this. God has a three-stacked will. Uh he has that which is good, he has something that's acceptable, and then he has something that's perfect. So that is God's okay with that sorta and then there's like he's good with your following that and then there's like finding the special point the exact thing God wants me to do I have found in my own Christian experience that I can be driven crazy by that. Trying to find the exact perfect in the center of God's will and waiting in whether you're praying or fasting or looking to the Lord for something and you're like I don't know what God wants me to do And you're stuck. And I have when I first became a Christian as a teenager, I was taught something like that. that God is going to reveal his will to you in these things, and until he does, you're to wait on him. It may not be through a flash or words or whatever, but you'll know God's will. Because he's gonna tell it to you. And until he does, stay. Stay right there. I spent a lot of time staying. And then feeling like a second class Christian. Because I wasn't getting the woo-woo And I was waiting for the woo-woo and I didn't get it. Now on occasions I got the woo-woo And I felt like God spoke to me and, you know, what not spoke, but I know what God wants me to do. How do we know God's will? Here's a few observations from this verse uh that I begin with, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. I asked some questions then under that. Does Paul mean that God's secret counsel What he really wants you to do and his personal itinerary, here's the map for your life can be discerned after you have your renewed mind. So if I renew my mind in scripture, then God is going to with that clean mind, woo He's gonna tell me. This is how many Christians understand that. Number two, can you now understand the secret things of God? Because what we're really saying when we say, God, I'm waiting for you to tell me what to do We are asking for revelation. We are asking for now even if you use the word guidance, you're asking for something which you're admitting is not in the Bible and cannot be known unless God tells it to you Now you're in that murky zone of, is it guidance or is it revelation I'm asking for? Well, hmm, number three Are these three levels of God's will that you are now trying to navigate through? What which ones do I mean? Good, acceptable, and perfect? Are these three levels of God's will? That is the good, acceptable, and perfect Or is God okay with one, a little more impressed with the other, and has a perfect will that can be discerned in advance for daily decisions? And maybe Christians are split up in that. The people who just know the good stuff, the better stuff, and then the people who walk in the perfect will of God People like Pastor Plumley, who's gotten to the exalted zone where no one can touch. Number four So decisions about where to eat, what road to take to church, what socks to wear, what seat to sit in at the church, etc. Those are ones who are like, well yeah, I make those. But here's what I would say. Christians who feel that they need to know what God wants them to do before they do something Don't usually apply that to everyday life. And so it doesn't work in the everyday. I don't know many Christians who pray, Lord, which pair of socks? This morning I'm not leaving my house till you reveal your best and greatest and perfect will regarding my sock placement. Lord I'm praying. What's that mel? I just wear glasses. Yeah, me too. Which of my three shirts do I wear? We all know I only have one One jacket, right? Yeah. Uh Lord, what road should I take to church this morning? I know I live on Guildford. But do you want me to go around, you know? We need a a theology of guidance that works in every day, not just in the big decisions. And so on here and the big decisions, school, marriage, career, what house, the car I should buy, what friends I should do, how are these things to be discerned? And so number five, the answer is through wisdom. The scriptures talk about wisdom, not revelation from God. The idea is to have your thought patterns renewed. And realign to God so that you can begin to see through Scripture's lens. That's what Paul's talking about when he says renewing of your mind through the Bible It's so that you can understand the Bible and what in Scripture it tells you of is the good and perfect and acceptable will of God. That is to discern in Scripture how to apply Scripture to your life, which is called wisdom. It is not a promise that apart from the Bible, when your mind is renewed, you will become a channel of revelation. God, I'm now renewed and my mind is free to receive the truth. All right. Truth guides you to wise decisions, not an oracle of revelation. Let's go to page six and talk about that. And by the way, I don't care how much material I cover, I want to cover it well. So if we only get through So I want to talk about a theology of guidance, page six. Um I I embedded this in the notes about three months ago when we were talking about the Holy Spirit leading us in Romans eight and we never got here. And so I resurrected it. Because there's only two places it fits within the text without isegeting. Romans 8, and we are led by the Spirit. or Romans twelve, so that we might know God's will, which is perfectly acceptable, to talk about a theology of guidance. So I want to talk to you about a theology of guidance then in light of that Four principles for decision making, and this lesson is a summary of decision making and the will of God by Gary Friesson. I asked Gary 30 years ago, maybe for permission to summarize his book and use it as a teaching tool, which he gave me permission to do. And he went to Dallas Seminary just as I did. Have any of you ever read this book, Decision Making and the Will of God? Okay, two of you have, right? Among other tools, this is probably one of my ten favorite books that I've ever read. And so I want to just go quickly through these four principles about decision making. The principle of obedience, where God commands we must obey. Every Christian agrees with that. The moral will of God. What do we mean? We must define what is the will of God. A. God's moral will. The commands and principles which God has revealed in the Bible to teach how people ought to believe and live. We all know that when we talk about the will of God That is for sure the bedrock. Whatever's in scripture tells us to do or not to do is definitely the will of God, and we can clearly know that's what we should do. B Since the moral will of God contains his complete revelation for faith and life, expresses God's own character It touches every aspect and moment of life. It is fully able to equip believers for every good work. This is the doctrine called sufficiency of Scripture. that the Bible's sufficient without a woo-woo. But we still have to entertain the question, are there any woo-woos? Okay. Now some of you grew up charismatic, so you're like, I totally know what you're talking about. But if you're in the Bible church movement your whole life Where the question is, we didn't know there was a Holy Spirit. How does God personally work with every Christian? Because he does in light of the fixed word of God, which it is, and applies to each person specifically and personally, the Word of God through the work of the Spirit, so that wisely you make decisions And yet you're not waiting for a new word from heaven on every decision. And so see, God's sovereign will. God has a moral will Who drew that up here? God's sovereign will. That is that which is going to happen no matter what. Right? If all of us get together and start fasting and praying and saying, God, do not allow the Antichrist to come, guess what's gonna happen? He's coming. If all the people in the world who are Christians pray, Lord, don't let the Lord Jesus come, why would you not do that? He's still coming, right? This is the sovereign will of God. But within the sovereign will of God is the moral will of God. That is which he what he commands. But it's a subset, and the reason is because God does not always force his moral will to be done in his sovereign will Outside of his moral will, which when we obey it, there are many who do not obey his moral will, and yet it's within God's sovereign will. Does that make sense? Okay. So, now, woohoo, the second principle. The principle of freedom. Where there is no command, God gives us freedom. Man, that just sounds liberal. That means you're gonna live in the flesh and you're not gonna do what God says Any color. Mel's gonna show up with red sox. That's right. That's right. Where there is no command There is freedom within the sovereign will of God. This principle, number two, asserts three things. There are some decisions which have multiple options, any number of which may be acceptable to God. Do I buy the Honda or the Mazda? I've owned them both, yeah, yeah, me too. Um B. The final decision made must not be in violation of God's moral will and purpose, attitude, or execution. And C, God will not dictate to the believer what he must do. The individual is free. to make the decision. The difficulty for Christians is we often act like We are children in the sense of the Old Testament law. I don't know what to bring unless God tells me to bring a pigeon. I don't know what to do. But especially under the New Covenant, God has given us principles, commands, guidelines, but not with exacting details. Love your neighbor as yourself Do I bring 'em soup? Do I speak to them in the parking lot? Do I send them a birthday card? Do I have their kids come over for Those are all questions that are God's will every day that you have to ask the question. How do I love my neighbor? There are some Christians who believe that the application is then something they have to know God tells them to do. Lord Do I bring them cupcakes? Do I how will I, you know? And that kind of thing. So three, direct statements of Scripture reveal that God gives freedom where he gives no command. Genesis chapter 2. From any tree of the garden you may freely eat. Can we eat of this tree? From any tree of the garden you may freely eat. Now he told him not to eat of one. Can you imagine Adam and Eve third night? Eve says to Adam, go ask the Lord if we can eat pears. I'm pretty sure that's covered in any. But I'll go ask, can we eat of any? Any Where there's no command, there's a freedom. Uh when I was a professor, I did that I was a professor, it was real. At Patrick Henry College over in Virginia. I was a professor of theology over there. And when I was, invariably freshman students would have this same reaction. You give them their syllabus, here's the assignments. And then They'd hear all the things and I would have there twelve things that you can choose to write your term paper on. Yeah, or whatever. But yeah, twelve. And then I'd say and you can choose any of these and that's cool Line of students waiting to talk to me after class. Professor Dial. I just wondering if I could do number ten. Yes, you're next. Hey, best thing that ever happened to me as a professor. You know, Patrick Henry College is pretty much made up of homeschoolers, right? Who somehow got out of high school and through therapy and then all of you know we homeschool our two sons and Man, you know, we love visiting them in jail. That's great. So but what was the best thing that ever happened to me? was a young lady came up with her paper that I had graded and she misspelled like I'm just making up a number but a hundred words and like an eleven page paper, you know, whatever it was. Red lines, red lines everywhere. She comes up and she Professor Doyle I I've never had such a bad grade, basically, you know, in high school. And I was like, well, you know, we the spelling's really bad. And here's what she said My parents They focused on character, not spelling. Well then you should be able to take this, you know, go to So, all right. All right. Back to the text. Okay. So direct statements of scripture reveal that God gives freedom where he gives no command. B. Leviticus, you can bring a free will offering. Do I have to? No. It's a free will offering. Deuteronomy. A voluntary vow. Do I have to make it? No. But if you're going to, here are the parameters. D, 1 Corinthians, 1 Timothy, etc. say eating is a liberty, a right. a lawful thing and a freedom, simply stated, eat anything. But can I eat bacon? I know I've used this line, but it's one of my favorites Something I've never heard a man say is there's too much bacon on this. Alright? E, 2 Corinthians 9 Each one must do just as he's purposed in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. Every Christian seems to think But is it okay if I give three percent or seven or twelve? I mean there is the Old Testament and is it tithing? Well the new covenant is not tithing, right? That would have been twenty-six percent when you did all the temple stuff and whatever The point of it is in the New Covenant, it is a cheerful giver, not grudgingly, as you purpose in your heart, and it should be something that makes you excited and happy Now we know you're at Hope Bible Church. 20% will make you make you very happy, right? First Corinthians 7. A wife is bound as long as her husband lives But if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes. Only in the Lord. Dude, young adult Christians It's like they just their minds are totally blown away on this point I don't know if I should marry her, I've heard a million times. Why? Because I don't know if it's God's will Alright, so what do you gotta wait for? Revelation. Revelation. The sign. Carla and I have a friend's name Betsy and Brian. That's her real name. Betsy and Brian. No, it wasn't make-believe. When they hear this somehow, they're gonna shoot me. No. And they didn't know if they should get married, and they were praying about it. And so Betsy was sitting out on this big rock boul a boulder in Colorado. I was just sitting out there A boulder and boulder. A boulder and boulder. Carla and I used to live near boulder. Uh but she was sitting on a boulder and a butterfly s came by. Marry you. I'm supposed to marry Brian. Brian's like Brian's like years later he's like Man, I don't know if that was from the Lord or not, you know. So one other quickly and a little more to the point and serious on this is I remember a young man at our last church He and this young lady, awesome Christians, everything in line. Just and he came to me and he's like, I I'm not gonna I'm not gonna marry her. I was like, why? Because I haven't heard God tell me to marry her. And so when I say that, uh you may be thinking audible voices what people what they mean is God spoke to me means an internal impression, a sense that it's totally God's will to do, and I won't He's like I I haven't gotten there. Okay, you've been dating her now for sixteen months and you've been whatever. I said, My friend, listen, you don't have to But some smart guy is going to marry her. Who's not waiting for the woo-woo? He asked her to marry her that week. And they're an awesome couple who's now an elder at the church. church and he's just an awesome couple. But and then G, 1 Corinthians ten. All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful, but not all things edify, right? This principle is the principle of freedom in the New Testament. You're free to do all kinds of stuff. They're not all equally good for you. I mean, who knew entemants donuts could ruin your life, right? I mean I'm a living example, you know. But not everything is as profitable But it's not against a command, it's against the principle of what is best. And what am I free to do? So if that's true, we have to obey God's moral will as it is contained in his sovereign will And we know that we have freedom where the commands do not specifically speak as to how to apply the moral will of God. The third principle is very important, and it's called the principle of wisdom. Number one, where there is no command, God gives us wisdom. Now, we know that in Scripture it says, if you lack wisdom, ask of God and He will give it to you. The difficulty again is that Christians have turned that into waiting for revelation again. They've made wisdom just a equal sign with revelation, and that is God give me wisdom means God tell me what to do But wisdom is the application of that which Scripture tells us, and requires effort on our own to discern the the scriptures and to study them, to show yourself approved, and to spend time in them, and start to use your mind to be renewed, thinking through whether it be the best use of your life. Otherwise, we just take our moral compass and put it aside and say, God just tell me what to do. I'm not morally responsible. And so that is the difficulty with that. If wisdom is just God telling us what to do, then of course we must do it. But then you're gonna have to ask the question, so how do I know it was from God? Inner impressions are very murky, says J. I. Packer. Um now that doesn't mean God doesn't use inner impressions ever. I'm just simply saying we know that the source of inner impressions can be very murky, like Sometimes when I'm taking some medications for my arm or my rotator cuff, I have lots of impressions. I don't know that I should act on them in any kind of manner So here we are. The principle of wisdom then is where there is no command, God gives us wisdom. A. In non-commanded decisions, the goal of the believer is to make wise decisions on the basis of spiritual. Advantage. Spiritual indicates that the end in view, as well as the means to those ends, are governed by the moral will of God. Wisdom is the ability to recognize what is spiritually profitable in a given situation. If you're still reading that as, okay, so you're just back to I need I I'm gonna get channeled exactly what the thing no. It is to apply Scripture in the best you can with the work of the Spirit, the place of your maturity, to be honest with the text, be honest with yourself, to look at the circumstances. And make the very best decision based on the highest goal, and that is what brings God the most glory and what is most spiritually advantaged in this situation. Here's the problem. You will never know in this life the exact answer And that drives people crazy. Because again they're like, I don't know the exact answer, so I won't act. You will never know what is most spiritually advantaged. No pastor ever does, no Christian ever does. What is best for this church right now? What what what activity? What goal? What should we do next? You look at the church, you look at the situation, you look at scripture, you pray, but at the end of the day it will be a wisdom decision. It will not be channeled from God. You're saying what would be the best application with the principles God says about a church that's growing? And you do that in your family life, and you do it in your own personal life. And that is the mystery because the problem is it's scary because we think, I can't do anything unless God tells me, but God tells you to do it So, B, the Old Testament teaches wise decision-making by its wisdom books and examples of wise men. Wisdom has the advantage of giving success. What is wisdom in terms of this? It grows. Revelation doesn't grow. God just says, Donna Go and buy a Schwim bicycle. Did they even make those anymore? Alright. Go probably not. Go no, yeah, they went out. Okay. Go and buy one anyway, you know. It's very clear. Revelation is really clear. On eBay. It's very clear And it doesn't grow. But wisdom grows. Wisdom grows in that you can know this much, then you can grow in wisdom and grow in wisdom. God reveals more things progressively, but the r the thing he reveals doesn't grow in itself. Yeah. Henry, what were you saying? God reveals more things. Right. God reveals more. Everyone got saved right then. Yes, come forward. Yes. Uh the question is how does God guide people in this age, since the cross to now? Does he guide people through new revelation? No, the canon's closed Uh the Spirit is no longer revealing new truth to his people, but he's applying the truth which he's already revealed. C. Jesus commanded his servants to be wise Be shrewd as serpents. These are the principles of wisdom. D. The apostles modeled wisdom in their decision making. We thought it best You know, the people who have the idea that God always reveals to Christians what it is and all that struggle when they get to the Apostle Paul when they realize even the Apostle was thinking about what he should do He wasn't always getting a drop down. Jesus told me to do this exactly. He got drop downs. He was an apostle. But mostly he was thinking strategically And if we ever get to Romans 15 in the future, uh we'll we'll look at that. But he says, I thought it was best to do that. E. The Apostles next page commanded believers to use wisdom in decision making. Conduct yourselves with wisdom. F God has promised wisdom through the Bible, prayer, counselors, research, experience. If anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask of God Again, what does God do to give wisdom? Well, I don't know the exact thing, no one does. But wisdom, again, is not simply channeling to your mind what you should think, but rather using your circumstances The Holy Spirit causes you to see life through the lens of Scripture. And you begin to see an eternal perspective, and your decisions begin to be shaped by the way Scripture looks. And that's what wisdom is, the application of scripture to daily life. People are like, well, I don't have wisdom, I don't know what to do. Ask of God and then study the scriptures. And then ask others what the scriptures mean. A lot oftentimes when we're talking about uh go and get counsel, well you ask people counsel, but if they're not giving you scriptural counsel, I don't know how good it's going to be for you Alright, number two on page seven. Examples of wisdom decisions in Scripture. Exodus 18, Jethro's counsel to Moses. Now, if you're not familiar with the Old Testament, this is not Jethro Bodine. No. Okay, just not from the clampets or anything. Okay, this is a different Jethro. Um But Jethro was Moses' father-in-law, you remember what happened? Moses had this whole nation, they're all coming to him for counsel, and what did Jethro tell him He said, Moses, you need to go up back up on the mountain and wait for a revelation from God about how to do this? No. He just said, split them into small groups, appoint small group leaders, and do this. It's not revelation, it's wisdom. Ecclesiastes ten. Wisdom has the advantage of giving success. 1 Corinthians 6. A wise person was to decide Paul said in in terms of a case that was going on in the Corinthian church, he's like, Don't you have a wise person or wise people who can make a decision about this? First Corinthians six All things are lawful but not things are prof all things are not profitable. Some things are good or better according to first Corinthians seven. First Corinthians seven, it was less trouble First Corinthians seven thirty-five, Paul says, I thought it was beneficial. First Corinthians seven, I think you will be happier. That when he's talking about the not being married being married. And he talks about if you stay single and serve the Lord, if you don't have a compulsion to be married, Paul says, I think you'd be happier. What? You say, but is Paul sharing uh well okay. Acts six. Acts chapter six. This is when the Grecian widows were not being served, and that they made the decision to put the proto uh deacons in and serve the widows. And the apostle said, we didn't think it was desirable. for us to put our energy into that it was better put over here. All right. I thought it necessary. Timothy's proven worth is why we chose him for the mission. At first Timothy three What is the first qualification of an elder or pastor that they aspire to that? A lot of people are stuck on the notion that Hey, all as normal Christians, we come to this church because it was the wisest and best. But somehow the impression is that if people are elders at the church, God put them in that place No. Yes. God is the ultimate source of everything. And all government, according to Romans 13 Ultimately God placed leaders, whatever they are. Our parents were put over us, right? We didn't get to choose our parents. That was the sovereignty. But it wasn't through a revelation they became parents, right? And so elders are not made elders in a church by revelation. And the first requirement is not that a man has heard a vision In ordination councils, that is, when guys want to become professional, not professional, I mean vocational pastors They sit before an ordination council and man this question is almost in every ordination council. Tell us about how God called you to the ministry. Right? It's not in the Bible When you ask people that, if you ask a man to be a pastor, he has to have a call to the ministry. You're going to be looking a long time in the New Testament for the requirement of eldership to have a calling to be an elder. No, the requirement is he has a desire to be an elder. It's been flipped over to you have to have a mystical experience. Or God had to spoke to you on the road to Damascus. Hey, Paul had a Damascus Road experience. Now everybody wants one of those? Paul's point is if there's any man in the congregation who aspires to be an elder and has the qualifications, he's qualified to be an elder Um that messes up some guys. I have a friend named Scott. Went to seminary, godly man, honest, great teacher, wonderful family But he had the idea that you have to have a woo-woo. And one night he was praying. And a little he got a woo-woo. Henry likes this story already. And Scott heard, he thinks he heard a voice in his head, I don't know, and it says, Don't be a pastor And one of the most qualified men I ever knew decided never to be a pastor. Say, was that the Lord? We'll find out when we get to heaven. Satan was in the Lord, Lord. Yeah. It can be anything. It can be drugs, it can be it can be stress, it can be that's what you wanted. You didn't want to be a pastor. That's fine. That's fine. It didn't have a desire. And so he had to get out of it because he felt like God called him because he went to seminary. All kinds of things come into play in our minds And your theology matters of what you do. He never went in the ministry. Um so actually worked at the Denver Rocky Mountain News in Denver, Colorado. Hey, he's a great guy, and there's no shame in that. Do you understand that? I don't think it's called to the ministry versus being a schmuck. Okay? You know. Schmuckdom for all of you men in here who are not pastors. God called the elite man to be pastors. No, he chose the weak things of the world to confound the wise. Um The I said to Carla yesterday about having to get up and I presented the gospel at the Narnia play. Um I said in high school I got an F in speech because I would r I refused to give speeches because I was so afraid. And so i life happens. God just takes people and does stuff to them. First Timothy, or 1 Thessalonians 3, we thought it best, and 2 Samuel 18, whatever seems best. So the way of wisdom paraphrased, back to it. Love God and do whatever you please. That's what Augustine said. If you love God, and it's not commanded in scripture, do what you please. Well I want to live in Tennessee. I want to do this. Be shrewd as serpents, innocent as doves. Elders are to be blameless and prudent. Deacons full of spirit and wisdom. Ask, is it moral, is it wise? Which decision will help me to best love God and love people? What will be best promoting the kingdom of God? What decision will help me best grow as a believer? And which decision will best promote God's glory? You will never know the exact answer. You're saying, I think it will be this. Here's the thing. Because we're about to get to this principle. Christians still are going to feel guilty. I probably didn't do this as well as I should have. Right. That's why we have to keep growing in wisdom. And will you ever nope. Will you ever get this all nailed down? No. Now you're gonna go to heaven where they're gonna be like, nice try Doyle, you got an eleven out of a hundred. I'm like, oh man, that was way better than I thought I was gonna do. I thought I was gonna get a four, you know. All right, so bottom of page seven When we have done what is moral and wise, we must trust the details to a sovereign God to work all things together for good. So we must trust the details to a sovereign God to work all things together for good. A. God's sovereign will is certain. It will be fulfilled. It will not be frustrated by men, angels, or anything else. To Paul's challenging question, who resists his will, we are humbly complied to agree. No one God's sovereign will is detail, it's the ultimate determiner of all things, including which of our plans finds fulfillment. The difficulty is as a Christian if you do what is wise and good and you choose the best plan, and even if every other Christian were to agree with you. That's the wisest and best thing to do. And even if all of contained conventional wisdom agreed with us, it does not mean God will bless it. God can work against the wisdom of our decisions. Man plans his ways, but the Lord directs his steps. So often in our walk, God will take even the good. So sometimes we think, oh, if I sin, God will be against that. But sometimes we have really good plans. And God is like, I have a better plan, and that's a perfectly good plan. But I'm going to guide you through things, providence. that y you somebody gets sick or this happens or whatever and you end up in a place you didn't think you would be or a situation has changed and you find out later. I see This was better. This was better. So see, God's sovereign will is hidden except when revealed by prophecy. Man can only learn what it is after it happens The only exceptions to this are statements of prophecy in which events are foretold and explanations of the destinies of the saved and the lost. D. God's sovereign will is perfect. It's perfect in the sense that it will ultimately lead to God's greatest glory. There never was another plan And though sin is contrary to God's moral will, its presence is permitted in God's plan, partly because his conquest of it reveals his grace. and power. God will be glorified for his holiness, for his defeat of Satan, for his righteous judgments, and for his grace to redeem sinners. See all of those other passages. And finally, a couple other words about this. E. Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow, we will shall go to such and such a city and spend a year there. Hey, I've been here eleven months and engaged it seems like ten years, by the way. Just saying. Just saying. Eleven months at O Bible Church It's like a weaken encelada Mexico. You may have heard this story. There was a man who lived in Texas. And he was told by his doctor that he had stage four, a terminal cancer. He said, how long do I have to live, doctor? And he said, it's a matter of time, maybe a month or so. He said, is there anything I can do? He said, well, you could you could move to Oklahoma. He said, how would that help? He said, well You'll still only left you'll only still only live a month, but it's gonna seem like ten years. Oh, I'm so bad today. Okay. Anyone from Oklahoma here? Oh yeah, oh yeah. Oh yeah. All right, sorry. Back. Come now, you who say today or tomorrow we shall go to such and such a city and spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You're just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance all such boasting. is evil. So my last point here is outside of the parameters of Gary Friesen's book, as just amusing on that for myself and others, and that is, so what should Christians do when they feel God has directly told them to say or do something? Let me address that in the closing of this part. So you're like, yeah, yeah, Dave, right, Bible, sufficiency, wisdom, right. But I've had experiences, you're going to say. Me too. Me too. What do you do with those experiences? Where you feel like I know, but I think God told me to do this Or I had this total impression that was completely different than anything else I'd ever had, or I was praying, and there was this overwhelming sense of what I should do. Let me say this really clearly. There are going to be good and godly people who will disagree certainly with everything I'm about to say. But um It is not within with outside of the pale for God to give direct impressions or those kind of things. But there's some things that keep us from being charismatic theologically and being biblical theologically. They say, well, what is that? I would say these three or four things help. A. So number one, if anyone today believes that they have received a direct disclosure from God You must understand that it will have no canonical significance. Okay, that may sound blah blah blah, but the point is the canon, the scriptures, the final book together Whatever anybody in the world says that God told them, it will not have any significance to this. It can't be added to this. Okay? It can't subtract from this. It's not over this. And it does not become universally received by the whole church, even if someone rises today and says they are a prophet from God Because frankly, in the end times, that's going to happen every twelve seconds. False prophets will arise and claim they're from God and they are speaking Scripture or speaking on the equivalence of Scripture A. If you have such a thing, you say, God told me to do something, A. It's not authoritative for the Christian or the church. God told me to tell you, Pastor, that such and such is the case. Um I've had that happen. I've had it happen as a pastor in the last forty years. People come and say, I think God wants me to tell you this, or God told me this so that I can share it with you And in some cases I felt it's been very helpful because it agreed with Scripture. And at other times I'm like, hmm, we'll have to see about that, right? Alright, B Neither the Christian nor the church are under any obligation to acknowledge, believe, or obey the supposed message, or the person claiming that they have received a message. Now this is going to seem harsh, but you you get the point. So if one of us in here says God told me to do something, and it's not crazy, it's not, you know, it's to move to a place or become a missionary somewhere, but God told me to do it Fine. But you understand that a person in here who went to the elders and said, God told me to be a missionary in Egypt, if God didn't tell us, we are not under obligation to believe them or support them. Do you understand that wisdom would dictate, right? This may be in our church, like, yeah, of course. But much of Christendom runs on God told me And by that we don't mean an audible voice. I was reading the Bible and I just knew that I was supposed to fine But you understand we don't have to believe you. I was preaching on a similar subject at uh the last church in California I was at, uh maybe four or five years ago, and a woman came up to me afterwards and said Told me her experience and they were very like God spoke to me and it was this and all that. And she's like, so right? You know, and I was like, I don't believe you. Now that's even going farther than I don't have to believe you. That's like I don't believe that. And she's like, well how would you know? I'm like Listen, we're to test prophets. You're telling me God spoke, and you're telling me that what he spoke, I'm supposed to listen to And I'm like, I don't believe you. I don't think you're a prophet, and I don't think what you're saying is true. I am not obligated to that. God has always sent his prophets with the gifts to back them up And even gifts of miracles in the time of the tribulation will not be a guarantee that message is from God. So okay, and see Anyone who associates with the supposed message or speaker should do so because the direc directive seems wise and not because it's supposedly authoritative. Um man this guy, you know, or this gal, the Lord is really speaking to them. And so I'm joining them because God is working. I'm like If you think it's wise and good otherwise, uh which I don't think probably is, but uh but don't join them because it's supposedly a message from God So two, guidance in this form is not promised in this age, and no scripture leads us to hope for it. That is embedded, those that is embedded to a wise group of people who know the rest of the story and that there's a completion of the canon and all of those pieces. Okay. That's on guidance and that took most of my class today. Thank you for coming. No, I'm just getting Oh my. I think I have my lesson for next week already done. Okay. Can I say this? We're on page two. We have fifteen minutes to go. That's okay. If we only get through chapter twelve. Tom It may not be God's will for you to leave. Did you hear woo-woo? That's not what he told you. I get it. Okay. Okay. Well with the time I have left, I'm gonna go to page two here. And that is to verse 3 of chapter 12. For through the grace given to me, Paul says, I say to everyone among you Not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to have sound judgment, as God has allotted to each a measure Paul moves from presenting your body and knowing the will of God to these things. Number one, Paul received grace to teach the Romans about measured or proportional giftedness. 2. Since all of our gifts and talents are gifts from God and are given in measure by God's sovereign hand, it follows that we should not think too highly of ourselves. Why? It's n I it's a gift. I didn't invent this. Number three. No one act small. No one act big. Everyone act medium. Number four, sound judgment in this passage is being in your right mind, to think accurately, truthfully, and soberly and rightly about your gifts. If you're incredibly exceptionally gifted at teaching, that's your thing. You're like, whoa, the teacher. Don't be too humble about it and don't be too braggy about it. Just acknowledge it and just teach. And if you're an administrator Administrate. If you have the gift of mercy, oh I don't know if I have the gift of mercy. Go mercy crazy. Be merciful to everybody. What what Carla, in our in our home, and I've seen it four thousand times, it's in your office, a little placard about throw something around like confetti. Kindness. Throw kindness around like confetti. Okay? It's just a good saying. Throw mercy around like confetti. So the measure, number five, the measure of faith here that Paul's speaking about is speaking of the ability to rightly consider oneself and the best use of one's person and gifts for the glory of God. So gifts in the we sense, Romans 12, 4 and 5. For just as we have many members in one body And all the members do not have the same function. That's what he said in 1 Corinthians 12 as well. So we, who are many, are one body in Christ. and individually members one of another. So he's reflecting again, we all need each other. The physical body is made up of many parts. The parts do not have the same functions. The church is a body, the church has many parts. Each person has a role within the body in support of the whole Thus there's unity and diversity. And now probably my main and last point on this before we leave today is gifts have to do with weighted involvement That's what I inferred at the beginning is how do I know where to throw my time and energy in? Do I do I teach all the classes? Every time they do something, it makes me feel guilty. Man, they parade those pictures of little children down in the Sunday school rooms. Needing teachers. Come and help us Okay, I will. They need people at VBS? Yes. Amy, thank you. Yes, they do. Okay. Amy is directing the VBS and we're excited about that. But where do I put my energies? I would say Paul in this passage is explaining what I call weighted involvement Verse 6. Paul says, since we have gifts that differ, so he just said everybody's got a different gift. Since, or because we have gifts that differ according to the grace Given to us. Hmm. Each of us is to exercise them accordingly According to what? According to the grace. Now, I said some similar things at the women's breakfast back in the fall and talked about that, right? Um but since Paul is using this passage, because he wrote it, I get to. What is the point of this? Well on the next page I'll have some other pictures, but the point of it is this Measures of grace. Paul is saying that because we have all received gifts according to this measure of grace, this grace that's been given, we should exercise them according to the measure of grace. What is grace? We'll talk about that in a minute. It's the desire and the power to do God's will. Some people, whatever area of grace it is, Whatever area of of ministry it is. I've lost my pen. Okay. They might be a nine. I'm gonna do all even un um uh odd numbers today. That just sounds fun The measure of grace. In evangelism, Billy Graham gets a nine or a ten. God gave it to him. He cannot say, I'm a better evangelist by birth. God just made him. No, he had to work at it. Every gift requires work. Okay. And then there's seven five. If you just do evangelism All of us are required to evangelize, but some people, the the measure of the grace for you to exercise that particular manifestation is lower than other people. The question is, when you talk about weighted involvement is determining what has God gifted you in, what has He graced you to do. Where do you not only find joy, but God uses you? This is a whole question board And it's a discovery of what's the best use of your life for the glory of God. And what happens is if you get yourself involved in every ministry you're gonna run out of grace pretty fast. If you're a three in evangelism but you've been required, you know what, I'm gonna keep signing up for things that require a nine You're not being best used in the body. You're trying to be an elbow that's a hand and and the problem is we're just oh never mind. The problem is as Christians we want to sign up for everything Man, please please stop signing up for stuff. Really? You're gonna go to every Bible study? You're gonna teach every class? You're gonna help vacuum the church? Well, Julie Dossett will kill me if I obey Julie, all right? Or else your life is, you know. Uh And so, to the point here. Since we have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, each of us is to exercise them accordingly, as I've already said, if prophecy according to the proportion of his faith, if service and his serving, or he who teaches and his teaching, he who exhorts and his exhortation, he who gives, with liberality. He who leads with diligence. He who shows mercy with cheerfulness. Number one, grace determines your giftedness. Number two, we are to use our gifts in relationship to the measure of the grace given to us. Our involvement is thus weighted by the grace and the gifts given to us. 3. The exercise of the gift is according to the proportion of faith and measure of grace given to us from God. When Katrina happened, uh you know, the hurricane back in New Orleans and all that back in two thousand six, whenever it was. My son and I went down and we were there the first couple of days. I mean God let us in with some of the first responders. We were there with a Christian organization that feeds people. Mercy Chefs, awesome organization. But we joined Mercy Chefs down there and we helped feed people. And we stayed for 11 days and God used us down there and it was great. Many of you have done those kind of Christian stuff, support and all that It was an incredible experience. We were right on the ground. We helped lots of teams get organized. And then I went back, I was a pastor at that time and just felt compelled to do that. God told me to. And so um and so I went back to my church. And then at our church, Reston Bible Church at that time, uh, we probably had three thousand people in the congregation, and so the pastors talked to me and they're like, Dave Man, you're that guy, you're the spokesman for this. What we want you to do is start leading teams back down there and taking f 20 and 30 people at a time. We want to give you time to go do that And I was like, no thanks. I'm not gifted at the stuff they're doing, you know, rebuilding and doing the whatever. I felt I was used by God to be there But I have no grace to lead teams to go down there. That's not my calling. It's not below me. Do you understand? Willing to serve, but I think it'd be better if I stayed here and trained men and did this and I could help you get organized and send some guys who are passionate and some ladies who are passionate. That is a point. Be where God has made you to be and the whole body will grow. Otherwise we have everybody in the wrong place C, the exercise of the gifts is according to the proportion of faith and the grace. Number four, being different is good in relation to gifts. Number five, we don't need to seek the gifts, because they are given to us. And number six, each believer is given at least one gift. I'm simply going to hit the highlights. Seven, the Holy Spirit determines who receives which gifts. Next page Number three, we are to use our gifts to serve others for the benefit of the body. He gave some apostles, some prophets, etc. , the be for the s for the building up of the body. It was St. and only saint to the Catholic Church, but in I think the sixth century, who said something like this If you have a gift and you don't exercise it You don't love your neighbor. Because God gave the gift to the church, not just to you. And so it's like having a wrench in your pocket while you're watching people trying to rebuild a motor and they don't have a wrench You're like, man, that seems hard. You're like, yeah, I wish we had a wrench. And that's how ministry is. Those those who are in the body of Christ who are serving like crazy who are in this room. And then there are people in the body of Christ who attend and they have no involvement. They come and they're like, Yep, amen, brother. Go out the door. And the rest of you are like, anybody got a wrench? You know? Could you help us here? Number nine, each gift is equally valuable. Number ten, we are commanded to use our gifts. Number eleven, exercising our gifts must be done in spiritual service to God. with sound judgment regarding our gifts, the context of shared ministry. Last page, page four. A spiritual gift then is a God given ability for service. It's not a place of service nor a Ministry to an age group nor procedure, those can be the application. Abilities can and must be developed by the one to whom they're given. Michael Jordan was given abilities that none of us have in basketball, but he didn't get there just because he was gifted by God. He worked really hard And every spiritual gift requires that. Well guys, that's plenty. I have so many other things to say, but thank you for coming today. And let's pray and happy Mother's Day to all Uh, not to all. Uh to your mothers. Hey, did anybody else notice in the last thirty years or so? Like at one point Happy Mother's Day was just said to mothers, right? And then somewhere in America in the church we made it like Guys say to each other, Happy Mother's Day, man. You know, good what is that? You know, so all right, let's let's pray