Paul was radically transformed by meeting Jesus Christ. And this book is Paul's explanation It's not how he preached the gospel. This is this book is Paul's explanation of everything that had happened to him through the gospel and what the gospel does to people. So the best class I ever I'm the man. So I want to take you to page one then and refresh your memory. of what happened to Paul and how it relates to what happened to us. And then today, Lord willing, we'll look at the traditional method of introducing a book. The time, the place, the author, all of those things. Well let's look at page one and be refreshed about Paul. Today is not an exposition of Romans. That will begin next week, verse by verse, but today is an introduction to the book. So on page one, I simply have put down the gospel of God changed Paul's personal life. Saul's conversion wrote in Acts chapter 9. Now Saul, still breathing threats and murders against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked for letters from him to the synagogues at Damascus. So that if he found any belonging to the way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. And as he was traveling, it happened that he was approaching Damascus And suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. But get up and enter the city and it will be told you. What you must do. I'm going to suggest in a big picture that the Damascus Road experience of Paul becomes the outline of every book he writes His first question is, Who are you? We all know Ephesians, Romans, all starts out and a theological statement of who is God and what has He done for us in the Gospel. But then Paul in this also learns, what are you to do for me? That's always the back end of every epistle he writes. Who is God? What has he done in the gospel? And what are we supposed to do? But let me continue Verse 6, but get up and enter the city, and it will be told you what you must do. Excuse me. The men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one. Saul got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. And leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus, and he was there three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank. And now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. And the Lord said to him, Get up and go to the street called straight and inquire at the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul. For he is praying, and he has seen a vision of a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him, so that he might regain his sight. But Ananias answered, Lord, I've heard about this man, how much harm he has done to the saints at Jerusalem. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call on your name. But the Lord said to him, Go, for he's a chosen instrument of mine, to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and sons of Israel. And I will show him how much he must suffer for my namesake. So Ananias departed and entered the house, and after laying his hands on him, said, Brother Saul, The Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road by which you were coming, has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit. And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales. And he regained his sight, and he got up and was baptized. And he took food and was strengthened. Now, for several days he was with the disciples who were at Damascus. And here's the beauty. How you know his life has radically changed. This all takes place in a few days. And what does he do? He said, Well, okay, my life's changed. I'm going to go back to doing what I was doing, being a Pharisee. It says verse twenty, and he immediately began to proclaim Jesus in the synagogue. saying he is the son of God or another way of saying he's God the Son. And all those hearing him continue to be amazed and we're saying Is this not he who in Jerusalem destroyed those who called on his name, and who had come here for the purpose of bringing them bound before the chief priest? But Saul kept increasing in strength and confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus by proving that this Jesus is the Christ. Incredible story. Incredible story. Life transformation, everything turned in a matter of days because he was radically converted. So I want to refresh your minds then about three basic things. Paul's perspective, his position, and his purpose all changed there by way of introduction to the book of Romans, page two. The gospel of God changed Paul's perspective. He went from a bondservant, or he became a bondservant of Christ, after being a slave to himself, to sin. and to being a Pharisee. In Romans 1. 14 he says, I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise And to the foolish. He now saw himself as a slave of Christ, and that his mission was to tell everyone what had happened to him and what Christ could do for them. Secondly, his whole purpose or position rather changed. The Gospel of God changed Paul's position. He went from Pharisee. to apostle. Quite simply, here's a few things that he says about himself. Romans 11. But I am speaking to you who are Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle of the Gentiles I magnify my ministry. Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? 2 Corinthians 12, the signs of a true apostle were performed among you with all perseverance, by signs and wonders and miracles. In Galatians 1, Paul an apostle sent, not sent from men, nor through the agency of man. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. And then Titus, Paul, a bond servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the faith of those chosen of God and the knowledge of the truth Which is in accordance to godliness. Paul's perspective on life totally changed his position. And finally his purpose. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And when I came to you, brothers and sisters, I did not come as someone superior in speaking ability or wisdom, as I proclaimed to you the testimony of God, for I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. And him crucified. I also was with you in weakness and fear and in great trembling. And my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstrations of the Spirit. and of power, so that your faith would not rest on the wisdom of mankind, but on the power of God. And then finally, and we'll slow the pace down here. First Corinthians 15. Now I make known to you, brothers and sisters, the gospel which I preach to you, which you also received, and which you also stand, by which you are also saved, if you hold firmly to the word which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I handed down to you as of first importance what I received, says Paul, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas and to the Hi. Welcome. That's a quick way of introducing Paul. The reminder that this is not an ideology. This book is not simply a really cool explanation of Christian faith, but it is the explanation of the life-changing nature of the gospel. Well, I know that in church history, we have examples of those who've been changed from the Book of Romans, so I want to quickly remind you of just three, right? You're probably familiar with these three stories, but Martin Luther John Wesley and Augustine, or St. Augustine, depending on your background. I want to refresh your memory. Martin Luther. He's a priest in the Catholic Church. He becomes a professor at Wittenberg in Germany. And he begins to teach the Bible and theology. But guess what? He's not saved. And so it's his responsibility one quarter to teach the Book of Romans. And as he began to teach the book of Romans, we know that this life-changing experience happened to him And he's going to describe this, but I want to tell you the dilemma he had. He read in Romans chapter one the righteousness of God And he thought, if the gospel demonstrates the righteousness of God, then how good news could it be? Because if God is righteous and he's righteous in the gospel, it only tells me, like my story, I'm going to go to hell If the gospel reveals the righteousness of God, then we're lost. And he kept reading this and then he realized it presents not the righteous, intrinsic righteousness of God, that God is righteous. But it presents that life-changing righteousness that God puts on our account on basis of Christ and everything changed. If you see that what he says in here in this block. I greatly longed to understand Paul's epistle to the Romans, and nothing stood in the way but this one expression, the righteousness of God. Because I took it to mean that righteousness whereby God is righteous and deals righteously in punishing the unrighteous. At last, meditating day and night by the mercy of God, I began to understand that the righteousness of God is that through which the righteous live by a gift of God, namely by faith. Here I felt as if I were entirely born again and entered paradise itself through the gates that had been flung open. This letter, he says, is truly the most important piece in the New Testament. It's the purest gospel. It is well worth a Christian's while, not only to memorize it word for word. But also to occupy himself with it daily as though it were the daily bread of the soul. So we know that the Protestant Reformation was Luther like Paul was not just an ideology. Luther didn't just say, hey, there's these really cool doctrines, they're better than the other doctrines, so let's just embrace those. He was radically changed by the gospel itself through the book of Romans. What about John Wesley, the great Anglican than w than uh Methodist preacher and revivalist. You know his story perhaps. He was unsaved and in the ministry just like Luther He was an Anglican priest. He preached in the colonial America, and he was sent to do revivalism, but he didn't know the Lord, as you know. And so here's what is said of Wesley. John's seeking for the grace of God ended in a meeting house on Aldersgate Street in London. He wrote in his journal that now famous account of his conversion. In the evening, I went very unwillingly to a society in Aldersgate Street where one was reading Luther's preface to the Epistle to the Romans Now I just want to say this. Think think of it in a more the more kind of humans thing. You get invited, you're unsaved, you get invited to a group that's meeting, go into a frat party and they're gonna read the preface to Romans by Luther. Oh, this is gonna be a wild party Okay. Come on over, man. We're gonna read the preface to Luther's book. But here's what happens. About a quarter before nine, while he was describing the change with God works in the heart through faith in Christ, I felt my heart strangely warmed. I felt I did trust in Christ, Christ alone for salvation, and assurance was given me that He had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved me from the law of sin and death. And then of course the the Father Augustine. Now, I want to say this. If you go to Florida, you go to St. Augustine, right? Now, Saint Augustine's the same dude, Saint Augustine. He's called that more historically, but here's the point. St. Augustine's mom was a Christian. Uh and Augustine was not a Christian. Uh he was in a cult Nedichaeanism, but his mother, Monica, continued to pray for him, right? What I find interesting in the United States is that on each coast we have something named for that family. If you know in California you have Santa Monica Right? The beautiful place in California. That's St. Monica and you have St. Augustine, both beautiful places on the water, for whatever that's worth But he was a philosopher and was a teacher, and someone had given him a copy of the Book of Romans. And so one day he was out in his courtyard and he was reading the book of Romans And he heard a couple of children singing a song. Maybe they were homeschooled. But they were singing a song and he could hear them out in the courtyard and they were singing a little song that says take up and read, take up and read. Maybe that was from their lectionary, whatever they were doing. But it was if he said that God had spoken in his heart, read what's in front of you, and he began to read in the book of Romans And this is what it says. No further would I read, nor I had any need as instantly at the end of the sentence, a clear light flooded my heart, and all of the darkness of doubt vanished away. And of course John Calvin says, when anyone understands this epistle, he has a passage open to him to the understanding of the whole of Scripture. Well if you're a seasoned Christian, you probably knew the things I just said. But I want to take a few minutes. I don't know enough people in here to know all your stories I want to take a few minutes to ask you if any of you in your conversion were directly influenced by the book of Romans. uh during your time when you became a Christian. Now here are the rules. Right? Looking around. You all know that I have five more pages of notes. But if you have the 32nd version, not your whole testimony, but maybe to say this. Oh, I was saved because someone was preaching out of Romans 3 or or someone did the Romans Road or you see what I'm saying? If you could condense it, just so that a few of you could speak, but I'd love to hear, were any of your testimonies directly related to something in the book of Romans? Anybody? Apparently this book has had no effect at home by the one church that this book has never affected. Trans. I I'm I was already saved, but I was in a a BSF Bible study and we were studying the Book of Romans. Oh, okay. And um it just totally changed my thinking. Um it gave me a clearer view of the gospel. At that time. I had trusted in Christ but I was still because of the church I was going to and the teaching I was getting, I was still confused, but through that study of government God gave me clear too. That's that's good. That's such a common testimony, isn't it? Yeah. Anybody else You gotta make me look good. If you only have one person, people on the when they listen to this are gonna go like, man, nobody liked that. Yes, ma'am. Did anybody get saved through a basic Romans Road gospel presentation? You know, where you take people through, we're all sinners, right? All sin and fall short of the glory of God. You know, but No, you're all like, nah, never touched by it. Okay, alright. I see where this is going. I see where this is going. How many of you have used the Romans road? Thank you, you're saving my life. Yeah. All right. Well let's go to the next page then. And we'll get into a little uh more common view. of the book of Romans. So at the top of page four, I simply say the gospel of God explained in the book of Romans answers so many questions. In my reading of the Book of Romans over the years, I began to just log, what has Paul answered? And this is my list, both in that chart and then the 50 questions that I believe that this book answers in the order that I have written them out. And so when you think of how will I teach other people on these questions or answer apologetic questions or theological questions We all know that the Book of Romans is essentially the New Testament systematic theology in its explanation. So if I looked at the outline, then this is the secret outline we're going to use. That chapter one to chapter three where it talks about sin. And I believe it answers such questions, is the gospel powerful enough to save me? Is Paul afraid to come to Rome? Does everyone That is, every ethnic, cultural, or socio-economic group need the gospel. And how can God be just and yet pardon sinners through the gospel? Salvation, chapters 3 to 5. Is the law greater than the gospel? Is the gospel a new plan? What about believers in the Old Testament who live before the Gospel? Chapter 6 to 8 on sanctification. Once I accept the gospel, it is able to change me. Doesn't the gospel teach do whatever you want? You already have a bus ticket to heaven? Of course it does. And can the gospel defeat my sinful self? And then sovereignty, chapters nine to eleven. Didn't the gospel faith in the Old Testament fail the Jews? The argument of Paul and then the implications are this. It seems like God promised the nation of Israel in the Old Testament, you're my people. You're all on my bus. And then when the New Testament comes, it seems like the bus, Israel bus goes off the cliff. And then now we have the church. Paul addresses that question is what happened to Israel? And if you can be promised you're a child of God and then you're not, what's the implication of becoming a Christian? Paul has to address that Could I make a profession of faith and then get thrown away like Israel apparently got thrown away? Those are all important questions. Will we be dropped by God like the Jews appear to be? Is the gospel able to restore the Jew or only for Gentiles? And finally, service in the last four chapters. Does the gospel work in society, in everyday life, or is it just pie in the sky? Does the gospel work in the church and can the gospel unify believers of many different backgrounds? Alright. So that is how I would outline some of the major questions But then I've written down fifty questions, didn't get them somewhere, here are my questions, that I believe that Paul answers in the book of Romans. Here we go What is the gospel of God? Is Jesus really God and what proves he's God? Why did he come? What is a saint for those of us who grew up Roman Catholic? What is God like? How has God revealed Himself to man? Can God really be known? And how can God send people to hell? Those first eight are in chapter one, right? What will happen to people who have never heard the gospel? Everybody gets that question Everybody gets that question who's a Christian. And I've heard very mature Christians say some things where you're like, what? We have to have good answers for those things Why do men reject God and Christ? Of course, this is talking about the doctrine of depravity in the book of Romans. Why are there false religions and idols? What is man's biggest sin? Uh it's becoming a Las Vegas Raiders fan is the biggest thing. Right? Why is there such rampant perversion in the world? Number thirteen got asked a lot during COVID Especially in young people I was dealing with, college age and and career aged, young professing Christians, were like, what just happened? Like the whole world went crazy. But if you know the Book of Romans and your doctrine, you already know. Uh no, it's always that way. It's just the restraint of God that it's not like that every single moment. But you have to understand those things, right? And how they relate to reality. What is the standard by which God judges and condemns people? Hey, frankly, it appears arbitrary to the average person. Seems like God lets heinous wicked people do whatever they want and nice people get run over by buses, you know. I was like, what what is God doing? Paul addresses those questions. How can a person who has never heard be held responsible? How can that be fair? You know, the Book of Romans deals with the issue of fairness on about six or seven occasions The the hey that doesn't seem fair to me. Paul even uses the voice as if he's asking a question on that in Romans 9, where he's like, you're going to say, he says This isn't fair. How could God judge anybody? It's not their fault. Paul addresses these questions in there 16. Are Jews more responsible to believe than Gentiles? What is a true Jew? Is there any advantage to being Jewish? My sister-in-law Shelley is Jewish. and a messianic Jew and will be here, Lord willing, in our class next Sunday. And uh and she has wrestled through these kind of questions as well. How good is man? How bad is man? That's Romans 3, right? There's none good. There's none that are righteous. Can anyone keep God's law? How do we know we're sinners? Exactly, Mr. German. How are we justified and forgiven? And that is going to be a core issue in this book. How is Christian, how are Christians, I should have said, related to Abraham? What is the difference between Israel, Israelite, Jew, Hebrew, and child of Abraham? I say all those, why? Because Paul uses all those phrases in the book of Romans. Is there a difference? If you're a child of Abraham, you're the Yes, there are. There's distinctions. They don't mean all the same thing. They're not synonymous. What's the importance of Christ's death, resurrection, and present life? That is a core of the book. For whom did Christ die? Whoa, I even get a little signal from that. Yeah. For whom did Christ die? Did he die for all the sins of all people for all time? Or did he die only for the sins of the elect? So Paul addresses that? Well he doesn't put it in those words. But the implications of the book of Roman have to be gr have to be grasped. And the question is, if Christ died for all the sins of all people for all time And he actually was punished for those sins on the cross. If something happened on the cross in which he was punished for sin, then he has taken the punishment for those sins. And therefore, if he had died for all people for all time, why does anyone go to hell? Because their sins have all been taken care of. And so that's the implication. You have to think through some of the things that Paul addresses in here. Good and godly Christians disagree about that. There are people who believe in the L part of Tulu, but we'll talk about that. Limited atonement But the question is not which side are you going to fall on? The question is do you have biblical authority for your belief? And in the book of Romans, grasp, look through those and say, am I really answering this out of my heart or out of the Bible And it's one of those questions. Good and godly people disagree. You can go to heaven and disagree. But make sure you're disagreeing because you think the Bible teaches that, and not because of our tradition Um I have no idea where I am. Number 25, there we go. This is such a great list. I should write this. Where can we find real peace and hope? How are we related spiritually to Adam? And how are we related spiritually to Christ? I'm going to stop there. Romans chapter 5 now we're in. You see the pace Why does that matter? Well, two things. It's the doctrine of original sin. Is there original sin? Are we are we guilty before God because of Adam's sin, because he was our representative? Or only because of my personal sins. And what about, and this is where Paul does not address this directly. But it is a question of implication that every Christian is asked, every young person will eventually ask, and that is, what happens to babies when they die? Right? The implications have to be looked at in the gospel. Will we come to an exact answer? Blah blah blah. Good and godly Christians have differing opinions But you have to grasp and and go after that question. What happens to infants when they die? Do they all go to heaven because they are innocent? Well, if you see the doctrine of sin, you realize no one is innocent. Therefore, no one's going to heaven because they're innocent. But they might go to heaven because of other things taught in the book of Romans. The point is we need to understand that and not simply give answers that seem to fit the heart, okay? One way or another. Um what is grace and what does it do? What is the Christian's relationship to sin? How are law and grace related to one another? And this does the law help me as a Christian or is it a hindrance? Do I use the law in my sanctification? Don't I? Why is it such a struggle to live the Christian life? Hey, I became a Christian. I got excited. I started going to church. Someone discipled me. My life started being on fire for the Lord. I'm reading my Bible But as a young person I'm showing up at church and I'm looking around and seeing all the holy people. And then privately I'm like, I'm having a personal war with sin. No one's told me about that yet That question matters to how we deal with our young people and our children. You may not be a Christian if you're struggling with sin. Okay, well I'm not a Christian. Right? I mean I'm for sure not a Christian. What does the Holy Spirit do for us? How intimate is a Christian relationship to God really? This is chapter eight Uh we cry, Abba Father. Why is there suffering? Will this world ever be any different? Can we bring in that difference by our own work? How can I pray properly? What does predestination mean? Ru Hey, there seems to be some Christian denominations, uh evangelical churches, that seem to want to, in an the old way of saying this, uh white out the words or in the new way of saying it, delete uh this whole word from the Bible. We don't want to talk about it because of controversy. Now look at Hope Bible Church we believe this in our doctrinal statement. We not only use the word, we have a description of it I know if you've been here and you're a Christian and you've imbibed, okay, then you're probably in there, but to describe to other Christians It's important, but basically does it matter? Does it matter if God chose? Does it matter if predestine occurs? Does it matter? It matters at least in this one thing. It matters in fifty But how you believe God saved you, whether you're holding your faith together or God is, perseverance, am I going to hold on because of me or maybe God has a plan? And how we present the gospel to other people That is, we present the true gospel, but what do you believe your efforts are going to do? Are you saving them? No. But are special words or is God working? And those matter. So, how secure as a Christian can I lose my salvation? How many Christians struggle with that? What is God's present plan for Israel? What is his future plan for Israel? Why have the Gentiles been chosen? What's our responsibility to Israel? If you think of that today, like my sister-in-law Shelley, and when I went to Brooklyn to do street evangelism, uh and talk to many Jews on the streets in Brooklyn, uh you addressing these questions from a very different perspective. They believe they're God's people, right? Uh so you're just uh come along, you need to become a Jew to really get right with God. That's the perspective. Uh we're like, no, you have to become a Christian, not culturally, but you need to know Christ. Well They are obviously connected. Does God have a future for Israel, or is that Ben Summed by the Church? How is a person saved, number 42? What is the basic bottom line for Christian commitment? What is a Christian's relationship to the world, to other Christians, to the unsaved, to government? Now we're in Romans 13. Hey, did anybody notice I mean maybe it didn't happen here on the East Coast, but did anybody notice during the pandemic two years that people who were Christians kind of went crazy? Yeah. Our church too. Uh you'd get letters as a pastor from people in the congregation. Some of them would say You were so outrageously crazy to not make people wear your masks more and you don't care for them and you're you're disobeying the government or whatever. And then people over here are like Let's all move to Montana, get a shotgun. Uh live up on a hill and make come and take it! Come and take it! That's like you couldn't win. No matter what you preached on, they were like, Nope. Yeah. How do we know God's will? I'm sorry, number forty-seven. Uh how do we deal with neutral things? Things that are neither right nor wrong. I guess the one above it. Are Christians with the Bible alone competent to counsel one another? That's the whole biblical counseling movement. That's in Romans, you know, is where Paul says you are competent to counsel one another. That was that book by Jay Adams, Competent to Counsel, that really in many ways started the biblical counseling movement. Comes out of this book. You are competent to counsel one another. So how do you deal with neutral things? This is always the question of how do good and godly people disagree when they disagree about things which are neither right nor wrong theologically, but the practices are different. I'm going to go back to the mask thing and compliance to pandemic stuff. Christians were not just disagreeing, they were judging each other. Oh, you don't wear a mask. You're a moron. And you're here to kill us all. You and Satan have worked this out. But then of course on the other side. Oh, you're wearing a mask You're brainwashed. You are now a socialist communist. We know where this is going. How do Christians how are Christians to deal with things which are not proven in the Bible right and wrong? And how are we to work with each other? That's Paul's whole thing about loving and appreciating other people, giving respect, not being a Pharisee, but allowing for differences, those things. All right. How do we know God's will? That's kind of important. What is true freedom? And how important is unity in the church? Those are just 50 questions that I've written on how Paul is dealing with that book. Why should you study the Book of Romans? Those are some of the reasons why you should study the Book of Romans. Alright, page six. Um now, some of you came this morning. Yes, okay, when are we going to talk about the background of this book? Now Okay, the three of you who did. Were Bible background nerds, right? The rest of you are like, look, are you gonna start exposing in the text? Because when when does that happen? Next week we go verse by verse, we start looking at the book of Romans. Okay. Top of page six, the background of the Gospel of God explained in the book of Romans. I now go to the whiteboard. We need some historical markers. Okay, here we go. Where does the Book of Romans fall in the first century and why is that important? What's going on, the occasion for Paul writing it? 33 A. D. , the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and the day of Pentecost. Paul is saved in approximately thirty-five AD, about two years after the day of Pentecost. Paul who'd been breathing threats and killing Christians and everything. He ran a muck and then God saved him in about thirty-five AD. Paul's first oath And 50 A. D. is the Jerusalem Council, where there's going to be a conversation about do you have to obey the law and be a Jew to be saved, or can you just believe in Jesus? Paul is converted here and for up till that point he only writes one book, probably Galatians. Not probably. It's Galatians, but it probably is 48 or 50, depending on where you mark the book of Galatians. The first book in the New Testament is James. Okay. Approximately forty-five A. D. So by fifty A. D. , there's only two books of the New Testament those are uh seventeen redesign. Let me continue. The book of Acts finishes in 63. It covers 30 years of history. The book of Acts is done in 63 A. D. And then the last apostle to die, of course, is John. And he's on the island of Patmos, approximately ninety-five AD. So where does the book of Romans fall in all this? The book of Romans falls. Oh, if you're writing this stuff down, you're wasting your time. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'll I'll put out lots of charts. You can write whatever you want. But probably fifty-six or fifty-seven, Paul writes the book of Romans, and I'm gonna express on there where that falls in Yeah, okay. So that's just a big picture. What's happening in the first century in terms of that? Okay, who's the author? Paul. But he dictated it to a fellow named Tertius Many of you know that, but you might be new to some of this, and Paul did dictate a couple of his books to people who wrote it down for him and then they sent it along. So Tertius at the end of the book says, Hello He says hello to the Romans, he's like, I Tertius wrote this with my own hand. And then Paul gives this letter to Phoebe. Alright? And Phoebe was a servant of the church at Sancria in Greece, and Paul's writing from Greece, and he is writing to the Romans. And she becomes the deliverer of the epistle according to Romans 16. And Paul says, whatever she has need of, you take care of that on my behalf. Okay? She is serving by bringing the letter to the letter of Romans. What if she loses it on the way? Just kidding. Okay. Alright, the setting Paul is writing from Corinth and he's on his third missionary journey And this is where it falls in. What's the occasion? Paul longs to visit and minister to the Church of Rome. He has never been to this church. I just want to say, how many of you grew up Roman Catholic like I did? Okay. Now look, what were we taught? We were taught that Paul and Peter started the book, uh started the book, started the church at Rome. They're the the founders of the church at Rome and they're sort of set, Peter being the first pope, but they s established that church and then from that point it was it was apostolic secession Uh Paul makes clear in this book and in other parts of the New Testament he had never been to Rome. He's like, man, I got left out on this Pope thing. That's actually not what he said. I'm just still trying to get to know each other. You're like, really? So, he's never been to the church. It is most likely that this church got its start soon after Pentecost, 33 A. D. , as new converts carried the gospel back to Rome from Jerusalem, right? People were converted, Bible studies were started, they started out giving out things as honk if you love Jesus, they were putting him on their chariots, and the church at Rome came into being. Okay, Paul's books. He wrote thirteen books unless you think he wrote Hebrews. And if you think he wrote Hebrews, it doesn't prove it, but that'd be the 14th book. He wrote Galatians, 1st and 2nd Thessalonians, 1st and 2nd Corinthians, until this point. Okay? That's all he's written by the time he writes Romans. It's from 57 A. D. to about 65. Paul probably dies in 65 A. D. under Nero. Paul's only gonna be alive seven or eight more years. Eight more years. He's gonna slam a lot of life into eight years. Because his whole life was Jesus Christ. Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. And so in those eight years, if you look back, he writes Romans, Philemon, Colossians, Ephesians, Philippians, 1st and 2nd Timothy and Titus And possibly Hebrews, uh, depending on your scholarly knowledge. So what's the theme? If you don't get anything else this morning, you leave here and you go, the room was hot, I'm not sure about Dave's pace, what was going on in there. If you don't get anything else, this is it. What was the what is the theme of the Book of Romans? Part of it, every Christian in this room will go, yes, that's what it is. But you might have to think about the second one, okay? Firstly, it's this Just by justification by faith alone. Boom, got it. That's what this book is about. It's how does God justify sinners Through the gospel. What is justification? It means to be declared righteous. Doesn't mean to become righteous. I grew up Roman Catholic. Roman Catholicism teaches justification as getting a big and big needle of righteousness pushed into you, and then you work out the righteousness to become saved. But this one is accounted to you. So it's being saved by faith alone and grace alone, Christ alone. And being declared to be righteous in God's courtroom. But what is the other theme underlying this whole book? I would suggest the second one. It's the justification of God and his use of the gospel to save sinners. What God can't be justified, not if we're talking about sin. He doesn't need to be declared righteous from evil deeds he had done because he's done none of them. But Paul is writing this book as a defense of God's honor and his wisdom in using the gospel, because the claim is all over from the Jews and philosophers. God's letting people off easy. Okay, so the new rule, according to Paul, then, is the gospel All you have to do is say yes to Jesus, and he'll let any heinous person into heaven. That's the impression. In fact, Paul deals with that in Romans 6. So are we saying that if you trust in God you can just do whatever you want? That's the question that Paul is dealing with here. And Paul is justifying God's use of the gospel to save sinners. There's a difference between pardoning and forgiving. And God does not pardon any sinners. See governors at the end of their run or a president to gain favor at the end will say, I pardon all those people, I pardoned Doyle. And people's like, What? You know, don't do it. What is pardon? It is is taking away the sentence of someone who is guilty. Now they'll sometimes say they're not guilty, but that's not what God ever did. Someone has to pay the price. When I've witnessed to other Catholics like myself and you get into this, often what a Catholic will say to you is That's pretty easy. All you have to do is say yes? I said, well it's not quite that easy. And then invariably they will say, someone has to be punished. I'll say, yeah, that's what God did to his son. And so, in simple fashion, the verse that is below this little heading, Paul says in Romans 3, so that he would be just And the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. This is going to be throughout the book that God is being proven to be just, not just forgiving. He's not just pardoned sinners. Okay. What's the outline? You already know. First three chapters deal with the sin of man. We cannot save ourselves. Salvation. But Christ gave us salvation. Sanctification, how we can grow in him and how God grows us, sovereignty. God's plan for the ages is still happening and it's exactly right It's not the second plan, and he's not like, oh, I don't know what's going on, but God's plan is actually working. And then service. As I drew up here, what's the relationship of this book, uh, Romans, to the o overall book of Acts? Uh I would go through that more on an occasion, but it falls somewhere in Acts chapter nineteenish, uh chapter twenty, near the book end and it's between forty-eight and sixty-three AD what's happening in the book of Acts, probably fifty-six or something. Alright, page seven. Anybody have a question of anything I've said yet? And if you like I thought you were going to talk about Rome. I invite you to come back next week. We start with verse one. We start talking about every verse, what it says And that's how we deal with the book of Romans. Anyone have a question, at least what I've kind of laid out so far as far as the outline of it, what we're gonna do. Yeah, how long do you plan to take to teach Romans if you're gonna go verse by verse? Three weeks Okay. Twenty-four hours. Mel, that's good. It's a twenty-four-hour class. Three three straight weeks, yeah. That is the surprise, because I have not put a schedule in here. I typically do. But my intention is to do three quarters. To actually do, yeah, the surprise. Now, a couple things will happen, I know, by saying that, uh, but uh that would give me thirty-nine weeks, theoretically, to go through the book of Romans Uh I've done it longer than that. I've done a year in the book of Romans and teaching it in the past. I've also done it in one quarter. No, that's not true. I've done it in like 15 to 20 weeks where you're doing a very cursory look So I I plan on going through the Book of Romans for a while, okay, three quarters up till next May. If you already know, like, yeah, that ain't gonna happen to me That's cool. There's some really other seriously, there's some really other great classes that'll be shorter or or whatever. We'll deal with it. But that would be the intention. Not to go a year but to give About two and a half talks per chapter on the book of Romans to give to give fair to do preaching units, Paul's bigger thoughts in the book of Romans to get through it. So we deal with all these questions, but not not infant, you know, be there next nine years. We all know that if you're a Puritan Okay? In the age of the Puritans. Book of Romans, you could teach that for twelve to fifteen years. Right? You can make a living off of that. Okay, I'm gonna preach for a second. I have something to say about that. Okay? I do. We believe in expository preaching, and that is, whatever the text says, we're going to say that. And we're going to go verse by verse and go through books. But the danger of that, and this is why I'm saying how long we're doing it, the danger is if you just take twelve years to go through a book or two years or whatever, often the people in the room no longer know what the purpose of the book is They have no idea what the book is talking about. They're individual sermons on ideas. You see what I'm saying? Then I'm just preaching ideas for two and three years And so my hope is not to take too long in the Book of Romans that we lose the five major things, the two threads, and that's constantly, you can see in the text, oh, Paul's still he's still saying that Guys you can read the book of Romans in less than an hour or whatever. You know, it can't be that complicated Paul didn't mean it to be expositive for twelve years. Okay, coming back. Alright, page seven then. Hang with me. We've got to talk about the structure of the book. Okay, for those of you who are literary, okay. What is the structure? Here's what I say the book is about at the top of page seven. The book of Romans is God's eternal plan to establish the elect through Christ By faith in the gospel, as foretold by the prophets and revealed in the church age for our good and God's glory. What I love about Paul's teaching method in the Book of Romans, and I know the ladies like Anne who teaches precepts and Morag who teaches, you know teaching through those books Wow, I got a cloth? Elsie, you're like rocking. Oh, leave something. Yes, okay. Teaching method Classic teacher, many of your teachers. Classic. Tell them what you're gonna tell them. Right? Tell them. What you're gonna tell them. Tell them and then tell them what you told them. That's that's classic teaching method, right? Come up front, give them the big picture, understand it. Start starting big Teach it and at the end review, work through it, implications. That's what the outline of the of Romans is. I've put on the chart. Paul actually in chapter one outlines six or seven things. And the last verses of Romans are the same exact words. Same exact words. Same exact concepts are in those those verses. And in between, it's really an exposition of those six or seven things. It's masterfully done by the Holy Spirit. But Paul's mind being what it is, God used that. So that's the big picture. Okay? At the bottom of page seven, a few of you are going to go into shock. It's gonna be terrible. There's vocabulary. Alright. Many of you know that we've started a spiritual leadership program. Twelve men have decided to throw their lives away and be part of that. And in the first year, yeah exactly. In the first year they will memorize somewhere between five hundred and a thousand definitions of theology uh in order to have a intelligent conversation about that I would suggest, these are words that I picked out of the book of Romans, that if you knew these at least in definition, you would have a working knowledge of Paul's general outline of what he's going to talk about. Okay? And so I will suggest week by week, I'm not going to start up and go, there are three words we're going to go through this, but I will suggest during my teaching, here are the words that Paul's really outlining and why you need to know those Because we all know you need to know the grammar, the logic, and the rhetoric of any topic, and this is part of that. Alright, final page. You guys are almost there Now as far as one second man, as far as the class goes, today's gonna be uh a short day. No wait, that happened in the book of Joshua. It's not a short day like the sun. Yeah. It's gonna be a shorter class. I mean uh maybe just a few minutes, but uh I I'm there. Yeah, Ann, what were you gonna say? I I was sitting motion. Ah. So that we could remember this. I see. And Um if I can remember, the first was sin. Yes. The snake, okay. Alright. Salvation and the cross. Um sanctification was Got a halo, nice. Okay. Sovereignty was the judge saying you come here. You come here, okay. And service just to be fun You throw up the tennis ball and you hit it. Nice! That's right. Did you know that you're you're a Bible teacher. You know that tennis is in the Bible, right? Right there. Yeah. Joseph served in Pharaoh's court? Yeah. Um that It doesn't get better. Well okay, well, okay. We all know that baseball is in the Bible. In the beginning. Alright, one more one more, we're on a wall, right? These are these are like dad jokes for Bible teachers, right? Okay. I got a book called Bad Jokes for Bible Teachers. We all know that there is one car brand in the Bible and that's it's Honda, right? All in one accord. They were all in one accord. That's right. See? See Mel? You knew that. I'm a dad too All right, page eight to conclude this matter. Man, I got seven minutes. It's the best day ever. This will be the last time I won't need it all. I'm not going to take you through all of this material. This is for your own holy minds. But because I'm using this five-point outline, I gave some scriptures within those sections to help you understand where the scriptural basis of the outline comes from. This five-point outline I first learned from a professor at Dallas Seminary who I sat under named Howard Hendricks. And Dr. Hendricks was using this outline back in the day And uh so it's been going around the Christian world and I find it to be a useful tool. So hey, any last questions on the logistics of the class or anything that wasn't clear today about what we're doing? And otherwise, I will pray for you and let you go.