All right. Welcome back to the Book of Romans. We're in lesson twenty today. And we're in that section of the Bi of the Book of Romans on sanctification. And we're in the fourth lesson on the topic of sanctification. There are two large sections. Good morning. In the book of Romans, chapter 6, that we're looking at today, and that is within those blue lines at the top of your page. Our union with Christ. verses one to eleven and the Lordship of Christ verses twelve to twenty three. Um we've been in Romans chapter six a while and I had a funny incident the other day when I was studying for this morning. And I had one of those uh moments where I made myself laugh after I said something out loud and I was studying Romans six and you we've been in Romans six like four weeks and our pace had been much faster than that before we got to Romans six. So as I was steady just kinda raised my head and I said, I have to get out of Roman six you know. And and the and then I thought of the i the the implications of that too is uh spiritually or just uh physically out of you know so move on in my Christian life or or whatever. So so this is it. This is the final journey into Romans six today. Lord willing we'll start Romans seven next week. And so we want to give our last time through Romans six. So we ground down into the reality of our union. with Christ. So again, the first eleven verses are about our union with Christ. The last verses twelve to twenty-three are about our the Lordship of Christ, and that is how our Christian life actually works. So let's go back in. one refresher and we're going to look at page one in depth here today because of Paul's great picture of baptism. So you remember in verse one it simply is the charge was against justification by grace alone, through faith alone, and it says what shall we say then, are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? Now there's two answers to this. Paul is addressing this. The gospel is too easy, Paul. And he's addressing this. The gospel's by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. But now we are sanctified the same way. That's what people think. The antinomians. And the legalist. Two extremes about the view of the gospel in chapters one to five. The antinomian says when you get through the gospel, awesome, I was saved by grace. Through faith, I'm sanctified by grace through faith. There's nothing for me to do. It's an error. It's not a heresy, but it's an error. You're saved by grace through faith. You did nothing. We earned it not. It was unmerited. I did no works to get it. That was the first five chapters, right? But it could be that you think so I'm sanctified that way. It's to simply trust God that the work of the Spirit will make me in the image of Christ without any effort on my own and I don't want to do any works because that will be legalism. So a Christian could think if I do anything it's legalism Well that's true of salvation, right? But to apply salvation or justification to sanctification, how you is the method of it, messes up sanctification because it's grace alone, through faith alone. No, it's grace alone. plus faith and works that make sanctification. But for Christians, you get nervous. Oh man, threw the works bag in on me. But again, Paul is making the distinction here. Should we continue to get a favor with God by being sinners who need to be rescued? Is that the picture of sanctification? We're always just sinners who need to be rescued and we're unable to help ourselves. It's a wrong application of the gospel to sanctification. And that's what Paul's addressing, first of all, with the antinomians, which which means lawless ones. But then there's also the other person who is addressing. The other person doesn't say, hey, the gospel should you should live the Christian life the same way as the gospel. The other person says You've got the wrong gospel. Paul is too easy. It's way too easy. Grace alone, faith alone, do you know what that's gonna do? I say here, the legalist says, so teaching that justification is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, will lead to the antinomian position. This is how a Catholic, since I grew up Catholic, right? A Catholic would address this. If you say it's grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, do I have to obey the Ten Commandments? Nope. To be saved, you don't. Okay, do I have to do the sacraments? Nope. Row roll. It's a false gospel to them. Why? Because there's no meritorious action on my behalf. I don't have to do anything, so they conclude if you get 'em in the gate by freedom of grace, what do you think? And so either one's an extreme, right? The Ansinomian view or the legalist view. Paul in chapter six, the whole thing is for him to address this point. How then are Christians sanctified, since they were saved by grace alone through faith alone, how are they sanctified by grace Plus faith and works is how we are sanctified. We are made more in the image of Christ. But that key is that you're saved by grace and sanctified by grace, but it's a misunderstanding of grace which causes the first problems. And we're going to address that in chapter six. Alright, let's look at verses two to four. The real point, Paul's going to use a picture then to tell us how we should view sanctification. Verses two to four. May it never be. That is, no, don't keep trying to get saved. Now you need to be sanctified. How shall we who died to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? Therefore we've been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father So we too might walk in the newness of life. Paul is using baptism here as a picture, simply a word picture. So in so many words, Paul's saying, okay, you need to understand that your water baptism is a picture outwardly of something that's happened to you inwardly, and it pictures three phases. That Christ died, buried, rose again, and when you were baptized, my wonderful picture of the water here should change your life. Okay? When we were water baptized, we pictured outwardly to those who walked. it those three phases of our salvation. That we used to be dead in our sins, but that in Christ we have been washed and regenerated and we've been changed, and now we're going to walk in a newness of life. The three phases of Christ's death, burial and resurrection are true of us and that we are in Christ and it is imputed or it acted in God's mind that it is true of us, that we have died to sin, and we are no longer m over sin is no longer over us. But it's at the picture. Paul is not saying that your baptism does this. Right? He's not saying water baptizing you is going to make you free from sin. But rather simply an outward picture. I haven't decided if I'm carrying my water bottle around all day, but apparently I am So there it is. So again, taking a look at the picture, First Corinthians fifteen three and four says, For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scripture. that he was buried and that he was raised again on the third day, according to the scriptures. The picture of baptism then Paul again is saying your water baptism is a picture of something that's truly happened to you because your status has changed. Christ died, but at the end of the status, he was alive. We were dead in our trespasses and sins, but now we are in Christ and we are alive. Something has radically changed is the picture of water baptism. The problem we have is we don't feel that. We don't necessarily feel changed. We don't necessarily feel that we have died to sin or sin is no longer our master. And so now Now let's address those questions. Point one, under the water bubble, Christ's death is proof that he had become the sin bearer. Let me stop there. Christ's death is the proof that he actually was the sin bearer. No one could see on the cross when he was there that day sin dumped into him. No one could see him as the sin bearer outwardly. The fact that he died was a demonstration that he was bearing sin. Because the wages of sin is death. And Christ, who was perfect, would not have died Had sin not been placed on his account. And so his death is an indicator of light on the dashboard of redemption that he was bearing sin. He died because of the sin placed on him. And then, secondly, his burial is a proof that he was dead. Sin bearer, but then of course he went in the tomb for three days to demonstrate and the spirit he's dead And then thirdly, his resurrection, most importantly, is proof of his life and his victory over sin and death, right? So those three aspects of that. So number two, baptism is a picture or symbol of our union with Christ. Let me slow it down. The point is that we have moved from the sphere or realm of in Adam, chapter 5 To the sphere or realm of in Christ. He says, Should we continue to get saved the same way? No. Let me explain, he says. Don't you know that the baptism that you did in water pictures for you the change in status that you have? That you're no longer that person, but you're this other person? Okay, chapter five was you were an atom. Now he's saying you're not an atom. You're in Christ. That's chapter six. This union with Christ is the picture throughout the whole thing. What is that going to mean? Well, this is a very simple chart. In chapter 5, we were told three things. Sin was dominated over us. Everyone sinned in Adam. Secondly, everyone was condemned in Adam, right? And then thirdly, everyone died in Adam. That's chapter five. Everyone in Adam has those three wonderful truths about them. Chapter six reminds In Christ, instead of in sin, we are ruled by righteousness. Instead of being condemned, we are justified. Instead of being dead, we're now alive. And so chapter six is a reflection of you're in Christ. Everything just changed. But again, as a Christian, there's like a zillion books and seminars on how How it changed and what you should do about it. And some of them are quite mystical, as we've talked about. I must now play the mind game. I am a new person. I'm a new person. I hate my boss, but I'm a new person. I must have feelings of feelings will come. Is it a mind game? Let's go further. I think This will help. Number three, baptism is the outward symbol of an inward reality. A water baptism did not save us, in fact, it did not do anything to us. Right? Right. God is wet. I remember a baptism uh maybe ten years ago in California that we did. And a very honest but disconcerting Errants are from a lady that we baptized. And you want people to be baptized because they love the Lord and it's a symbol of their faith. And they want to do it because they want to live in the newness of life But she had been a Christian a while but had never been water baptized. And so she came to be baptized. And so even though she'd given good answers privately Publicly we asked her, why do you want to be baptized today? She said, Look, I want to serve in the children's ministry unless I get baptized, you're not going to let me. Let's get real. I was like, I was like, Did you baptize her? We did we did baptize her that day, yes. We just sprinkled her though. So back to number three. So our water baptism does not save us. In fact, it did not do anything to us but get us wet. Yet Our baptism is a public ceremony picturing our identification with Christ. It pictures three things, that we believe the gospel. Because, again, water, the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ is pictured in our baptism. And that we agree with that message, that we were sinners, could not save ourselves, and we publicly confess Christ as our Savior. Not to get saved, but that is a picture. Secondly, with baptism, we are picturing for ourselves a new life. We were in the old life, we're now been buried in Christ and we're in a new life and a new walk with Christ. And thirdly, that we've been forgiven of our sins and washed and cleansed. The water representing what Christ did for us in that we were in our sins. We've been forgiven, we've been cleansed, we've been changed, and we're now in new person. All those are pictured when we do the redemptive play in front of people of water baptism. Say what? Next page is the most important. If you get anything, page two. How should I understand that then? I get it. Paul is saying water baptism pictures my change of status. Help me out. I've given six word pictures that I want to walk through. I'm gonna be really pedantic, I'm gonna go dive down into them, and you're gonna be like, I get it. I hope so. Let's picture a wedding, since I went to one yesterday. The couple are not married At the ceremony, there's a public ceremony that now changes their public status It's a drama and a ceremony celebrated in front of other people. That doesn't change anything. It doesn't change their physical form, it doesn't change their mind. They're not melded together in this But in the mind of God, they're now one. There's a mystical union that takes place in the mind of God in which he accounts for them as one person and one unit. That's wonderful. Did it mystically happen? No, but it's imputed as, if you will, that that is the case. That ceremony, they promised a lot of things, but the public ceremony doesn't make you married Now it does before the law, but it it was the commitment. It was the vows together that says, we're going to do this new covenant. And that covenant is played out in front of people and how do they do it? Well, they do things like unity candles, right? The the symbol of we're coming together. And then the mother-in-law candles. Right? Has anybody seen the blending the sand thing? Blending the sand thing? They're all pictures that something just happened that nobody can put their finger on And when they walk out of there, they're married. And they're like, they smash cake in each other's face or whatever. But when they get married over here, did anything really change? Public ceremony commitment that everybody saw. That really changed nothing in substance, but what does it mean? The next morning you wake up, you're married. Now you have to act married. Everything has to change, doesn't it? Then Bible verses make sense on the other side of that to the husbands, where it says, live with your wives according to knowledge That is, now begin to learn what in the world you're doing. Because marriage that grows to glorify God is a process. There's no perfect state of marriage in this life. There's no one time where you're like we we dialed that in. Because we got married, we're married. Therefore marriage just flows out of us. No? Now there's a lot of bad things that flow out of us too, right? Do you see the picture? A change of status that is publicly recognized, that everyone knows that you even intended, but it changed nothing, but it changes everything the way we think Now we have to live like we're married and stop living like we're single. And we know that there's three words in the Bible that describe that. Leave. Cleave and become one flesh. It's a it's both physical and spiritual. And that is marriage is a process. And so is sanctification. Paul picture of baptism is simply this. Used to be, now you are, and here you go. And the Christian life. Picture number two. Graduation. Alright? I used to be a student. Used to take classes. I gave them $100,000. I got a degree that says I can take care of puppies on the weekends and work at Starbucks. But I used to be a student, right? Then I graduated. Public ceremony. They go crazy, you move the tassel, they hand you a piece of paper, they take pictures, you wear the cool stuff, you go to a reception afterwards Welcome grads. It's awesome. We ought to do it. But it doesn't really do anything to the person. So the same person that walked from up the platform and down the platform and did all of that But now what you have to do, you have to get a job. Carly, can you call our two sons? You have to live and we say this people. Welcome to the real world. Hello. So when you get in the real world you have to stop being a student and start being an employee or a called one or a career or whatever your calling is, right? It's a change of status through a public ceremony that did not actually change anything. And the rest of it is working out and saying, I have to go to work today. I'm responsible. Okay. Third one, you said, Dave, I got it. I hope so. Citizenship. You become a citizen of the United States. Now unless you're of American Indian heritage Then at some point your forefathers came here and became citizens. Now there may not have been a formal process Well my parents uh great great great grandparents got here from Ireland. They were probably incarcerated, so it doesn't really matter. But um Oh, you're the horse these from Ireland, right? We know who you are. Yeah. So um but when we become Citizens of the United States now, and through that ceremony, it's the same thing. You're not a citizen, you don't care about the United States. But then you begin to care, and then your heart changes. I want to be a citizen of the United States because I believe in it And then there's a ceremony, and they induct you as someone who is now a citizen. It changes your status. It changes your the country of allegiance. It changes the priorities and perspective. It changes the laws which govern your life. It changes your citizenship now over here. I vote. I do these things. It changes how you should act But citizenship doesn't do you any good if you become a citizen and never vote. Or or never feel liberty in your heart or never change the way you live You drive on the wrong side of the road and scare everybody. Right? There's a lot of things that go into changing. Some of you in the room, I look around, have become citizens of the United States in the last twenty years You know that change takes place in the way that you look at life. And then fourthly, being a soldier. I never had the honor of that. My brother, my dad uh served in the military. Many of you in this room have. Thank you for serving. But that's the very thing. you're a you're over here, you're a citizen. Just just citizen Joe, citizen Jane. And then one day you become a citizen soldier. Everything changes. who your boss is, what the orders of the day are, how you're to live your life. In fact, Paul says in 1 Timothy regarding going into ministry, he says, he is the illustration of a soldier and he says, soldiers do not entangle themselves in the affairs of of the world so that they can please the one who's their commander. And so soldiers have a different lifestyle. But if you come over here And then you turn and you decide, I'm actually going to serve another country's interest in this war. While you're a soldier, you're in treason. And again, in the picture of sanctification, Paul is saying, you have a break with that. Your citizenship is no longer in sin. It's no longer in death. That is a broken thing. But you can act like it's real. Every time we decide I'm gonna sin, it's a it's an overt act to go back to our former allegiances and a former alliances. But a soldier now has to do their life completely different. But if they don't use the weapons they have All the pictures are there. Ephesians 6, the weapons of our warfare. If you don't as a soldier fight, then you're only signed up in name, but you're not a faithful soldier. And then fifthly, church membership is exactly the same. I used to go to some hunky dunk church, right? Where they didn't have awesomeness like Hope Bible Church. The real truth. Drinking from the fire hose. of holiness. Okay. So you went to some other church and then in God's grace, you ended up here And you watched it and you talked to people and you started going to some classes and you saw the love of people at the church and you read our doctrine statement and you're like, yeah And you start seeing expository preaching and how everybody this church serves no matter what. You guys are like all in. Like everybody cleans this church. And so you see that, and God's goodness, someone decides to be a member at our church. I want to in on that. I want to be part of the family I like this family. I like coming to their rituals. I like coming to their thing. It's super cool. I want to be a family member. But what happens to people not let's not say at hope Let's say it other churches, bad churches. Where people become members, but there is no change. They still sit in the back. They still run out of the church three minutes after the service is over. They occasionally show up if something has food But there's not a whole lot of meaningful membership, right? Meaningful membership is acting on my new status. I'm a member of the Bible Church. I'm a family member. I should serve I should give. I should be there. I should be accounted for. I should care for other people. That's what it means to be part of a family. And then finally, the National Park again. Does anybody think it's warm in here? Yeah. No? Just saying. A couple of you just went, This is gonna hurt. They're gonna turn this down to nine degrees. Sorry ladies. The National Park revisited, I've used this illustration, but just let me remind you, that there's a piece of property that is not a national park. That's before parkness. And then there's a decision to make something in National Park. And so that decision ends up in a public ceremony where a giant pair of scissors cuts a huge ribbon And somebody speaks in a microphone while dignitaries sit on a platform. And they declare. This is now a national park It's been set apart for that purpose. But if that's all they ever did and there were no roads built and there's no cabins and no ranger stations and you know what I mean. Nothing's ever done then that will never be used by anybody but will be acknowledged. And so there's a progressive sense in which the national park has to then become more and more in the image of a national park. And And when you get to the side when you get all the days you're paying and get free into all the cats. I'll tell you, my whole world's gonna change then. I'll tell you, I'm gonna be a Denny's every every single day. Punching the golden ticket. Yes, my status change at 65 is coming very soon. Okay? Very soon. Um so that's it. Top of page 10 As I said, the other pictures is this. That's what Paul is telling us in chapter six. He's just using baptism and a few other word pictures to explain the very same thing I just did in modern pictures. We've had a major status change. that we're in on, it's publicly acknowledged through our water baptism, but it only starts the journey. And so when we ask the question, what is my role in sanctification? There is no easy answer to that of Our sanctification is simple, just trust Jesus. Our sanctification is a work. It's a hard work. And we're never done with that. But if you also recognize just like marriage, there's incredible benefit in having a great marriage We're not called to have marriages where it's like just work on your marriage and it's gonna be terrible the whole time, but there it is. But God in his favor says if both of you do what I say Marriage is beautiful and it's wonderful and it's great. And all these other pictures are benefits to those commitments. But they don't come without hard work. You don't put work into your marriage, it's not awesome. And so those are the pictures of sanctification that The rest of this chapter and chapter 7 and 8 are going to describe that. And I go, okay, so is what Paul's saying this. We were saved by faith, saved by grace. Through faith. We're justified. But now we are sanctified by works. No. Uh you're sanctified by faith plus works. You have to believe what God said about your union and your status change and you have to trust. But you're trusting more than knowledge. It's an act of faith and trust in the work of the Holy Spirit, who's a real person who's doing live. Time changing. It's not simply the acknowledgement, well God changed my status, now I've got to work like crazy. But it's God changed my status and now has given me the ability to work like crazy. That the Holy Spirit is now inside of me and He's helping me work like crazy. And the fruit of the Spirit, this is chapter 8 that we're going to get to Chapter eight tells us the the resources are the Holy Spirit, the Word of God, etcetera, and it's God who works in you that we're getting to Philippians two to work to help us to do work and do of his good pleasure So it's a it's a combo platter, but God's grace, that's the point, God's grace is the principal point of sanctification, just like it is of salvation. Okay, wait. What you have to understand though that many Christians never get to, that the word grace in the New Testament is at least two different meanings There's God's graciousness. We are saved by grace, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. That is God's graciousness, which means we get something we don't deserve, right? But the word grace then is used in the New Testament for Christians. in a different way. You're not getting saved by grace by unmerited favor anymore. And you're not sanctified by unmerited favor. You're sanctified by empowerment. The grace of God is the power to do God's will. Paul said, My grace, he said of God's words, my grace is sufficient for you. He's not When he uses that term, Paul is not pointing back to saving grace, unmerited favor, because God did save us by grace in which he awakened us and regenerated us and overcame our inability. That's the grace of salvation. But the grace of sanctification is the empowerment of the Spirit and God working in you, causing you to want to be sanctified. God did not leave you at your salvation in Hey, you're a citizen now, just work it out. But he gives you citizen juice. And as a Christian, the work of the Holy Spirit and the grace of God is sufficient to cause you to want to be holy. Anybody who's truly Christian has the grace of God sufficient to be holy. But God gives his grace in different measures. And that's true of the way God gives grace gifts, right? Right? The spiritual gifts are Keras gifts, they're grace gifts, and they are given in different measures and different ways. Some people have this gift, some people have another. And here's the mystery of God's providence: God gives sanctification. in different measures. There's always going to be people more holy than our we are. And you can't account always by, well, they worked harder. We must work hard in our sanctification. But our work in our sanctification does not always equal the same crop. God was working in everyone individually and giving grace sufficient for what he called you to do. But it's not necessarily the grace that he's going to give to somebody else to accomplish it. There's always grace available to live God's moral law. Everybody gets equal opportunity there. But to accomplish and work for God, Paul talks about it. He gave more grace to some And he gave less to others. We're going to look at that in these passages. So grace is a mystery, but here we are. We are saved by grace that overpowered our depravity And it caused us to believe. We're sanctified by grace that overcomes our inertia Initial inertia, and it gives us the ability, but we must act. Let me just say one other thing. When God saved us, he changed our status of our heart Not just our status legally. So here's something Christian should not say. When Christian says, My heart is desperately wicked, who can know it? Bible verse is true of everyone outside of Christ, but it is not true of a Christian. The heart is the inner working of you as a person that includes your mind, your will, your affections. You are born again in your heart You're not desperately wicked. You can be deceived by the flesh. But you, the you person, the I, is the new person. You are not desperately wicked. Your flesh is residually bad. Your flesh is like a bus stop in Las Vegas or Oakland. It's just not a good place to go and you don't need to live there. But you are not desperately wicked. If you're a believer you are new in Christ and you can have the mind of Christ and be renewed in those things. It is not because if we say we're desperately wicked, then we're back here saying we have a we have a view of anthropology that's back in the old man That I'm depraved, I can't help myself. But that's not the theology of being a Christian. I'm born again and I can't. And by the grace of God I can't obey Will I always know? But I can and I should. But I don't always. It's different than I can't. I'm just desperately wicked. You just don't understand my heart. I'm just terrible No, you're not. You're not charitable. You're born again. And so here number five on page two. It's not a matter of feelings, right? Of feeling different, but rather acting differently in recognition of the truth that we We're now in a new relationship. Let me say this, it's gonna sound like just gut it out. That's not how we want to come across. But if you based all the other uh pictures I just gave, marriage is based on feelings. I don't feel married. Okay, you should act married. I don't feel like a graduate. I feel like a student again. I'm not paying your bills. Right? I don't feel like a citizen, I don't feel like a soldier. feel like a church member. Whatever. Feelings come and go, but there's no perfect state of feelingness about any of this Christian experience. There's a perfect change of status to which the Holy Spirit assures us that we are children of God as an active thing. Those feelings come, but assurance comes and goes relative to our relationship to the one who gives it. And so on. Alright, a few other points here. So it's remember, what is our status change? We've been justified. Therefore we've been freed from the penalty of sin. We are being sanctified. We're being freed from the power of sin. And then eventually we'll be glorified. And that is, we'll be freed from the presence of sin. And that's chapter six seven. and eight of Romans. It's good stuff. So, um I guess I'll continue. Guys have in front of them? Let's just go to prayer. Um okay, middle of page two then, verses five to eleven are In light of that, our union with Christ is clear. And it'd be as if we're going to use the marriage illustration because union kind of s uh is uh somewhat like explaining marriage. So verses five to eleven. But if we've become united with him, that's the point. We're now in a new status in the likeness of his death. Certainly we should also be in the likeness of his resurrection as alive. Knowing this, that our old self was crucified, again, Paul is using. using an extended picture here. He's not now introducing new realities. He's simply keeping the baptism and the death, burial, and resurrection picture alive. He's got one big giant story he's telling. Now your baptism picture's this. So if in that story it's true that Christ died and was raised again, you also have died okay. Verse 6. Knowing this, our old self was crucified with him, in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. For he who has died is freed from sin, just like Christ was. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe we also will live with him, knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again. Death no longer is master over him. He's changed status. For the death he died, he died once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. Even so, and this is the point that Paul makes for us: consider your The baptism picture explains that we've gone from single to being married. New status. Now Paul digs deeper into the marriage analogy or union. He says, you're not just married, you're married to Jesus. That's the point of verse 11. Even so now consider yourselves Dead to sin in the past, the old marriage, but alive to God in Christ. It's a person, not a program We haven't changed a religious status. I used to be a non-Christian, now I'm a Christian. I used to not know Jesus, and now I do. I'm alive in him. That's a relationship. How do you how do you know you're a believer Well the Spirit tells you you are, but Romans 8 is going to say who has Christ? That person's alive. The person who has Christ is a believer. Well how do I not have Christ? He begins doing stuff, right? The the life changes, the house rules change, things start looking like Jesus because you're spending time with him. And so again, a lot of people are like, I get it. I used to I used to not believe in the Christian faith, but now I'm totally in on that. But it's all in here, right? That's not a relationship. So Paul's point again is if you're in union with him person, but we're alive to God in Christ Jesus. So three points quickly about that. What is union with Christ? Wayne Broom I think has a good definition. And he simply says, we may define union with Christ as follows. Union with Christ is a phrase used to summarize several different relationships between believers and Christ, through which Christians receive everything. Every benefit of salvation. These relationships include the fact that we are in Christ. That is, God considers our actions to be imputed Christ to imputed to us because we're in him. Everything he did righteous because we're in the world. In him we did. Secondly, Christ is in us, empowering us to become more like him and to do what he said. Thirdly, that we are like him. That is the goal and the purpose for which we were elected. To be conformed to the image of Christ. And then finally, we are with Christ. It's a relationship. So we're in union with Christ Not simply mystically, but we're union with Christ in all of those dimensions. And that less of Christian life is all about Jesus. It's getting closer to Him. It's embracing who I am in Christ. It's embracing Him in me It's embracing the walk with him as a relationship. And so it's all about Jesus. Is there any rules to this? There's some rules. But it's more the royal law of Christ than it is the law, and that's what Paul's going to get into in chapter 7. And second, I want to go back to the marriage illustration. I don't say it well here, but maybe I can say it better than my writing. We are not to continue in sin because, if you take the analogy of marriage, we are no longer single. That was Paul's first point. We're not single anymore, so we should act like married people. We are separate from that old life. Uh we're not frat boys anymore. Doing whatever we want. We're married men. We're married now. We're in a different sphere, a different realm. We're in a different status in our life. And then secondly, as he said in verse eleven, and we are alive to Christ in God Or God in Christ. It's a personal relationship that has changed. Our marriage is now to a person. It is not to a program or a religion. And therefore it isn't okay, I've become a Christian, now I've got to work hard so that I can do those rules, but rather I'm gonna work really hard because I can love Jesus more and I can get to know him. Think of the parallel back to marriage. You make a lot of vows there. I will love you, I won't desert you, we're gonna stay married the rest of our life, I'm gonna be there for you, you're gonna be the number one person in my life You all been to those weddings, right? And then over here it's like, hey, can you get me some more sausage? You know, like or just take a big change here And that's why Paul says in Ephesians five, the picture of the man and his wife, the picture of uh that is a picture of Christ and his bride and the relationship that takes place between them and he's all in on protecting her and taking care of her. And sacrificing for her, and it's a living, active thing. It's not simply signing up to do duties. And some marriages fall to doing duty. Well, I provided for you, what's the problem? Or, hey, I didn't yell back at you, but the marriage is cold. Now think of any pictures in the New Testament where it's marriage analogies or relational analogies. Book of Revelation, right? The seven churches, the church at Ephesus. Their marriage was faithful. They never committed adultery. The Ephesians church is like, we believe in the right doctrines, we're doing all the right things. And Jesus said, But I have a problem with you. You lost your first love. Jesus was in a loveless marriage with the Church of Ephesus. But we know who you are. We love you know we care about you. We paid all the bills. We did all the things. There's many analogies. There's unfaithful marriages, there's good marriages. Scripture's picture of our relationship with Christ It's pictured in many places, like in the book of Hosea, where God has the prophet marry a harlot to show what it's like for God to deal with Israel. Because they were unfaithful to him. And that's where our hearts go. We're unfaithful to God in our hearts. And so it's a marriage, it's a relationship. And what must I do about it? I must continuously fall in love. I must continuously desire what's best for him. I must desire to be with him. And that's how relationships are born out. And if it doesn't, it's just ritual. And then we end up being okay and miserable. It is possible as a Christian, as I said last week, to be addicted to a certain kind of sadness. And to have a relationship that is always, I feel bad about this. I hate myself. Or disregard. There's so many, so many ways we ruin this relationship. Many of you have been believers a long time, I have By God's grace. Um forty-five years for me. Many of you well beyond that have known the Lord. I want to end well. I want to finish well I don't want to slide for home, using a baseball analogy. Round third and slide for home. I don't want to act like a Christian. I don't want to just be religious. I want to love Jesus. That is my goal. That's my desire. I believe it's my passion. I believe it is indicative in my life. But I want to end well by loving him. I don't want to be surprised when I show up in heaven like, oh this was a relationship It was like, I'm Jesus, Yeah, but it was a pastor Right? You know what it was like when you got saved. You you couldn't stop talking about him, who he is, and what he did for you, and how a bride does with her marriage and a groom. It's the same analogy. Becoming a new soldier, you come home that First Christmas with your uniform on. But you've been in there two years, you're jaded. Yeah, Uncle Sam, man, they're they're messing me over It's easy. Hey, wherever you are in the Christian life My encouragement, exhortation today is pretty simple. Go home. Go home in your heart. Fall in love with Jesus Christ again. And don't allow religion or good things to get in the way of that relationship. And whatever is in the way, throw it away Right? And that's true of a good marriage. Things that are in the way, get rid of them. You're too busy, change your schedule. You know, it's that kind of thing. No, we just that's how life is, man. We just gotta Your marriage is you only get so off you only get so long to be with them, right? Okay. And then the bottom of the page I just what I already said Returning to sin then as if we're married and we return to our old self and activities we give into the flesh, it's becoming a spiritual adulterer. James chapter four. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility? Towards God. Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. All right. So what then do we do? Paul's point the rest of the chapter, twelve to twenty three, is simple. Uh well then present yourselves to God. Now, I've got to be really careful here. The ceremony of your baptism is the picture of the exchange that's already taken place. What Paul's not doing now is saying, I need another ceremony. ceremony. You're already married. Now you can you can have a twenty-fifth anniversary wedding thing. I've done them for people. You know what I mean to publicly acknowledge we're still going for this. Okay. But Paul's not calling us to when he says, now present yourselves, it's not ceremonial. It's not religious, it doesn't impart any new grace. You're like, I now present myself and bequeath myself to a spiritual reality that I now you know. It it's simpler than that. Paul's saying all this stuff's already true, you're already married. Now show up with all yourself and give yourself to your marriage Don't be distracted in your mind. I'm back to the physical marriage experience, but don't be distracted. Don't be in ten different ways. Make this person the main person in your life And that's what Paul is saying to us. So let me read verses twelve and fourteen. Therefore do not let sin reign, that is, be the king, in your mortal body, so that you obey its lust. Do not go on in presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead And your members as instruments of righteousness to God. For sin shall not be master over you. That's actually a promise The other parts are like, hey man, do this, do this, but you Christian, this is back to you're not desperately wicked. If you're a real believer, sin will not master you. I mean can you have a bad weekend Have a bad month? I don't know how long bad is. Some of you are like, dude, can you have a bad two years? Probably. That's where the line gets fuzzy because some people in the room are like, Oh no, you're not a Christian I don't know where the line of demarcation is, but there are another examples in the Bible of bad marriages with God that eventually end up good. Point of this to say. Verse 14. For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. So let's explain. He starts out with therefore. Okay, based on our relationship and the baptism picture and everything, therefore Don't do that anymore. Don't live in the old person. The doctrine of our union with Christ must lead to application. Number two, now live in light of who you are From our previous examples, now like you're married now, act like it. You're a graduate now, act like it. You're a soldier. Now act like it. Number three. The fact that we are united with Christ in his death and resurrection does not mean that it is no longer possible for us to sin. You're like, I get that. I think, going back to marriage between a man and a woman, I think one of the greatest things you can do in your marriage to have a peace and joy and love is to learn to ask for forgiveness. Be an expert at it. Outserve your wife if you're a man, outserve your husband if you're a lady, by being the first one to say, I was wrong Would you forgive me? I'm a jerk. I did this. Would you please forgive me? And keeping short accounts But also that person who asks for forgiveness usually has the right mindset and it is this. I know that marriage isn't perfect. I know I'm not perfect, so they tend to extend grace to other people People who know how to ask for forgiveness typically also know how to extend grace to others, recognizing their own calbilities. Good marriages are built on that. They're built on the recognition of, dude, I'm just lucky to be here. I married way above myself. And God is good to me. And therefore I'm just gonna be make sure I don't get thrown out of here. Now, and because I'm getting to a certain age, I may have already given this illustration sometime in the first twenty weeks, but Go with it. It's a it's a true story of Carla and I. And we were in North Carolina and we were driving along and Carla had seen in a magazine one time a place called the um replacement center. Yeah. It's got it's got all the kind of dishes you've ever bought and it's got it's got some of those. If you drop in and go, I have this set of dishes my parents give me Finlandia at my wedding and now I've broken all my pieces, right? or whatever they are. Do you have any of those? Oh, they've got 'em. I mean they've got a warehouse the size of Yugoslavia. And so if you go there and you say, I need a and they're like You know, it's like a scene from Indiana Jones, but they're there. So they finally wheel them out. So anyway, we're driving along and Carly goes. She sees a billboard for the replacement center. She's like, hey, let's go there. So we drive to this place, we get there, and it's my habit Usually when I'm as Christian as I can be to get out and take Carla's door and open it and we both get out. I just sat in my chair. Carla actually got herself or was getting herself out and she's like, Aren't you coming? I said, Nope. I said, I know what this is all about. You're taking me in the replacement center. True story. Yeah, I knew who's in there. That's true. Did it work? Yeah, all I saw was like I looked in the door and I'm like Brad Pitt was in there and I was like Not going in there. Not going in there. So All right. We actually went in. All right. So you want. Don't go in there, Steve. There you go. So number three, the fact that we're united with Christ. in his death and resurrection does not mean that it is now long no longer possible for us to sin. My point about the asking forgiveness, all those pieces is this. You're going to be a lot happier if you come to this recognition. And I know that what I'm about to say will be spurned, disagreed with, whatever, frightening. Because it will sound like I'm saying back to just go ahead and sin. It's not what I'm saying. I hope you know that. But you have to come to a place where you go, I'm not a perfect person as a Christian. I'll never be a perfect person as a Christian. I might be a struggling Christian my entire life. You're not giving in to that. You're acknowledging the reality that as a struggling Christian, this is going to be a war And everyone's war is different. And some people may appear to be winning a lot more than you, but others it is coming to a re a realization that, by the grace of God, I am what I am I'm not Popeye. And that I'm not giving up. I'm gonna fight the good fight. I'm gonna work as hard by God's grace to be holy as I can. But I have expectations of others and myself that I'm fallible and I'm going to sin and I'm going to need forgiveness. And there's something that registers takes the pride way down. Okay? Nobody act big. Nobody acts little, everybody act medium. And it's that kind of family life, it's that kind of reality that does not give in to passivity. But it works hard with the recognition that God is in charge of all of that and you give people grace. And I think what I'm saying here is simply this. Do you understand that this is a war that you cannot win? Romans chapter 7. Here is Paul's own acknowledgement. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of a flesh, sold into bondage to sin. For what I am doing I do not understand. Ever feel like that? For I am not practicing what I would like to do. But I am doing the very thing that I hate Yep. Verse 16. But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. Do you understand all the time he said I? Right? For what I am doing. I do not understand. I am not practicing what I would like to do. I am doing the very thing I hate But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. So now, no longer am I the one doing it But sin which dwells in me. In chapter seven, when we, Lord willing, get there next week, Paul is going to talk about the battle within. And who's doing what in there? And it's back to the conversation of there's no unholy person in charge of your heart. There's no the wicked person within the Christian There's the flesh, and we're going to talk about that. Paul is saying, I the Christian, I the born-again person, don't always choose to do the right thing. I the new man. However There is a residual, and when that sin happens, it's not me who's who's not the question of whether he chooses it, it's not me originating that Paul only has one person within. Paul doesn't say we. Paul doesn't say we and it, or he's not he's not like The we, we, right? It's we versus him. There's no will on the other side of this. There's only one will in Paul. Paul is saying, I'm choosing to do the wrong things. I don't always do what I should do. I, the born-again new person, who has the freedom to either live back here wrongly, but I need to live over here. I choose sometimes to do these things. But he's also telling you you don't have to, you don't live there. Paul's not saying I live over there. And he's also not saying you can't stop it. He's not saying it's impossible to stop this. He's saying the flesh is always with me. And anyway, we're in Romans 7. That's this whole picture. But the conversation is, what do I do with that dude and what's the power over me so and then Philippians chapter three. Not that I have already obtained it or have already become perfect, but I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which I was also laid hold of by Jesus Christ. Paul's humility is simply that. I struggle. Sometimes I give into it. I don't always do what I should do. And I have not attained in this life, but I still press on. That's the spirit we have to give. Number four, nor does it mean that we no longer need to pursue holiness and fight sin. Romans twelve tells us, Goodbye, Steve. Man, I was going to get Thanks for serving. Therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable of God, which is your spiritual service of worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that is, which is good and acceptable and perfect. Verse 12 tells us to pursue holiness. Right? It's not passive. Pursue peace with all men and the sanctification or holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Number five, God expects us to exert effort to do his revealed will. Uh more I mentioned last week, I think, or two weeks ago, Philippians 2. And so Paul says, So then my beloved, just as you've always obeyed, not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who is at work in you both to will and to do, or work for his good pleasure, that is the balance. That is the balance point. It's God who is giving you grace, it's God's Spirit who is enabling you It's God who's causing sanctification. It's the fruit of the Spirit being born in your life. All those are God working in you. Now, in light of that, all those resources, you work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Not work for your salvation. Salvation, but work it out. It's already in there. You can't work something out that's not in it. So he's talking to Christians. Work out your salvation. Okay And what's really encouraging is Philippians one six, of course, our victory in Christ is assured. I am confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. Dude, who's the guy who put so many notes in here today? I'm going to attempt by the grace of God to complete my notes. I don't usually do that, but I don't want to come back to Romans six. I think I think we have done everything we need to do in Romans six at the end of this day. So, chapter 6, 15 to 23, we are slaves of sin now have been set free to be slaves of righteousness. This is Paul's picture, verses 15 to 23. What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law but under the law? Your grace? May it never be. Do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience, you are slaves of the one whom you obey Either of sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness. But thanks be to God That though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. You've had a chat change of status. And having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. When Paul exhorts us to give ourselves to righteousness, he is starting from the positional point of saying, You already are moved over to that status. And if you're a real believer, it will not master you, but it's going to fight you the entire time you're here. Let's go back to it. Verse 19. I am speaking in human terms. Well, is he speaking heaven terms? He means I'm using word pictures. I'm using a lot of story baptism, slavery, whatever. I'm using pictures. I am speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. He doesn't mean because you're wicked and I'm s spiritually seeing, this is really hard to understand. How this thing works. Okay? So in verse twenty oh I'm sorry, in verse nineteen. For just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness in the past Resulting in further lawlessness. So now in your new status, present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. Justification Now this is how sanctification works is what Paul's trying to say. Alright. Alright, a few points. Oh sorry, verse 20. I guess I was supposed to read that part. For when you were slaves of sin You were free in regard to righteousness. But also meant you weren't able. But verse 21. Therefore, what benefit were you deriving then from the things of which you were now ashamed? Before you knew Christ. For the outcome of those things is death. But now, having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you derive your benefits resulting in Sanctification. And the outcome, justification, sanctification, glorification. Paul keeps riding that bus. That's what he is. Verse 23. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord. One of the most important verses in the book of Romans. Understood in it. Context, it means some different things for us. Okay, some quick points. Number one, in verse 19, Paul explains why he's been using so many word pictures. Because it's hard to understand this doctrine. Paul continues to picture for us the already but not yet reality of sanctification. That's what we gotta get used to. You're already saved, and you're not as saved as you're gonna be. That's a constant view of the Christian life. We are positionally set apart to God, but we are progressively battling against the flesh. by the power of the Spirit to become practically holy. Number two, Jesus talked to us about the issue of slavery to sin in the past. John eight. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him If you continue in my word, then you are truly my disciples, or disciples of mine. And you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free. They answered him, We are Abraham's descendants. never been enslaved to anyone. How is that you say you will become free? Talk about revisionist history. Like y'all ever hear Egypt? Or the Babylonian captivity? Or the Persians? Or the Philistines took up the ark? Forgot about that. Verse 34. Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin Is the slave of sin? The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son does remain forever. And if the son makes you free, you are free indeed. And then number three, Paul is continuing to answer the charge against the gospel of Justice. By grace alone through faith alone. In verse 1, he addressed the error of those who would say that the gospel message encourages us to sin more in order to obtain more grace. In verse 15, Paul continues to address the misconception about grace, namely that grace once received leads us to careless living. So number four, grace properly understood is actually a key to growth and holiness. Back to my picture up here. You don't get saved by grace and then sanctified by works, but actually grace is super important to our sanctification. Protestant Reformation. Solo gratia. Only the grace of God can save a person. God's grace is both his stance towards us, namely his graciousness, and grace is also the desire and the power to do his will. When we affirm that we are saved by grace alone, we mean not only that God has given us unmerited grace gifts or favor his graciousness. But also and more and most importantly, he has overcome our depravity and inability to respond by his grace, namely the desire and power to do his will. Thus grace, understood in salvation, is irresistible. Next page. Page five. Page five. Alright, here's a poorly constructed paragraph I wrote, but um it's like one job. Run on sentence for you for you grammarians in here. But number five. So all empowerment from God is a grace gift. But not all grace gifts are empowerment. God can give us a pumpkin pie as a gift, or He can empower us to make pumpkin pies ourselves. One is a gracious gift that we did nothing to earn. The other one is an empowerment to do what he wants us to do. They're both grace gifts or empowerments from God, but they're not all of the same nature. Salvation is of one, he gave us a pumpkin pie. Sanctification is he teaches you how to make pumpkin pies. And he gives you the grace to do it and the ingredients. An awesome kitchen And your grandmother's recipe. And people like me to come over and eat it. God has given us grace that is unmerited favor by his election of us, the atonement of Christ, justification, baptism in the Spirit, These and many more gifts of God's graciousness towards us are regarding our legal standing towards Him and our relationship to Him. God has given us grace or empowerment by overcoming our depravity, regenerating us, thus making us alive, by empowering us. us to believe by filling us for service by enabling us to endure and even triumph in in suffering. My grace is sufficient for you. So number six, pointing us back to the scriptures as a source of sanctification, Donald Professor at Southern, who's written some books on sanctification, affirms this. We have learned that the spiritual disciplines are scriptural paths where we may expect to encounter the transforming grace of God. They don't give you grace. The most critical Discipline is the intake of God's Word. No factor is more influential in making us more like the Son of God than the Spirit of God working through the Word of God. Um in all the illustrations I gave, whether becoming a citizen or getting married, married or whatever. There's some initial covenantal decisions that you made to get in that or ceremonial things. To reflect on them is good for your marriage, it's for good for being a soldier. Your original commitments should be sharp in your mind, and the Word of God continuously helps us understand that. last part is just simply for FYI. Not that you were concerned, but books that have shaped my thinking on sanctification. Um I'm surprised none of these are coloring books. But um these eleven have True Spirituality by Francis Schaefer, Balancing the Christian Life by Charles Ryrie, A Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life by William Law, Spiritual Disciplines for the Christian Life by Donald Whitney Religious Affections by Jonathan Edwards, A Quest for Godliness by J. I. Packer, Hot Tub Religion by Hot by J. I. Packer The Pursuit of God and the Knowledge of the Holy by A. W. Tozer, The Pursuit of Holiness by Jerry Bridges, The Saint and the Savior by Charles Haddon Spurgeon, and Keeping Step with the Spirit by J. A. Packer. Apparently Packer has helped me a lot. My four favorite books, and I'll close with that. that. True Spirituality by Francis Schaeffer. This book taught me that there are no hidden formulas, that spirituality was first and foremost about relationship with God and that true spirituality touches every aspect of life, not merely my devotional life. Secondly, Balancing the Christian Life by Charles Ryrie. As you would expect from the title, this book taught me how to balance my spiritual life between what the Spirit does and what is required of me. Many of the things I'm talking about here today. I learned key definitions of spirituality and spirituality. I learned the importance of the Holy Spirit in producing genuine spirituality. Thirdly, the quest for godliness by Packer. Packer taught me a high vision of holiness through the Puritans and the importance of being Bible Christians. This book helped me see the Best practices of the Puritans and how to avoid mysticism. And finally, the Saint New Savior, which I believe is my favorite book on on sanctification. That's Purgeon. This book is my favorite. that before I looked down. Apparently I agree with myself. If I said this book is trash, yeah. Spurgeon teaches us to love Christ as the root of real spiritual growth. We are reminded that apparent desertions are to draw us closer to Christ and cause a deeper longing for him. Well, Lord willing, we will look at Romans 7 next week about Paul's practical implications of the battle within, so let me pray for you.