Well, uh welcome back to the Book of Romans. Uh we are in lesson thirty-three and we're in that section of the book of Romans on sovereignty. We're in the seventh lesson in that particular section, Romans chapter ten, nine to fifteen. And so today we're looking in that bigger context of 10, 5 to 21, in which Paul is teaching us that Israel is without excuse because they did know, but they rejected the gospel. So let's dive in. Romans chapter 10, 9 and 10, perhaps the most known couple verses in this chapter, say this. And that if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart, a person believes Resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. There's been a lot of different motifs about this. Remember that. Last week I drew lips really well. Right. Okay? Still still just as good. Yeah. And so the apostle's telling us two things. He's saying, it's with the heart that you believe and it equals justification. With the heart comes righteousness. The whole book of Romans up to this point has been telling us about justification by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone. So it's with the heart's belief, faith, in the finished work of Christ, this faith of the heart is sufficient to bring justification. Now, if a person is justified, they can't lose their justification. So a lot of people are confused though about are there two steps to salvation? Are there are there now things you have to do? You have to believe, and then you have to confess. Because if you don't confess Plus believe you don't go to heaven. Anybody ever heard that view? No? Oh, thank God. This is gonna be super easy. Best day of my life. Okay. So some people have seen it as a two-step thing which is the confession part is necessary and it's it's part of the gospel in two steps. The other part is if you confess with your mouth the Lord that Jesus is Lord, you will be saved. Soteriology Sotar. So what is this talking about? Is it two steps? Is it one thing? Uh how are these to be understood? I'm going to give you the preamble. Yeah, Julie. Yes, yes, sometimes that's right. Sometimes this is equated to repentance or some other portion of the gospel, and this is the believe plus the whatever, two s two sides. Let's kind of nuance that and talk about it. I am gonna say up front that uh two things. One is no, there's not two steps. Because the entire book of Romans up to this point is only said by grace alone through faith alone. It's belief sufficient to justify your You're good. God's good, your sins have been wiped out, righteousness has been placed on your account. All of that transaction takes place by faith alone. So what is it you're saved from? That's the question here. Is Paul saying You're justified and you're saved from your sins is like two of the same thing. That's a problem if you equate them. Salvation from what Salvation from your sins? Well, that's justification. If you believe your sins are placed on Christ's account and Christ's righteousness is on your account, that is being saved from your sins. So do you have to confess to be saved from your sins or saved from what? And that's The idea here is it says whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And so this idea of calling on the name of the Lord, I'm giving you my whole message. is simply the idea of trusting and calling on God to save you, but not always for eternal life. Throughout the whole Bible, you're told to call on the name of the Lord. And that calling on the name of the Lord can save you from your danger. We have a God who saves, and sometimes being saved in certain contexts means to be saved from a dilemma or from a problem. Paul even says later in the book In chapter 11, we are now closer to our salvation than we've ever been before. Does Paul mean we're not saved? No, he's again talking about deliverance when we leave our body or the Lord returns. We're closer to our deliverance from this present life. Could Paul be speaking here, we're going to talk about it, of you're justified. Right, but then through your confession or your constant faith in Christ, your life you are saved from the dangers of life or the problems of life. It's a good question. Alright, let's dive in. What's really true? Alright. Alright, number one, what is the relationship then between believing and confessing? We are justified by faith, which takes place in the heart. They said, believe in the Lord Jesus to the foot of God. Philippines jail jailer and you will be saved, you and your household. But this week I added the rest of the verses to show that it's not a promise to save little children. Verse 32. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him together with all of his house. So number one. Everybody in his house heard the same preaching. Okay? And, verse 33, he took them that very hour of the night and washed their wounds, and immediately he was baptized, he and all his household. Okay? They heard the preaching. Well verse thirty-four says, and he brought them into his house and set food before them and rejoiced greatly, having believed in God with his whole household. Everybody believed. That's why they were baptized. They weren't believing they weren't saved by virtue of somebody representing them in their house. Just just saying. All right. B what's that? X. Oh, is that X? Oh, Philippians is a bad place to put that. You know what I did? Alan, thank you. I was thinking Philippians Philippian jailer and I should have typed Acts sixteen, thank you for the catch. There's no Acts there's no Philippians sixteen, by the way. I'm a little worried about my sermon. Yeah. When Billy Powell decided Olympians we didn't know all that He did the easy one, he only did four chapters. Yeah. And that's really good. All right. B saving faith produces an outward confession with the lips. I think that's consistent no matter what your view is, that a belief in the heart is going to lead to something with the lips. A confession, what is that? See, a mere outward confession does not save. If it does not express sincere faith in the heart, let me Stop. Faith in the finished work of Christ and believing that you're a sinner, you can't save yourself, that Christ died for your sins, and you believe that He will save you if you trust in Him, it will save you. to only have faith. It will not save you to make a confession without faith. Right? So they're not together. One is one can be avoided if you will, but You have to believe to be saved, to be justified. But if you confess without belief, it's just mere outward so so the confession that Jesus is Lord is not salvific in itself. It's not magic words. Anyone who confesses that Jesus is Lord will be saved. Is not a formula, right? That's the point. I know you're like mature Christians, you're like, I got that. But there's a lot of people who don't. It's sort of magic word They confess Jesus. So they must be saved. No, a lot of people do. Matthew chapter 7 says, Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles. I always love that story where the seven sons of Skeva are casting out demons And the demon says, Uh Paul I know, but who are you? And verse twenty-three, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. So we know that you can make an outward profession but not truly be saved. But if you believe with all your heart in the finished work of Christ, you are justified. And then D. If someone refuses to confess his faith in Christ, the reality of his faith is questionable. We can say that with certainty. And what do we mean by confession, Luke chapter 12? Jesus says, and I say to you, everyone who confesses me before men The Son of Man will confess him also before the angels of God. But he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. Thankfully, this is not a one-time event. It's not the equivalent of the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. If somebody said, I denied Jesus, are they eternally lost? Well then Peter was. I don't know the man Never heard of him. I don't know what you're talking about. Public confession in front of everybody there said, I don't know who he is. If that can damn you, then Peter was n is not saved. So it's not a one time or whatever it is, but it is a is a non-confession of and a backing off and not letting the confession come. What is this confession we're talking about? Well two things. What is it you have to believe to be saved? The gospel. First Corinthians fifteen. Now I have made known to you brothers the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received, and which also you stand, by which also you are saved, if you hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you believe in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance What I also received that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and He was buried, and that He was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures. I say all that to say we live in an age where people believe But the content of the gospel is not there. They they're people of faith and they come to churches and they believe in stuff. They even believe in Jesus but they don't believe in the death, burial and resurrection of Christ for their sins personally. Right? So how should you confess your faith in Christ? I don't believe that this term in Romans nine The mouth I think is a motonymy, and that is it represents the whole, kind of like when we say the White House said Well what we mean is the president or the the news corps or an uh ad someone in the White House, it's representative to suggest the entire thing. And I think it's some autonomy. I think it's it's the word is mouth. I don't think it's saying If you can't move your lips and say the word Jesus, you can't be saved. There are people who cannot speak. And so I think it is trying to tell us it's an expression of the life. The first one is clear The heart is also a metaphor, a uh a a figure of speech, but the point is that figure of speech says the inner man believes this The mind, the will, and the affections. And then the mouth, the external, the the expression is the life must express this belief, or else the confession is not real, or the or the belief is not real, because there's no true equality. quality to the life. And so here are some examples, I think, where you are confessing your faith in the New Testament. Confessing your faith through the ordinances. I mean clearly baptism is an expression of an outward expression of a Inward reality, we always say that. It is a confession of your faith in front of men. At the time of this writing, uh it was still dangerous to confess through baptism in Israel if you became a believer, even in the fifties of of the A D fifties. And communion is certainly, you do this, uh, you you look forward to the Lord's coming. Every time you take communion, you preach the gospel. You confess your faith through public worship by being there and acknowledging Christ as your Savior. Confess your faith through identity. Identifying yourself with Christ's people, even under persecution or siege. You bear witness to others. You confess your faith through your witness. You defend the faith. 1 Peter 3. Be ready always to give an answer to everyone who asks the reason of the hope. within you with meekness and fear and bear witness by how you live at work as a citizen when facing temptation, persecution, and death. Now clearly we don't want to get away from the idea that it is also the spoken word. In all of that For example, Lord willing, we're gonna see some baptisms, you know, today. Are any of you being baptized? Wanna be? Let's make it a big day, you know. Uh but clearly the Person who's being baptized will have given public acknowledgement of their faith through that. All right. Page two. The Old Testament scripture confirms that you only have to believe and you'll be saved. Okay? The constant value of verses eleven to thirteen for the scripture says whoever believes in him will not be disappointed. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all Abounding in riches for all who call on him, for whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. Remember where we are? It's kind of get I'm getting us lost in chapter ten uh in my life, but uh where what is the point in all this? Paul is Still trying to bear witness to this. The gospel is in the Old Testament, not just the New. And it it you're not just saved as a Gentile by the Gospel, but it has always been true that it's been by faith. Number one, believe in the Lord. And you will not be disappointed or ashamed. So Paul repeats Isaiah 28 from the Old Testament, in which it says, Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone. a testing stone, a costly cornerstone for the foundation, firmly placed. He who believes in it will not be disturbed. Paul takes the believes in it and makes it believes in him. Paul takes the Old Testament, Isaiah 28, 16, and instead of believes in it, the cornerstone, we know who the cornerstone is. So after the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, Paul's free to say, believe in him. He just paraphrases Isaiah twenty eight, sixteen. Alright. Alright, number two, God's riches are offered to Jews and Gentiles without distinction. Verse twelve, there's one Lord who's over all of us. All of us are equally needy. of salvation, all are saved in the same way. And those who are saved enjoy all of God's riches. Gentiles now have been grafted in, that's chapter eleven, when we get there finally, and we get the riches of the Abrahamic covenant, and Galatians tells us There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free man. There is neither male nor female. For you are all one. In Christ Jesus. Of course, there are Jews and Greeks, there are free and slave people, and there are male and female, no matter what our society tells us. This is not a transitions passage. This is a passage about in Christ there are no boundaries. Boundaries and we're all in need of Christ and under one Lord. If you belong to Christ, this is the point, then you are Abraham's descendant and heirs According to promise. That's beautiful. All that cool stuff you read in the Old Testament about the Abrahamic covenant, we're going to be in on as believers in Christ. Alright, number three. Whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. What does it mean to call on the name of the Lord? My point here was simply that it doesn't always mean to be trying It could mean that in Romans ten, nine and ten, that is equating that. Then you have the then really then it's a double whammy of him saying if you believe and you sort of believe call on the name of the Lord is the same as believing, that it's equated, or it's an outward confession of your belief, that's possible. And the third option is saved here means you're saved from if you're justified by your continuous faith and life, you're also saved from other things. That is the third possibility. Uh I don't usually say you figure it out, but those are all equally valid Evangelicals hold them all, uh even though the right one is my view. Um so what does it mean to call upon the name of the Lord? Three verses just to suggest Psalm 105. Oh give thanks to the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds. Among the people. That would be an example, not probably of eternal salvation, but the concept, and I'm only picking one out of about a hundred verses, the concept of calling on the name of the Lord is to live a life of faith. That is a normal Book of Psalms motif. 2 Timothy 2. 22. Now flee from youthful lust and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. could mean equivalent to with those who are believers. But then you have this adjectival sense of this, and then you have who are doing so with a pure heart 'Cause the command is to have a pure heart and then he says, So hang out with people who are calling on the name of the Lord with a pure heart. I take that as the calling on the name of the Lord is not salvific, but those who are living a lifestyle consistent with their profession, they are calling on the name of the Lord in their life, and thus their lives are pure. And then third, the book of Acts, verse uh chapter nine, thirteen to fourteen. But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man. How much harm he did to your saints at Jerusalem. You remember of this, Ananias, and then going to see Paul. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call on your name. Now that might be the profession of faith. Right. Uh what we believe in, that we believe it. I think Henry James said all that the first three weeks of the class. Do you remember that, Henry? The first couple weeks we were talking about believing, and you were like, the content of the gospel. And the belief are equally important. You remember that? It was like 30 weeks ago. But that just triggered that thought, but okay, very good. Alright, the point of them just trying to make through the use of these only three verses, usually I'd take a whole page. But the point of it is this. When we reflect on what does it mean to call on the name of the Lord in in Romans chapter ten, it is possible that what Paul is saying is, if you believe with your heart and you're justified And you live a life consistent with that by a life of calling on the name of the Lord, you will be saved from the dilemmas of life and the problems of whatever they are, whatever the the motif is. You're not saved eternally because that's what justification was. But it's equal possible that your confession is simply the outward manifestation of the inward reality and therefore they're consistent. Yeah, Dan. Y'all I I'm just kind of curious. Um what would you use to temper that use of you know calling upon the name of the Lord to save from you know the daily troubles of life. How do you temper that against things that are saying, like playing Christ's name, like speak his name over the situation and more. Well, we're not supposed to. Um the the tempered part is the the plus part that without the this is the this is the key here in the passage. So Paul's just being consistent with justification, I think. That he's just he this This is his consistent language. It's the addition of this confession that's new. So so if we took the position that I'm suggesting that you were saved from particular dilemmas by it. I don't mean you're saved by it from being unhappy or economically strapped or whatever, but whatever baptism and the other confessional things do for your life, th th the way that you would temper it is this is really the key And a person who's just saying you can name it and claim it, who has no real faith, is just obviously making false profession with their mouth. And that would that would be again in Romans 11, which we have haven't gotten to. It's actually five times in the book of Romans, Paul uses the word saved in a non-eternal life sense. So we know it's possible, not saying it is, but it's possible he's using it in the same sense he does in Romans eleven or Romans five, where being saved was from some particular malady that you're being saved from. From earth, from your sin not from your sins, from a situation, um being delivered, uh waiting for the Lord. And so it's possible it's that, but Yeah, the only the only way to stay away from name it, claim it is to say that th that this is the key factor. But a person could say they're justified and that they truly believe in Christ and then they name it and claim it. And so I don't know what I can do with that. It's a good question. Alright, bottom of page two. Our charter for evangelism and missions. Oh yeah. So Paul's point now, he kind of gets excited. He goes away from just arguing that Jews knew the gospel, it's always been in the Old Testament, the words he's quoted, whoever believes, whoever calls on the name of the Lord. But now he gets into the mission of it. Verse 14. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? And how will they preach unless they're What Paul has done now is chapter 9 is all about sovereignty, right? Chapter 10 is all about responsibility. At first it was the responsibility of the person to believe. Now Paul shifts responsibility to the preachers. This message is now to us. The other part is, hey, if you're not a believer, trust in Christ. Verse 14 moves it to how's that going to happen without human effort? How's that going to happen without The means. God doesn't save people without the gospel. And he doesn't save people he doesn't use the gospel unless it's preached. People don't just get zapped and get saved. That's not God's normal way of doing it, despite certain uh views that that happens in Muslim countries every third minute. Yeah. Yeah. I if I'm understanding you correctly, I would say it's both, right? There's both aspects are in the word faith movement And one of them is creating reality by your belief. You know, you can speak things into reality. The other side of that is an over an overemphasis on your faith being able to latch on to God and Him give you things. Now there's that so much of that is true But it's the idea that if I'm a person of faith, God's gonna reward me with all this external money. Like if I trust God I'm gonna get stuff, or the other side of the word faith is speaking it into existence. Those are two different things, right? But they both exist in the word faith movement. So sometimes when we say word faith or whatever, what do we mean? And sometimes people just I d and they'll say to you, you if you've been there, they'll say to you, man, don't speak into that negatively or You know, don't kill that because, you know, I'm speaking that into truth or into reality. And you're like, While you're out there speaking, can you get me a new car? 'Cause like my car's got like two hundred thousand miles on it, you know? Um And that is a side of it. The belief that God has altered reality through faith and that faith is a vehicle for the creation of things. Uh, and in my little series on Hebrews eleven I was trying to demonstrate Faith is a response to something, it's a belief in something, but it doesn't create reality. But but the uh yeah, and the other side is believing that your faith is so great. And God says you can move mountains and whatever, but it's taking those verses to an extreme in which there are no conditions for the answer. Where God says, you know, your heart has to be pure and if it's according to my will, and all the pieces that can that condition the answer to prayer. So or faith. And so those are equally difficult Though the first one is clearly a uh aberrant slash heresy. The second one is an over-emphasis on the belief that my faith is going to be rewarded with now stuff. It's an over-emphasis on in this world my faith will always end up giving me stuff here in opposition to like Hebrews 11 where they all died without receiving the promise You know, Hebrews eleven tells you, hey, Abraham, all these people, they never got what they were promised in this life. They were looking for a city whose builder and maker is God, that's eternal. They didn't get it here, but it is to come in the next world. But that theology is re is thrown away in word faith. Is that helpful? I you know, in my thinking about it and reading on it and whatever, I I I've always struggled a little bit with that Um so honestly, uh I've heard good and godly Christians who believe the Bible teach both. Uh I do think you can make a contextual argument, possibly, that he's only speaking to the apostles, because he's talking about miracles and like Jesus did fewer miracles, if you will, recorded that than that the content that that's not the way I want to say it. That's not true. Um they extended the miraculous work of him over a longer period of time, so theoretically The Pentecost was huge, and so they did greater works than him in gospel work and the things they did. But but Jesus of course is not telling them they're gonna do greater works in the atonement or things which were his own mission and his own person, but they would do greater of those which they were sent to do than he ever accomplished in three years in a small little country. country. That you're so by extension I've always taken it that the church in this age would do that as well. That that the apostles started that, but uh you can make a contextual argument that it's only the apostles. In which case it's still huge. Jesus is saying, Hey God, you see some serious stuff here, but when you leave here it's gonna be epic. I mean, day of Pentecost and then it's not very long before you can see in the book of Acts that probably at least ten thousand people uh had been saved in the first number of years in the book of Acts, uh 2000 alone on the first day, on the day of Pentecost, but then it kept increasing and the churches were getting larger and they were the reports in church history that Jerusalem had so many mega churches at the time of the early church and so you know a lot happened in that stage so anyway for what it's worth Kevin's a great point especially on Paul saying that he worked harder than any other apostle Can you imagine the meeting in heaven when they all got there? Peter just walked up and punched him. You put it in the Bible that you worked harder than me? I mean what I mean, what's up with that? You know, Paul Paul yeah I I don't know. Paul was pretty brazen, you know. I worked harder than any other apostle. That's right. No, what was that guy's name? Not rip whatever what was Flip Wilson. Not w yeah. Okay, I'm going to the bottom of page two now. I'm gonna say some stuff. Guys are loosening me up here. Okay. Number one, bottom of the page, whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved, revisited. The gospel is freely and graciously offered to all. Only those who call upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ will be saved. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and life, no. No one comes to the Father but through me. Those who refuse to call upon the name of the Lord remain lost. This is not lost on us as a church. We get this. But Christians are still confused about this. Well, are they going to heaven if they didn't hear the gospel? And D, missionary work is necessary because there is only one way to heaven or to salvation. And there is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which you must be saved. But if they believe in God, are they going to heaven? If their God is the Lord Jesus Christ and he he died, was buried, rose again the third day, and they believe that they're they're sinners and they're trusting in him and him alone, yeah, they're going to heaven. If that's the God they're calling on. All right, top of page three. Uh People must believe in Christ before they will call upon him. That was Paul's point. You must believe before your mouth will do anything in this equation. Number three, people must hear the word of Christ in order to believe. Hearing the word of Christ promotes faith. Oh God. gives the new birth in connection with the word. Uh how are people born again? They're born again by the Holy Spirit through the preaching of the Word of God. The Word doesn't do it, although it sounds like it, because the Holy Spirit's not inserted in it, but the Word is used. used by the Holy Spirit to cause people to be born again. In the exercise of His will, says James, He brought us forth by the Word of Truth. So you're born, brought forth by the Word of Truth, so that we would be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. Don't expect to hear Christ apart from the Word. And those who reject the Word are rejecting Christ himself, for he said, the one who listens to you You preacher, you evangelist, you track giver router, the one who listens to you listens to me. And the one who rejects you, rejects me And he who rejects me rejects the one who sent me. Those are really good points. Um when we are when we believe All of those are true. We're saved from the penalty of sin, the wrath of God. All of all of those are are things that happen when we believe. That's right, when our sins are forgiven. Very good. Yeah, very good. All right. All right. Top of page three then, um wherever I am, do E, let's do E. Evangelism and missions are to be focused on upon uh focused upon Christ's Word. First Corinthians two. For I determined to know no Nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. People must have a preacher before they can hear the word. So let me ask you this, because we're getting there. This is where the Well this is where Paul is sending us. He's talking about missions and evangelism. And he's talking about evangelism here. They need somebody to go tell them, but he ends up by talking about being sent So Paul moves from raw evangelism down to a category of scent. And now he's at the church level. He's at the sending people forth level, which is missions. He starts with evangelism. Right? Everybody needs to hear. They need to be told. The preacher is generic at that point, but when he gets my end of my page, he'll get down to missions. That is, sent evangelist by local churches. And how are they going to hear? In the whole world if the church is not sending. That's Paul's message. So have any of you ever served in some form of gospel witness in another country. And so I'm going to start in two categories. Category one is you've been on a missions trip Even if it was four days long or you went somewhere, but it was for the gospel purposes, okay? How many of you have ever had that happen in your life? Okay. The real Christians. Okay. Um I know. I don't usually divide the Christians up here, okay, so Um second one, is there anyone here who has served overseas for a longer period of time in a gospel ministry? You've served outside the United States. If we had Linda and Larry T Government Okay. Beautiful. Morag's point we're getting to is if you're not sent, you can still be a tent maker. Right? You can go somewhere for gospel purposes outside of your normal geographic boundaries and serve the Lord. So Yeah, I don't want to do that. Okay, number four. I'll get there. People must have a preacher before they can hear the word. A, all of us are to tell others about the good news, Matthew 28, 19 and 20. 20, go and make disciples. B. There are some men who are specially appointed and gifted by God to proclaim his word, Ephesians 4, 11, 12. And he gave apostles, prophets, and evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. It's like wam-whum. You know, he's like a apostle, prophet, evangelist, pastors and teachers you know, it's just kinda down the mountain, you know. But God has appointed some to be evangelists. Uh see the preacher Or the evangelist in this case is to be a herald who delivers God's message, not his own. The foolishness of preaching and God's chosen means by which the gospel is to be spread, there is no substitute. When I think of this, That I think of this, that a herald, like w in the time of kings, well there are kings now, but in the medieval period, a herald went forth to say what the king said. They didn't get into a courtyard, call a hundred people together and say, You know what I think about this edict? you know? This is my opinion about this edict. They just delivered what the king said. And indeed, the proclamation of the gospel is a command, not an invitation, or not merely an invitation. The times of ignorance got overlooked. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Mel. Mel, that's a perfect point. And I forgot to read it even. I think that is one of the I think that's one of the things in the American church that we have done to disservice to people because it's possible to go to a church, then use Ephesians four and say that the pastors are to equip the saints to do the work of the ministry. But then When they use the the phrase work of service or work of the ministry, it's almost always like so we need more people in the nursery We need people in the parking lot, we need people who can count the money, we need people who can do the whatever. All of those, all of those are worthy things for the Lord and can be done with your whole heart. I'm not doubting those. But it's my belief that when you read This verse and it it is more of an idea of works of service. I recognize that. But in this context, I think they're equipping for word ministry. That is the use of the word And not I don't mean preaching. I mean equipping God's saints to do the work of the ministry is not is not individual acts of service, but the work of the ministry. That's my opinion in this text and others have said differently. I think you can also prove it now from other places where we do a disservice to people to have them come to church and the call is join the machine. Have any of you read the book The Trellis and the Vine? Sorry, read it, say again? The Trellis and the Vine. Yep. Very simple. Carla read it. Okay. Best Christian in the room. Go go read the trellis and the vine on this, but the very simple illustration is we've you ever grown grapes or s something, you get a trellis and you're gonna put the plants will grow on the trellis. If you leave them on the ground, they're not gonna grow properly. So the picture that this book is presenting is the church needs both the trellis and the vine. The vine is the word work. That's the gospel work that changes people's lives and we need to grow grapes and fruit, but you're not going to do so without some sort of structure. Uh w without the church having structure and people organized and serving those kind of things. It's like a family. You can have a lot of love, but if you You never take the garbage out, it's a bad place to visit. All of that to say, you need all of us need to contribute because we're part of the family. So the mission of my family 'cause we're on this point now, I guess, is not to clean the house. My mission of my family is not to pay my bills. The mission of my family is not to, you know, dust the furniture or whatever. Those are all necessary. in order to accomplish the greater purpose for which marriage life is about, which is love. Uh the the first parameter everything's for the glory of God, but The marriage is for a relationship and love. It's not good that a man should be alone, put some together. Marriage love is the relational part. If the relationship is not the highest value, then it just becomes something you do out of service. The trellis becomes the marriage and not the Of the marriage, and that is the way the church can become. It's possible to go to a mega church. I have uh been on staff of churches of 5,000 plus uh people and have attended regularly a church of 15,000. And when you get there, you can find wonderful things. But there are a lot of busy bees who are doing stuff for the Lord, and yet I asked at the 15,000-person church that we attended, and that was in invited to join their staff and I had a meeting with the executive pastor and I said, Let me just ask one question. How are we going to account for the souls of the people in the church? And he told me, We don't. Not can't be done. We can't w we just can't. It's basically a giant evangelism service. So at a certain point you realize um but what would be the goal? To replicate gospel ministry in everyone's life through discipleship, training, mentoring. Everyone is not going to go out and Be a preacher. That's not the point. But everyone is part of the larger gospel ministry. And I think we rob people for not encouraging them to do that. So it's my opinion. And right. It's the preacher the the preacher here, right? I I won't I won't disagree with the bottom line. The bottom line is it's the word that God uses to do the work. You can hand out a track. Right. You can hand a person a Bible with instruction. Um You could um wear a John three sixteen or go to a football game, have a John three sixteen in a rainbow wig and point people to the Bible There are many ways to point people to the Word. And so I won't argue with you that the Word is prolific now. We have the Word in every kind of format, online, printed, all So the Word is what God uses to do the work. I will not also argue with you that that at that time there was no written New Testament as such. So when Paul's writing this in fifty-six A. D. , uh half the New Testament existed and half didn't. So there's parts of the New Testament, you know, the Gospel of John, Revelation, you know, probably don't exist. doesn't exist at this point. The Book of Acts doesn't exist when he writes this. There's a whole bunch of stuff in 56 AD that doesn't exist. So I wouldn't argue that that. But The idea of the preaching of the word being different possibly than the written word. You're not saying it's different, but what I want to suggest though the one thing I would clarify or suggest is that the preaching of the written word is is what God is saying he through the foolishness of preaching that God saves. And so it's not the only thing God uses to save, but it is the primary weapon of the age. That the spoken word is just as effective in fact it is just as effective as the written word. It's taking those words and giving them to another person. So it's the both end. Uh so i in this age we have the written word. Uh But it is through the foolishness of preaching because most people won't read the word even if it's presented, so it's a combo platter. I I wouldn't suggest it's against that. But all right. Um this is an interesting day. Everybody having fun? Yeah. How you doing out there, Christopher? Yeah, you doing good? Okay. Alright. Number five. The preacher must be sent. This is Paul's argument Uh if you look back at the very words on the page before us, uh Paul has said, How will they preach unless they are sent? Well Paul is asking a rhetorical question, but his emphasis is uh they're not going to go out and preach unless they're sent. Now if it's just us that he's talking about at that level, then you don't need to be formally sent He could be using this phrase, but I also suggest that he is using the phrase in a more formal sense. Let me try to go through. So we must beware of preachers who are not sent by God. Jeremiah 14, 14 came to my mind. Then the Lord said To me, the prophets are prophesying falsehood in my name. I have neither sent them, nor commanded them, nor spoken to them. Sounds like a lot of modern preachers. Um Paul I know, but who are you? They're prophesying to you a false vision, divination, futility, and the deception Of their own minds. Now that is the prophetic office of which is in the Old Testament, but in Acts 13, 1-4, God sends forth preachers, including missionaries, by the Spirit through means of the church. And now there was at Antioch in the church there were prophets and teachers, Barnabas and Simeon, who's also called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manian, who had been that's such a good name, has been brought up with Herod the Tetra. Patriarch and Saul. While they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart from me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work to which I have called them. Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia And from there they sailed to Cyprus. We don't know how the Holy Spirit made that manifest in the Book of Acts. I wouldn't be surprised if it was just a voice that's he did stuff like that. It's also possible that that was their designation, but they knew it was the Holy Spirit. Well, next week I keep thinking next week is different than this week somehow, but next week, Lord willing We'll finish chapter ten and and get into chapter eleven and the olive tree. Um so I want to conclude with just a few thoughts here on chat on page four. Something I've thought a lot about is how the early church responded to persecution. If we're encouraging you, hey, go out and preach the gospel, go out and make it known in 2023 in America. Um I want to talk about persecution. Um it's getting weirder. Does anybody notice that? A little weird. Okay. Uh if this is the book of Hebrews, We know the author to Hebrews says, You not have not yet striven unto blood, King James Version. None of you have been martyred yet. Nobody from this congregation has been taken and killed because of their faith in America. So there's levels of this. We understand that when we talk about it, we're talking about preparing for persecution of that kind. I just want to say a few things because a lot of times it's go preach and if people are bad to you or you get persecuted, be willing to die for your faith. But these are ten things that I have decided uh from my reading of the n of the fathers, that these are ten things the early church did in light of persecution from Rome and from Jewish hostility uh in Jerusalem. This is what the early Church in the first couple hundred years did. Number one, Christians died for their faith. That's the way we best know it. Ten ways of persecution from ninety-five AD to three twelve or three fifteen, depending on where you mark it, but there is that Period 95 to 315, ten waves of persecution, in which probably millions of Christians were martyred. They paid for it with their blood. The church was probably a purer church at that time. Number two, Christians. Christians defended their rights as Roman citizens by written appeal to government. They were called the apologists. If we only think that under persecution while we preach, that we just take it. The early church did not. The early church had apologists, those who wrote to the Emperor and said the persecution of Christians is unjust and we should not be persecuted. Uh we should use whatever legal means we're given in the United States to continue to ask for our rights. to do so and uh to not be persecuted based on various things. Will that work? I'm not gonna go out and pick it, but the point is we still have an open door to do that. Number three, Christians denounce false doctrine by writing against the Jewish legalists and Gentile heretics. They did not just sit back. They wrote polemical works. They attacked false doctrine. Some of you might be called to these. That's why it's like the idea is always like, are you a preacher? Being persecuted? Nope. Oh well, you have nothing in this. Number four, Christians demonstrated their innocence by living morally pure lives Number five, Christians declare the true scriptures against the false writings of the Gnostics. We live in a day where there's so many cults. and proliferation of ideas and Christians in the early church wrote against the cults and left those things. My favorite early church guy is Irenaeus, or Irenaeus, depending on how you're going to pronounce it. And Irenaeus left us five volumes called Against Heresies and his early church musings on Gnosticism, which is really just a combo of New Age and metaphysics, but the point is, uh the early church wrote against these things, they didn't just sit back. Number six, Christians defined the fundamentals of biblical doctrine to combat the redefining of the heretics. They wrote decreeds. I would suggest that We're in a time where the Christian church needs to rethink how do we present theology in this current age. It's not modernism anymore. It's not even postmodernism. Uh it's some combo platter into another philosophical world. We're kind of in between modernism and postmodernism. Postmodernism isn't a real philosophy Uh it's an anti philosophy and so it really doesn't have a long term effect. But the reality is we have to write into this milieu and we need some more theologians. If you're a younger person than I am which would not be hard to do. Uh the Christian church needs more theologians right now. Number seven, Christians discipline those who recanted their faith under persecution. It's called the purity of the church. We know that during the first ten waves of persecution, many believers professing believers recanted their faith under pressure. Right? And they were given basically a memorial from the government that allowed them to buy food, to go to the market, all of that. And you would not be given that if you named Christ above Caesar And so they they ostracized you and then then they could take your life. But the point is, many capitulated in the early church. Uh under that pressure of the idea we're gonna kill you or we're gonna ostracize you, people recant their faith and and say, No, Caesar is my Lord, he's God. But then later they would feel ashamed and come back to the church when the pressure had died down. And the early church had a real struggle with what to do with those people. There was actually a culture war within the church what to do and the people were divided and there were certain camps that became fundamentalists as such and they were like, We don't take them back. They denied Christ, therefore they will never be forgiven and they denied him before men and we're gonna deny 'em as well. And so uh a number of movements in the early church, especially North Africa, would not retake people in who had denied the faith. Others took them back in. I just want to say this really quickly, because if these times are coming you'd have to think through where's this going. And I'm not talking about they're gonna kill people in the street, I'm talking about different waves of what it means to be ostracized. Um the early church dealt with that but the other guys didn't go, oh just let them back in They created what we call the catechism. Now, the Greek word catechizes is to instruct in an organized manner, and they were doing that early. But the early catechisms of the early church were designed to keep people in a one to two year pattern before they would let them be members. And if you had recanted your faith and came back in, you had to complete that whole program. This is even harder than our membership class here. Alright? Alright. Number eight, Christians developed a curriculum to train new converts and protect Christians against intellectual attacks. That is my catechisms number nine. Christians devoted themselves to working their jobs unto the Lord and honoring the King Christian citizens had great success until they were asked about Caesar. And then finally, Christians directed their allegiance to Christ as Lord of all not simply their religious life. They had a much more robust Christian worldview, I don't mean all of them, but it was an attempt to integrate it that had been lost. Revived in the Middle Ages, then lost again in the Enlightenment. And theoretically Christians are now trying to have a holistic Christian worldview in which every aspect is under the lordship of Christ. Well, I end with this famous quote that is often uh suggested it's from Luther, but it's not. It's by Elizabeth Rundle Charles and she says this If I profess with the loudest voice and the clearest exposition every portion of the truth of God except Precisely that little point which the world and the devil are at that moment attacking, I am not confessing Christ. However boldly I may be professing Christianity Where the battle rages, the loyalty of the soldier is proved. And to be steady on the battlefield besides is mere fight, flight, and disgrace to him if he flinches at that one point. Christian life and going to church and doing all those things, but not being willing to be shamed for Christ on the issues of the culture, you have to ask whether your confession or your profession is real. As long as I keep my I'll be good. If I don't bring that topic up, nobody will bother me. Confess Christ openly. Don't be an idiot. Don't be that at your office. Not doing my work. I'm just talking about Jesus. Right, do your work, man. But I would encourage you to confess Christ in this time. Uh there's one There's too many ways to hide out at work and in the family, and to be bold for Christ and gracious and loving is to confess him in this age. Let me pray