Alright, well welcome back to the study in the book of Romans. We're in lesson 29 on sovereignty part three. And today we're in Romans 9, 1 to 18 I simply am saying the sovereignty of God and Israel's selection in the past, dot dot dot. What happened? And so let me refresh you on Romans 8. And tell you what Romans 9 is about. We'll do an introduction and here we are. As you recall, we just did Romans 8. And Romans 8 taught us that God uses all things To conform the elect to the image of Christ. And that our assurance and our eternal security are based on God's eternal purpose in election, and that nothing in creation can separate us. For the love of Christ. But in chapter 9, now Paul continues on the sovereignty issue. And I suggest that this is what it is telling us. Romans 9 teaches us that God's word always accomplishes God's Purpose. Because the question Paul's going to have to address here in Romans 9. 6 is, did the word of God fail? Because the problem that Paul's addressing in Romans 9 is whatever happened to Israel. And then dot dot dot, could that happen to Because Romans 8 says, hey, God chose you, he foreknew you, he predestined you, you're going to get there, he's going to glorify those he chose. And Verses 31 to 39 that Christopher just taught us, you cannot be separated from the love of Christ. If you're in, you're always in. Well that raises the Jewish question Paul addresses now three full chapters he's about to do. Chapter 9, 10, and 11 are this. Whatever happened to Israel if that's true? Weren't they God's chosen people? And if they're God's chosen people, how come they don't believe the gospel? And if they don't believe the gospel, they have been separated from Christ. So everything you just said in chapter 8 is questioned. Is God good? Is God fair? Did God fail? Is the gospel a new thing? Paul is having now to address whatever happened to Israel in three chapters. Chapter 9. Whatever happened individually. Whatever happened to Jewish people who didn't become believers in Christ, why did that happen if they were told they were chosen? Chapter 10, is the gospel a new thing? And is Israel responsible for their plight? It seems unfair. And then chapter 11, is God done with Israel? Well, no, he isn't. He's going to come back. And so there is a conclusion to this story, but you have to go three chapters in. So let's look back then. At our text or Romans 9's explanation. Romans 9 then teaches us that God's word always accomplishes God's purpose. God's purpose is to bring glory to himself. And God is glorified in the salvation of the wreck and the damnation. of the lost. It's that last part that both people struggle with and also defines whether we'll understand Paul's point in Romans 9 to 11. That is is it possible that God has been glorified even in Israel's disobedience? Because if we don't think so, then we have a thousand-year period where they've been out of control, and so therefore God's plan isn't working? Question mark And so Paul is defending God, defending the gospel, and defending the doctrine of election as the backdrop to understanding whatever happened. Israel. Okay, so let's dive in. First of all, Paul addresses the problem of Jewish unbelief in chapter 9, verses 1 to 5. Pardon me Paul's personal concern in verses 1 to 3. Paul says this, I am telling the truth in Christ. I am not lying My conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart. For I could wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen According to the flesh. You know, Paul usually uses a logical transition when he's going to move to another point That's the whole book of Romans. It's logical transitions, therefore, in light of. He doesn't do that here. He's just taught on Romans 8. 28-30, election. Then 31 to 39, you can't be separated from Christ. You would think he would say, so therefore, Israel's secure or whatever he's going to say, but he just goes emotional He goes on almost like he's swearing on a Bible. He's coming to the witness stand and he says, I'm not lying. I'm telling the truth. I'm not lying. My conscience is telling this. It's like he burst out Why? Because he knows the implication. Because he's been accused of having forsaken his own people, Israel. And he's now just teaching Gentiles are getting in. Because the first eight chapters are all about the gospel and Jesus. And so a few points I want to make here. A, Paul is defending himself against the accusation of being a traitor to the Jews. Paul was an apostle to the Gentiles. That makes him suspect. He was accused by some, if you recall, in the book of Acts, of desecrating the temple and dishonoring Moses. He was accused of hating and disobeying the law. He was accused of replacing Israel with the church. He was accused of preaching a quote-unquote new gospel just for Gentiles. And he was accused of rejecting his own kin and only caring about gentiles. If you look at that little block to the left, Acts 22, 20 to 22, that has a circle in it. I couldn't get it all on the screen, sorry Anne. But Acts twenty two says this. And when the Paul is speaking, and he says, And when the blood of your witness Stephen was being shed I also was standing approving and doing something else of those who were reaching out, for the coats of those who were slaying him. And he said to me, this is Paul's testimony of how he was called, and he said to me, Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles. They, the Jewish audience listening to Paul, listened to him up to this statement. And then they raised their voices and said, away with such a fellow from the earth, for he should not be allowed to live Paul's relationship to the rest of his Jewish kin and the nation of Israel after he became an apostle was they wanted to kill him. They completely accused him of these things. And they were excited when he was arrested in the hope that he would be killed. And yet Paul is saying, I want you to know, I would give myself up If it would save them. Look again at verses 1 to 3. I'm telling you the truth. I'm not lying. My conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and ceasing joy in my heart For I could wish that I myself were cursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Paul loved his Jewish family. Notice the word he uses. I wish I if it were possible, this is really the point, I myself would be willing to be separated. He had just taught the nine verses before this, you cannot be separated. So it's a hypothetical. He just told you in every possible way there's no way to be separated from Christ But then his next thing is, but if it were possible, I'd be willing to give myself up and suffer eternal destruction if it would save everyone in Israel. I thought about that. And you know, I knowing I was going to teach this, I thought about this. And I couldn't honestly say that. And we also know there's a l element of pride in thinking you could sacrifice for others because we can't atone for anybody, let alone ourselves But the point is, if God would take a one one for everybody thing, knowing the horrors of the potential of hell, I don't think I could sign that Jesus. And you think I would do that for my sons, maybe, or for Carla. If I'm noble, maybe. But thinking about health, you want to be an eternity in health. And so to Paul's point. So Paul's doctrine of election B As he just taught it in Romans 8. And he's about to teach it in Romans 9. 6. Apparently it did not dampen his concern for the loss. That's usually one of the objections to the doctrine of election. If you really believe that God has elected and saved certain people, and he knew from eternity that was the case, then you would not care about people. You wouldn't evangelize, you'd never pray. Apparently that's not what Paul thought. Paul just taught the doctrine of election. He's about to even go deeper into the doctrine of election. And what's Paul's concern? I care about all those people. My heart hurts constantly for their plight. And he doesn't take it and then in the next chapter, chapter ten, he's going to start out with, again, I'm concerned about Israel and I pray constantly for their salvation. So Paul doesn't stop praying, he doesn't stop evangelizing. So Paul fell deeply for the flight. Paul was willing to be separated from Christ if it would have saved Israel It is impossible as I've stated. And Paul's concern to me seems like what Moses did in Exodus, right? Where in that situation the golden calf motif. They built a calf and Moses came down and you know everything's gonna work out. And God said to him when he came down, he's like, hey Moses, how about this? I'll just make a new nation out of you And God was testing Moses' heart. God knew what Moses was going to do. But he's like, Moses, we'll just start over. We'll wipe these guys out. And Moses said, no, Lord. You made a covenant. Everyone's going to make fun of you. Your glory's going to be. You can't do that. And God's like, I know, I know that, you know? God never changes his mind, but he tests our hearts. And then this incident happens, and then Moses returned to the Lord and said, Alas, this people has committed a great sin. And they've made a God, small g of gold for themselves. But now if you will forgive their sin, and if not, you're not going to forgive them, then block me from your book which you have written Now it's not Moses, because if you read the whole context, it's not Moses saying, I'm gonna, I'm holding out, he's saying in the exchange, if you won't forgive them, how about you punish me instead? And God says in response to Moses, I'll take care of each particular sinner. But here's what we're going to do going forward. It's an amazing heart that Paul has as an apostle. But then Paul turns to the privileges of the Jews. What's the problem with the unbelief of Jewish people? And that is they're so privileged, and the question is God has promised them all those things And what I'm going to say on this is for the sake of time, and we'll haunt there. Please see the book of Romans, lesson 6, for a detailed look at the subject of the privileges the Jews have. We did that in chapter 2. It was at length, and I won't do that again today, but simply to read the text with a few points. Verse 4. Paul said, who are Israelites? To whom belong the adoption? And the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the temple service and the promises Whose are the fathers, and from whom is Christ, according to the flesh, who is overall? God blessed forever. Amen. The Jewish problem is that God had promised them and given them everything that would prepare you to think that they are going to have a wonderful future. And so this is a problem to the gospel. A. If the gospel is the fulfillment of the old covenant, God's plan for Israel, then why has Israel rejected the gospel? Has God's plan failed? Can we rely upon his promises? And has the church taken over Israel's status? As God's chosen people. Is there a future for ethnic national Israel? Um yes, sir. Mark Pastor D. Yeah. That's a really good point in terms of the heart values there. You know, we know pictured in the Pharisees when Christ came. You know, the Pharisees should have been the first ones theologically and everything to embrace The Messiah, it was all there. But the scriptures tell us among other sins was jealousy. Hey, we're the rulers. If we give this guy the deal, he'll be the king, and then we won't be in charge anymore. So how will Paul defend that at the bottom of page one? Paul's defense of God and the gospel. in Romans chapter 9 to 11. Here are three things that Paul is about to do to address the questions that we were just raised. That is, whatever happened to Israel, did the plan fail? Couldn't God get them to be better people? He promised, but then they fell off the rail. So that's a God problem Romans 8, 31 to 39 is like nobody's gonna separate you, God's gonna keep you. Wow, they ran they ran the car right off the road So these are here are some of the things at the bottom of the page. Paul's going to address what has happened to Israel as according to God's sovereign choice. The doctrine of election here is true, but it's also being used by Paul as an apologetic, and that is Everybody who was supposed to get saved got saved. And those who weren't supposed to get saved, didn't And that the plan that Paul was writing in 50-something A. D. when he's writing Romans is, none of this is an accident Where the place, where it all fell at that point, the church had started, Israel was diminishing, the church was growing, was always in God's plan And that the word of God, when it is used, always accomplishes exactly what God intended to do with it. Our problem is when we look at things like church history and we look at the period of the kings in the Old Testament. When you look at church history as a Christian, you can study it. If you take a class on it and you've never studied it before, it just seems like one giant loss after another And then the early church decided to baptize faith. Then the early church did it, oh they oh let's get us a pope. Okay, now we got a pope. Now let's start working our way to salvation. Oh now let's start doing these crazy things. And then all of a sudden there's a reformation. You got like 15 years. It seems like 1,500 years of dumb. Actually, 1200 years of dumb after Nicaea. And then it's like, what in the world? Where was God? I thought God was going to triumph in the gospel and it just seems like nonsense until you really start looking at two major things. That the apostles had warned us, that in the church age there was going to be weeds and tears, and the church was always going to be under its own warfare. That there is no perfect church. There will never be an age of the church that is wonderful. There's no age, there's no one church that's wonderful. There's no one church made up of all Christians. Okay, maybe if it's six of you in your house and you're calling it a church, but then it's probably not a church. The point is, we were warned by the apostles that in this age it was going to look like this There was going to be apostasy. There was going to be wheats and tears. The church would be under attack. Not that the church was going to triumph in this age completely. I will build my church, Jesus said. And the gates of hell will not prevail against it ultimately. But not every individual church in every era is going to rock. Mostly we, you know, people go, we find golden ages, the Puritan age. Yeah, for one thing I just didn't want to live during the plague. Okay? Sixteen sixty-six in London was not a good year. Sure. That's it. The Puritan age, by all accounts of the Puritans, was no golden age of the church. They were under constant warfare. It ended badly. And so, to Paul's point, he's going to say this: unless you have a proper view That God is doing exactly not only what he wants, but in every age the remnant are saved. There is no age in which the church is losing because God is accomplishing exactly what he wants But exterior view of it is it doesn't look like what we think the church should look like. Because we have an ideal of what the church should look like. But that will not happen until the kingdom of God, until it's over. There is no church time to expect that it's coming, that it's going to be perfect. That's what he's going to talk about in chapter 9. Then what happened? And then Israel is what is responsible for her flight. She is resisting God's word. Those are the responsibility of man, the sovereignty of God. Chapter 10 is all about, you know, by the way, God didn't place Israel on the side while they were good. They completely rejected God's favor that he had been giving them. But then chapter 11 says, but it's not over It's that famous sermon on it's Friday, but Sunday's coming. Right? And that's what chapter 11 is about is hey. Israel is down, but they're not out And God has a purpose for Israel. What Israel are we talking about, elect Israel? Yes, ma'am. Why? Sure. A lot of people say that the church age is a parenthesis in God's plan. that God that God's plan was Israel and his fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant, if you see a timeline. But then You didn't know about the church in the Old Testament. You knew that Gentiles would be saved, but you didn't know that Gentiles and Jews would be one body. So it's a it's something that was not described in the Old Testament. So people see it as a parenthesis in the picture of God's big picture is that during this age, and then God will come back and fulfill all that He promised in the Old Testament. I wouldn't put it that way because the church is also part of God's plan. And so it's just a it's a part of the plan that wasn't revealed prior to the New Covenant. And so the New Testament. Alright, and then at the bottom of page one, Israel's rejection is near the total or final I can see where this is going today. Mark, two, three, and four. I only have like nine weeks left to finish a blue Roman, so. Alright. The word of God has not failed. That's the point. Chapter 9, verses 6 to 8. But it is not as though the Word of God has failed. For they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel. Nor are they all children because they are Abraham's descendants. But through Isaac your descendants will be made. That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are regarded as descendants. Not the children who are in the nation that has promises. But the individuals who are part of the promise of election and salvation, for whom he foreknew, he predestined, he called, he justified, he glorified. Paul already gave you the terms And now he's explaining this calling and saying, it's not people who were born Jewish who are going to heaven. It's those Jews who are erect. Now just take it over to the church. It's really simple. Do the Jews know? They should have been. I think they're still right. No, it's being Jewish, which I am not But there are some in this room who are Jewish and believers in Christ, and I thank the Lord for that. And I always go back to my sister-in-law, Shelly, who's messianic too. And she's awesome. She has a great satyr. But I think from what I've compared her religion background to mine, I grew up Roman Catholic and it just seems like the same thing. It's if as a Roman Catholic Gentile, you thought you were God's chosen people You thought you're the only ones going to heaven? You thought you had the whole system? You thought leaving Roman Catholicism it was like a cult? Your family treated it like if you leave that there's no way of salvation You thought you had all the sacraments, you had all the practices, you were the favored ones. That's what growing up Roman Catholic was for me for 18 years. I just thought this is who we are, the Roman Catholics, we're the ones going to heaven, everybody else isn't Because we were given this by the apostles. And being growing up Jewish, even though it's other parameters, it's the same feeling. We're God's special people. We have the Word of God. Roman Catholics say we have history, we have the early church, we have the ancient councils, we got everything. You guys, you Protestants just came along. And so I think there's a pride Because you're unsaved. Nobody gets saved by religion. It doesn't matter if you're Jewish or Gentile or there's only two categories, but whatever category you can start believing It's the people in my church that are going to be saved, or it's my family are going to be saved because they're part of my family, but those are all untrue. Or my ethnicity or my social standing or my nation are favored. Well, they may be favored by God at the moment, but they're not favored because they are who they are. And that's what the apostles just told us. It's not the children of the flesh. And it's not being from Jacob, and it's not even being from Abraham. Nobody gets in by their ethnicity, by their heritage, etc. It is only on God's elective purpose in choosing which children, not all the children. The principle again, Paul is just Defending the point. Did Israel fail? Because all that wonderful stuff, and then most of Israel seems to unbelieve in the Old Testament. And Paul's point is God was not trying to save everybody. And that's a hard blow to our pride. Well God should be trying to save everybody. It's not fair. Paul's going to get to that. God should be saving everybody. I mean, there are good people out there That's why the whole first eight chapters. There's nobody good, nobody says. Okay. So Paul says it's not as though the word of God has failed. What does he mean by word of God? There's at least five things that we mean when we mean the word of God. God's decree, his word that makes. God spoke and there was light. God decrees things by his very thing. Has God's eternal purpose and his decreed plan for all of eternity failed because some Jews did not believe, or some Gentiles in the church did not believe? No. Secondly, direct speech that he had given to people or through a prophet. All that God promised through the prophets has failed? No. God never promised to save all Jewish people, and he didn't promise to save all Gentiles, and He didn't promise to save everybody at Hope Bible Church. And by uh thing not not everybody in our nation not everybody in our family god never made such problems the written word has failed no has the word incarnate failed in his mission Jesus, if you believe that Jesus came to save every single person, and everyone is not saved, then he has failed in his mission. Has the Word of God failed? No, because God saved everybody and is saving everybody he wants to save. And if they're not saved, he did not intend to save them If we don't believe that we're going to spend a lot of time and thoughts about history, about God's purposes, about what he's doing, we're going to get wrapped around this problem. These are hard doctrines. Jesus spoke on a couple of occasions about the doctrine of election, and in each case people left. Romans 6, I'm sorry, John chapter 6, he spoke on this. He said, this is what I'm telling you. You cannot come to me unless the Father in heaven draws you. It's opposite of the preaching you would hear today. He says, I'm telling you, you cannot even come to me unless the Father draws you. He says, but I also know that all that the Father is going to give me will come to me There's already an elect group, and they're all coming. But not everybody's coming because unless he does something special to you, you're not going to come to me. And it says that what they did was, and so they all left him, except for the twelve. And they said, these are hard sayings, who can hear them? Jesus didn't do a secret service Maybe if he had candles, they would stay. Alright, so the word of God has not failed. Here let me quickly use. First of all, it has not failed to accomplish what it was set out to do because the Word of God never returns void from the mission God sent it to. God only intended to save the elect. But all the elect will be saved. Secondly, it has not failed to fulfill the promise and promises given to Abraham for a land, a seed, and a blessing. Just because we haven't seen the fulfillment doesn't mean it's not happening. That's Romans 11. We need to understand that during this age, and this is a lot of verbiage here, I don't apologize, but maybe I should have written less. God has a remnant according to the Spirit, and there is still an Israel of God who believe. There's always a remnant. Thus are Jewish believers. Israel's rejection of the Messiah was predicted, and the Gentiles are currently enjoying being grafted into the Abrahamic covenant, which belonged to Israel, and which Israel will again be blessed. Israel in the land today in Palestine is an enemy of the cross and the gospel. It is no friend of God's, nor is the entire nation to be considered Israel in a spiritual sense. Zionism is not a Christian virtue. An attempt to have national Israel as it is constituted apart from Christ In rebellion to Christ, as it is now. Christians are not to support Zionism. Everything Israel does as a nation is not good. The idea that blessed Jerusalem and all those things is true. But think through the implications of anointing people who also do evil. Everything Israel, the nation in Palestine right now is doing is not from God. They are under the wrath of God. They rejected the Messiah. Just like Gentiles. I'm gonna make them worse. But there's no nation on earth as duly as constituted right now that is a favored nation in terms of what we should vote as a country to do. To say, yes, you do that. Back to it. We are to pray for the peace of Jerusalem, evangelize the Jews, acting favorably towards them as much as possible. without joining in their national sins or assisting them in their rejection of the Messiah and the gospel. The future redemption of quote-unquote Israel is to be understood as the final ingathering of all the elect Israelites. Not all Jewish people will be saved, but all the elect Jews. All Israel will be saved in the same, as the same is saying all the elect Jews will form a spiritual, real Israel, which Israel in the flesh did not, nor cannot ever do. It doesn't necessarily mean that all Jews at the return of Christ will believe, though it could mean that. Nor does it necessarily mean that all Jews from any one age will be saved We know that when Christ comes, people will believe, they will see him as he is. We'll get into that passage in Romans 11. There are two categories then in this passage, the Israel of God and the children of Abraham Israel of God are all believing Jews through the ages, specifically believers in Christ in this age. Not all Israel is Israel, but the Israel that is spiritual are those who believe. The children of Abraham are all believing Jews and Gentiles, according to Galatians 3. Gentiles are children of Abraham, but they are never children of Israel. We're not children of Jacob, we are children of Abraham. The Israel of God is distinguished from the church and unsaved Gentiles as well as from unsaved Jews. The New Testament is consistent in presenting a distinction between Jews and Gentiles That not all Israel is Israel, that the Israel of God, the Messianic Jews, there are children of Abraham and the Church of God. Those are terms. We cannot conflate them Every Gentile who's a believer in Christ is a child of Abraham. Every Jew who's a believer in Christ is a child of Abraham spiritually But there are some who are children of Abraham in the flesh, Jews who are not believers, who are not children of Abraham's spiritual. You get all the points. Alright, and then the bottom of the page verse six then. The word of God causes salvation only in the elect. But it is not as though the word of God is filled The word preached, the word promised. For they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel. Paul's point is, you're looking at it the wrong way, guys. If you understood that everyone who was saved was meant to be saved, they are the true Israel that God intended, then you would see this differently. Alright, page three. Election does not follow Morbines. 9-7. Nor are they all children because they are Abraham's descendants, but through Isaac your descendants. God is the one who chooses right who will be saved in a what order. And then election is the root of the Abrahamic covenant. That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God, but the children of the promise are regarded. as descendants. Just because you are in the line and you're male and you're circumcised does not make you a recipient of eternal life and the promises, but rather election and gracefulness of faith. Yeah, John. Well long asked. Yeah, that would be the that's the point of all. I think we did a session on that. That's a hard doctrine to talk about. But yeah. Whether you're a child who was never born uh or you're a young child who dies or you're an older adult, you're saved if you're elect and God causes in you a faith that saved you in Christ And can God, I said this before, but can God do that to infants who die? Absolutely. Salvation's a miracle. We're all dead in our sins, and God brings you back to life. I don't see why God cannot save babies in the womb who he decided to elect. Could all babies in the womb be elect who died? They they could all theoretically be, except for their passages where God's intimates that the Philistine babies are not. And so got so God sovereignly chooses who's going to be saved and we sort that out. That's where we leave on those things we leave that up to God's knowledge that He has not told us. Nobody gets saved because they're innocent. We did the whole section. Babies don't go to heaven because they're innocent. They go to heaven if they are because they're elect. And God saves them because no one is good. No one is righteous. There are no innocent people. These are hard doctrines. If you're visiting today and you've not been in our class and maybe you're not even from this church, there are therapists. Although these are hard doctrines, Paul sees them as exalting because he ends chapter eleven The sum of it all is 1133 to 36. Oh, the wisdom and knowledge of God. It's unsearchable. That is, his plan is so amazing and wise. But we have to let God be God. Alright, verses 9 to 13. Election is based on God's sovereign good pleasure and not on any foreseen faith or merit. I thought we were going to get people in on that. You know Alright. So this is the word of promise. At this time I will come and Sarah will have a son. Sarah can't have anybody babies. She's 90. Right, she's 90. Okay? It's a bad weekend. So he's gonna start on this whole thing of it's not based on merit or ability, because this woman couldn't even have a baby So the whole election thing is you can't have a baby. That's the opening salva. For this is the word of promise of election and of salvation. At this time I will come and Sarah will have a son And not only this, but there was Rebekah also, when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac. Verse 11 is the key. For though the twins were not yet born, had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose according to his choice Not because of works, but because of him who calls. For whom he foreknew he predestined, whom he predestined he called. Just as it is written, I'm sorry, it was said to her, the older will serve the younger. Just as it is written, Jacob I loved But Esau I hate it. Of course, those terms there are relative. God blesses Esau with much material wealth, but it's hard to make an argument that Esau is a regenerate person. He gives up his birthright, he disregards God's promises and blessings. The point of it is this, I mean What is this this election based on? That it might stand by God's election, by God's choice It's not foreseen merit. It's not foreseen faith. It's not the goodness. It's not, oh, they're part of the birth order God started a birth order. Some people have tried to make election is God elected Israel, then everybody gets pumped out through the Israel thing as part of the elect No, that's Paul's going against that. You have two children born from an Israelite, from a promised person, not an Israelite, an Abrahamic covenant person, and neither one of them is elect and the other isn't It's personal. Romans 9. Election is personal, not corporate. It's not national. It's not the whole church. It's personal. God saves who He is So number one, election does not follow airlines. I thought that was public. Has he been on some planes recently? For this is the word of promise that this time I will come and Sarah will have a son. And not only this, but Rebekah also, etc. It's the whole Ishmael and Isaac thing, and Esau and Jacob. The the older should have been the one with primogeniture, that is the firstborn's rights in the ancient world And they should have had all those rights, but God bypasses in both cases those rights and gives them to the younger against custom, against their family values, against all of that, because God can do whatever he wants And that's the point here. God can change things around is not, election's not about birth order. Election's not about heritage Number two, election is not based on the foreseen merit of the individual. For though the twins were not yet born and had done anything good or bad. Because if you've been in the Bible and wrestled about who the person of God is and what is, then you know that when God made the world He did not then look at the world and decide what the plan was. And that's the whole basis. Did God look down the time tunnel, we've talked about it, and into the telescope of reality and see Ha ha! Doyle! Do we have another plan? Right? You didn't look down and see my belief and say, now I'm gonna make that guy part of the team. He's an awesome guy. No, God made the plan and God made the time tone and God speaks into it. So there's no foreseen merit. They've done nothing good or bad. Election number three is based solely on the eternal sovereign purpose of God. So that God's purpose, according to his choice, would stand, not because of works, but because of him. Let me say this, when we read the book of Job in the Old Testament, and we understand what it's really saying, it's a hard message. It's that there are eternal things happening. Satan's talking to God, stuff's happening behind the scenes, our lives are affected, Job loses all of his children, his wealth He loses all of that and even at the end when he gets twice back and all that, the the whole thing, you don't know what's going on. You're living in this life suffering And the message is trust God, we don't know better, God knows better than we do. But it's a hard message to accept the God who does whatever He wants. The book of Job, to me, in flavor, is like reading chapter 9 of Romans. It's not this I don't get repulsed by it. I get I'm I'm truly thrilled. Because this is Paul saying, God's in charge. Don't worry about it. It's not supposed to be God's in charge, go in your room. The effect that Paul is writing chapter 9 to 11, it ends with, God's got a glorious plan, guys. It's gonna work. Don't fret. But there's hard truths where you have to go. And if you want to talk about suffering for the Christian and you read the book of Job, people still go away from the book of Job and they won't accept the sovereignty of God, that God causes suffering. Or God allows suffering for its purposes, right? And he has a purpose in suffering, or else you become wealth and you know health and wealth. God doesn't want you to suffer Buy me an airplane. Then you have an airline. Yeah, they have to. Alright. Number four. Election determines who are the recipients of divine privileges and demonstrates God favor towards some. and the passing over of others. It was said to her, the older will serve the younger. No, ah, we're going to homeschool. Yes, no. Why God hate good question. Let me see if I can address it. It's not really hate in the link. It's it's not emotional hate. Right. Right. It is it's this. Let me do it a different way. Jesus said of all the people in the world who are not believers that they hate him. But if you talk to some people, some nice grandmother who's a Roman Catholic person or whatever, and you talk to her and she's like, I don't hate Jesus What are you talking about? To hate or to love in this context and in Jesus' words means to choose to do that which is best for that other person. It's agape love People do not choose the glory of Jesus Christ over their own. People do not choose his favor and glory. They love themselves and they don't love him. Therefore they hate him because they don't love his purpose or his person or anything. And what God is saying here is he chose, he chose Jacob, eternal life. He's going to let Esau perish in his own sins. Relatively speaking, he loves Jacob. He hates Esau because he does not favor him. He does not give to Jacob what he gives to um to Esau what he gave to Jacob. It's not about emotional hate because God's decision, apparently, as we're gonna look at, God's decision to allow sinners to go to hell is not because he kicks them into hell or he hates sinners. It says that God is grieved by their sin, and he gets no pleasure in the death of the wicked. God gets no pleasure in the death of the wicked. But it doesn't mean that he's trying to save everybody. God is allowing for himself pain of their sin, of their rejection of him. Which he does not choose to then overcome. But he does in some. This is a hard doctrine, but a good question. Yeah, I think I think that's a good analogy, Don. I mean I think you already will know what I'm probably going to say here. As long as we don't blunt the edge of the sword here. By that I don't mean we want it to be pokier than it has to be But we don't want to so blunt God's sovereign choice and what it is really saying about Esau that we take it down to a level where it's just like well you know so yes as long as we're saying his choice of of Jacob Means that in the absence of that the other thing is true. But if you look at the eternal reality of that, God made an eternal choice on what is called reprobation. To predestine certain people to help. Now, predestination is not cause. Calling is cause. He does not call people to help, but he predestined them to help. And and that is a that's a difficult sort. Because it's not like people, you know, when we think of the one illustration, you're like, God didn't look down to find out who the believers were. But did he look down to find out who the unbelievers were? No That was all predetermined. Did he unbelieve through them? No. Are they responsible for their own sins? Yes. Did God cause people to go to hell? No. And yet he allows free choice of those people and their own decision. It's what C. S. Lewis said of uh heaven is made up of people in which God said my will be or they said my will be done or your will be done. And hell is made up of where people have said we have the ones. But to the point, yes. How does Jeremiah three verses eight and nine work into our our discussion? Is that Jeremiah's call to be a prophet? So when he said he called me from my mother's womb? He divorces Israel. Oh he divorced Israel. I don't think I can address that right now. If I yeah, if I do it's a great question, Steve, uh in which he's asking, God divorces Israel in the Old Testament. It appears to there in Ezekiel Have a divorce and yet um I don't think I'm gonna address it. It's a great question. If I do I'm on a nine-minute tangent Trying to discuss what is divorce and how does it look in the Old Testament and then you're in Hosea and and you have Gomer and Gomer Pyle and you know uh So I think I'm gonna avoid that. That's a great question. Let me give some thoughts to answering it, Mr. Okay, so then number four again, it was said to her, the older will serve the younger Just as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. So the principle of election is pretty straightforward. God determines who receives the promise, not the person, and their own works or their desires. That's what doesn't drive it And so that's when he says, at this time when I will come, agency directly from God, Sarah will have miracle performed by God alone, overcoming human ability. And she will have a son. God determines who. So that God's purpose, according to what she might stand, God's purpose is eternal. It's one we create. It's a complete sovereign. Yep. Moving right along. So wow, those are all those uh you caught me at the end there. Um so the the friends of Job, they all come from Shem. Right, or whatever, and probably descendants of Abraham. Um and the question of what do they know? Because they all get it wrong. Is that what you're asking? Or what you're saying, or you're just making yes say Yes. But yet you know, when you look at their opinions on like what God is doing Yes. They're also wrong. They're also wrong. Um that's right. They're trying to read the tea leaves and they have different perspectives on God and theodicy and suffering. And that's how people are today. We all are like that. I know why you were sick, Dave. Yeah, it has nothing to do with you eating Antamon's donuts. Or being fat and out of shape. No. I'm sure it was something from outside. Alright, top of page four. There's no injustice with God. Verses 14 to 18. So Paul has now talked. That it's not based on human merit, it's not based on this. God makes an eternal decision. Those who are going to be saved are the elect. The non-elect are not going to be saved. All external Israelites or church members aren't getting saved. Blah blah blah. If you truly understand that that's what he's saying, then you might have the concern that he's going to address. If you don't have this concern, for concerns are wrong words, if you never thought of this as a question or an objection, Then maybe you don't understand what he's really saying. It hasn't hit you. He's talking about God chooses who's going to be saved. That's it. So verse 14. What shall we say then? That's Paul's logical connector. There's no injustice with God, is there? I mean that would be a logical question. If God chooses people and the other people go to hell and they never had a chance to be a Christian, it's not fair It's not fair. So Paul's addressing that. But he's addressing it only to the people who understood what he first said. If you're like, oh there's no election, or God's not elected, he's only elected anyhow, but he elects nice people Then you don't get what he's saying. If you get the hard truth, then this makes sense that Paul would say, so is God unfair? No, he's not unfair But but the question arises, and that arises a lot. So what shall we say then? There's no injustice with God, is there? Meganoia may it never be. You know, Romans chapter 6, Paul had said that should we continue in sin, that grace may abound. He uses the same Greek word here. No! No, no, no. You misunderstand the whole point The problem for us in Romans 9 is after Paul clearly teaches a lection, and he's not done, he doesn't really address our objections. in the sense philosophically, or how could that be fair? He just said, no, that's not unfair. Let's move on. But the point is, Christian. Think about what the apostle is saying. He's saying it's not unfair. Do you believe that? If your mind is like, well, I don't see how that could be. Okay, fine. You can doubt, but don't unbelieve. Wrestle with the scriptures. Is that what the apostle is saying? And if it is, it's not unfair. Why? Because God is never unjust. Never. Well, how can an election be God elects people and he's not unjust. How could that be? Paul doesn't tell us how. It's a mind of God. It is. But what we can rest in is God's assurance that both things are true. God is not unjust. God sovereignly chooses who's going to be saved. Well, that's not just in my world You should adjust your word. So back to it. What then should we say? Is there there is no injustice with God? Is there? May it never be. For he says to Moses, he doesn't answer it, he goes on and shows you more of how God sovereignly chooses. He says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy. I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. So then, verse 16 is Paul's summary. So then, of everything he said, it does not depend on the man who wills. Free will. The only thing free will is good for is calling it free willy. It's a moody. They got the whole out. So then, it, what? God sovereign elections, its choice, does not depend on the man who wills. So that's not a foreseen thing. Or the man who runs, what is Paul saying? Probably based on his walk analogy in the book. Running is works. It's not good works. And it's not your will, your choices. But on God who has mercy. For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, for this very purpose I raised you up to demonstrate my power in you and that my name might be supplied throughout the whole earth. So then Paul's logical connection. He has mercy on whom he desires and he hardens Romans eight and nine bring us into the glorious face of God, the God who chooses and the God who's never wrong. And the God whose glorious plan is perfect. And we have to adjust to that. Romans 9 is not an intellectual bucket to leave here going. I think I understand the lection. Let's move on. It's meant to be right in our face and say, do you love the God of election? Can you submit to him not because of just the words of he does whatever he wants? He's not a tyrant. He's the God who saved us He's the God who stepped out of eternity and gave himself for us. That God chose how this was all going to work. Love that God. Embrace his sovereignty He is good. His plan is perfect. It included your salvation. I love God's sovereignty in my salvation, but not in the whole plan. Alright, number one, erection is a mercy. What shall we say then? There's no injustice with God as there may never be, for he says to Moses, I will have mercy on him. Well, we're talking about election in Romans 9. Paul's saying it, election, and he's saying, what's the answer to that? God says, I'll have mercy on whom I want to Mercy. Election is a mercy. Why? Because everyone's bad. No one deserves heaven. God saves some. It's a mercy. No one deserves mercy. God's mercy exercise towards someone is not based on any intrinsic value in the person. And try to get your head around C God's mercy is not an autonomous attribute of God requiring God to elect anyone. You'll sometimes hear like, yeah, elections are mercy. God just felt mercy towards everybody, so he elected them. As if mercy ran the Trinity. It's like saying God is love. Well God cannot do anything that wouldn't be loving towards people, that is true, but loving usually means to somebody he's going to save them God's attributes are not against each other, right? God is one unified person. All of his attributes work together, and he makes sovereign choices. There's no attribute that's autonomous to God's will. That drives God's mercy. He's got to save people. God has no obligation. God does not have to save anybody. His mercy does not dictate that. God exercises mercy. It is sovereignly chosen on him. It's just like if you think in marriage, the choice of a man and a woman to love each other exclusive to other people That's not right. You can't sovereignly choose to love, you choose love. No, that's called lust. Okay? Okay, that's just driving force. But love that's in a marriage is a love that has a choice. And God's love on people for seeing and knowing them and deciding to save them and mercy on us is God's choice to be merciful. God's choice to love. God's choice to pick his own bride for his own son. That's God's sovereign choice. I pick the bride for my son. Everyone's not the bride. So God is never driven by his attributes. They work in tandem to his sovereign will. There's only one thing that God cannot, two things that God cannot do. Go in the other direction. God cannot lie. He cannot sin with a bigger category. And God cannot go out of existence. His very nature, he's driven by his nature, but not his attributes Right. And then God chooses who he has mercy on, his sovereign pleasure. I don't have time for the bus stop. Revisit it. the whole acting it out thing which I like to do but just remember the bus stop illustration is this. Some people view that it's not fair so they believe that people are at a bus stop waiting for the eternal bus to come by take them to heaven And they're all down there crying, We want to get on the bus, we love Jesus, we can't believe we've been left behind. Versus the real bus stop in the Bible which is more like it's in Las Vegas and there's Raider fans there. And they're stabbing each other and writing graffiti and cursing God's name And when the eternal bus shows up to offer them the gospel, they reject it and don't want to get on the bus, and then they kill the representative who gets off the bus. The son of God gets off the bus, they kill him right there in front. And it's the parable Jesus told about the land over. What will then the Father do? People don't want to get on the bus. It's a mercy. So God's election of us to salvation overcomes our depravity. It's unconditional. It's limited only by God's purpose. uh in saving only the elect. It's irresistible. And it causes a final and complete salvation that is assured. For us. Number two, election and not so-called free will is the true backstory for every saved person. So then it does not depend on the man who wills or the one who runs from God who has mercy. So Paul's conclusion at the bottom of page four. So then it's a logical summary of all that he's said so far. Election does not depend on the man who wills, not on his free will, not on the man who runs. A few weeks ago, I mentioned this hardening idea and gave only a couple minute conversation on it, but I decided to quote Julie Dossett from our class. Okay, so if you want to get on my quote list, just send me some quotes during the week, okay? Joey sent me this uh cartoon from Calvin and Hobbes, and which you see he says, hi Hobbes Good heaven, what's wrong with you? Mom said, if I keep making this face, it will freeze like this forever. You really think so? It's worth a try. I'll bet my features are hardening already. I always like gargoyles. Uh Julie said the point on hardening was Pharaoh's heart was contorted by his own evil. And God just froze it that way. I think that was a good way to describe it. What is hardening? God does not harden good people. Nobody's good, but God doesn't harden you. He hardens you in those choices which you are making for his purpose when it is for you. Alright. Yes ma'am. I see what you mean. Yeah, yeah. I'm trying to think of the antecedent to the pronoun there, but I would I have to page five means that I will not possibly do this to you. I cannot go on and do pages 5, 6, 7, and 8. And for good reason. This is more of a theological backdrop on the on the term election. And uh plus I need at least five minutes to get my head together for a sermon that I didn't prepare. You guys can pray for me or not. Let me pray for you as we as we So Father, again we are grateful