Test in one two three, test in one two three. All right. Welcome back to our study of the book of Romans. We're in lesson two, The Messenger, Message, and Ministry. of the gospel of God. Today we're looking at Romans chapter 1, verses 1 to 7. And let me read that text for you and then we'll jump into our outline. Paul, a bondservant of Christ Jesus, called as an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures concerning his son who is born of a descendant of a descendant of David according to the flesh, who is declared the Son of God with power. by the resurrection from the dead, according to the Spirit of Holiness, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith. among all the Gentiles for his name's sake, among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ. To all who are beloved of God in Rome, called as saints Grace to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. At the time that Paul wrote the Book of Romans, of course he was at the epicenter in writing to Rome, he was at the epicenter of the Roman Empire Just like Washington, D. C. is the epicenter of our government and of our documents, so Rome was, of course, in the Roman Empire. Paul is writing to them, and they know a few things. One is that they know that Caesar is considered a god. And Caesar is considered a savior. And this might not be something you know. Caesar's also got a gospel. And Caesar was considered to have a gospel which was supposed to be sent out about him. And we'll get to that a little bit later today in our lesson. And so it was not unusual for Caesar to send representatives from Rome to accomplish three basic things. And so when a representative went to a city in the Roman Empire and they spoke on behalf of Caesar They would do three basic things. Number one, they would say, I have credentials, I have authority to speak from Caesar. Number two, I have a message about Caesar. And how great he is. And then thirdly, after all of the pomp and circumstance, the representative, the legate, uh the Caesar's rep would then say, now we have something that Caesar would like you to do. So after the benevolence of Caesar, Caesar demands a request or he desires you to do the following That's a normal thing. So I find it interesting that Paul introduces his book in verses 1 to 7 through that basic structure. He starts out with, I'm Paul, and here's my authority to speak on behalf of the true king. Number two I have a message to which I'm speaking of, but it is the gospel of Jesus Christ, not the gospel of Caesar. And then thirdly I'm inviting you, and the king is inviting you, to join him in the mission of presenting this gospel to all the nations so that the obedience of faith might lead to the glory of God. And in a few minutes, when I share with you an excerpt from a Roman uh document, I think you'll see that there's an exact parallel to those ideas. So let's jump in. On page one, I want to tell you what I'm going to tell you. Okay? Here's the big picture. This is the outline for today. And if you're doing this electronically, the notes are on Hope Book if you'd like to go to the group and get them electronically. I have three basic points today that I think are in the text. The messenger of the Gospel of God, verse 1, namely that Paul's perspective, he's a servant, Paul's position, he's selected, and Paul's purpose. He was set apart. For what? The gospel of God. So what is the message of the gospel? It's two things. That the gospel is from God. And the gospel is about God. The gospel's from God. God's promise in the past. He sent it through his prophets, and he put it in his prophetic word. But the gospel is actually about God. It's actually about God the Son. And then Paul is mentioning here two things about God the Son that the Gospel demonstrates. His humiliation And his exaltation. Theologically speaking, that is, what it took for him to become incarnate and born of a virgin and lived among men and live that life, that his humiliation God of the universe taking on human flesh and living among us. And then Paul is mentioning then the fact that he is not just that, but he's God in the flesh. And his exaltation as his resurrection from the dead and exaltation in heaven. And so these verses lead us through this. The messenger, the message, and then quite simply the ministry of the gospel. What do you do then if those things are true? And that is my final point here in verses five to seven. Paul's explanation of the ministry of the gospel, who the master of the gospel is, its means, how do we do this? Its mission, what's the big global mission, its motivation for this And finally, the mercy of God demonstrated in the gospel, in God's election and calling of us. Paul packs a lot in seven verses. And so today we want to jump in to page two and get started. I love the I love the book of Romans. It's good stuff. So don't get lost today, because in seven verses You can get lost. Why? Because we just talked about it. The messenger. The message And the ministry of the word of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But you can get lost in an hour in seven verses. Sometimes it's like that's the third letter of Paul's name And it starts with this great flatter and you're like, what are we talking about? Okay. So again, where are we going? Three parts. Really simple. Verse 1, verses 2 to 4, verses 5 to 7, and Paul is introducing us to himself, namely three things. He's a bondservant of Jesus Christ, he's called to be an apostle. And something else. Bond server is possible. Oh, we set apart from the gospel of God. These all have importance to his message. Then in verses two to four we're going to find out that the message is about is from God and it's about God. And that will carry out through the entire book. And then finally, again, in verses 5 and 7, we're going to learn about the nature of the mission or ministry of the gospel. What is it that God called Paul to do, and what is it that we are by implication called also to do with this gospel? Okay? Big picture. All right, let's go through. Page two, the messenger of the gospel of God, verse one. There are three things on this page that I have suggested that Paul's perspective, Paul's position, Paul's purpose. We mentioned them last week. We dive in more formally to them now. Paul, a bondservant of Christ Jesus, called as an apostle and set apart for the gospel of God. Number one, Paul's perspective, that he is a servant of Christ. I see four things in that. Number one, I see Paul's humility in his strategy Uh Paul uses his Greek name, Paul, meaning small or little, rather than his given name of Saul, in keeping with his ministry to the Gentiles, right? So when Paul gets saved He had a Saul Paul name he used to use in business. When he would travel among Greek-speaking uh Gentiles, he would use his Paul motif. When he was with others in his tent-making business, he was Saul But in his ministry, in which he's now called to be the apostle to the Gentiles, Paul always uses his call name, his Greek name that was given to him as a Roman citizen, that he always uses that. I see Paul's identity in this when he says that I'm a bondservant of Christ. Paul, by calling himself a bondservant of Christ, witnesses to the deity of Christ. Huh? Because he's Jewish. Let me make my point. No Jewish man, and certainly not a Pharisee of the Pharisees. Would ever say that they identified themselves as a bond servant of anyone but Yahweh I was hoping my sister-in-law Shelley was going to be here this morning. As I mentioned last week, she's not only Jewish, but she's a messianic Jew and gloriously saved by Christ. And I was hoping that she'd be able to say something in here today like, Gloria, hallelujah, you know, uh to this point. But you know that when the Pharisees are talking to Jesus on one occasion, they say, we've never been slaves to any man. We've never served anyone but Yahweh. When Paul says, I am a bondservant of Jesus Christ, he is saying, Jesus is God. Thirdly, when he uses his name Paul and says he's a bondservant, he's talking about a relationship Well, Paul's use of the title Christ or Messiah, Jesus means that Paul uses this as Jesus is the Messiah. Paul's relationship with Jesus as Savior is the foundation of his service, right? Paul, a bondservant of Messiah Yeshua. That's what he's saying. He's my Messiah, he's my savior. He uses that very strategically. You know, in these first seven verses, Paul uses something like nine different ways to describe Christ. It's crazy. He's the son of God. He's this. He's, you know, it's all kinds of ways. And then finally, this obviously implies lordship Paul owed to Christ a debt that he could never repay, and he saw himself as a doulos, a bondservant of Christ. Paul is saying, I have a great mission. He's my savior. He's God. I am now his, but I am his doulos. Now we can do an hour on this and talk about what does that mean. But I think it reflects two basic things. Dulos or bondservant or slave of Christ. But what type of slave is Paul talking about? I think it's reflective of the Old Testament slave who is freed from the marketplace of slavery, but chooses to go back to their master. have their ear put on the anvil and have it riveted in order to demonstrate I am a willing bond servant And I think this is going to be demonstrated in the book of Romans that Paul uses the word, the Greek word, ek, akarazo, which means to be purchased from the slave market of sin. I think Paul's going to carry this theme and essentially tell us this. I was a slave to sin and Satan and self. God set me free by the gospel. And as the book of Galatians, Paul says, you were set free for freedom. Not for bondage. He has Christ has the right in every one of our lives to be our master. But I believe we've been set free and now by the our will and the grace of God we're able to give back our lives freely Because in Romans 12, 1 and 2, he's going to say, Therefore give yourself to him because of his mercy is consistent. So there it is. First thing, Paul's a bondservant. Secondly, Paul's physician, he has now been called to be an apostle. Now I joked earlier that I am one of the original apostles. I'm I'm not. I know a few of you were fooled by that. But we live in a day when there are many calling themselves essentially apostles Uh three common things in evangelicalism that I concern myself with. One is people just saying we have the gift of apostleship. Okay, that that's an error, but but a lot of times even good people will use the idea that you can have the gift of apostleship because it's in the gift list. Uh no, that was the gift of apostles. But secondly, there's people who theologically, charismatically think that they have the gifting of an apostle, not just the office. And that they can do the works of an apostle. And thirdly, I'm most concerned is people speaking in the name of God as if they were prophets and apostles. That what what they say is equal to Scripture or uh if you listen to me, you're listening to God. That's why we had a Protestant Reformation. Is to get our Bible back I grew up Roman Catholic, uh, where they basically say we we've got a secret message from God that the apostles know and we've got it in a bag and you can't see it. You know? No, we have a book And the reality is Paul was called to be an apostle. Well, can't anybody call himself an apostle? I mean, Paul could have just said, I'm an apostle, dude. Listen to me. Well, look at this little paragraph here. I basically have laid it out. Men who were, who were the apostles? They were number one witnesses to the resurrection. They have seen Jesus after the resurrection with their own eyes. Number two. They were specifically commissioned by Christ as an apostle. Jesus, they didn't just see the risen Christ, because a number of people saw him. But Jesus had to then say, you are one of my apostles. Now there's people in the New Testament called apostles, small a. It just means sent one, the Greek word, right? Look, some people are called apostles, but they're not apostles of Jesus Christ. They're apostles of the church. They're more like missionaries. They're sent ones. But an apostle of Jesus Christ, when Paul uses that framework, he's saying, I personally was called and talked to by Jesus Christ, and he made me one of his apostles. And then thirdly, you had to be able to work miracles. Now you can't do it the other way around. Somebody who can do a miracle was not an apostle necessarily. There were people who did miracles in the New Testament who were not apostles But every apostle did miracles to demonstrate their authenticity. Look at the block just below this paragraph in 2 Corinthians 12. 12, Paul says, the signs of a true apostles were performed among you with all perseverance by signs and wonders and miracles. Anybody can tell say I'm an apostle and you should listen to me But if anybody does today, there are three things. They have not seen the risen Christ. They are not authenticated by Christ. Our scriptures tell us that we do not have to listen to them Uh if they say they have something added to the canon, nope. If they want to change canon, nope. We do not have to listen. And we will be in no trouble if somebody shows up and says they're an apostle and we do not listen to them. Well, Paul, in that last part of that paragraph, I just want to point out, to disobey or disbelieve that which was taught by an apostle of Jesus Christ was to disobey God directly. When Paul writes, he's saying, I write to you not the words of men, but the words of God. Did the apostles know they were writing scripture? Ah yeah. Yeah, they did. And that's a whole long story. I could do 45 minutes on Apostles Shift, that'd be fun. Uh, but they did know. And when Paul says, for example, Um yeah, as I said, the words that I'm writing to you are from God, and you have now accepted them from God And he says, if anyone thinks he's a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandments. And for this reason, we also constantly thank God for you. That when you receive from us the Word of God's message, you accepted it not as the Word of men, but for what it really is, the Word of God, which also performs its work in those who believe. Did the apostles know they were writing scripture? Yeah. And they even talked about it being scripture to each other. Peter says of Paul's writings, he says, Paul's writings are scripture. Paul mentions something out of Luke. He quotes the Gospel of Luke and he says, the scriptures say, by the end of the first century, the Christian church knew its canon. The fact that we don't have a document saying that, we have this document, the New Testament, in which 19 of the books are authenticated within the New Testament among themselves. They already knew what the scriptures were. It didn't come together 300 years later, but I say all that. And then number three, Paul's purpose, all right? Paul's perspective, his servant, Paul's position, he's an apostle, Paul's perspective, and now purpose. He was set apart for the gospel of God. Now you guys know that this idea of set apart had also been in the framework of what Paul had been called before he was a Christian. Paul had been set apart formally to legalism as a Pharisee. What does it mean? Pharisee means separated one. Ooh Separated from you sinners. I thank God that I am not like you sinners Yeah, that one. Paul had been separated previously, but now God had marked him off. I love going to national parks. Okay. Uh some of my favorite national parks include anywhere. The last couple summers though, God in his goodness to us has allowed us to go to Yosemite. And uh have anybody been to Yosemite? Okay. All right, the elect. All right. You get to see heaven before you go there, okay It is one of the most beautiful places I've ever been and I've never been to the Swiss Alps and and other places. But all that to say, one of the things I love about going to national parks is that they have been preserved for the unique purpose to which they exist now. And they're not just common use land, right? Which allows them to remain pristine and for people like me to show up and enjoy them after John Muir has gone off the scene hundreds of hundred years before And so what's a national park? It's been demonstrated with boundaries. It has been set apart for unique usage and certain things cannot be done there, and so it's set apart. This Greek word is the same basic idea. You've been set apart with boundaries, which makes your life different than it used to be. Paul was set apart for the gospel. His whole life changed. Everything radically changed. Okay, you made it. You made it through point one. Paul has introduced himself as the messenger of the gospel of God and those three important parts. Let's go to page uh three then. And uh does anyone have a question about what I've just mentioned? That that's what it yeah, because it mentions the two genius and and the other apostles. Right. Those are sent ones from the church. That's a generic use. And I would say this, Henry, because because there's no indicator they're a part of the the the twelve. Uh there's no record of Christ meeting with them. Uh they don't seem to we don't know their miracles, but they were in the band of the apostles. They hung out with them Uh what I would say is you know how Greek words are like English words where you can have a common use and a specific use? Like the word deacon? Diachonas means servant. And so people will say, well, it always means a deacon in a local church. Well, Jesus is called a diakonas. Paul's called a diakonos to the Gentiles. Mary was talking about the Diaconasses who brought the water at the wedding of the Canaan of Galilee. The point of it is you're not a deacon just because you're called a the Akonats in the New Testament, and you're not a apostle of Christ just because you're called a sent one. If you see you see what I mean. So yeah, it's good stuff. Alright, page three The message of the gospel. Let's get down to that. Remember it's two things. The gospel is from God, the gospel is about God. Here we go. For the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures, concerning his son, who was born of a descendant of David, according to the flesh Who is declared the Son of God by power by the resurrection from the dead, according to the Spirit of Holiness, Jesus Christ our Lord It's beautiful. First of all, the gospel is from God. Look again at this. God had made a promise in the past. Three things. It's from God. God promised it God did it through his prophets in his books. Let me stop there. This whole first seven verses again is that the gospel's about God. It's not just the message of God, but it shows the character of God. God promised. And he did it. God sent the prophets, his prophets, and then God put it in his book. This is all about God and his glory. Alright, jump in. Here's some verses from the New Testament in that box that I've placed there. Not the ones on the left side that have now been three-hole punched away That is taking away from scripture apparently. That's uh whoever three whole bunches is in big trouble. Oh it wasn't Elsie, it was me. Okay. Elsie's like, not me, man. Uh Here's a couple of passages in the New Testament that demonstrate the summary of what we just said, and that is, this was promised in the past, this is not a new gospel. Here we go. Luke 24, the road to Emmaus. The same day that Jesus rose from the dead, that Sunday, that evening, he shows up and he has this conversation. And he said to them, O foolish men And slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? Then beginning with Moses And with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. That's beautiful. Wouldn't you like to be in that seminar? Jesus taking you through the whole Old Testament and showing where he is It's beautiful. And then Peter picks that theme up in his preaching, not on the day of Pentecost, but there right after. But Peter says this in Acts chapter 3. But the things which God announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets that his Christ would suffer, he has thus fulfilled. Therefore repent and return so that your sins may be wiped away, in order that the times of refreshing may come. from the presence of the Lord, millennial kingdom. And that he may send Jesus the Christ appointed for you, whom heaven must receive until the period of the restoration of all things. The millennial kingdom about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient times. Moses said, The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet, like me, from the brethren. To him you will give heed to everything he says to you. And it will be that every soul that does not heed that prophet will be utterly destroyed from among the people. And likewise, all the prophets who have spoken from Samuel and his successors onward also announce these days. It is you who are the sons of the prophets and of the covenants which God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your seed all the families of the earth will be blessed, or shall be blessed. For you first, God raised up his servant and sent him to bless you by turning every one of you from your wicked ways. Jesus said it. It was apostolic preaching in the book of Acts. God promises. It's not a new gig. This is the fulfillment of God's prophecies and promises of the Old Testament. So, first of all, this was promised by God. And then secondly, it came through God's prophets. It was God who chose the Old Testament prophets and spoke through them to assure his people that the Lord would deliver them from their sins. Okay, it's possible to get lost here. Oh, this is so cool. Elsie, this is like the best class situation ever. I used to have to teach in the back of a barn or something and now man's Bible church rocks. You guys have like whiteboards and cool stuff. Alright. Don't get lost here in the sauce. the the chain of God's revelation and namely God has spoken he has revealed himself through many means in the scriptures, right? Visions, dreams, miracles, through the prophets, ultimately through the written word of God and through Christ Himself, the greatest of all revelations. And then God has revealed Himself in general and special revelation. What's general revelation? Right. Cult uh nature and all that and right. Special revelation he spoke in individuals or through scripture. But only some of that revelation was written down, right? God has spoken a whole bunch of stuff. John said in one of in his gospel, he's like, if everything that Jesus said and did had been written down, you couldn't the world wouldn't contain the books. It's obviously hyperbole to make the point. There's a lot more we could have said. But what was from God, he spoke to people, but he only has certain of it written down And that is the book. Because the book contains everything from God's revelation we truly need to know to love Him, to be saved, and to do His will. Okay, now you know, this is just by way of review That's really cool. People who call themselves apostles today still want to come in on this side. God's got new revelation for you, and we need to add it Or they want to resurrect old heresies like the Gospel of Thomas or the Gnostic Gospels or whatever and say, let's add that to what God is saying. But that is a fixed view. Where we need to live is on this side of the chart. Right? Where God's um sorry interpretation and illumination God is no longer giving revelation. He's not revealing anything new. Nobody's getting a special wonka wonka. Nobody gets any new stuff that, hey, y'all didn't know this and God wanted you to know this. No, the book has everything you need to know, right? But illumination is the work of the Holy Spirit, as you know, to make the mind of the believer able to use the steps of interpretation and to truly study the book so they know what it says. That's why we have a responsibility in studying. Study to show yourself approved. It doesn't say get in a coma and wait for the word. Right? So that's the day we live in and that's the point. God chooses the prophets, but every one of us as a Christian can interpret and and have the illuminating work of the Spirit, but it will never be done perfectly. It's not revelation Just as we study the Bible, right? We're still gonna have disagreements. Some of you are still gonna end up Las Vegas Raider fans, no matter what we do, no matter how hard we pray, that's that's the way it is. All right, finally, on this page, uh the gospel is from God and the third point I make under that is at the bottom of page three. God's prophetic word, the scriptures. That's what I've just said It was God who inspired the scriptures so that he would have a sure word of prophecy, so that we didn't have to say, I wonder what God said to Moses. Alright, next page. So you see where we are? The messenger. The message is from God. So here's where we get to the crux of Paul's point. The top of page four, it is concerning his son. That's what the gospel is. It's concerning his son, who was born of a descendant of David according to the flesh. The gospel's about God. First of all, it's about God's Son's humiliation. Again, what do we mean by humiliation? His incarnation, he took on human flesh. That is below. That is below the nature of God. God needed nothing. The addition of human flesh does not diminish the nature of God, but it's an addition. Did he need a body? No. Only to fulfill the mission. But it has nothing to God intrinsically. It's not something God guesses like, oh boy. Why he made human flesh Secondly, it's the suffering which Jesus was in, his humiliation. All the suffering. Even living in a home where eventually his own family will say he's crazy. It's not just the suffering on the cross, all that it cost him. And thirdly, his death, of course. What is the most humbling and humiliating part of the death of Christ? It is not the ordeal on the cross as such. It is that God the Father broke fellowship with God the Son. After an eternity of perfect relationship. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhtanai. Why have you forsaken me? And then his burial. Do you see that as the son of God he came? Satan challenges that. If you're the son of God, if you're like that guy, you could do these things. The humiliation of not being known who you are, people spitting on you, the lies they're telling about you, all of this Christ received. And then of course his burial. Placed in a tomb. He's dead, he's gone. Thanks for coming. All of that. You guys know that old sermon? Tony Compolo, not somebody I'm promoting theology, where he does f uh s um it's Friday, Sunday's coming. Now I'm not going to attempt to preach it like you did. But the idea that it's Friday. Mary's crying her eyes out. The world's yelling, the devil's yelling, but it's Friday. Sunday's coming. And it's a refrain throughout the entire sermon of it's Friday. Hey guys, it's Friday in our lives It's not Sunday. We're not in heaven. We're not with the risen Christ. We're living on Friday But Sunday's gone. So that's the message here. What is his humiliation? And also, Paul mentions he was born according to uh of a descendant of David, Mary Not Joseph. Right? He was born of a descendant of David, according to the flesh. But because he's born of a descendant of David, he's in the Davidic line to be king. Do you like the Lord of the Rings series? Right. This is not a direct parallel, but Aragorn. Born to be king of Gondor, a Numenor. Supposed to be king, but he's nobody knows nobody sees that. And then he's crowned king at the end. Philippians 2 tells us about his humiliation and his attitude, which we should pick up at the bottom of page 40. Have this attitude in yourself, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God, a thing to be grasped. But he emptied himself, not of any of his attributes, but of his his external Shekinah glory, taking the form of a bond servant, Paul's words of himself And being made in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. For this reason also, God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, so that the name of Jesus, every knee will bow. of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Nobody will leave this planet. I'm sorry, no one will ever everyone. Thank you. Everyone will bow and everyone will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, no matter what their status was on earth. If you're new to the Christian faith or you're questioning, I didn't just say everyone will get saved or get right with God in eternity. What I'm saying is whether you leave this planet as an atheist And your destiny is hell, you will have an appointed meeting in which in front of Jesus Christ you will bow your knee. And you will say, it says, you will say, that Jesus Christ is Lord. No nobody goes to hell as an atheist. They don't have atheism in hell. Alright. Our next page is apparently is unnumbered. The mystery page of power. It is very colorful. But you know what I noticed, Dan, and you've had this happen. Lots of teachers have this happen. My little diagram got jumbled up there, so I'll just make stuff up. Alright, you see where we are then. The gospel's about God and it is about Him, namely Jesus Christ was born of a descendant of David. Now we're going to look at the aspect And f I'm sorry, we're going to further that idea on the fact that he is a descendant of David. Here are some verses in very small font, so that if you're not convinced I can tell you stuff so you'll just believe it Second Samuel seven sixteen. Your house, God says to David, and your kingdom shall endure before me forever, and your throne will be established forever. Looking forward to the Davidic King Jesus. Isaiah 9, we usually do this at Christmas, but we don't finish the thing. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us The government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, which perhaps should be called Father of Eternity, and Prince of Peace. We usually end there But who is this that is speaking of, verse seven? There will be no end to the increase of his government, or of words you can't read. On the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will account thee Jeremiah, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch, and he will reign as king and act wisely and do justice and righteousness in the land. And in his days, Judah will be saved, Israel will dwell securely. And this is his name by which he will be called the Lord is our righteousness. Matthew one, the record of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Matthew nine, as Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him. crying out, Have mercy on us, son of David. Now I'd have to do a whole excursus on this, but just think of the irony. The crowds were not believing in Jesus They could see him and they saw his miracles. You have two men who are physically blind who are spiritually alive. And Matthew 15, and a Canaanite woman from that region came out and began to cry out, saying Have mercy on me, Lord, son of David, my daughter is cruelly demon-possessed. 2 Timothy, remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, descendant of David, according to my gospel. There's Paul cross-referencing himself. And of course, in 2 John, for many deceivers have gone out of this world into the world. Those who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh, this is the deceiver, an Antichrist. Speaking against the proto Gnosticism of that particular age. All right. We're still on the point, the message of the Gospel of God, verses 2 to 4, at the top of page 6, we're now on the point of the Son's exaltation as opposed to his humiliation. And it says this, who was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead according to the Spirit of Holiness. Jesus Christ, our Lord. So just quickly a reminder, just as we saw humiliation is exaltation. What is his exaltation? His resurrection from the dead. It was Friday. My senior pastor, who uh faithfully taught for 46 years at Reston Bible Church in Fairfax County, where I was saved and baptized I remember as a young man him speaking about this type of passages about Christ, and he would say, and it wasn't uh something that you would do all the time, but he would say, when Jesus returns they won't be spitting on him then. And that used to be his little moniker of he's coming, he's going to be in his glory. And so he rose from the dead. That's the proof of the Christian faith. First Corinthians fifteen, Paul says, Hey If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, this is all big hoax. Like we're doing religion big time, and you guys are missing out on some serious, serious fun But if Jesus did rise from the dead, then everything here is real and our eternity is is clear. And then his ascension. They watched him in Acts chapter one, right? Now look, if some of you come from the background of like Presbyterianism or Reformed Baptist or You know, some other loser religion. But this is a side note. This is this is your your point. But you you might have come along and you like Hope Bible Church. But um you're like this whole rapture thing, you know, when Christians talk about the rapture, it's all like, oh that's weird, man. Rapture? Come on. That's all hokey dokey science fiction Christianity. You know there's six raptures in the Bible? Where somebody gets out of here. Enoch in the book of Genesis. Elijah? Watuga. Right? Jesus? They watched him go. I give you the other three, it's a it's fun. So the point is his ascension. And what was said, he's coming back. Now his session is called at the right hand of God, where he gloriously reigns and rules But then he will return in his glorious kingdom and he will show himself to be who he truly is. The crown will be placed upon him, if you will, metaphorically. and in genuineness of his kingdom on earth, in which he will then give that all back to the Father. We'll go into eternity, there'll be the collapse of this, and Christ will reign forever. So I say under uh the God box, his resurrection according to the Spirit, has demonstrated he's the Son of God Now Jesus isn't made the Son of God by his resurrection, but rather he's declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. You see, he's declared to be. How many of you have ever seen Antique Roadshow? Alright. People legit. Okay. It's a program, let me describe it in case you've never seen the Antique Roadshow. It's basically this idea. People line up for two million days in advance and bring their little artifacts from their house that they're wondering what they're worth, right? And how authentic are those items And so somebody will bring a vase that their grandmother gave them and it's been in the family for a hundred years and they'll stand in line and these experts, right, will be there who are experts on those type of items, who would understand the marks of authenticity, are waiting to look at these. And so people come up and show them of like, hey, this is not worth anything. I'm sorry. It's this is a common use item that was made at Walmart for Walmart. You know, it's not what you think. But every so often somebody would have a base or whatever and bring it in and goes I have no idea what this is. And the experts would look at it and they look at each other and they check the thing. Do you know what this is? No. This was made during the Ming Dynasty. Okay, you don't have that in your house, okay? Just go with it. And and it was made by, you know, da da da And uh do you know how much it's worth? Oh no, but I'm hoping. You know. This is my day. Retirement central, right? You know? Uh never making that commute to DC again after this one And then they're told this is worth $1. 5 million. Nice. Now the question would be, did the experts make the vase authentic? No. They recognize the authenticity. Jesus was declared, or he was recognized to be the Son of God. by his resurrection from the dead because he said, you destroy this temple and I will raise it up in three days. Let's get it on. This is God's method of demonstrating who his son is to the whole world, and he was declared to be what he truly was. That's a running theme in the book of Romans, to be declared to be something that you already are. Okay. So at the bottom of the page on page six, just some scriptures backing that idea in John 1, of course. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, the glory of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. No one has seen God at any time The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him. You know that Greek word there? Jesus is incarnation, his walking around and doing his miracles and people seeing him. This Greek word here, explanation, is the word we use for exegesis. He exegeted God. What does that mean? That means when we look at the scriptures and we exegete them, that means we look at what it really says and we find out what the words are and we bring them out and we teach them. And we find out the real meaning. Jesus exeged, he made us to understand the Father and the nature of God by his walking around. He explained God because he was God, by his very nature. John 5. And for this reason, therefore, the s the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because he was not only breaking the Sabbath, But also is calling God his own father, making himself equal to God. I always use this when I'm talking to Jehovah's Witnesses or whatever You know, they don't like it. They got fourteen answers to it. But the point is, verses like, well he called himself the son of God because son is always lesser than the father, and so he's a son. He doesn't he doesn't say he's God. But the Jews knew That what he was saying was equating himself to equality with God the Father. And thus they tried to kill him. And then of course John 17 Jesus says in his high priestly prayer before his death, I glorified you on the earth, he says to the Father, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do. Now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Now in the little teeny box to the left side of that box It says things like, buy Dave a candy apple red 1965 Mustang. If your eyes aren't, you're not focused in real carefully Four important results of the resurrection. It declares the eternal sonship of Christ. It interprets Christ's death. It assures us of our own resurrection. Because if Christ did not rise from the dead, neither are you. But if he did, welcome home. And it points to Christ coming again. If death could not keep him in the grave, none of the bad orc people are going to keep him out of the world. Lord of the Rings second point I've made today. Alright, here's what we're gonna do. Page seven. Let me explain what you're about to get into. Okay? A little quiz for you to do. Now there's two kinds of quizzes you give when you're teaching. One is you quiz people about what you just said so that they can say, did they listen But I'm not doing that. This quiz is supposed to make you feel foolish. Okay? So I'm just letting you know that up front. But when the loaf was Thank you, Mr. German. Um and here's why, in in all honesty, th this quiz is supposed to help you begin to see that there are words that theologians talk about when they talk about the nature of Christ and his humanity and his deity. You realize that most of the cults have some uh uh that jumped off of one part of that ship or another. His humanity or his deity and how they're blended together in Christ. And these are words that Christians use to talk about that theme. Now you may not be familiar with them, but as we go through the book of Romans And we go through the doctrine of Christ in the book of Romans, these will be terms I will use, and so you can start to get to know them. So here's what we'll do. If you've got a minute, go ahead and look at your page, take your pen if you've got it, or a pencil, or just your mind, and see if you can match up some of the words on the left. to the definitions on the right. Now I would suggest the way to do it is read a definition, then look for the word. I'll give you a minute or two. That's okay. Now, there are a few men in this room who are in the spiritual leadership program, okay? The the twelve men who decided to ruin their lives. And they know that we give them a test with Two or three hundred questions, I forget what it is. Uh to begin with like that, we give them twenty minutes. And we're like, you should be able to do those three hundred questions or whatever in twenty minutes. And they're like, what? But the goal is to do them by the end of the year. Okay, so here we go. I'm going to read the definition. If you have the real answer, help us out. The union of Christ's human and divine nature in one being It's the Chalcedonian definition. Already we get the No, it's the hypostatic union. I'm kidding around. I'm just doing that to you, Henry. I'm just doing that. Okay. It's hypostatic union. Number two, Christ was created and he's not fully divine. Arianism, the one right across from it. Which is today's Jehovah's Witnesses. They follow Arius. The third one, Christ has two natures but one person. That is the Chalcedonian definition. That is the creed of the ancient church. Christ has two natures. But he only has one person. He's a human and divine nature. But there's only one center of gravity, if you will. There's one person in the person of Christ. If you're like What? I can just say this. According to Scripture, and then the attempts of the ancient church to create creeds, four of which to define these things. It is still true in evangelical churches today that professing Christians would fail a test on the nature of Jesus Christ. Because of three common errors, and I've written them up on the board here. The view that it was God and Abod. Right? There's no human person there. It's just God invaded a body and then walked around like a tent. There's no humanity, there's just a body. That is incorrect. He was a full human. Fully man, fully God. Or God and a blunder. Right? The God and the man to blunder. And now there's a church and quiz, there's a third new thing. There's a God-man thing in the universe where you can't tell whether it's God or man, it's just a new thing. They've unleashed him But there is they did not blend those two together. And then thirdly, God and a buddy. There's a man and God living in a body And they're like, who are you? So that Christ would have been confused as to who he was. He didn't know who he was. That those common errors. Those are three common misconceptions, and so if you did the test, okay, God and a bod, that's a polynarianism. God in a blunder is Eutikianism, and God in a buddy is Nestorianism. You'll know all of that never. Okay. Alright, let me do a couple others here. Um Christ had two separate persons in him. Nestorianism. Christ had a human body and a divine nature, but no human soul. Apollinarianism He was miraculously conceived without a human father. Virgin birth, excellent guys. Some of you are like, I'm not sure anymore. Alright, Christ gave up some of his divine attributes while he was on earth. The kenosis theory. Yeah. That he emptied himself of all but love, says John Wesley in his hymn. Wrong. He never emptied himself. God cannot stop being God for like two seconds, right? He cannot do that. And then Christ was not a man. That's called doceticism, and that is the idea that he appeared like a man, a phantom, but he actually did not have humanity. And then finally Christ was not able to sin, that is true, impeccability. Christ could not sin, even though we talk about temptation, we'll talk about that. Because God cannot be tempted with sin. And nor Kennyson. Bottom of page seven, the Chalcedonian definition. Don't lose your mind, Jet. This is a document from 451, one of the four creeds that even Protestants agree with today. And this was a definition of the church by the church in order to say what does the whole Bible teach about the doctrine of Christ and his humanity and deity? Here's what they said Follow along if you can. We then, following the Holy Fathers, all with one consent, teach men to confess one and the same Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. The same perfect in Godhead and also perfect in manhood, truly God and truly man, of a reasonable, rational soul and body, consubstantial And coessential with the Father, that is, he has the same stuff, he's God, with the Father according to the Godhead, and consubstantial with us according to the manhood. He was truly a man in all things like unto us, without sin, begotten before all ages of the Father according to the Godhead, and in these latter days for us and for our salvation, born of the Virgin Mary, the mother of God, is not Roman Catholicism. And we'll talk about that. According to the manhood, one and the same Christ, Son, Lord, only begotten, to be acknowledged in two natures. Inconfusibly, unchangeably, indivisibly, one nation overall, inseparably. You see that? Not confusing the natures, no blending. They're unchangeable, indivisibly, inseparable, not two people inside, the distinction of natures being by no means taken away by the union but rather the property of each nature, humanity and deity, being preserved and concurring in one person and one subsistence. not parted or divided into two persons, but one and the same Son, and only begotten God, the Word, the Lord Jesus Christ, as the prophets from the beginning have declared concerning him, and the Lord Jesus himself has taught us, and the creed of the Holy Fathers has been handed down to us. It's good stuff, isn't it? Yeah. Alright, page eight, you're almost there. The end of the world as you know it. Well this is an excursus of sorts. Well not really. Paul's talking about the gospel. So when he says the gospel, we're going to learn a lot more about that in this book. But let me remind you of 1 Corinthians 15, why. Because we live in a day in evangelicalism where this is said, the word gospel is used adjectivally. Gospel family. Gospel church. Gospel pizza. Gospel this, gospel that. Gospel coalition. Gospel whatever. Together for the gospel is not bad. But it's used a lot like gospel this, gospel family, gospel parenting, gospel whatever. Is that bad? No, because we're going to do the whole book together and find out that the implications of the gospel lead you to those things So if that's what we're saying, that's fine. But it's easy in our day to lose what the gospel message is in order to get saved. What is the content of saving faith? Now I say this because I've been doing membership interviews as a pastor for the last 38 years of my life. And there is a lot of different membership interviews you can do, but we always ask people If you died today and you stood before God and he said, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? Or how is it that you came to know Christ as your Savior? And then I'll eventually say, can you explain in very small what the gospel is You might be surprised how it is Ross is sitting out there, he's done membership interviews with me, he's done many. You might be surprised how people are confused, even professing Christians, about the very basics of the gospel. What does a person have to do to be saved? Steve shaking his head too. I've sat with Steve in those. Even Steve didn't know. I mean I asked. Steve and I looked at each other and go, I don't know, but what is it? You know, just kidding. Steve's great Alright, here's a refresher of what Paul said about the gospel in 1 Corinthians 15. Now I make known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you. That's pretty straight up. Which also you received, and which also you stand, by which also you were saved, if you hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you have believed in vain, not truly believed For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas and to the twelve. Now the next part is not a demonstration of the gospel, it's the after effect. He saw a bunch of people as an evidence that he had been risen. Guys, we know this But every time you talk to another Christian, even, and you talk about the gospel, please refresh their memory of those things. What is the gospel? What do I have to believe to be saved? That Jesus Christ died on the cross for my sins. He was buried and he rose again the third day. Paul's point is the resurrection is the demonstration that all of that is true. And that he was seen as an evidence of that, right? So simple, and many of you have been a Christian a long time and you know that, you're totally plugged in. But again, you'd be surprised how many professing Christians cannot articulate the content of what saved them In California, I used to call it this when we would ask people, because California lifestyle is a little different. I used to call it the Big Kahuna Confession. It would go something like this. So um so Donnie, tell me a little bit how you came to know Christ as your savior. Man, I was like totally on the beach. Right away I know. It's not going where I want it to go. I was just looking out into the great everything and I just knew I felt warm inside You got a fever or what? You know, so when you start hearing people's testimony, you know right away. Do they know the gospel? Don't they know the gospel? Alright, to quickly quicken the pace here on page eight. It's the good news then. The Bible contains both good news and uh bad news and good news. The bad news is something about us, the good news is something about God. And here's my point and then I'll read this next box The Greek word is ooh on geleon. Ooh on geleon. Ooh on geleon. Okay When you leave here today you can have dinner with some people who go to different churches but they're friends of yours and you can go. Hey your church They teach ooangelion. Like, no. Come on over, we'll initiate you. The Greek word uangelion is also translated in different ways. Evangel or the gospel. Or later, the Reformation, Luther started using that term to be gospel people, evangelicals, ungelios. The point of it is, this next box harkens back to my initial comments that Paul was dealing in a world where Caesar was seen to be the savior, and so I just read this excerpt for you. The most famous pre-Christian use of the word Uongelion is the Prion inscription. This is a letter from the proconsul Apollos Fabius Maximus. Engraved in stone in Prion, a city in modern day Turkey. It seemed good to the Greeks of Asia, in the opinion of the high priest Apollonius of Menophilus, Hazanetus. Try those. Since Providence, which has ordered all things and is deeply interested in our life, has set in most perfect order by giving us Augustus. whom she filled with virtue that he might benefit mankind, sending him as a savior, Greek word soter, soteriology. Both of us, and for our descendants, that he might end war, arrange all things, and since he, Caesar, by his appearance, surpassing all previous benefactors And not even leaving to posterity any hope of surpassing what he's done. And since the birthday of the god, Augustus, was the beginning of the U Angelion for the world that came by reason of him. Interesting, huh? Pre-Christian The word Uongaleon means good news. It meant that before the Christian Church used it. What is the good news? The best news in the world was that Caesar could do the things he did. Pax Romana, all of those things. Caesar conquering, giving us a world of safety and peace, was the greatest gospel you could preach. But Rome fell apart. And Paul is preaching to us in Romans 1, or teaching us in Romans 1, I come to you with the true gospel. It will set you free. And it will never fail. So at the bottom of page eight I just have a qu quote by Bruce Hearst to kind of condense everything I think I've said. Paul's good news was not from or about the Emperor, but was of God, belonging to God, originating with God and committed to men by God who qualified them for preaching. And gives them effects related to their preaching of the gospel. God alone receives the glory in the gospel. Well we have five minutes left. I've always wanted to sing, but I'm not any good at it, so I'll just keep going. Page nine Here we are. This is the last page, guys. The next one is just definitions. The ministry of the gospel of God, verses 5 to 7. The messenger? The message. Now what? Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship, to bring about the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles for his name's sake. Among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ. To all who are beloved of God in Rome, called the saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. What I say in these five three verses is this is Paul's explanation of the ministry of the gospel, but this is what I really want to say in this little box, knowing my time. Paul introduces themes here that will be further examined and explained in the rest of the book of Romans. We are simply going to mention them with brief commentary In anticipation of our next lesson, which picks these up. So we'll simply mention them and close in prayer. Okay? What is in front of us in these three verses is simply this. Who is the master of the gospel of God? It is Jesus Christ our Lord. Paul's very strategic in his uses. He's Jesus, he's a man. He's Christ, he's the Messiah. He's the Lord, he's the master. It means how are we and how did the Apostle Paul fulfill his calling with the gospel of God? Through whom we received, through whom who? Jesus. He gave us grace for salvation and he gave us grace for apostleship, says Paul. That's two of the themes Paul will pick up in the book, salvation and service. Thirdly, its mission, to bring about the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles. Let me stop Obedience and faith are not usually together. That's like works and faith No? It's this and the theme will be picked up by Paul. This is not the requ uh the invitation to the gospel is not a request. It's a command. We are not requesting people come to Jesus Christ as Savior. It's a command of a king It says in the book of Acts, God has sent them forth commanding everyone everywhere to repent and believe the gospel. It's the messengers of a king then sent out to say, Caesar says this you must obey. Paul is saying, this is what God says. He is to bring about the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles. calling men to repentance, men and women to repentance and faith in the true gospel and not in Caesar and not in any false gods. And then fourthly, what's the motivation for his namesake? The gospel's about God. Evangelism is about God Piper says that missions exist because worship does not. Evangelism exists until the nations worship. And then finally it's mercy. The gospel of God is merciful, among whom you also are the called. To all who are beloved of God, called as saints, called, beloved. What is this leading to? Paul will eventually talk about his sovereignty, God's sovereignty. But God's choice of us is his mercy. His message could have gone out as a command with no mercy But the command goes with mercy. It is God who called you to himself. It is God who brought you to himself in his mercy. And he has enfolded us into that message. And now he says, friends, take this to other people. Let's pray