Alright, well welcome back uh to our study in the book of Romans. We are in lesson thirty-one today. We're in that section of the book of Romans on sovereignty. We've done sin, salvation, and sanctification, and now we're in that section of the book in chapters nine to eleven that looks mostly at the issue of sovereignty. Uh we know that the question on the table that Paul is addressing in chapter Chapters nine to eleven is the question of whatever happened to Israel. And that is, if God's people, Israel was God's people and they were chosen, just as Paul says we are in the church then whatever happened to them and can the chosen be lost? Because it seems like all Israel was chosen, but only some are getting saved. And so Paul's addressing that in chapters nine to eleven to show us that God is faithful to his promises, his word never comes back void, and that he has a plan to complete what he promised to Israel. In chapter eleven, we'll get there, Lord willing. uh in the next two weeks. So in our notes in front of us, I simply say this at the top of the page, that Romans chapter ten, verses one to four, where we finally reach chapter ten, you've reached a milestone in your life. I hope that you'll have a celebration about that. We made it to chapter ten in Romans. Uh and verses one to four I simply say that it teaches us three major things. First of all, that election and evangelism actually go hand in hand. And the apostle is going to show us that in his words. Secondly, religion doesn't save anyone. And thirdly, sincerity isn't enough. Paul addresses all three of those questions in these verses in chapter 10. And so as we dive in, I want to refresh one part of our memory. relative to Easter and relative to where Paul has been. Paul has described, of course, in the book of Romans that everyone is dead in their sins, that no one is good, no one was righteous, everyone is dead And then Israel in particular, which he's dealing with in these chapters, needs a resurrection. The picture in Ezekiel of the dead bones being brought back to life. And the new heart given to them in Ezekiel thirty-six. And so as you look at that, I want to speak just for a minute. about resurrection because Paul is going to talk about the gospel here and because it's Easter I I just I just feel the compulsion to say something about resurrection. And here is what it is. Have you ever noticed that every time Jesus went to a funeral he messed it up? Right. Carla and I were at a funeral this past week as you know if you were here last week and uh I did a funeral for a very loved relative down in Alabama and so Carla and I are fresh from the funeral And one of the things that has dawned on me over the time is the the three times that Jesus went to a funeral. Let me just do them quickly to refresh you on on Resurrection Day. First of all was the little girl Jairus' daughter. 12-year-old daughter. Jairus comes to Jesus and says, My daughter's near death. Can you come? On the way he's delayed, and men come from the house and say, Don't bother the teacher anymore Your little girl is dead. And Jesus says, No, she's not. Not today. She's just sleeping arrives, they laugh at him, he takes the mother and the do and the uh the father and Peter, James, and John into the room, and he says Little girl, arise. And she gets up and he says, give her some food. Maybe that has something to do with it. I don't know. Jesus messed that up and it wasn't even a funeral She'd been dead for just a matter of time. He gets there before their funeral plans. The second one that comes to mind is of course the widow who loses her only son. This one, Jesus messes up the actual funeral. They're on their way to bury him. He's on a cart in a coffin, and they're having the funeral service, and Jesus interrupts it, touches the coffin, stops them, hears of the widow's situation, and tells this young man, Rise. He gets up, he talks and says people are like, you know And then he gives him back to his mother and he goes on his way. But the third one that Jesus messes up is the most famous one to most of us, and that is Lazarus Now we all know that in that situation Jesus was sent a message by Mary and Martha saying, Your friend, your best friend, Lazarus, besides John, is is near death. Please come as quickly as possible. And of course the text tells us Jesus decides, Nope, not coming and it says, right? He turns the other way and just keeps preaching. And he does that so the glory of God is shown. When he arrives of course, Martha meets him and says, Lord If you'd have been here, my brother wouldn't have died. And he's like, Nope. I am the resurrection 'Cause she says, I know I'll see him again in the resurrection. He goes, I am the resurrection. And of course you know the whole scene, they get to the tomb, and they're like, Lord, he's been dead for four days. So with the little girl, no funeral that had taken place in the middle of a funeral, now four days after a funeral. I believe this third one is is a picture so that all of us who are in Christ, it doesn't matter how long you're going to be dead. He's gonna raise your body. And it doesn't matter, you know, fifty years, five thousand, four days, it doesn't matter And so of course he goes there and he says, just move the stone. Okay? Let's get on with this. I don't go to funerals, basically, Jesus says. Nobody stays dead. And he says, Lazarus. Come forth. And he comes out of the tomb and like you mess up. Oh I was getting there. Didn't you mess up my message? Thanks, Nelva. Let's rewind that next surprise, okay? I was getting there, but yes. Oh, happy birthday. So as Nalda has so appropriately said, Jesus messed up his own funeral, he was dead three days and came back, and of course he had said, uh you can't take my life from me, I lay it down, and I will take it up again. Uh Jesus doesn't say dead And neither will we in the resurrection. So Jesus messes up funerals, right? It's a good thing All right, back to our text there here at the top of the page then. So Paul, having taught on God's sovereign election in chapters eight and nine. Now in chapter ten turns to man's responsibility to explain Israel's current status. Very simple. Chapters eight and nine told us election is how people get saved. It's only the elect within Israel that get saved, not everybody. But then the question now has to arise, well, do they have any responsibility to this? So chapter ten is all about responsibility to believe the gospel How will they believe unless there's a preacher? If you confess with your mouth, uh you know, glorious the feet of those who who go. It it's all about the presentation of the gospel and you must believe it And how they had rejected it, it's man's responsibility, overlaid with God's sovereignty in these chapters, then chapter 11 again. Okay? So let's look at just verses 1 to 4. Today, verse 1, we're going to take a look at. And so let me read verses 1 to 4. Brethren, my heart's desire. And my prayer, says Paul, to God for them is for their salvation. For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not in accordance with knowledge. For not knowing about God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness. to everyone who believes. So verse one, Paul prayerfully yearns for Israel's salvation. Brethren, my heart's desire and my prayer to God for them is for their salvation. After just telling us that they had walked away from the Lord in chapter nine. A few things that I think through. Number one, he has good will towards them despite their persecution of him. When he says my heart's desire, that Greek word means I have good will. In my heart, it's not just a desire. I I have good will towards them. We talked about last week where they said of Paul in the book of Acts, when he was preaching, the Jewish crowd said, Away with him, this man is not worthy to be alive And yet Paul continues to say, I have good will towards those who persecute me and hate me. And that could be like your family or or friends that you try to reach out to and they despise you for the gospel, and yet you have good will towards them and you continue by God's grace to love them and care about them. Number two, he once was what they still are. And if we can keep that in mind also that we once were what our relatives or friends or co-workers are when we are pr praying for them. And Philippians 3 he had said, although I myself might have confidence in the flesh If anyone else has a mind to put confidence in the flesh, I far more. I'm circumcised the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrew, as to the law of Pharisee, as to zeal. That's in this passage. I say they have a zeal for God, but it's not according, it's not in relationship to knowledge. He said, as to zeal, I was a persecutor of the church. Yes, Lord. That's a beautiful ringtone. Yeah. But Paul's saying as to zeal he was a persecutor of the church. We're gonna come back to this in a minute, but the thing is Zeal without knowledge is crazy village. Paul says, I was very zealous, so I killed people. Who were Christians? So anyway, on with it. As as to zeal of persecutors of the church, as to the righteousness which is in the law, the rituals, the the program I was blameless before men. I did all the things they asked me to do. Number three, his belief in election, which he just taught in the last two chapters. does not stop him from caring, praying, and working for the conversion of those who are lost. They're to be held in tension. I think these two verses that we're about to read should be understood to be Paul's entire look at his ministry from the sovereign side and the man side. Take a look. 2 Timothy 2. For this reason I endure all things. For the sake of those who are chosen. Paul saying, I go through all this stuff, shipwrecks, suffering, persecution, everything. For the sake of the elect. Why? So what he's doing, if you just take his Romans eight and nine, he's saying, I preach like crazy, but at the end of the day I know God's gonna save particular people and he has particular people, and my preaching isn't gonna be in vain, although he doesn't have And so Paul can say, I do all of this for the elect Because he recognizes that at the end of the day God only saves some, so that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus and with it eternal glory. Guys, it takes a lot of weight off being a pastor. It doesn't take responsibility off. It takes a weight off of it. Again, as we've said, Jesus was the greatest preacher who ever lived. And they hated him and they didn't listen to him. So what's my chances of wowing the crowd? Right? You know? I'm gonna get up and make people believers. Yeah, I can't I have a hard time getting my own self to be a believer. I can't do any of that without Christ And so the point of it is Paul is saying, I do all of this for the chosen ones, because I preach, I do all this, I know God's going to save. But the other verse is the human responsibility side, 1 Corinthians 9. I do all things for the sake of the gospel. I do all things for the sake of the gospel, so that I may become a fellow partaker of it. If we went on in that passage, he says, and I do all things for the sake of the gospel, so that I might win Some. To those who are under the law, I I act like a man under the law. A man who's free, I act like a man who's free. I do all of this missional stuff I am a missionary. Why? Because of the gospel's sake and I want to see some come to Christ, so that I might win some. If you take both verses together, who are the sum? The chosen ones that he expected to be saved, but he doesn't sit around in his basement playing Donkey Kong and saying right and just saying, Well I'm sure God's gonna save the elect. That's how he rolls The apostles saw both. I do everything for the gospel. My life's about the gospel. I I everything I do is about getting the word out to people who are lost. And let God sort that out, but at the end of the day I know there are chosen ones, and this is not a waste of time. If we can hold those two intention, that's what Paul's doing in Romans 9-11, the ark. God is sovereign, man is responsible, but man's responsibility does not overcome God's sovereignty. He will do all that he intended to do. Alright, number four, what I see in this this verse is his care for the lost reflects God's concern for the lost. But Jesus was saying, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. And they cast lots, dividing up his garments among them. Yeah. Lord forgive these people who are continuing to abuse me here in front of everyone and kill me. And that's what Paul's saying. I have good will towards these people who hate me, and I'm going to continue to love them and pray for them and preach the gospel to them. And then fifthly, just in summary, Paul's attitude towards his kinsmen instructs us in three ways. Despite Israel's sin, there's no room for anti Semitism. Any efforts of Christians or non-Christians in the past to blame the Jews for the crucifixion in such a way to blame them as if we are not part of that Okay, it was the Gentiles that actually killed him. The Jews Jewish leaders gave him up, but the people, when they had an opportunity before Pilate, Pilate said, Do you want me to release your king? And they're like, No, away with him And let his blood be on us and our children's children. So they're more guilty than we are Right, Jesus was on that cross because of my sins. He he was there because of our sins. So we're just as guilty. as anyone who put him on the actual physical cross, because we all put him on the cross. If I'd have been there, I'd have been yelling, crucify him B. God's sovereignty in salvation is no excuse, bottom line, for us to stop praying for the salvation of other people Becoming a Calvinist, if you want to call it that, or whatever that doctrine is, if it means you're not going to pray and you're not going to witness throw your Bible away, man Because because you must give out what God gave to you. And then see, Paul is neither in ultimate he is neither in ultimate despair as he knows that God will sovereignly save a remnant, nor is he callous or indifferent to the plight of the lost, as he is concerned enough to pray and witness Paul prays for the lost just as we must also do. Okay? Verse 1. So the implication then the question, we've addressed it. Paul is praying. He shows us we should pray But just for a minute, I, or a few minutes, I want to address the question on page two, why pray if God has already chosen who will be saved? It will not be satisfying in a philosophical answer, but just a reminder of the essential reasons, the parameters around that question from the scriptures, just remind you, Romans 9 Which we've been through, Paul says, For though the twins were not yet born, had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose according to his choice or election would stand, not because of works, but because of him who calls. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, I will have compassion on whom I have compassion, so then it does not depend on the man who wills or the man who runs, but on God who has mercy. Alright, we've been through that passage, took chapter 8 and 9, and addressed that, God's sovereign election. But here are five things that I would say about why we should still pray. Some of them are quite simple, but to the point. Number one, God tells you to pray for the evangelizing of the lost. Paul asks for it, but the evangelizing, the efforts of the church to evangelize. Ephesians 6, and pray, Paul says, on my behalf. that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel. Paul, consistent with his does all things for the gospel, asks for prayer He doesn't just wing it out there. He asks, pray. Pray that God will do something through the preaching of the gospel. Secondly, God tells you to pray for the salvation of the lost. That's usually our answer. But it's true. But I don't know if they're elect and what if they just do it. Right? Just do it. Let God sort it out. First Timothy 2. First of all. Then I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions and thanksgiving be made on behalf of all men, for kings, and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of truth. It is God's will for us to pray that other people come to know Christ as their Savior. It's good and acceptable to God. Now I'm not going to theologize that verse. You know, that's that's for another day. God answers your prayers, number three. James five. Therefore, confess your sins to one another. We're going to do that right after the the class today. The worst sinners come up first. Oh, I guess I'll start. And uh pray for one another so that you may be healed. The effective prayer or effectual prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much. And first John of course tells us this is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything according to his will He hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the request which we have asked from him. If you combine those, James 5 is about passion. Pray like crazy. The effectual fervent prayer, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much is another King James version Pray like crazy. Ask him to do. Ask him to save your relatives. Ask him to save your son. Ask him to save your brother. Ask him to save your boss. But first John five, not but but in combination again. First John five says if we pray according to his will, we know he hears us and he's going to do it. Now there's two parts of praying according to his will. Praying according to his moral will, anything we pray for in Scripture or according to his moral will where he's commanded things to do, we know he wants to do them and he will be working those out. But we don't know his sovereign will. Back to the question of election, we don't know. We don't know if a person is elect or not. So we don't know if we're praying according to God's sovereign will. That's why this passage is not telling you don't pray. It is simply saying if you pray according to his will. He will hear you and he will affect this. The point of it is whether whether we take on the second part of it or not. The first part is simply this Prayer is God's method, and evangelism is God's method to save people. He uses means. Uh you've heard the phrase hyper-Calvinist Right? That's not just somebody who's a Calvinist who has ADHD. That was pretty good, wasn't it? I even I even got to use a snortle. Yeah, right? Uh I've done it in so many classes, I'm like you know, so um A hyper-Calvinist is really, at the end of the day, someone who believes that God doesn't use means. Right? He just saves people. We don't need to evangelize them. We don't need to pray. You know Uh that's the story I think of Hudson Taylor. No, no, no. Who's the dude in England who uh George Millennium No? Ray Comfort. Oh man. I went in Ray Comfort's office one time And so I was in Ray's office and he said, Dave, you want to look in my closet? I was like, sure, Ray. He uh he opened the closet and you know what was in there? A skeleton. That's what I remember Ray Comfort. Yeah. No, he's a great man. He's a really great man. No, I'm thinking of Another famous missionary started the missionary thing, well we'll just edit the tape later. Point is he went to them in the early part of that the sweep of evangelism that took place in the early 1800s And he went to a group to ask for funding from his denomination and they said, If God wants to say as the heathen, he will. We don't need to send you And that's the type of hyper-Calvinism. Believing that God will save the elect, if we do nothing, by the way, if Hope Bible church is full of hyper-Calvinists Right? You still go to heaven and be a hyper Calvinist. But thank God for the people who came and told you. Right? But what if none of us? We all leave this room and we're like, I'm never going to evangelize God will raise up whatever means he wants to to save those he's going to save. He will raise up servants out of rocks. He will put on the heart of somebody. He will raise up his method. to save his he always has the means to do his his product. So and that I'm sorry, somebody, yeah, Ann. Um this is if we ask anything according to his own. Mm-hmm Well in the box just above that, the last line it says he desires all men to be saved. So isn't that the two? No. Let's move on. You said that last week. Thanks, Ann. Um Yeah, we did the Second Peter one last week about it. So In this particular passage, since you asked me, two things about that passage. Number one, uh he desires that we pray for kings and those in authority, all men Not every single man, but categories of men. The whole the whole chapter taken together is all men, all kinds of men, kings, those in authority, other people. Secondly, God has not desired or God has desired that all men be saved. It either means one of two things. Either way, whatever position you take, there's some trouble with it. It either means that God desires all men to be saved, every single person, then you have the trouble that not all are saved, and you get back to election, which is he's only going to save those he chose. So there's some profound issues with that. Or, back to the category, God has categories of people. He desires that all kinds of people are saved, which I think fits the category. But the third one is The third option in that is the word desires all men to be saved there is not the same as he wills it to be. Uh it's a desire thing and it's not a will thing. And so when he it says that God wills or God wants something to happen, there's Boolemai and Thalemai and Greek words that mean He's gonna do that. That's his will. If it's a word, and I forget which Greek word is there, and I think it's thumwai or whatever, but basically it's a desire. He wants people to repent and believe But it doesn't mean that he's going to affect everyone. It doesn't mean everyone is elect. So it says that God commands everyone everywhere to believe the gospel and repent. He commands them to But he does not elect everyone to respond to the gospel. So that passage needs unpacking, which I've done in twelve seconds, but it doesn't mean every single individual. And if it did, then then it means the desire passage would be the issue, I think. And God desires men to come, but he will not affect it. And so can his desires be against his will? Yes, because he desires us to be holy and we're not. So God's desire sometimes is in not in conflict, but he allows his desires so that it God is attacked, if you will, by our actions, but he does not cause us to do things. And so God can desire something that he decides not to affect because it's part of his moral will but not his sovereign will He desires all of us to be holy. But we're not. Yeah, Matt. Now you have the complexities of the God man and the the questions there, but yeah, Matt, it's the same thing as um God has real emotions Uh some theologians teach God has no emotion, that to have an emotion is to change. Uh but God in time and space has decided to respond to his people and have real relationships and the Trinity w had a perfect relationship before there was man. And so God has real feelings. Uh and so Jesus did weep, right? That the Lazarus scene, you know, Jesus weeps. But that seems to be out of out of chord with the fact he knows he's gonna raise him from the dead, how can you hold the tension that he has all knowledge and he has he cries even though he knows the guy's gonna come back from life Because he's responding in time and space. Jesus was a real man. And so God has affections, God has desires. Uh but God's desires are never against his will. You know, nothing is in the universe where he's like, I wish I could have done that. We we have desires for things to happen that are more like, I wish that would happen God has desires for people that He allows others to respond and use their will, but it does not thwart His plan. How does He do that? It's a mystery. But yeah. It's a lot to get our heads around and you know Good, good questions, good thoughts, and don't ever ask me that again. And uh Appreciate you. Yeah, all the elect will hear the gospel and will be saved. Yeah, well all the elect will hear the gospel and be saved. Yeah. Everyone that the Father has given him will come to him. So. Alright. Uh so number four. Don't use your limited knowledge of God's will That is what we just talked about. Election. I got the election sword. I'm gonna cut everybody up with it. Don't use your limited knowledge of God's will as an excuse to disobey God's revealed will. Deuteronomy twenty-nine tells us the secret things belong to the Lord, our God. But the things revealed belong to us and our sons forever, that we may observe all the words of his law. We don't know who all the elect are, but we know that we're supposed to evangelize Number five, pray because God alone can change the hearts of the lost. John 6. All that the Father gives me will come to me. So we know that that elect group is set. And the one who comes to me I will certainly not cast out. So if you're elect, you can never not be saved No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. So picture together. No one can come unless the Father does something special But everyone who's already been chosen will all come. Therefore you put that combo platter is they must have been drawn. They must have been brought along because no one can come to me unless I draw them, and all that the Father gives me will come to me. Therefore they were drawn in a way in which others were not Acts chapter 16. A woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening, and the Lord opened her heart. to respond to the things spoken by Paul. So don't stop praying for the lost. Four things. Do not do you care deeply about the lost? Do you regularly pray for the lost? Do you actively seek the salvation of the lost? And are you actually expecting at this point in your life that God is actually going to save somebody? You know, it's beautiful when you pray for somebody for twenty, thirty, and forty and fifty years. And you get to a point you're like, and then they get saved. It's so awesome I know Carla and I've seen that with relatives. You know, you prayed for thirty years, thirty-five, and then one day, like my Jewish sister in law We were all praying at my house. We've been praying for years. She has she and my brother started coming to my church where I was preaching. I was a senior pastor. And she's coming, so she's under the word, but she'd been reading the New Testament unknown to me And I remember the day that she and my brother John, sorry, uh called us and said, Can we come over? And I know our two sons and Carla and I had been praying for her that day. And she came over and She simply said, I've been reading the New Testament. And she said, I have come to believe that Jesus is the Messiah. You know, years of praying for her, years of praying for this. That God's arm is not shortened that he cannot save. So Isaiah fifty five Uh and Isaiah fifty-nine at the bottom. So will my word be which so will my word which goes forth from my mouth? It will not return to me empty, without accomplishing what I desire And without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it. And then secondly, of course, behold, the Lord's hand is not so short that he cannot save. Nor is his ear so dull that he cannot hear. Pray, ask God, and then witness And God raises the dead. Alright, page three, uh verse two. This is the longest exposition of two verses in the history of humanity. Uh religious zeal and sincerity are not enough. Let's get into that. So Paul says, For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not in accordance with knowledge. This word accordance with just simply is it's not informed zeal. Because in the next verse, if you just take the next verse by itself, it almost sounds like they didn't know, they were ignorant, they had no idea there was a gospel But Paul is starting here by saying they're totally jacked up on religion juice. But it's not in accordance with the stuff in the Bible. Okay? It's not where they got this. And so let's move on again. For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not in accordance with knowledge Number one, Paul acknowledges that they have a sincere religious zeal. They are passionate for the law, the temple, and their traditions. Unfortunately, it turned bad. And Jesus mentions in Matthew 23, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you're extremely zealous. Because you travel around on sea and land to make one proselyte. Your missionary zeal is ridiculous. It's off the off the chart. And when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourself. Zeal for mission without the right gospel leads people to hell. Number two, I'm sorry, uh B. Paul used to be exactly as they are, right? Uh he went about killing Christians. He thought he was doing God a service. And then C, they were willing to pay a high price for their beliefs. Jews were willing to go and evangelize and suffer persecution, all of that, but that does not make you right with God. So two, the zeal of the Jews is not according to the truth. That's Paul's point The Jews lack true knowledge of God. Here's a few passages as an example of anyone who would be in that case. In 2 Corinthians it says, But their minds were hardened For until this very day, at the reading of the Old Covenant, the same veil remains unlifted, because it is removed in Christ. But to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their heart. And so that's the idea of they're hearing it. Every every Saturday But nothing. Not according to knowledge is their zeal. Um Pardon me, Romans nine uh simply tells us, but Israel, pursuing the law of righteousness, did not arrive at the law. They did not arrive at the purpose of the law by pursuing their own law of righteousness. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as though it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone. So zeal for truth is good and noble though. Jesus says, his disciples remembered that it was written, rather, Jesus did not say that zeal for your house will consume me. Jesus was zealous. He overturned the money tables in the temple. He was zealous for God, but he was zealous for God. So see, misguided zeal can become a dangerous fanaticism. I mean just think of Las Vegas Raider fans. Perfect point. It's like being in a cult When you think you have to work your way to heaven, um, and it has something to do with how many people that you can get to sign on Um, you know, if I sell enough vacuum cleaners I can go to heaven. Great. You know? I'm a terrible salesman, but I'll try it. And uh that's part of being in a cult. We had a family member who was a believer But uh in her elderly years, uh went to a um seniors home uh on her own choice, and it was run by a Catholic organization And so you had this evangelical believer person at this Catholic home. There was their choice and cost and sovereignty and providence. There's a lot of story behind it. But I'm sorry. Um But one of the things that Carl and I would comment to each other was this, because she got impeccable care there. And I said, Look, you want to be in a nursing home? Where they think they're working their way f to heaven by helping you. Okay? You get impeccable care. Alright? Alright, enough of that point. Kinda warped. Kinda warped that. Yeah, huh? Huh? Think about it. All right. Number three, middle of page three. Many who are sincere in their beliefs are just simply sincerely wrong. Some claim it doesn't matter what you believe, uh, so long as you are sincere I did miss the point above it though. Zeal is a neutral quality made moral by its object. They were zealous, but not for God or his righteousness. So back to 3A and then 3B. Paul shows that sincerity is not enough, Acts chapter 22. He says he's he's under questioning and he says, I am a Jew born in time Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city, educated under Gamaliel, strictly according to the law of our fathers, being zealous for God, just as you all are today. I was where you were. Jacked up on religion juice. I persecuted this way to the death, binding and putting both men and women into prison as also the high priests and all the council of the elders can testify. From then on I also received letters to the brethren and started off for Damascus in order to bring even those who were there to Jerusalem as prisoners to be punished. I was a zealot. And then C, false religious zeal is often a great barrier to salvation. Witnessing in New York City, witnessing in Brooklyn Witnessing uh down by the beach to Jewish people, when you run into people who are zealous Um I found out that the rabbis, man, they'll curse you out. Right? You been there? Yeah. Yeah? I was like, okay, it's neutral territory, we're out here, 'cause all these little kids, everybody's good. Rabbis were pretty brutal. Just think of what they did with Paul. I mean, Maya was a neutral country that couldn't do, you know, it was pretty nasty out there. Number four, evangelizing the zealous. Even the zealous must be saved. Right? Paul was a zealot Sincerity is no substitute for conversion. There is one way to be right with God. Guys, this these two verses, everyone in the room knows them, but I just want to remind you That nobody gets in by being sincere or zealous, and there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. And then 1 Timothy 2 reminds us, for there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. We need to evangelize those who have sincerely believed a lie. She did. She was a witness. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how much, you know, I got to go through the gospel part, but she'd be like, uh uh No, get the Mary thing away from me. Okay, this is what's real, you know. Um it's not the way I would end up wanting to be there, but maybe maybe God would put me there and then I could be an evangelist at the end Or maybe not. Who knows? Page four. Yeah, John. I yeah, you know, I would imagine uh not having studied the passage recently, but you know Paul will move Christ Jesus, Jesus Christ, the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, he'll move his things according to the passage. And the context, my assumption there is that Paul wants the h highlight in the in the Greek text, the highlight is humanity. The man Christ Jesus is the mediator between God and man. So highlighting his humanity, because God himself is not simply the mediator, but he's the man, Christ Jesus. So I think that's Paul's emphasis there. No, yeah. Okay, good. Top of page four. Men reject God's righteousness and arrogantly seek to establish their own, verse three, for not knowing about God's righteousness. Remember what we said. That doesn't mean they hadn't heard about it. Not knowing it, it's willful ignorance. Okay? Now, because the other verse said, Hey, you know, they knew but they didn't want it. So this one is going on. Paul's continuing to the next verse and saying, So basically not knowing about God's righteousness the way it is in the scriptures and seeking to establish their own righteousness, their own religion, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God. In very simple form, it's willful rejection of that which is leads to them wanting to establish their own religion and their own way of righteousness. And so therefore, ipso facto they are not submitting to the righteousness of God, which is by faith. Because it's now by works. So that's the the combo platter that Paul's doing. So number one, the self righteous Jews reject the righteousness God supplies. They are willfully ignorant on the subject of righteousness. Again, Romans 9, we read, but Israel pursuing a law of righteousness did not arrive at it. Romans 8, for the mindset on the flesh is death, but the mind on the spirit is life and peace, because the mindset on the flesh is hostile towards God. It does not subject itself to the law of God, for it's not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God But then more specifically, think about this verse, Acts thirteen, twenty seven. For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, recognizing Neither him nor the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled these by condemning him. That little combo there is They are don't recognize these prophets. They don't establish them as authority, even though it's read every Sabbath Sunday. They do know But they reject and will not submit to the words being preached. Hey guys, it's it's being in an evangelical church in America. In the evangelical churches, and let me take it up a notch, evangelical churches that actually preach the gospel. I mean, you're like, those those should be the same thing. It used to mean that, but so claimed or so called so c churches. But those preach the gospel and actually preach God's Word, still there are many people in American churches who they refuse to submit to it. And they have their own religion in their head, they got Oprah Winfrey religion in their head, right? But they still come under the word It's possible to come every Saturday to synagogue. It's possible to come to every Sunday to church and not submit your heart to God. So B, they are determined to establish their own righteousness, seeking to establish their own righteousness. They exchange grace for law and faith for works. I just want to say that really quick I haven't drawn in a while. Um these terms come up in Paul's works all the time, right? These four terms. And just recognize that they're on two sides of a ledger and that it's not faith that's in opposition to the law. or works to grace, although they are sometimes combined that way. But it's basically grace and law are in opposition to each other. These are the means by which you're saved. You're either saved by grace Or you're saved by the principle of the law, right? That's the that's the focus. Secondly, the m the thing that causes your salvation in those systems, those are two different systems. In a grace system, it's only faith There isn't there is nothing to do. It's it's it's but in a law system it's works because it's laws you have to keep them. And so it's work. So you see that Paul Juxt opposes those and helps us understand that That's right. That's right. So what it would look like, very good. What it would look like if you're saved by grace through faith in Christ, then that person should obey God's law, not the Old Testament law, but the New Testament law, should obey that because they love God, but not to get saved, or else then you you just switch to law So it's not saying you're saved by keeping my commandments, but rather if you love me, keep my commandments. If if you're called and you're chosen, you believe then keep my commandments as an expression of my love. So good. Good point. Okay. Um so their own, quote unquote, their own righteousness is equal to pride So C, they refuse to submit to God's way of righteousness through faith in Christ. So to not subject themselves means to rebel. So what is this passage telling us? That they were in rebellion to God because of their pride, and they refused to submit to God's way of salvation through faith. Why? Why is it pride and rebellion to resist the gospel? Well, two reasons. He made the rules. It's God's gospel. He said this is the this is the new covenant. This is how I roll. To resist him is to resist the king, therefore it's a rebellion. And it's from pride, which is, no, I can earn it. I can make this work. Uh, just trust me, I got this. And no, you don't. And then number two, the error of the Jews is repeated by almost all religious people. I grew up Roman Catholic Some of you grew up Southern Baptist. A, people still think God is less holy than he is. And they are more holy than they are. Yeah, that's how we roll. B, people still think they can establish their own righteousness and C, being satisfied with their own righteousness, they refuse to submit to God's righteousness provided through Christ. So number three, Jesus came to call not the righteous but sinners. If you don't know you're unrighteous, you can't be saved. And it says, but when Jesus heard this he said, it's not those who are healthy who need a physician. But those who are sick. And of course that passage and others go on to say, so you guys are good, right? We don't need a physician. We're we're we're good. We're good here 'cause like you're good, right? Alright, we'll just move on If we if a person met the Lord Jesus Christ in his earthly ministry And rejected them. And saw the miracles, heard the gospel preached, met him, and rejected it. Is it greater weight on them than someone who just rejects it from afar. Now they're not more sinners than we are, but they have more light. They saw him They saw him and they rejected. So finally, basic point. Number four. Verse 4. You can only be saved through faith in Christ. Amen. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. Well, wait, so there was a time when you could be righteous by the law? So he's the end of that time, so you could get saved by the law, and now it's by faith. No. He's the end of this type of thing If you come to faith, he's the end of such trying to save yourself stuff. And in the next week, Lord willing, when we get to the next verse, Paul's going to dig in even deeper into this concept. Could you have been saved by the law in the Old Testament? And that's the next number of verses, but all that to say here as we end. Number one, in what sense is Christ the end of the law? The law points to Jesus as its true meaning and purpose. Galatians three. But before faith came we were kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore the law has become our tutor to or schoolmaster as most of us memorized it to lead us to Christ so that we may be justified by faith. For if we believed Moses, you if you believed Moses, Jesus said, you would believe me For he wrote about me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? The law points to Christ. Of course there's the road to Emmaus situation where he takes the two on the road to Emmaus and takes them back through He says, starting with Moses and all the prophets, he shows them in the word where he's at, and they're like, Oh yeah, that's right. An Old Testament survey in one evening And then top of page five, then Christ alone possesses the righteousness the law demands. That's the stumbling stone. That's the offense. That's the rock of offense. I'm a sinner in need. I I'm not a righteous person. I'm not as good as I think I am. I you what Well why Mother Teresa and I are like this. It depends on what generation and which part of the country and whatever you grew up in, but if you were a Catholic, you had your super saint Right? You had that person you could say, yeah, she or he's doing it, they're killing it, they certainly got in by works And then, as we all know, and I've said it before, if you're a Roman Catholic, you had your person who was the most vile person that you knew you were better f than Then you thought, I'm getting in. And that was you always went, Hitler or Mother Teresa. And if you could just bank in a little closer to Mother Teresa and not Hitler You're going to heaven as a Catholic. That's kind of how the bell curve went. For real. I know. We were all idiots. But So see, Christ has satisfied the righteous demands of the law. For our sins, we all know that, Galatians chapter three, for as many as of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, to perform them Now to one is justified by the law before God is evident, for the righteous man shall live by faith. However, the law is not of faith. On the contrary, he who practices them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for it. For it is written, Curses is everyone who hangs on a tree. The whole problem with keeping the law is those passages that tell us If you keep one you have to keep em all. If you disobey one, you've broken the whole thing 'cause it's a law code. You're a law breaker now, right? You're not a good person. Okay, those who come to Christ are finished with the law's methods of making them righteous. Romans chapter eight. For what the law could not do, weak as it was to the flesh, God did sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh And as an offering for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to spirit. But here's what Paul is not saying, that there's been a shift in the way of salvation, that it used to be by the law, now it's by faith, but rather, as we just spent Ten chapters talking about Paul saying it's always been by grace alone through faith alone, in Christ alone, with Abraham's conversion, with David's conversion, with ours. Man, I'm almost done. Less content on Easter, very important. You're like, we gotta roast in the oven. Hey, I did think of this this morning though. Actually maybe it was last night. And the irony of the fact that on Easter We celebrate with a ham. Right? Yeah, and also a ham and a Jewish thing it's the Passover? I don't know. The the Gentiles finally get to use ham. Oh we offer to you a ham. You know, so crazy stuff. Alright. I know it's a lot of verses and you're like, Dave, that's a lot of verses, but I want to end at the bottom of page five, reminding you as you leave today That the law, you're dead to the law. The law is dead to you if you're a believer in Christ. Acts 13 And through him everyone who believes is freed from all things from which he could not be freed through the law of Moses. Romans 3, because of the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. by the works of the law. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. But now, apart from the law of righteousness of God, has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Do you see the works of the law? Combo platter? Do we nullify the law through faith? That means it meant nothing? No, we establish it. What does that mean? We finish it. We to tell us diet. We take it to its highest point. The law was intended to do this very thing, and that is bring us to Christ. Romans 7 Or do you not know, brethren, for I am speaking to you those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives? For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law. Remember we went through that passage. We've been released from the law by our marriage with Christ, and it is no longer our master. Galatians two Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law But through faith in Christ Jesus. Even we believed in Christ Jesus. Even we Jews, Paul is saying, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law Since by the works of the law no one no f no flesh will be justified. I wish Paul would be clearer Galatians 5. And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision. That is, I'm gonna do all that Jewish stuff because that's gonna get me closer to God. That he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You want to start meeting and start calling your leaders rabbis and meet on Saturday? Okay, rabbis aren't in the Bible commanded. You want to keep the Sabbath Then keep all the keep them all. That's Paul's point. I'm gonna read that again. I testify again to every man who received circumcision. As a ritual, as a religious rite, that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You want to do a messianic temple thing and start doing the law stuff? Good luck. Then you better obey 'em all. Yeah, we just want to wear a yarmulk and come in there and sing yang-ga-danga-dangy and dance. No. I was gonna be done early today. One of the things that I do is just uh Right. Paul says Paul says that one person honors a day above another day. But all days belong to the Lord. All days belong to the Lord. So if a person on Saturday wants to worship the Lord in some special ways, I don't have a problem with that. But that's different than saying I am observing the Sabbath That is what Paul is saying about circumcision. Uh almost every male in America is circumcised as part of just You know, y y y y you get you're born, you get circumcised. Right. Nothing wrong with being circumcised. Right. Paul's point is, but if you do it as a religious rite And you observe that right. So you stay. You must observe the entire thing because you yeah. Uh no I'm not saying that because that would that was probably the part of Galatians too. Paul's saying any of those rituals and a return to Judaism as a practice in in the form of the Old Testament is against the New Covenant. Because it's the same Messiah who had the old covenant that says that doesn't exist anymore. The new covenant is his way of It Jewish people and Gentiles are under the new covenant as believers. Nobody is under the old covenant. Being Jewish is not like I worship in this Jewish way, but I'm really here, but rather the church has elders, it doesn't have rabbis. It it all of this is in the new covenant and these are the new laws Jesus has established a new law as to how we're to be doing things. And so it's not a return to go, well I'm going to keep some of those, and I'm going to keep some of those. Now if if you want to do the Seder as a celebration, you know, those are cool. But so we have a lot to talk about. But my concern is we live in a day of Judaizers again. That they have taken these practices and mainly in the messianic movement is Jesus saved me so I can keep the law. Oh that's how we feel Oh no, I'm not saying you are. But that is the message whether chosen people ministry or Jesus what's the one Choose for Jesus. It's it's it's called the the Torah movement, but basically Yeah, and and I've worked with those ministries and gone evangelizing and led groups to New York City and all that. And after hearing all their messages, they want to return to the law. They think that Jesus yeah, they think that Jesus saved us so we can obey the law. And that is not the case. So so we have plenty to talk about. This is good. This is good. Yeah. Uh well that was Jesus' saying. You have heard it re you've heard it said. Talmudic. But this is what the Word of God says Right. Okay, for those of you who are uncomfortable, let's keep moving. So Hebrews chapter ten at the bottom of the page. For the law, since it was only a shadow of the good things to come And not the very form of things can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer, continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near. And then finally James says, for whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. If you combine Paul's words with that, it is If you stumble in one, you've disobeyed it all. If you try to obey one, you must obey it all. Because you're trying to place yourself under a covenant. And you're either under the covenant of grace or the covenant of law. And if you're a believer in Christ, you're under the covenant of grace. And the and the symbols of the covenant of law were just that. The Sabbath was a symbol But communion and baptism are the symbols of the new covenant, and they should be observed and removal back to them, I think, I think has problems. So let me pray