Well, welcome back to our study in the Book of Romans. We're in lesson chapter 32. We're in that section of the Book of Romans on Sovereignty, Part 6. And we're in chapter 10 today, verses 5 to 21, a beginning point. And so as we look at that, remember that Romans five verses twenty uh Romans ten verses five to twenty-one teaches us that Israel is without excuse because they knew And rejected the gospel. Chapters 9, 10, and 11 are God giving us the big picture, as we know, of what in the world is happening in the world and what is happening with salvation. Why is God what's happening in the church now happening and why is what happened to Israel happening to them. I'm just going to draw really quickly and we'll come back to this as a motif here as we go through the text. Just to remind you of the bigger picture, the arc of of Israel's story and where it fits into salvation, because that's what we're going to get into today with the Apostle Paul. And so just recall that in the Old Testament times, the New Testament times, in the Old Testament times, at the beginning, was that age of creation, fall, flood, and nations, for those of you who've been through walk through the Bible, right? And then Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, right? And all that happened. And so in the book of Genesis, we have essentially 2,000 years from creation to the time of Abraham. And then we have about 2,000 years. From the time of Abraham to the time of Christ. And look, we have about two thousand years since the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. In ten years it would be two thousand years. Uh thirty-three AD to twenty-twenty-three. And so we're roughly on that period of time as it was. As we're going to look at today, God gave to Abraham, of course, the promises of the land, the seed, and the blessing Which then Israel inherited inherits. And then we go through the period of the Old Testament period in which they s they have these promises of salvation by faith. And that Abraham came to justification by faith. as we saw in in Romans chapter four. But then you have this weird period of the law, in which Abraham was promised, it's by faith, that's how you get justified, and then the law comes. And Christians Not necessarily you, you've been in a good Bible teaching church, but Christians are confused about that. You know, why why the law? Well, we know the verse in Galatians, you know, it's a it's a tutor to bring you to Christ. But what's up with this whole law, period? And could you be made righteous? Righteous by the law? No, is correct. But verse five that we're about to look at Paul says you can. But we have to understand what he means, okay? That's why I'm going up here and saying This can be confusing. We should say categorically as Christians, we have the New Testament, that no one can be made righteous by the works of the law. Paul has said that a zillion times. And in verses two to four we looked at last week of chapter ten, he said it again. But is there a thing called law righteousness? There is. The Apostle Paul, when he gives his own testimony to Philippians, he said, As to the law's righteousness, I was found blameless. Right? Now we know, because Pastor Gabe's taking us through Philippians, we know that he's not saying, as to all those works, I did everything perfectly according to God. But as to the exterior works, the festivals, the things, the keeping of the commandments, exterior, I have Paul's going to address that in verse 5 here and explain to us that in Israel there were two ways to be saved. Hold on. What by the law and by grace. In the Old Testament, it was there in the Old Testament, God made clear to them. You can be righteous, justified by the law, if you keep every single part of it, and never fail in any part. you would be considered a righteous person. Or, because all of you are sinners, you can accept the coming Messiah. And the sacrificial lamb who on your s for you paid for all your sins because you can't keep this. The whole point of whatever happened to Israel is Israel, as a nation, decided that this was the way of righteousness. That the promises that you could be perfect and therefore righteous, they were like, yeah, bring it on. You remember when Moses came down with a testament? And he's like, here's God's commandments, they're impossible to keep. And they're like, Yes, give them to us. We will keep them. That lasted about three hours. Right? Pardon me? That lasted about three hours. And the next thing you knew they had a golden calf. And the golden calf wants to obey the eleventh commandment, you know, that kind of thing. So let's jump into this with that in mind, because otherwise it might be a little confusing what's happening in verse five. So Paul notes that an unattainable legal standard of righteousness was given to Israel An unattainable legal standard of righteousness was given to them. And so if you didn't read the rest of the text or believe anything about the coming Messiah, you might think, hey, I could do this. So Paul addresses this. Verse five. He quotes Moses and he says, For Moses writes that the man who practices the righteousness which is based on law Shall live by that righteousness. There it is. To believe that you could be saved by doing this would require you to do two things. To have a lower view of the standard by which this is and a higher view of yourself. Right? I can do that. Secondly, it's not all that hard At some point when you do legal righteousness, you have to do both of those. You have to bring the standard down of what is required of you. And that is why when Jesus came and he said, You have heard it said what I say to you and he deepens the standard he says I you've heard it said thou shalt not commit adultery That's right, never did. But I say to you, whoever's looked at a woman to lust after her in his heart has committed adultery with her already. They're like, right? And so when Jesus teaches in the all of those commandments, he teaches the deeper version And all the time he's running into people who walk up to him the story of the rich young ruler, the young lawyer And they try to justify themselves around this and Jesus will talk to them and it's confusing for evangelical Christians because he doesn't say when they say, What do I have to do to be saved He doesn't say, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you'll be saved. He says, Well, what does the law say? And so, well, you know, keep the commandments, do the thing. And Jesus says, Well, you're answering well. So do this, and we're going to get into that verse. Do this. Go love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Do all of that, and you will live. What is he really saying to him? That can't happen. And because we also know that the message that through because the very next verse says, and seeking to justify himself, he said, Who is my neighbor? Right? Jesus is encountering people who believe that they can have law righteousness and that they would be able to be saved by that. And so Paul quotes that it says of Moses who says, If you You practice the righteousness which is based on law, you'll live by that righteousness. What is that standard? That's the point. Number one, if anyone keeps the law perfectly, they will live. Leviticus eighteen. So you You shall keep my statues and my judgments, by which a man may live if he does them. I am the Lord. Um if you're ever teaching a class on this Julie, you have a question? Yeah, does that include the heart attitude if it's Well, you know, like any verse. That's right. Like any verse, you would have to take all the other verses with it. But this is a true statement. God is saying, if you keep my statutes and my judgments, by which a man All of them. That's the thing. Beautiful. Gre as Greg said, it can only be done by uh through the heart. And so that's the starting place. We all know No, that's that's what Jesus is getting to. If the heart isn't changed, if it's you know, out of the heart flows the issues of life, if there has not been a heart change, then the lips I don't know. Uh proportionately, okay. Uh trying to put where the heart would be, right? Um This is the worst day of my life. Okay. So out of the lips comes what's in the heart. Right. So Greg, along your point. Has to start in the heart. Then you would do the other stuff out here. And you know what you really have done, you set up Romans chapter 10, because that's where Paul's going, because he's eventually going to say, if you believe in your heart, right, that that God has raised Jesus from the dead you'll be justified. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, you'll be saved. Which is a heart and life combo platter. Exactly where this is going. This is chapter is going to build to that and Paul's making that. Greg you made my point, so thank you. But Paul is making the point of um there's more to it than there. Alright, number two, no one can perfectly keep the law. Again, ruh roh. A. If you break evil one part of the law, you're a lawbreaker, right? James chapter two. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. We have to let that soak in again from last week. Um but what if I keep six hundred and twelve of the six hundred and thirteen? It's a bad day. It's like a person going to court who's committed a a felony saying, Yeah, but I have never Jaywatt. Okay. B, the requirement of the law is not merely external. But as Greg has pointed out, but inward, spiritual and comprehensive. Matthew five, as I quoted before, you've heard it said that you shall not commit adultery, but I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And then see, no one can be justified by the works of the law. Paul's already said that in the book of Romans, so we shouldn't be confused here to think someone can be. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be closed. And all the world may become accountable to God. Because by the works of the law by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Yes, ma'am. Great question. Um her question is Sacrifices were they part of the law, yes. Um but there's we usually say there's three parts of the law. There's the moral law and the civil law and the ceremonial law So we know that the you know, the law when we talk about like the law, the moral law is like the Ten Commandments, the civil law is how Israel should be governed and the way that how they should deal with people who committed crimes in Israel and those things are all part of Leviticus and Deuteronomy. But then the ceremonial laws that you're talking about, the the various um events and things, that's all part of the law too. It's more of the symbolic side. Think of ceremonial law as the equivalent of baptism and the Lord's Supper in the New Testament. Those things which symbolize and articulate faith in an external way And then these are the these are the ethics, if you will, and then these are the faith matters, if you will, of the Old Testament. Beautiful. Her question is, if someone is transgressing the moral law But keeps the ceremonial laws. Could they be still made perfect or right? Yes and no, right? I think you know. The thing is, everyone transgresses the moral law So it's a good question. Um and no one keeps the civil laws perfectly either. The ceremonial situation was to picture the coming Messiah through the lamb and through the sacrifices. If someone had faith That God was going to remove their sins through the coming Messiah, through the coming Lamb, then yes, they would be atoned for. Or went on the Day of Atonement, you know. Okay, man. Yes, mom, I'm in church already. Or I'm you know, right. There's there's no salvation without and that's gonna be Romans 10, 9 and 10. With the heart you believe, and are just justified. But with the mouth or the life, it confesses that what you said in the in the heart is really what is true. Exactly. So Old Testament same thing. It's always heart and and all that. So we can do all the things, get baptized, do the Lord's Supper. Yes, ma'am. That's a great question. When Jesus says, if you love me, keep my commandments. Wonderful. Jesus says, keep my commandments. And pointing when you read the entire New Testament, what James calls the royal law of Christ, that Christ's law in the New Covenant. It's not the Ten Commandments, but it is all that He has commanded us. Matthew 28, 19, 20, go and teach them all that I've commanded you. And so the royal law of Christ is to love one another and to love your neighbor. That is the that is the point James makes. You go in the book of James. So um the new covenant is love your neighbor and love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength And very few rules. There's there's boundaries, but it's not a rule-based, it's not a rule-based uh relationship. I would say it this way: the old covenant bringing us to To Christ is that in the Old Covenant we had a tutor and our relationship to God, if you will, through the Old Covenant was we were children. And everything was dictated to us. This is how you have a relationship with me. Bring me a pigeon, come on a Tuesday. Everything, every single law was there. It's like being a third grader. That's how you relate to God. I bring the thing, I do the thing, I show up at the thing. And then in the new covenant, what's hard for people who are super religious Is that it is for freedom that Christ sets you free. Now go love your neighbor and love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Is that all there is to it? No, but that's the guiding principle. It's like, yeah, but how? The Holy Spirit. We have the Holy Spirit residing in us, which they did not. The Holy Spirit came and went, and so they're trying to keep all that stuff on their own. We get the Holy Spirit, yo yeah. And under the Spirit he's producing fruit. And all of this is happening in a new way, which is the commandment of love. Love being the guiding principle, not muki love, not love without boundaries. Love is defined in the New Testament. What does it mean to love your neighbor and love God? But I suggest our relationship, like Romans seven is, we're no longer married to the law, we're married to Christ, it's a relationship. And out of that relationship flows all of life. So yeah, Anne. Very good, Anne, yeah. Sell everything you get and give to the poor. And it said he went away sad because he owned much goods, much things. That's right. And people again, if you if you're an evangelical Christian, you really believe the Bible, you know that Jesus wasn't saying you can get saved by giving away your money. But people right. He's saying, I want to test your heart. Oh, so you're you're all in with God. You do you're all in, right? Yeah. Well just give to the poor. That is correct. That's right. If yeah, if you've got all this in your neighbor's don't you know so very good alright and then D the slowest lesson of all time uh 2D or not 2D God never intended us to seek salvation A by law keeping. Rather the law was given to show us our need of his way of salvation. Of course, Galatians three, therefore the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ so that we may be justified by faith. One other point here, this is my little Illustration day. I wonder if orange would show up. Okay. Oh yeah. Okay. Okay. I've said this before, just saying it again The Old Testament system is not credit. This is bless you. This is debit. If you're in the Old Covenant, you were in a credit card system, just saying it again And you're running your sins up against a future payment that Christ was going to make. You see, you got a credit card and it's like unlimited sinning. You're believing in the Messiah, so whatever sins are gonna get paid for but they weren't. That's why people weren't directly in heaven and they waited. But now we have a debit card. All the payment is already made. So when we run it on our SIN card It's already been paid for. So that's sort of the distinction of those two. Okay, number three. Those who break God's law are under a curse Yes. Galatians three. For as many as are of the works of the law, that's Paul's phrase again, are under a curse. We're gonna work our way. As it is written, Curses is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. Uh that would be the Old Testament way of saying that they would know that they couldn't do it. Okay. Being a little too patantic. Now that one is justified by the law before God is Evident, for the righteous man shall live by faith. However, the law is not of faith. On the contrary, he who practices them shall live by them. That was the point. Jesus alone kept the law perfectly, and that is the point for us, right? So So the basic syllogism is, hey, you can get you can be justified by keeping every single law perfectly and your heart is always right. Nobody ever does that And the condemnation of that is hell. However, Jesus died for us and kept the law perfectly in our place as our substitute and did what we could not do. But when he actually kept the law and sacrificed, satisfied its demands, it was as if we had done it. And that's the beauty. All those n sleepless nights or those points of guilt or the conscience issues are like, but I have failed. Yeah. Yeah. And Jesus did not. And so he will not fail in his mission, and that's what he did. Uh Galatians 4, 4 and 5. But when the fullness of time came, That's in history where the cross is. God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law that we might receive the adoption as sons. Paid the price, obeyed the law, passive and active obedience of Christ. He met the law's demands, and he satisfies the law's demand that sin be punished, Galatians three. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree, in order that Christ Jesus, the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles So that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. The Bible is really good. Yeah? Well it really helps. I had a professor in Bible college who would say Uh, guys be very careful with the Bible, it'll mess up your theology. Yeah. So So point two is verses six to eight then. Righteousness by grace alone through faith alone was offered to Israel. Big picture. Don't get lost in this. Big picture again, what's the whole chapter ten and eleven about? Whatever happened to Israel? God's sovereign election But then this whole chapter is about their responsibility. They failed to believe an easy gospel. Like easy believism, that's not what I'm talking about. The gospel was easy, and it was in the old covenant as well And that's what Paul's going to get into. The question would be, okay, I get it. They thought law righteousness, but they didn't have the gospel. And the rest of this whole chapter is, yeah, they did. Now veiled to us as we look at it, we're like, man, that's not Yeah, but if that was your whole life and you're reading the law and you have teachers and all those things, that's why Jesus is saying to Nicodemus, You are the teacher of Israel and you don't know this That you must be born again? You don't know that? And you're and that's what he says, right? The definite article. You're the teacher You're the greatest teacher in Israel right now and you don't know that you have to be born again? They missed it. And that's why G and it's like back in my mother's room, what are we talking about here? It's like you went to seminary? You went to Dallas Seminary and you don't know that? You know? So all right. Verses sixty-eight, top of the page. But the righteousness based on faith speaks as follows. Remember verse five, Moses said you can be law just Justified if you keep it all. Verse 6. But the righteousness in contrast, based on faith, speaks as follows. You would expect him to then quote something in the New Testament, and he quotes the Old Testament. The words of faith in the Old Covenant. That say this. Do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven, then Paul parentheses, if you will, that is to bring Christ down. Or who will ascend into the abyss That is to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart. That is the word of faith which we are preaching. Big picture. Paul just said, law righteousness Moses mentioned. But then he's going into the Old Testament, quoting the scriptures of the Old Testament, saying, but what does the words of faith say? It says it's not one well I'm about to unpack this, it's not just one giant activity. You can't earn salvation by going up anywhere or down anywhere But the word, the words of faith are right there to an old covenant person. It's possible to believe. They're right there by your heart They're right there in your mouth. It only takes what he's about to say three verses later to you and to me as new covenant people, in which if you believe in your heart and you confess with your mouth, Deuteronomy is where that comes from. That's what Paul's quoting. He's saying in the old covenant they had that there. The words are right there. You don't have to do miraculous works, you don't have to do things. The words of faith are just like they are now It starts with the heart, comes from the mouth. That's how you get saved, both covenants. Let's unpack that a little. It's a confusing phrase and see if I can do anything with that. I would say that Israel had no excuse for their unbelief, just as We don't. Number or A. Salvation by grace through faith has always been the only way to be saved. Amen. Abraham and David, chapter four, that's all we have to go back to. That they were saved by grace through faith. Under the before the law and under the law. But here Paul is quoting Deuteronomy thirty and calling it the righteousness based on faith. Weird. Not weird, but not our first thought of it. say something though. Big picture. They're going red now. When Israel went into the land wherever that was, when Israel w went into the land, who knows what's going on up here? I would hate to walk in this class and be like, what? Guy's throwing stuff out of his mouth and things are happening. Okay. When when Israel went into the land Oh was about to go into Lana, I'm sorry. And they were given the Ten Commandments and they were given all the things. They were given Deuteronomy after the ascend and Moses said to them in chapters twenty-eight to thirty of Deuteronomy, This is what God says. If you listen to me and do what I've told you to do You can live in the land. But if you disobey me and go after other gods, I'm going to expel you from the land, and these curses will come upon you But also embedded in those chapters is God's profound promise that one day, even if you disobey and you leave, I'm going to bring you back. Okay, I say all that to say. In that chapter thirty of Deuteronomy where it's being told, If you keep my commandments, you can stay in the land. Is embedded, it's not external keeping. It's this. The words of faith are right there. If you will believe with your heart and turn to me with your heart, you can be Be saved. They don't have to keep all the law. So that's a lot to say, verse thirty. Here we are, Deuteronomy thirty says, If you turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and soul. Now it doesn't say if you obey him. Okay? I don't have time to unfortunately unpack Deuteronomy 30 of the whole thing. But this phrase is super important. In Deuteronomy, they're told, if you turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and soul. It's a matter of faith. It's an internal thing. It's a heart issue. If you turn to God, because they've already been commanded to keep commandments, what's their only hope? If you turn to God, you'll have help to do that. If you turn to God with all your heart, and soul. For this commandment, singular. If you turn to God with your heart, this commandment is what God wants. Not just all the externals. Sorry, for this commandment which I command you today is not too difficult for you, nor is it out of reach. He'd already presented to them the impossible But now he's turned to the Bossible. Listen, everything you have to do for God, you can't do that. But if you keep this commandment to turn with your heart to him, this isn't that hard. You see this. And that's Paul's point in the New Testament. And so continue. Verse twelve. It is not in heaven that you should say, Who will go up to heaven for us to get it for us and make it hear it so that we might observe it? It. Nor is it beyond the sea that you should say, Who will cross the sea for us to get it for us and make it uh make us hear it, that we may observe it. But the word is very near you, in your mouth and in your eyes. Heart that you may observe it. Alright? What word? The commandment. What commandment? To turn to God, not yourself, not your good works, not your law keeping. That has been the case. Steve. Yes it did. That's right. The scapegoat, blood sacrifices, the day of atonement, the Yom Kippur, all of those were pictures and they were to see that. And of course in the New Testament it says that it was right there. Now we have to apply two doctrines. The doctrine of depravity. Nobody gets it unless their eyes are opened. And we have to say that God's sovereignty. But then the third doctrine is man's responsibility. They rejected the light that they had. Uh, just like in the church though, Steve, you know, just like in the church today. Not every singular church, but the church calling itself the church universal, all kinds of churches, uh Stuff is preached, they read the Bible, they see the atonement of Jesus and they still want to work their way to heaven. You know, if I do good works or if I do whatever. And it's our it's our inclination to justify ourselves. So I can't blame the them all I'm saying, you know, but Paul is saying that's what they did. They made it a work salvation. And yet it has always been Paul's point is Israel's guilty because it's always been there. You know, at the end of the chapter, Paul says it twice. They surely did not know, did they He says, Yeah, yeah they did. Yeah, they did. And it's the same for church. We know, don't we? Yeah. My problem isn't what I don't know. Uh it's what I do know. Um Okay, next point. The point is that neither Israel in the past nor we today need to do anything heroic for salvation. But rather, God has made it as easy as believing it from the heart, which leads to an outward agreement. With it in the mouth or the life. Just as God plainly revealed himself in the law of Moses, he's made the way of salvation accessible in the new covenant through Christ. That's my point. Now what about that? Why am I saying nothing heroic? Because I pick up in Deuteronomy what the young lawyer said to Christ, and that is this idea, what do I have to do? Do I have to go up to heaven? To get bonus points? Or is there some heroic deed? You know, am I gonna go on a quest? And if I go on this quest, what will I get? That is really, you must understand when the young or the the lawyer asks him, what must I do He's asking, especially in Greek, it's not because it's not translatable, but he's really asking what deed what one thing do I have to do to get in? Like I've kept all that other nonsense. But man, what do I have to do to earn it? What one activity? And Jesus So let me read that. And a lawyer stood up and put him to the test. That's always the way it is. Just insert the word lawyer. Is anybody in here a lawyer? Nope. Not many noble. Not many lawyers. In my last church there were quite a few lawyers, so I maybe Maybe that's a thing. But a lawyer stood up and put him to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, Quit the law profession. What is written in the law? How does it read to you? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbour as yourself. He summarized the whole lot well, didn't he? And Jesus said to him, You have answered correctly. Yeah, it's it's hard sometimes to define exactly what it looks like, and that's why after this story, when the When the lawyer says to him, So who's my neighbor? Because he's asking, How would that look? And Jesus said, I'll tell you a story. And then he goes through the whole situation with what's the words I want? Samaritan. The great yeah, the Samaritan. And he goes through that and says, Well who was this man's neighbor And so to that point we try to justify ourselves and think, uh, what does it mean to love my neighbor And Jesus comes back with that. And that's a longer conversation that I can't do here. But so back back to his story in verse 28. And he said to him, You've answered correctly, do this And you will live. So he's really doing Leviticus 18 on him. Right, if you keep the commandments, you'll live. But this is even the harder version. Because the the man didn't say in terms of what should you do, he didn't say, Well keep the ten commandments. He's like, love God, love with all your soul. That's impossible. And Jesus said, Yeah, if you do that, you'll live And it's clear in verse twenty-nine, but wishing to justify himself, he said, and who's my neighbor? It's clear that he knew that he was out of his league. Right? It's not like he was like, Oh well of course I'll do that. It's like he's like oh. Yeah, I was just mentioning that to trick you. So I would actually have to do that. Well who's my neighbor? Right, and then you get into the all the you know uh you know, I never inhaled. Trickier voice. Alright, number two. God has already done all that is necessary for you to receive his righteousness. That's the point. God the Son has already come down from heaven. God the Father has already raised him from the dead. We don't have to go up, we don't have to start a religion. And most religions are man's quest to seek God in Christianity. God has sought man. First John 4. In this is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us And sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. So, bottom line of the first several verses, it's a gift. Okay. Uh I want to say that the de the deep uh side there. I want to say this pastorally as a friend, as Christian, as a brother, but I want to uh seriously say a few things here at this point. Periodically in the book of Romans, because Paul just keeps pounding justification from every angle, periodically you know I have said to you Maybe two or three times. Um don't go to hell from this classroom. Um and so as a brother in the Lord, pastor, hopefully a friend, um, I implore you not to take these with some sort of theological weaponizing, you know? Oh wow, I got that. I can weaponize my theology. But friends, again, It's not that I'm looking around thinking, oh, you're not a believer. I don't know that. But if you are still in some sort of works based justification of your life, if you're if you're like that's really what's the energizing thing, and you have not thrown yourself on the finished work of Christ, then th this is what you must do. The Book of Romans has many theological things, election, sovereignty, that are fascinating But you can go to hell and know the doctrine of election. And so from this church, our danger is going to be the disconnect of the heart and the mind. We can love God with our minds as we see it, but not truly. truly love God with our hearts. And if you're a believer, and I am, and if you're a believer, secondarily, don't let these doctrines get in the way of the affection of don't lose your first love because you're in a teaching church. Okay? We love the Bible here. We love doctrine. We we love theology. But it is possible to not love God and love those things. Please do not get lost in that. Uh if my teaching leads you to think of yourself as more intellectually wow, but not seek Jesus Christ, then I am failing in what I desire to have happen. And so I can't exhort you to do things that only the Spirit can do, but I am encouraging you, imploring you not to let this simply be doctrinaire. But the justification is for us. And we must throw ourselves on Jesus Christ. One thing I would say is that not only the twenty evidences or so, some say ten in 1 John and other places, how do I know I'm born again? I'm only going to use one distinguishing uh mark. And that is joy and assurance. We're back to Romans 8 again, but friends, if you're dealing with I'm not sure And I I have serious doubts about my assurance of my salvation. It is possible to be a Christian in doubt. But for a long, long period of time one has to wonder if you really understand grace alone and faith. alone or somehow do you have a mixture in there of thinking, yeah but I have to do something or I have to keep it or I have God's not pleased if I don't. And again, run to the cross And find your first love. If you've lost your first love as a Christian, it may not be for those other things, but don't lose your joy over finding doctrine. And that is always a problem with seminarians. You know, they get deep in the word but they lose Jesus. And by the time they get out they like know everything, but they don't know the Lord. Dana's making the point if you can't hear her that that I'm the greatest teacher she's ever heard. And she apologizes for that question last week. Thank you, Dana. That was very kind. No. What's she uh what I know I'm a mess. Right. Um What what Dana's really pointing out is that in her own life and she sees, hey, if you're truly born again, this desire for God, this love for God, and the recognition when you learn theology, it just makes you love him more. Is true. That's what that's what it should do and and it and that's what it does. But then that question of then how can these guys go through seminary and they're getting the entire fire hose If they go to a good school that teaches the Bible, you know all those things. And I would just say that that all those You know, you've lost your first love, but it's what happened to the Pharisees. That's what Jesus says. Um, with your lips you're all in, but with your hearts you're far from me. We're back we're back to that. And he says, and all the woes that he gives the Pharisees. You know, you're you're zealous for missions, you're zealous for this, you do these things. You you count the cumin and the the little seeds and you do all of that, but your hearts are far from you. You're you're whitewashed sepulchres, your dead men. inside, right? And it now those are unsaved people. But it's possible as a Christian to live joylessly, unfortunately. Uh it just is, to be wrapped around many things things that can choke things, you know. I I know for me it's always a battle for joy. You know, and that's right. And and not trusting in my own uh whatever to find my joy, but to continuously go back to the cross. And was like, this is real. I got saved and I can't get over it. And God's love to me had nothing to do with me. And he's okay with me. That doesn't mean do what you want. That's Romans 6. 1. Paul said, if you understand the gospel, I'm not saying just do what you want. Why would you want to do? That's right. Augustine said, Saint Augustine of the Ancient Church said, love God and do what you want. If the first one's in place, then what you want is probably to do with his this would then. Yeah. Good point, Dana. Oh a list. Yes. Yes. Oh we do we do. We gravitate. Yeah. Love, 'cause that's the principle. Uh love is supposed to be the basis of a marriage. Right? They love each other, so they want to be with each other and have a relationship. And the problem with marriages is they get cold, the hearts get the affections move. And there can be a commitment to the covenant without a commitment to the person. And so Yeah. And so we can we can be committed to the well, we're married and I keep the things and I do the didn't I bring that home for you? and I I cooked the dinner and we paid the bills and whatever. And there's no love there. And so it is possible to do that with God. You know. We all know that because we do it. There's days in which, you know. So all right. Enough. So it's a gift, bottom of page two, Acts 16, 30, 31. It's so simplistic, I must read it. And he brought them out and said, Of course, this is the Philippian jailer, Paul and Silas, Sirs, what must So they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household. I I need to stop there just for a minute from those of you who grew up Presbyterian. I don't have an hour to unpack this, but if you would read in context the number of verses that follow this, it doesn't it is not a promise that if you believe as a parent All your children are gonna be believers. That is not a promise of that. The next two to three verses have two parts of it. Number one, it says that then the p gospel got preached to that whole thing, and it was for those who believed, the the third verse down. So all that to say this is no promise that if you believe everybody's getting in in your household, that is not the case. That was, hey, this is going to work for your household as well if they believe the gospel. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you'll be saved. And this is true for you your household and then the word was preached to them and they believed and they were baptized. So all right. Page three. Oh yeah. All right. All I'm doing now is slowing the pace down for a minute. to say this. Everything I'm about to say today, whatever time we have left, is to build up for next week, and that is we have to understand this is a mess. Alright. Give me one second here. Steve Steve that's the best line of the year. When I said you have to understand and I said this is a messy set, I understand that Okay, this is the motif here. Sorry. This is all leading up to next week. Um Paul's question of what happened to Israel during the New Covenant age when there are so few Jewish people who appear to believe and so many Gentiles who do believe and then there's a bunch of Gentiles and Jews who don't believe. But why is this all happening? And we're about to get Into Romans eleven, in which Paul is going to give the illustration of the olive tree. Carla and I had an olive tree in our yard in California. That was interesting. They don't look like that. Just in case you were wondering. Uh but the whole illustration of the olive tree is coming up in Romans 11, and that is how do the Gentiles and the Jews look in history and how does this all work together? This is where we're going. And there's something we have to understand and that is the Abraham Covenant. Now many of you are Bible scholars in here, you're like, got it, nailed it, I understand it. But in Romans 11, Paul's going to use this illustration of saying There's branches. I know that olive tree branches don't look like this. But there are branches on this tree that he's going to talk about. And what's that tree? Some people said the tree is Israel. Uh but you can't be broken off of your own nationality. It's not Israel. There's a l we're gonna dig into the passage. My point is This is the key to understanding the next chapter and a half is going to be this story. What is the tree? What are the branches or who are the branches, and how do you get snapped off and put in? Well there's another tree that's talked about. Crazy tree. It's called the wild tree. Wild tree. Okay. Sorry. But it's the wild olive tree and then this is the cultured not like refined, you know, but it's been pruned and taken care of. The two trees are pictures of this is how every Gentile Grows up in the wild olive tree. There's no promises. It's not rooted in God. It's religion. And there's lots of religion going on in this tree. We've been branches of that tree. And that's going nowhere. But Israel was given the Abrahamic covenant as a trunk. The promises that they were given by faith to receive them. Israel externally, as we read read in Romans 9 that individual Jews were part of the community that was promised these things. And they were branches and only in the sense, not of belief. But of being promised that externally. You're a Jewish person, those promises are yours because that's the tree you have been brought into But they get snapped off, Paul says. Well you can't lose your salvation. This tree is not Christ Now we don't don't take John 15 and this and make it exactly the same. The vine and the branches. Okay, there's a s there's a relationship, but not as at not as clear. It's possible to be Jewish and be snapped off the tree because you don't have have faith to stay on the tree, to be truly part of the tree. Not all Israel is Israel And so individual branches can lose their faith, never had it, never believe the Abrahamic covenant that is by faith, right, and thus lose being part of the promised people. In the Old Testament, occasionally you'd find a Gentile who was placed into the Abrahamic covenant community, not by birth or nationality but by belief. Uh Ruth. Right, Ruth. Rahab. Right? Nineveh. Right. Believing Gentiles are attached to the tree. By faith. They get in on the promises. They're called proselytes, right? In the New Testament, and then other words are used among Cornelius and others. But the point is you're brought in by faith and you're put into this. You were not Not naturally of that, but God in his grace put you in it by faith. We're also going to see in Romans eleven that the same warning is given to the church, which was given to Israel, and that is, you can be snapped off of this promise. Hear me out. Paul's going to make the illusion that the church is made up of more than just believers in this age, just like Israel was, and not all the church is the church. Because he warns, don't get comfortable thinking that just because they were snapped off, you've got an easy ride. But rather, you must believe. And so all of this is going to come together. So I start here by saying, what is the Abrahamic covenant that they are grafted into and what is the relationship of this age? Okay. Big picture? Yeah. All right. So the tree in the Old Testament was like a thousand branches of Jews and one Gentile. You know? Per. But now the new covenant age is all these Gentile and a and a few. It's flipped. And that's Romans eleven. How do you explain that? If you think it's Israel, then it's unexplainable. The tree is Israel? The tree is Christ. Uh no. You can't come in and out. It's the promises, but you must believe the promises Right? And that this Okay. Enough said. This is unaccount. Man, I'm still pregnant. No, it's not. Okay. One more thing. Romans eleven is then gonna take us all the way to the picture at the end of You know this is not permanent. Gentiles, until all the Gentiles come in Then all Israel will be saved. All the elect of Israel will be brought in, God will save a bunch of Israelites at the end, and God will restock the tree because it's not over. Okay. You don't need to come next week because you just heard it? Okay. Romans chapter eleven. Yeah, I'm sorry, who said you know uh John three sixteen. Absolutely absolutely. That's a good point. And it's a struggle. Yep. And I keep pointing it back to us as a church which is not everybody who goes to Iwana is of Iwana. Or Adventure Club, sorry. Adventure club, my friend. Uh Brian. Uh and not everybody who's of whatever is of that. Alright, page three. We'll just take a start today. Don't get frustrated with the amount of material. We're going to come back to this next week. Alright, top of page three. So whatever happened to Israel, my point for us to grasp the rest of chapter ten. In all of chapter eleven, we must understand Israel's current condition in light of the biblical covenants. It's a lot of information with twenty minutes to go. If your minds are out of it, just dream of what you're going to do after church. And I'll go on with the few people who Still here. Okay? So as I said from Romans eleven, twenty-five to thirty-two, it says this: I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, says Paul. Brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceived. Israel has experienced a hardening in part, in part, in part, until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. And in this way, all Israel will be saved. As it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will turn godlessness away from Jacob. And this is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. That's going to be beautiful. As far as the gospel is concerned, Paul says They are enemies for your sake. But as far as election is concerned, they are loved on account of the patriarchs. That's the whole age that we live in. Jews are gospel enemies, not because they're Jewish, but because they rejected the Messiah and because they are enemies of grace, just like any cultist. is an enemy of the cross. And but because of election and God's love for the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph that he promised. Verse 29, for God's gifts and his call are irrevocable. That's the point. Just as you who were at one time disobedient to God in your wild olive tree and have now received mercy as a result of their disobedience, so they too have now received. become disobedient in order that they too may res now receive mercy as a result of God's mercy to you. For God has bound everyone over to disobedience, so that he may have mercy on all. Gentiles, totally disobedient, but I've called the people who were not my people my people. Welcome. And then those who were his people, and then like we don't want to be your people is gonna make them repeopled. Lots of people. Thank you. Thank you for acknowledging that. Alright, I'm only gonna do a couple more things today. I I think the content we've kind of gone as far as we' But uh middle of page three, a brief introduction to biblical covenants. What is a biblical covenant? A covenant is an agreement or a contract between God and man, between man and man, between nation and nation, and a divine covenant is a sovereign disposition of God, whereby he has Establishes an unconditional or declarative compact with man, obligating himself in grace by the untrambled formula I will to bring to pass of himself definite blessings for the covenanted ones, or a proposal of God whereby wherein he promises in a conditional or mutual compact with man by the contingent formula if If you will, to grant special blessings to man, provided he fulfills perfectly certain conditions, and to execute definite punishment in case of failure. The Bible has lots of contract talk between man and man and nature. and nation and God has seven or so biblical major covenants that we need to talk about, but not today. Okay? Some of you are like, thank you, Dave. It's warm in here, brother. And so that's as far as I'm gonna go next week. Lord willing, we're gonna come in and look at the end of chapter ten all the way through eleven and look at God's covenant promised to Israel and his fulfillment in Romans chapter eleven. Okay? So let me pray for you