All right. Today we're back in our study of the book of Romans. We're in lesson number fourteen. And we're dealing with the subject of the benefits of justification by grace. Through faith, part two. Today we're looking at Romans chapter 5, verses 2b or not to be to verse 5a. The only thing I will say to bring us up to speed without a full reintroduction of the book is simply this. There are five parts to the book of Romans as we looked at. And that is the first deals with the issue of sin, as we know, and that's chapters one to three, that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And then chapters 3 to 5, which we're in near the end of, is the issue of salvation, and that is you're only saved by grace through faith. In Christ alone. Well, that's where we are today. We've looked at justification. In a moment we'll read the text. And that is, we have been justified. But now we're at the present tense of we have these benefits from God as a result of that justification. Let me read verses 1 to 11 of chapter 5. Therefore, having been justified by faith, past tense We have present tense, peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have obtained Our introduction by faith. In those first two verses we have that we have a new relationship. Because of justification, we have a new relationship with God. Last week we said we have peace with God. That is, we're no longer at war with God and God is no longer at war with us, and we have access to God in a way that we never had before In the next couple verses, three to five that we're looking at today, we're looking at a new purpose in God, namely that we have not only obtained this stance in God But we exult in the hope of the glory of God future. Then justified, we have peace and access But now we're going to look today at the new purpose that we have in Gut. The beauty of this new package that we talked about, the contract, the justification contract that has all these wonderful benefits, is this Now life makes sense. I said to Carla uh sometime this past year, we're again we're celebrating our thirty-ninth wedding anniversary next weekend, but I said to her, like, until I met her Life never made sense. And I meant that. I don't just say that publicly because before I knew Christ and before I knew my wife, life was just like, what And then it's been thirty-nines of years of, oh, life makes sense. And that's what justification has done for us. Everything that we were doing before we knew Christ as our Savior had no purpose. It appeared to be random, appeared to be without purpose. And if you think of your life just weeks before you knew Christ as your Savior, and you dialed back into the real whatever you were doing You'd realize while you thought you might have purpose, it was vanity. And what comes with this wonderful package of justification is a completely new purpose. Now two things are true in this passage about our current situation. We exalt in the future glory of God. We boast in it. We're excited about it. Why? Because now life makes sense. The things that have happened to us and have been happening to us will bring glory to God in the future, says Paul. And the second benefit of this purpose is this. Our current trials, not just our future glory Our current trials will make sense in a Romans 8. 28 sense. For we know that all things work together for good to those who are called according to his purpose. So what we're looking at today, that benefit, is the new purpose we have. The purpose of glorifying God in the future, the purpose of bringing glory to our life now through our current sufferings. So let me continue and read verses 3 to 5. But not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance, perseverance, proven character, and proven character hope. And hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. This is a part of the whole new assurance from God. There are three things in this passage that God has given us the third part of the package. Assurance. The work of the Holy Spirit given to us to assure us that the love of God is true for us. And then in verse 6, for while we were still helpless. At the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will hardly die for a righteous man, though perhaps for a good man someone would dare even to die. But God demonstrates his own love towards us. In that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So that second part is we have a new assurance. The Holy Spirit tells us God loves you. Secondly, Christ's death on the cross tells you God loves you. And then thirdly, we have a freedom from the future wrath, verse 9. Much more. We talked about De Ainu last week. Much more than, having been justified by his blood, we shall, future tense, be saved from the wrath of God through him. And verse 10. For if we were enemies, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled. We shall be saved by his life. And then finally we have a new worship. Verse 11. Not only this, but we exalt, we worship, we bless God through the Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. Okay, so in very summary, and welcome back, good morning. Everybody doing okay? Transitioning between Thanksgiving and Christmas. You know? That that season of like, man, we pulled it off. Wait a minute, we have to do that again. Do you ever see those relatives again? Uh that was so fun, you know. So a new relationship with God we looked at last week, a new purpose is what we looked at today. Let's turn to page two and dive into our text. A new purpose in God We boast in the hope of the glory of God and of our trials having purpose in God. Verse 2 to 5 Through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace, in which we stand, which we covered last week And we exalt in hope of the glory of God. And not only this, but we also exalt in our tribulations. Knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance, perseverance, proven character, proven character, hope. Hope does not disappoint. What are we talking about? We should probably define five or six terms, right? Because Paul's throwing a lot of stuff in there. And the word exalt, I just don't use that on a regular basis. You know? I don't get up in the morning and go, I exalt this morning So let's kind of jive into that. What are some of the terms he used so we can start to break down this passage? First of all, he says we exalt twice. We exalt in God, in the future hope of his glory, and in our tribulations. What does that mean? Boasting Enthusiastic endorsement. That's what it means. Yes! We boast in God's glorious future that everything that's happening to us is going to lead to a day when we're all in heaven together. having trusted Christ, and we're going to go around his glorious throne saying, Yes. But we have as a benefit of justification. This is not a command to exalt. This passage is not commands. This passage is a reality that this benefit package of justification comes with an internal boast demeter. And it has changed the way we purpose our life. It's an evidence that you're a believer. It comes with this package. If you start seeing, yes, yes in the glory of God, if you cry when you hear the song, is he worthy? You're probably a Christian. That's what this passage is talking about. The exaltation of God, the future promise of his glory, and the view in your head it's like, I'm gonna be there. That's the hope. Christ in us the hope of glory. And so it's the exaltation of God. It's an enthusiastic endorsement that you believe it. Faith is clearly, I believe that to be true. Hope, when it is related to faith, has the element of believing, but hope is that desire to see it. And the eye of faith that says, I will. So we hope, we believe not only, yeah, I know people are gonna see it, but I'm gonna see it is an enthusiastic endorsement that comes with the package Now does that mean everybody walks around happy? No, there's a few of you in here who proved that. All right. Wow, that was bad. No, it's uh it's not talking about happiness here. It's talking about that inner sense of confidence that comes sometimes doesn't seem to be there But overall in the life of a believer, there's a desire for, a hope for, and an engaged belief that you will see the glory of God in its fulfillment. So then what is hope? It is a confident assurance of a yet future positive outcome. Confident. You know today. Believer, you know you're going to see him. And so all this other junk When you drive to church or what you're dealing with or you haven't entertain people for Christmas who are lousy people. I just said my theme of the day. That you know there's something bigger and greater and you are confident it's gonna happen. Thirdly, what is it we are confident in? The glory of God. That can be a little nebulous, can't it? What exactly are we talking about in the glory of God? Now I'm going to define it and then give an illustration real quick or a point of reference. It's the magnification of God's person and plan leading to genuine worship and soul-satisfying experience in him. And I say that it is the magnification God is all glorious. Nobody's giving God glory. That is, we don't give him something that he lacks, right? God's glorious presence and his glory of his being is sufficient in itself. Nobody's giving him anything. It's better to think of glorifying God as magnifying God in the eyes of others and in your own eyes. When you look properly through a lens at something that is already beautiful It magnifies, like if you're at Yosemite and you're taking pictures, you get a good lens, you can see up close and see the magnitude of how wonderful it is. It is what it is But we magnify God through our life and our death, and we show God off to other people through what our lens is that people can look through. And so what are tribulations then? What does it mean we exalt? We enthusiastically endorse our tribulations That's crazy talk for most people. Right? It's like you've got to be out of your mind. But this is what you know because you're a Christian if you've trusted in Christ. That the trials that God has put you through, that you survived, at the end of them you said, I must be a Christian, because I still trust in the Lord. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. That is a part of the package. That how can I come through that by the grace of God? That was that was terrible. That that was life-numbing. And I still trust him. Not because I'm so faithful to God, but God has been so faithful to this package to continue to work in me that which is going to be until the day of his redemption. And so our tribulations are circumstances and experiences in life which apply such pressure As this tempts us to quit, to run to idols, or despair. Right? circumstances in life that tempt us by their pressure to quit. I don't believe in this anymore or what's the point? Or my life isn't going anywhere. This is ridiculous. This is too much Or to run to idols. Chocolate cake. That'll solve this. And I don't can be anything which takes the place of the glory of God in our life. So think of an old school, this is an old school refrigerator. Right? A few not a few years ago, many years ago, Carla wrote a book and I just co-oped an idea out of the book, but I want to share it with you. A lady has dealt with all kinds of food issues in her life. life okay and then was starting to get victory near the end of her life and she put something on her refrigerator which I always remember she put a placard on her refrigerator and this is what it said It's not in there. Wow, that is crazy. We run to idols because we think it's in there. And when we're under special temptations or trials, that God knows how to dial up for us. Not to tempt us to evil, but to put that pressure on who do you really love? Who do you really trust? And then thirdly, this pressure can lead us to despair. Tempt us to quit, run to idols, or tempt us to despair. How is it that we exult? We enthusiastically endorse our trials Well, our trials lead to two things according to this passage, three actually. Perseverance. The God-given fruit of patiently waiting on the Lord's timing. and outcomes while growing in joyful assurance of his goodness. That's a lot to say. What is perseverance? It's a God given fruit. of patiently waiting on the Lord's timing and outcomes while growing in joyful assurance of his goodness. Sometimes it can be a trial like Job's Doesn't seem to be any end to it. And Job's experience, if you have been there, many of you have in those Job experiences of life, not nearly what Job, but The idea that you're in a free fall and there's no bottom. You know, there's those machines, the wind machines where you can be up the whole time. But think of this that trial in which it seems like you've fallen off the cliff And there's absolutely no bottom. You've been falling so long. You're like, just let me hit the ground. It'd be better to die. It'd be better to just have this over with because the trial is so intense The pressure is so deep. You're just like, can we just end this? And yet there's a free fall in which it's you and God alone. And these are the type of things in which perseverance Is that fruit delivered by the Spirit during those times of long suffering in which God is working in you a Christ-like character that could not have been worked out without that trial. Special delivery. You know, there's things which people in this room, if we if we had you come forward, we'd be shocked at the pain and suffering you've been through. Not shocked that anyone could be, but we we may not know that about you. So you could come up and give you the mic and you'd be like, okay, this is what happened to me. And then when I was five and then this and then this terrible outcome. And this is how I suffer today. And we might be amazed because our suffering will seem so small. But we also know that God in his sovereignty and his wisdom does not cause everyone to suffer the same way. Because he has not made everyone the same person. And what is just suffering to one person would not be as much of a suffering to other people. The circumstances being what they are, that person's resiliency or his their background or their history And so God dials up specific ones, but then dials up specific answers to those to make us more like Christ. And then finally, what does it all lead to? Proven character. The God-given fruits of the Spirit which allow us to be conformed to the image of Christ. Yes ma'am I was looking at that box at the top and at the end of the box number five And hope does not disappoint and I was thinking. When you drove clear across country and came here We trust that that wasn't your reaction. And that's very clever. And to show you how crazy my mind is, uh our work together is While I was reading that passage just moments ago and I read that, I was like, I might say something about that. No, I won't. Yes. But now that you have me out there, yes, hope is not disappointed. Carla and I are blessed to be at this church And uh we can't believe our our fortune in God's glory uh that we're here. So it's it's been a blessing. So Well thank you. Let's just keep going. Yes. All right. So this quote by C. S. Lewis, most of you have read this, heard it, maybe memorized it. I think it's wonderful But I think it summarizes what we're about to look at, namely this. Even in our trials, even in our tribulations, even in everything in life, we still have a future hope of the glory of God. And C. S. Lewis says this. If I find in myself desires which nothing in this world can satisfy, the only logical explanation is that I was made for another world. That's why it's not in there. But if I'm gonna cross pollinate ideas If you will, go to Narnia with me. Go behind and see Mr. Tumness. is that if you will, it's not in the refrigerator, but behind the refrigerator, through the suffering of all of that, is something glorious that God is building up. And we are looking for something here to answer it. But there's something better than chocolate cake. But our desire to have that inner person be whole, that desire for fullness and Completeness and love and joy and peace and all the things we desire that we go looking for will be satisfied in the world to come. Now it's not a celestial palace in which our desire to come to Christ, we're not talking about the gospel. We don't preach the gospel as, hey, Jesus will fill up your love cup. No, we have disobeyed a holy God and broken his law, and we are he is at war with us and without justification through Christ, we are his enemies. But having been justified He's the one throwing out the package saying, friends, we're at peace. Friends, we have access. Friends, you're going to exult in my glory and long for it and you're going to see it as a part of the package. Uh Jose, did you have some? Let's hopeful. I totally know what you mean. And so hear hear me out on this. I think what you're asking is a really good segue for us When I say this passage doesn't command us to do those things, Paul's got plenty of book left, and which from verse 12, chapter chapter 12, verse 1 and following, therefore Right? Uh therefore, based on the mercy of God, I beseech you brethren to I therefore beseech you brethren by the mercy of God to present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable act of spiritual worship. But you know, Paul constructs all his books this way. He tells us who God is, what our problem is, who we are in Christ And then he says, therefore. And then commands like crazy. And so it's been it's Paul's pattern. And we are mainly in the first five chapters. mainly in the indicatives. I'm sorry, the the indicatives, not the imperatives. But this book will go to imperatives. That is, therefore Don't do this, therefore do that. But it will be based on our identity in Christ and all these benefits and the glory of it so that Christ gets the glory and it's not just hanging on by a thread. And so to answer the question in large, yes, we have responsibility for our own sanctification, but not without the identity in Christ. So he's building that now. But in chapter 6 and following, he will have a lot of things to say, if that makes sense Okay. Yeah. Very good. Okay. Point two on page two. Oh, Angela. Reading Tim Keller's book is Can you just point it out that the more we take advantage of the access that we have in Christ, the more that will feed our hope to being that great. Absolut absolutely. Absolutely. The more we're in his presence now, the less surprising it will be later. And no, it will. Um To to just use the funny illustration from last week, but insurance or two weeks ago, the more time we spend with the insurance agent and the more time we read the policy. right the scriptures and spend more time with Christ, then it becomes a reality of do we love him and not simply do we obey him And you know, what I love is John's uh or Peter's interaction with Jesus in John chapter twenty-one on the beach, you know, relative to that is we have stuff to do for God. And Jesus starts out as you know, he says, Do you love me Uh well, you know, sort of. I'm not agape, but um full uh you know. Uh then feed my sheep. Do you love me? Feed my sheep. And we b we both know. Out of a a fullness of the water of our own lives comes real ministry and real life to help other people. And um Anyway, God does a lot more with running water than stagnant pools in our life. Those kind of things. That's good. You just gave me preaching ground. Sorry, Angela. Okay, point two on page two. I've tried to do this on each of the benefits. Well that seems like a good benefit, but I you know I've been doing pretty good Let's just refresh our minds on four ways that we did not glorify God prior. And this is true of all of us. A. We we used to dishonor God's glory by exchanging God's glory for idols. That's the point. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. But they became futile in their speculation, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools. and exchange the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four feet and footed animals and crawling. All of us are guilty before we knew Christ at some level of being idolaters. Loved ourselves, loved other things more than Jesus. And we had exchange exchange his glory for idols. B, how had we dishonored God prior to our salvation? By wasting our lives. And living below the purpose for which we were created. God made us for a purpose. And we were not fulfilling that purpose. That's the ultimate way you dishonor God is by rejecting his purposes for his own glory. And so, of course, Romans 3. 23, just think of its effect, what it is saying, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. That's not simply you've fallen short of the moral compass, but you've fallen short of all that brings glory to God. And so we have not fulfilled the purpose for which we're created. Now we might look in the bigger piece, but God created us And his salvation of us includes those times leading up to our salvation, and it will ultimately bring glory to God because of his great plan. But we're told that during that time we were not Christians, we were clearly not bringing glory to God. We're falling short of doing so And friends, we used to dishonor God see by joining Satan's rebellion and seeking glory for ourselves and not for the Lord. I take this passage from Acts 12 where Herod It says this of him. The people kept crying out after he'd made a speech, the voice of a god and not a man. And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him because he did not give God the glory. And he was eaten by worms and died. That is a bad weekend. Honey, I'm going out. I'm gonna say something to the people. They're gonna chant my name. They're gonna say I'm a god. It's I'll be back in about a half an hour. You're dead. We weren't killed because God is in his mercy. But the truth is that all of us in some way, shape or form We're our own little gods. And it follows Satan's rebellion of I can be greater than God, I can be equal to God, right? I can be the God of my own life. I'm the captain of my salvation, or captain of my own soul, whatever it is And then D, Invictus, right? D. By stubbornly refusing to repent. Even with all of that, exchanging, wasting our lives, joining the rebellion, God has given merciful opportunities to trust in him. And the book of Revelation, chapter 16, verse 9, after the bull judgments and the things are happening and all this crazy is happening in the world, and people know it's God doing this. Why? Because they're saying, we hate you God. No nobody on the earth apparently is like, I wonder why this stuff's happening. The lie of Antichrist and that's a whole eschatological thing, but whatever lies are being told, they don't even believe them anymore alien spaceships and pizza and whatever, you know, Oakland Raider fans or LA radio fans or Las Vegas radar fans, where do they even live anymore? Okay? They're evil, okay? But whatever people are convinced of during the tribulation At some point they're going to realize this is no coincidence. The whole earth is under the wrath of God. And the response in verse chapter 16-9 is, men were scorched with fierce heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who has the power over these plagues. And they did not repent so as to give him glory. We, without the grace of God, would join that mob. And just last piece, in its fullest sense, this is not the most heinous thing that could have happened. It would be the crucifixion of the Son of God. And that is that rebel like Crucify him. Crucify him in the crowd, right? Friends, if we were there, we would have been yelling, crucify him. We wouldn't have been the voice in the crowd like, hey no guys, this is no, he's great. Crucify him, crucify him. And then the leaders yelled Let his blood be on us and on our children's children. So So those are ways in which we all, even if we weren't there, have participated in some substance in not honoring God. So page three. What does the benefit package come from? Come with? It comes with this. That's not what you're gonna do with the rest of your life. Will you have moments in which you dishonor God? Yes. But the overall tenor and the promised birthright is that your life, if truly a believer, justified. The justification package is going to lead your life to these implications. That number three, Christ in us is the hope of glory. Now there's a lot of Bible passages here. I hope you like the Bible. I don't always fill pages of Bible references without my own note parts, but I don't think I can make these points without reading the text A. The hope of fulfilling the God-given purpose for which we were elected and created. What is our hope now? That we exalt, we hope, we boast in God's future glory through our lives, and that is A. That we are hoping for the fulfillment of our God-given purpose for which we are elected and created. Isaiah 43, 7 Everyone who is called by my name and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, even whom I have made. Everything, of course, is for his glory, but specifically we're made for that purpose. Romans 8, 28, and 39, the purpose for which we were created. We know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. That's good. What is it? For those he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son. We've kind of looked at this passage a little bit, and we will in the future, but the point of it is, in Christ now, you are part of the purpose of God, which is the eternal purpose of God. To conform us into the image of Christ. There's not a purpose that you're in in your life that's below the greatest purpose. You are saved for this very purpose, to make Christ known and be shown in eternity to be a trophy of his grace. Romans 9. 11. For the children not yet being born, nor having done any good or evil That the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works but by him who calls. What is God's purpose? That He's elected a group to save, to be conform to the image of Christ so that those bring glory to him. And then bless you. Second Timothy 1. 9. Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works But according to his own purpose and grace, which was granted us in Christ Jesus from all eternity. Guys, the thing is, it's not simply the purpose of now. Why am I going to write on this refrigerator? I don't know why. What Paul is doing here is these first few verses that talk about the eternal purpose of God Election, predestination. He chose you for this purpose, to conform you to the image of Christ. Predestination is your final destination. What is the purpose of your life? Glorify God. To glorify God. But again, this passage is not saying therefore go out and glorify him in your daily life until the next verse is where it's saying, even in tribulation, the stuff of life, your life will bring glory to God But the eternal purpose, and then he's going to get to what I'd say is the underbelly, and that is tribulation While we're waiting for that eternal consummation that shows our lives made sense in God's giant purpose, our tribulations make sense and bring glory to God as well. Very simple, maybe I'm being pedantic. There we go. Ephesians chapter one. Seems warm in here to me. We're doing that on purpose, you know. Anybody controlling that, Gwen? Let's take it down to sixty, Scott, just kidding. Alright, Ephesians chapter 5. Right? Along the purpose. In love, he predestined us to adoption as son through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind attention of his will. to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us and the beloved. Three times in Ephesians 1, it tells us that three things have happened to us. Why? For the glory of God Verse 11, in him also we've obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will. To the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ would be to the praise of the glory, of the praise of his glory. And you were sealed in him, that's the third part, with the Holy Spirit of promise, who has given us a pledge of our inheritance. And a view to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. So all of this eternal plan was to the praise of his glory. All these wonderful benefits have been given to us are to bring glory to God. B. The hope of personal suffering being swallowed up in glorious victory. Isn't it gonna be great to be in heaven? And all the sufferings behind us, not simply that, oh, well that's over with, but God will bring it all to its summation and consummation He will not waste any sin. He will not waste anything. Justice will be done in the future. Suffering based on injustice in the world will be reconciled. Nobody's going into God's eternal presence without the justice issue being taken care of. God's like, okay, we're going to deal with that now. Everything will be reconciled in Christ. Nobody's going to get away with anything. Nobody's getting away on God. Yeah, but they committed these atrocities. Yeah. They're going to stand before God. It will all be just and clarified. No nobody's getting away with any crimes. Nobody's getting away with anything. Um not in the eternal purpose of God So the hope of personal suffering being swallowed up in glorious victory, I love Romans 8. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed in us. And then finally see, not finally, but finally on page three. The hope of personal suffering being a means of others seeing God's glory. Second Corinthians chapter four. For we have this treasure in earthen vellastles so that the surpassing greatness of the power will be of God and not from ourselves. I must be hungry today because I'm going to draw something up here with food in this hand. But it's not in there. Just imagine it's a jar. And I'm gonna put Peanut butter, some of you might be allergic to that. Alright. Peanut butter jar. The idea here is that we have this treasure in earthen vessels. Is uh the peanut butter is the treasure, and it's in a vessel, an earthen vessel, just whatever. And you can't get to it unless you open the lid, or if you imagine, something else That you would have to crack open to get into, but the treasure is within. What is this treasure in earth and vessels in our lives? It's not our behavior, it's not our goodness, it's Christ. Christ is our treasure. Christ is that earthly treasure. How does God use our lives, our suffering, to bring about his glory by making a crack in the peanut butter jar? in which Christ is exposed or magnified in the eyes of others. We see us go through crazy things, And they're like, how is that happening? And Christ is exposed through that into the lives of other people. Where they're like, that is amazing. We have this wonderful thing, but it has to be cracked open Something has to happen. Elizabeth Elliott gave the illustration simply of the teacup. Actually, it's a Amy Carmichael. illustration that Elizabeth Elliott picked up on. But that is of the teacup and she asked the question, if you put tea in a teacup and you jostle it with a stick, you jostle the teacup, what will come out of the teacup? Tea. Right. Um these things happen in our lives to jostle our teacup, so that which is truly our our value, our love, whatever will come out. It's the idea that trials happen in order to expose in us what is it we truly love. And so at the bottom of the page three, therefore we do not lose hope or heart But though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day. For momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. While we look not at the things that are seen, but at the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. There's a lot of notes today. I'm not planning on going through all of them. If I do, it's some providence of God Some of those are there for your uh after glow. Page four then. The hope of experiencing his glorious presence and vic triumphant victory At the bottom of the page, let me point out, is that song that I mentioned, Is He Worthy by Andrew Peterson, right? I think I've listened to that about ten times this week in preparation for this And uh of course that idea has led me to Revelation five. which was the impetus of him writing that particular modern modern hymn. Um guys, when I think Of the greatest hope we have, it is of experiencing the glory of God ourselves. And not through the stories only of the Bible or those who passed before and excuse me, saw his glory, or Moses, or John who fell at his feet as dead, and or Peter on the Mount of Transfiguration. These are amazing stories of being in the Shekinah glory presence of God. Isaiah chapter 6, high and lifted up. You know, I was undone. You know, John in the book of Revelation, who knew him, when he saw him, he fell on his face as if he was a dead man. And these guys knew him. I want to see him And by God's grace I will. And I don't know what I'm gonna be like in that moment, you know. There's so many songs that swirl around, you know. I I don't know. Mostly I think I'll just be on my face yelling, I can't believe I'm here. Right? Thank you, God. Mm. That's right. It's so important. That's right. Not to just show up uninvited, you know, and all of that. So Revelation chapter five, it may take me a minute or two to read it, obviously, but let's think about that moment Because this is our promised birthright, Revelation 5. I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside and on the back and sealed up with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals? And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it. Then I began to weep greatly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. And one of the elders said to me, Stop weeping. Behold, the lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has overcome so as to be able to open the scroll and its seven seals. And I saw between the throne with the four living creatures and the elders a lamb standing, as if slaughtered having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. And he came and he took the scroll out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the land. Each one holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying Worthy are you to take the scroll and to break its seals, for you were slaughtered, and you purchased people for God, with your blood from every tribe, language, people, and nation You have made them into a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign upon the earth. Then I looked and I heard the voices of many angels around the throne. and the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them were myriad of myriads, and thousands of thousands, saying, with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slaughtered to receive power, wealth, wisdom, might, honor, glory, and blessing. And I heard every created thing. That's amazing. Which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea And all things in them, saying, To him who sits on the throne, and the Lamb to be the bl be the blessing, the honor, the glory, and the dominion forever and ever. And the four living creatures were saying, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped. The Bible is full of scenes that have already taken place. This is the scene in which we will be there. This scene follows the rapture of the church. It's in heaven Not one of us alive today is going to not be there if you know the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a description of a yet future moment of your life. You will be there with me. So Andrew Peterson's song, of course, is he worthy? I am one of the Lord's worst singers. Lauren, is that too much to ask you? Do you feel the world is broken? Do you feel the shadows even? We feel But do you know that all the dark won't stop the light from getting through? Do you wish that you could see it all with me? Disong Creation Morning Is a new creation coming? It's the glory of the Lord to see the life within Is it good that we remind ourselves of this? Is anyone able to make a seal when open the scroll? I don't know. If they were me, if they were me, all that If you were with me all Amen. Okay, for those who are listening online later, that was me singing. Liar, liar, pant on liar. Lauren, that was not just great singing, that was a blessing. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Our hope of that future glory leads to page five and our conclusion Paul's conclusion of the matter. Number four on page five. Not only are we motivated by the future hope of glory, but also by our present growth in Christ. That's what he We see a future, but it's the surviving and the growth in our lives that we see Christ being magnified through our trials. And again, that's what Paul says, and not only this, that we look to the future. But we also exult, boast, enthusiastically endorse our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings three things perseverance. And perseverance, proven character. And proven character, hope. And hope does not disappoint. So again, what are tribulations, circumstances, experience in life, which apply? such pressures that tempt us to quit, run to idols or despair. And what is perseverance? The God given fruit of patiently waiting on the Lord's timing and outcomes while growing in joyful assurance of his goodness I think these two quotes are helpful from a Puritan and the Westminster Confession, and that is this. When God calls a sinner He does not repent of it. That is, God does not repent of it. God does not, as many friends do, love one day and hate another Or as princes who make their subjects favorites and afterwards throw them into prison. This is the blessedness of a saint. His condition admits of no altercation. God's call is founded upon his decrees, and his decree is immutable. Acts of grace cannot be reversed. God blots out his people's sins, but not their names. And then the Westminster Confession, more in a theological manner, says, They whom God hath accepted in his beloved, affectually called and sanctified by his spirit, can neither totally nor finally fall away from the state of grace But shall certainly persevere therein to the end and be eternally saved. Now we know that within Christendom Uh there's different views on this idea of perseverance, and I'm not going to do a theology of perseverance today. That's deeper in the book. But there are two things to be in mind of. The scriptures do teach us two clear truths. We must persevere till the end. And we will persevere. If it was you must, then it's all based on us. Or on some hopeful usage. But God's promise to us is you will persevere. But you must persevere. But if you're persevering, you must be. So let's just read the definitions. You must persevere until the end, God's requirement of his people. God does not merely command us to begin to believe for a time and then fall away. He requires us to continue to believe until the end, living lives of repentance and covenant faithfulness Granted, he does not ask for a perfect faith, but he does ask for a real faith, one that produces real lasting change. But if you stop there, you're not doing the whole covenant contract plan. God also says, and again, we have many scriptures to look at, but you will persevere until the end. God's preservation of his people. We will persevere. Because God preserves us. God will keep us from falling. Not one will be lost of all those who belong to the Son. True believers are not able to leave Christ, for Christ is at work within them. And what is proven character then? On the next page I'm going to develop that idea of perseverance, but let's stay here for a moment. Then what does this lead to? If you persevere through trials, it leads to proven character. In my estimation, the proven character we're talking about is the fruits of the Spirit, which are the demonstration of at least nine essential qualities of Christ-likeness. And my diagram at the bottom is rather Not awesome. But what I'm trying to demonstrate is left to right is this. The trials, they look random because there's different box little circles there. The challenges of life, the temptations, the trials create questions. Will I love in this situation in which I'm being persecuted? Will I joy will I have joy in this terrible sorrow? Will I have peace in the midst of chaos That's what those trials do. And they're answered to some degree in the nine fruits of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and self-control or temperance. That those are Christ-like qualities that God brings about when he smashed in the peanut butter jar apparently. But the trial of life The question that it develops, and the answer is from the Holy Spirit in us, who is developing Christ-like character in responding to those situations. There's the whole theology of this, we're not going to get into deep sanctification conversations, Lord willing, till January first, because we'll be in chapter six, Lord willing. And Paul asks the question then of How are we sanctified? Well, it's by the work of the Spirit. How do we give ourselves the work of the Spirit? Okay. But in big picture, this is what Paul is talking about is our trials lead to proven character. How did they do that? They are developing in us Christ-likeness. That is the purpose for which these trials have occurred. I wish I could go further than that, but do you know you wrote trail Yeah. That guy's alone with a peanut butter. That's not even worth trying to get out of that. Alright, page six to complete our morning. I guess we are gonna have time to do it. We have plenty of time actually. This is my refresher on the way out today. I'm not going to preach these 12 points. Don't don't get too alarmed. Just to refresh your mind. That the evidence that we will persevere. God promises us perseverance. Here are some reasons why I believe that. God's decree to elect us has a predetermined outcome For whom he foreknew, he predestined to become conform to the image of Christ, and whom he predestined, he called, and whom he called, he justified, and then Paul uses a future language. of a not completed act because it is so certain and whom he justified he glorified. Even speaking to those Romans who were still alive like we are at this time. It's so certain in God's mind that it's going to happen. The first reason that I'd say is why do we know for sure that if we have trusted in Christ uh God is going to complete that work which he has said he would. Number two, Jesus is under promise to the Father and to his chief directly to keep them so that they never perish. I could not put all the passages I would have liked to put there. And let me just say this. My sheep know my voice. That's one of them. And also, the Father has given, you know, the Father has drawn them, and whoever the Father has given to me, I will lose none of them That's a promise from Jesus that he will not lose you if you're his. Thirdly, Jesus has, is, and will pray for you. Now there have been many of those priests since death prevented them from continuing in office. But because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood Therefore, he is able to save completely all those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them. Other than the question of what happened at Gethsemane, in which the Son of God said, if this cup could pass from me Nevertheless, your will be done. But every other prayer that you can even mention, and I don't think he doesn't I don't think he gets a no answer there or whatever, it's already worked out. But the point is, apart from the explanation of that passage One knows that whatever the Son has asked of the Father, he will be given. He is praying for you. I want to see them in heaven, John chapter 17. Those that you gave to me, I am praying for them. That they will endure and they will be here with me and see my glory as I had before I came here. Number four, God can and will preserve us, right? Jude 24. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy. Number five, faith is a gift of God. You didn't start this endeavor. For by grace you've been saved through faith and not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. Perhaps theologians or grammarians in the room may suggest that the antecedent to the pronoun here is not necessarily that faith is a gift, but rather salvation is. Uh good and godly grammarians disagree on that, but I'd also try to prove that from the rest of Scripture. But grace is part of the package. I'm sorry, faith is part of God's package. Number six, our inheritance is guaranteed. Ephesians 1, and who is given? The Holy Spirit is given as a pledge of inheritance and a view to redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. The Greek word used there for the Holy Spirit was given as a down payment is the same Greek word that you would have used for a wedding ring as a symbol of or an engagement ring in our our parlance, a promissory note that says, I'll be back to marry you. The Holy Spirit was given to you as a As a as a ring to say, I'm gonna be back. And he's not gonna renege on this. He's not like, you know what, I'm not actually gonna get married to the bride. And number seven, the new covenant promises that believers will obey. Jeremiah 32. I will make an everlasting covenant with them. I will never stop doing good to them. I will inspire them to fear me so that they will never turn away from me. Number eight, Paul was sure God would preserve his faith. For I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. Good works of the promised birthright of all true believers. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared before him so that we would walk in them. Eternal life began at conversion, not at death, right? We're not just waiting for eternal life to begin. I tell you the truth, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life, has eternal life, has eternal life, has eternal life. And will not be condemned. He is crossed over from death to life. Number 11. The elect cannot finally be deceived or removed from their faith. For false Christ And false prophets will appear and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect if it were possible. Not possible. Yeah, but what if people come and the thing and the it's terrible and those people If you're one of God's true Chrievers, you cannot be lost. And then God saves sinners, that's the point. Well, what if I sin? What if I'm not as good as I was supposed to be? Right. Look, if you're a sinner, you're qualified. That's your only qualification. And I end with my favorite verse in Romans again. But to the one who does not work. but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteous. Friends, we have benefits and justifications that are day and news. They are more than we ever would imagine. And we have a new purpose in our life because of what Christ has done for us, to glorify Him, to hope for the future glory of God, and to see it within our own lives. Let's pray.