You all know that I have been urging us as a congregation recently, the last couple of months, to embrace the challenge of how different and diverse we are. to try to turn the diversity we have into a stronger community of believers, where we function like a community As um was said, the the um ability to be a community when you're much smaller and see each other all the time is easier when you get larger and you're spread out and don't even recognize faces anymore. That get that just gets harder. It just simply gets harder. We have to get to the point where we go beyond walking in here, looking around and saying, I'm really glad it's a diverse congregation. Look at all the diverse phases to the point where we embrace what God has put together here and then say, okay, He has put us together in a room. that makes us a congregation. But how then do we actually become a community where we're applying the things that we're we're hearing? And so I doubt there's going to be too much you're going to hear today that's going to be brand new to you. Maybe for some of you who are trying to figure out the Christian faith, this might be very helpful in that regard. But in some ways what we're learning today is going to be very basic and we are cycling back to it because our Lord in his upper room discourse cycled back to it. And obviously the Spirit of God often the best lessons we learn are things we already know in our head, but we have to learn them in our hearts. Yes, we're diverse ethnically, social status, culture, age And we're all here, I think many of you have come with disappointing situations in previous churches and you've been brought together. You're glad the word is preached here. The doctrine is something you know you can affirm with your family. But uh it's one thing to be at that level, it's another thing to be at a community level where we share meals together, invite folks into our home Have our children playing together, the youth working together, singles uh not scattering, but gathering together to try to uh build something here and to work with each other. Um Even styles of music have to be adjusted because if you look around the room, uh everyone's not going to have the same style of music. We're gonna go from hip hop to country in this congregation. I should throw in classical for my mom's sake. There's everyone has a favorite style of music and so there has to be some flex in in all of that if we truly are looking out for one another, caring for one another I think praying for each other, of course, goes without saying meeting physical needs, that maybe is the first thing that comes to mind, but by no means is it the only I think just I would say it this way, spending more time together. Spending more time with your brothers and sisters together. And I know some of you maybe are overcommitted at church, so take what I'm saying and apply it uh as God the Spirit would apply it to you. Uh I am speaking to the whole congregation. Some of what I'm saying to some of you will seem irritating because you feel you're already doing this. And others of you, this will hopefully be a challenge and a reminder to you. Um there's no question in my mind that God has taught us to love one another already to a degree. I could speak of I could write down hundreds of examples of love and giving and support and encouragement and prayers that are are done every probably every month uh in this church. And so it's a joy to be a part of this church. But I think often the level of commitment stops short of what the Bible would call sacrifice. I think that if we were to look at the the level of love that we have that's there, I think in in most instances In most families with most application, it couldn't really be described as sacrifice. And so that's what we're going to talk about today, is what is real sacrifice and what does it mean? It's a wondrous application. Sacrifice is one of those words that you want to run far away from or you want to amen it as long as someone else is doing the sacrifice. But if you have to do the sacrifice, it sounds painful. But uh there's obviously joy in it, or the Lord would not give us a command uh in that regard. So we're gonna take a small bite out of the upper room discourse as has been our habit. We're gonna savor its taste rather than gulping down a lot And we're going to work on application. The text is John chapter 15, Gospel of John. Chapter 15, verses 12 and thirteen. I have these progressive glasses for the first time now, so if I'm doing a lot of weird things like this, those of you that have progressive glasses will know I'm trying to find my sweet spot And uh hopefully it'll go okay. This is my commandment, Jesus said, that you love one another, just as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that one lay down his life for his friends. And we're going to talk more about the friend side of that next Lord's Day, but look at more of the sacrifice theme this Lord's Day. I would say this is the main point today. We have not learned the will of Jesus for our congregation until we have learned to sacrifice for one another. Let me say that again. We have not learned the will of Jesus Christ for this congregation until we have learned to sacrifice for one another. There are three, I think, I'll call them inspirations towards sacrifice in these verses. The first two are in the first verse. We have the command to love at the beginning of verse 12. We have the Example of love in the second part of verse 12. That example really goes into verse thirteen, but I'm going to call that the third point: the sacrifice in love. So the commandment to love, the example of love. And the sacrifice in love. Let's look at the command again. Please don't tune out like, oh yeah, I've heard this a million times before. Let it sink in more deeply in your heart as it has in my heart as I've studied it. This is my commandment, that you love one another. So, taking a step back, as I like to do, get in context, why did the Lord Jesus speak of his love commandment right here again? as they've probably gotten up from the the the supper and they're on their way towards uh the Mount of Olives and he's talking to them about that. Well remember he just finished telling them to abide in him. Remember the illustration? And also to let his words abide in them. He also told them that that means abiding in his love, continuing in a strong faith in his love. Through that, with answered prayer, we would glorify God, and we would prove to be true disciples. We would bear fruit through all of that. So just as we must continuously abide in the love of Christ and not depart from him, so also we need to have continuous love for one another, as long as we're down here. It's a love, the love that we abide in, underneath his love, is a love then that as we abide in it, we are to share it continuously with one another. That's the connection. In fact the verb to love, agapaho here, is a a present active verb, and so it has that continuous sense not to love one another with a deed Uh and then I'm done with, I did my love, it's over with, my duty is done, but it's a continuous uh verb. It sh it talks about a continuous action. We also know that Jesus has emphasized the command to love throughout all of this discourse, what we have called His last will and testament for His disciples, the upper room discourse. If you remember, just look back to chapter 13. I know it's been since the summer that we were there, so it may not be that fresh in your mind. But in verses 34 and 35, he said, A new commandment I give to you That you love one another even as I have loved you. That you also love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Love, love, love. He says it three times there. He says it's a new command, so for the new covenant and the new age, he's stressing this command. He even demonstrated by washing the disciples' feet. So there was a humility of service in the sacrifice even before he got to the cross Now if you go to chapter fifteen and look beyond our text, just to verse seventeen, you can see that in a few weeks we'll be hitting this again because In verse 17, he he brackets this section with that again. This I command you that you love one another. He's not just urging it, he's not just saying it's a good idea, he is expressing his authority as the Lord. He's giving a charge, a command that carries with it the full will of God. It is a commandment from God that we do this. So it's it's heavily stressed. I just want you to see that And so their love for one another is on Jesus' mind. He's about to leave them, and before he leaves them, he said, I'm leaving you my my peace, not as the world gives, I'm leaving you my love I'm leaving you my joy. Share all of that among each other. The Spirit of God also I'm going to send to you, so the Spirit of God will empower all of this in the church that I want to see happen. Really, I think also Jesus knew, and you could tie this with a Great Commission, that if if he was going to give them a great commission and say, go into all the world and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them, teaching them Teach them to observe what? All that I command you. Blow on with you always to the end of the age. Well, what was one of the main commands that he gave in our responsibility towards one another? Is it not love, right? So you can't really fulfill the Great Commission unless there's a community of love. He knew that if he didn't stress love with these eleven men who tended not to love each other And care for one another, the jockey for positions who want to be greater in the kingdom of God, pointing out the faults of others. It would not speak well of the whole message that was supposed to go out throughout the whole world. You could say in a very real sense, no community of love, no great commission. It wouldn't be able to be fulfilled. This undergirds, this is the application of the truth of the gospel in the life of a congregation that says, here In this location, are believers in the gospel and disciples of Jesus. How do you know? Look at their love. Now we send out missionaries and say, this is the message of God's love for you. You can see it connects that way. So it's very important, I think. He's handing off the whole work that he has been doing the hands of these eleven men, and so he's saying over and over to them, love one another, love one another. This I command you that you love one another. Because without that, the whole project, the whole age is going to be ruined. One church after another becoming a body of loving believers as they apprehend truth and solid, sound doctrine Love validates the gospel. That's what he said. By this all men will know you are my disciples. And so that is why Jesus' commandment in particular, remember he called it my commandment. in chapter 13 also. It's such a simple command he gives. It really is. Love one another. Any child can memorize that. Anybody can walk out of here knowing exactly what the will of God is, right? And yet it's so hard to accomplish. True? Why? Because of our selfishness, because of our self-centeredness. And because of the justifications that we make in order to cover up what really at the core is a self-interest. And to work past those justifications is sometimes hard. To have them pointed out to you is painful. But if we don't cut through some of the justification, we won't reach the core of what we need to, the heart, the soft heart of love. It's very easy to come in here and say, I love you, brother, isn't it? I mean come on, isn't it? I mean some of you have a hard time with that, but I love you brother, I love you sister. It's so easy to say that. It's much harder to inconvenience ourselves and then go beyond inconvenience to sacrifice. And say, look at my life. I have sacrificed in my life for the brethren. I have been hurt for what I have done for the brethren. Yeah, Jesus and his apostles still broadening out the picture for a little bit before we get to application. If you don't get the stress of love from the upper room discourse, just think about how it's stressed throughout all of the New Testament We already saw John 13, 34, and 35. If I can linger on that a little more, he said this is the distinguishing mark of Christianity. There's no other religious group that can claim to see what a true Christian church has. Doesn't matter their philosophy, doesn't matter their teaching. They can't have love because they don't have the new birth that gives birth to that love It's not even possible for them to have this kind of love. And so that's why he said, they will know you are my disciples, because no other disciples produce this. And the world doesn't either. Now there's a lot of deception that Satan likes to throw out there, a lot of what he calls love and they call love, that's not this kind of love. I mean Hollywood talks about love all the time, right? But somehow they don't love one another. They're always getting divorced. You ever notice that? And it's not because of their good looks or bad looks, right? You look at them, you're like, what is wrong with these people? They have money, they have good looks, they have fame, and they can't get along. You know, people pretend to have love. They go home on the holidays to the family reunions and the family has love, but they don't really want to see each other. A lot of people put a facade of genuine love on when they support their favorite charities. They blow the trumpet and they drop the money in so that everyone knows this is my charity. That's not love. They can't do what Jesus said. Bless those who curse you. They can't give up their ambitions to love others. And this distinguishing mark of God's love too is that you do something that's truly beneficial for someone else. Love doesn't lead people into sin or away from God. It rejoices with the truth, as 1 Corinthians 13 says. Jesus emphasized love. Paul emphasized love also. In Romans 13, 8 he wrote, Owe nothing, think about this, owe nothing to anyone. It's like, I like that part. Except to love one another. What does that mean? You are under obligation to love other believers, one another. For he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law, he says in the rest of that verse. So if there's one thing you and I are indebted to each other with, it's having been loved by God, we're now indebted to love one another. And when we do that, we fulfill the law. Why? Well he goes on in verse 9, for this you shall not commit adultery. You shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and if there is any other commandment, is summed up in this saying: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You never do wrong to a neighbor if you love him. Paul emphasized love as a doctrine, as a truth, as an operating principle for the new age Colossians chapter 3. Listen to how he describes it here. It's so stressed here. He says, Beyond all these things that he just finished writing about, put on, clothe yourself with love. Which is the perfect bond of unity. What keeps people together more than anything else? The perfect bond of unity. Answer it, love. And what were all those things that love is greater than? He listed attributes like compassion and kindness and humility, and he said, beyond all of those things. Greater than all of those things is love. It's the perfect chords of unity for any people. Oh, I've got to stay with Paul a little longer. Galatians 5, verse 6. In Christ Jesus neither circumcision, that is the Jews, nor uncircumcision, that is the Gentiles, means anything. But faith working through love. Paul says, you want to know what's important in the church is not the religious rituals. What's important is faith And faith always works through what? Love. When you have faith, it grows into and blossoms into love. And that's what's truly important, he says. Galatians 5, 6. Jesus, Paul, how about James? James, the brother of the Lord Jesus, also taught and stressed tangible sacrificial love. He said, this is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God. Like you want to know what is right religion. How do I know I got religion right? Well here it is. This is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father. to visit orphans and widows in their distress. See, there's a sacrifice. You see that? They're in distress. You've got to get involved now. You're not going to walk up and pat them on the back and say, I see that you're in distress. What a terrible thing. I'm a loving person. Go in peace, be warmed, and be filled. If you're going to get involved and you're going to visit orphans and widows in their distress, you're going to now involve your time, probably some of your money arguing with other people to try to get them to help them and you're gonna you're gonna be involved. It's gonna involve a sacrifice. He also goes on to say to keep oneself unstained by the world. James also says the same thing that Paul did, that if you have genuine faith, it'll show in love. In James chapter 2, verses 14 through 16. He says, What use is it, brethren, if a man says he has faith But he has no love. Can that faith save him? The answer is no, not that kind of faith. The kind of faith that doesn't result in love is not a saving faith. It has no attachment really genuinely to Christ. He even goes on to give an example of a brother or sisters without clothing or in need of daily food, and one of you says to him, Go in peace, be warmed and be filled, sounds so spiritual, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for the body, he asks, What use is that What good is that? And then he says faith without works is what? It's dead. It's not a genuine faith, but people have that kind of faith all the time. Peter. Peter chimes in. It's interesting in 2 Peter. This is a great counseling passage where it talks about all the qualities from knowledge and perseverance and brotherly kindness that you're to lay out and we are to have. And if we have these qualities, we're so useful and we're fruitful. in the body of Christ in Second Peter chapter one, the the last and the most preeminent of all of those attributes he ends with is love. And then later, well I'm sorry, earlier in his first epistle In 1 Peter 1, he instructs believers to fervently love one another. He says it can't be a casual love. The love that we are to have as a community of believers, and that's who he's writing to. the churches so that the churches would show this love within their churches. You can't love the church way over there as well as you can love the church right here, right? And so that's what he was saying. You're geographically here, love one another and let it be the fervent kind In 1 Peter 4. 8, he says, above all, listen to the superlative there again. Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another, because love Covers a multitude of sins. We're going to disappoint one another, neglect one another, say harsh things to one another, not be there for one another, misunderstand one another, but love buries all of that Love looks past all of it. You see, that's how great a quality it is. Back to Paul. He wrote thirteen letters, so he gets a little more time. He says in 1 Timothy 1, verse 5, and this is in the context of what a pastoral ministry should be, he even says, You know what my entire doctrinal ministry is about? And in one sense he talks about it as bringing about the obedience of faith among the Gentiles. But in 1 Timothy chapter 1, verse 5, he says the goal of our instruction Now he could have put in there maturity, he could have put in there Christ-likeness, he could have put in there the glory of God, any of those things would have been true. But he said the goal of our instruction is love And then he says, love from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. That's the fertile ground of love, you see. To see people love each other from a pure heart, a good conscience, a sincere faith. Paul says, that's why I instruct them. That's what it means to be mature, that's what it means to be Christ-like. That's what he wanted to see in their lives. That's what a mature body of Christians looks like. We leaders at hope, all of our leaders must stress love. Uh because it gets harder with our size for people to find their connection, uh for for them sometimes to get lost in the crowd. So many of you are new, came in the last three years, and so the relationships haven't had as long to develop and cook. So to say, uh many of many of you honestly don't know each other all that well anymore and it it just gets it gets harder. Yes, there's the diversity. And I've mentioned it's not just ethnic diversity, sometimes it's more the just the cultural ways in which uh different people live, city versus country, old versus young, all kinds of diversity that's there Uh and then you know people have said the Washington area, I don't know how it is for Baltimore, but Washington area is one of the worst areas in the country for traffic And so that can easily become a hindrance and a problem for getting together and and uh we we we're spread out geographically, we have folks all the way way down in even lower parts of PG County out into Frederick County and way up on the north side of Baltimore and uh on the east in Ann Rundle County and from all over Uh even Pastor Tony and I live about a hundred miles it seems from each other, you know. And uh we we uh we are spread out. So bad traffic, spread out, growing size, many new people A difficult area where many of the men are pressed beyond what they ought to be in terms of the hours they have to put into their work, available time to get where you need to and connect with one another. This is the environment in which we're trying to express meeting needs, getting together And it's something that we are we have to continue to do. I would say that in order to be a biblical church, this is what we have to do. I think it's wonderful that people come here and they hear doctrine And they want doctrine and they want truth. I I would never criticize you for that. That is not a criticism for me. I'm so glad that God has opened your ears and gave you discernment to say, you know, there's so much that's not being taught well But a truly biblical church isn't a church that just hears those things. It implements love. Implements it. And if we're going to be biblical, we've got to carry it all the way through. All right now. I want to look at the second, and that is the example of love, and that's of course Jesus in the last part of verse 12. He says there, just as I have loved you. So the commandment goes back to his example again. We know this This time the verb love does not in the present tense, it's aorist past tense, and so he's looking at an act or something that is done with. He's telling us, you continue in my love, I have demonstrated the love to you. It may even be pointing towards his one act of supreme love in his laying down his life for them on the cross, because that's what he speaks of next in verse thirteen. Yet even before the supreme act of sacrificial love that Jesus gave, he had already loved them. Again, if you think back to chapter 13, it says there at the beginning of that chapter he loved his own disciples all the way to the end. Very to the very end of his ministry. He never let go of them. He was faithful to them. Even that this is the last evening they're going to be together before his death and resurrection. He said he loved them all the way to the end He didn't lose any of them. Judas wasn't one of his, remember. And so uh he was uh the son of perdition and um They had many shortcomings. They failed to learn and understand and demonstrate love even to him. They were out of touch with him often, but he loved them all the way to the end. In fact, he loved them all the way to his last dying breath. And here is the enduring full love of Jesus Christ for his own disciples. He talked about his commitment to lay down his life for his sheep in chapter 10. He loved his own disciples in chapter 13, and here he says he lays down his life for his own friends. That was the particular emphasis of his love He had a love, commitment to them that resulted in sacrifice. The love he had for his own was a greater love, even that went beyond the love he had for the world, a pity and a patience for a lost world who had rejected him, and one day if they didn't repent, would be rejected by him also No, with this group it was different. He was always faithful to them. He would never abandon them. He was their good shepherd. Remember, he was the hireling and was not the shepherd who saw the wolf coming. He would leave the sheep. And the wolf would snatch them and scatter them. He fled the sheep because he was only a hireling, and he said, I'm not a hireling, I'm the good shepherd. And I lay I know my own and I lay down my life for my sheep And that's what he said in chapter ten. There was a commitment there all the way through. You and I need to grow in our confidence of God's love for us only as we We grow in the confidence of God's love for us. Do we have the power and energy and the insight in order to start loving more deeply other people? It's so important to meditate on and believe and grow in your understanding that God loves you particularly Remember the whole divine circle of love we learned last time that God the Father has a unique and a special love for God the Son. He is his own beloved Son. And it is with that special love of the Father that God the Son also participates in and he loves his own disciples, a love of relationship and loyalty. Indeed a love that he has known to have with these because he's an eternal being from eternity past. And we then are to understand that and remain put and abide in Jesus' love. That's our responsibility, and then share that love with one another, and then in sharing that love Truly loving one another, it comes back to God the Father again, because as we love one another, we say to God, I love you too This is a love circle. This is a love of pleasing relationship. It's a love of openness and acceptance and enduring quality. It's a love of covenant. It's not a love that he has outside of that relationship. Dr. MacArthur in his book, The Love of God, explains it well. I have an extended quote here This, of course, speaks of the particular love for the elect. It is not the general love that extends to all humanity It is not a conditional love that can give way to hatred. He's referring to the fact that in the end the unbeliever is going to be rejected. This is the love he has for his own. It is a love that extends from eternity past to eternity future, and it is a love that will stop at nothing to redeem its object. Greater love has no one than this, Jesus said, that one lay down his life for his friends. John 15, 13. That is precisely what he would do for them the day after he spoke these words. This love of God for his own is not bestowed on people because they show themselves worthy of it. In fact, there's nothing worthy in the recipients of this love. These are not people who have somehow earned God's love. It is a holy, gracious love, not something anyone could ever earn or any kind of merit system. Here is where the true greatness of divine love is seen. Christ faces the cross. He will bear their sin, and he will undergo the agonizing wrath of God on their behalf. He will suffer the painful, lonely sense of being forsaken by the Father, not to mention the human pain of execution and murder and public shame. And yet he is totally immersed in his love for his own. And as he faces death, he wants to affirm how much he loves these utterly unworthy men. This is a love that only those who belong to Christ can possibly know. It is a unique and a marvelous love. It is a love that pursues its object no matter what. It is a love that saves Forever. That's the love that you and I are to maintain our faith in, to bask in it, to grow as if you are a plant in sunshine, flourishing. And then take that love and communicate it to each other. I don't have any love inside of me. There's no love that comes from this man. I uh I can't generate love if it were not for God causing me to born e be born again and him teaching me through Christ's example and the example of other believers and constantly teaching me through his word, correcting me when I don't love, and having my conscience be bothered, and being trained through that, I wouldn't have any love to share with you. And neither would you. The love inside of you has come from God. It starts with God. It works its way in you And then it causes pain and turmoil in you as you realize you don't love others as much as you ought to. And that should be convicting. That should be humbling. And you come back and you learn again. And you come back to the cross and you learn again. You come back to the commandment and you learn again. And you come back to a preacher who says the same thing over and over again and you learn again. And your wife tells you again, honey, you're not loving me. And you're like, but I thought I was, and you learn again. And you learn deeper, and you learn there's so much that needs to go, and so much new that needs to be put on. This is the process of sanctification. Is his love shared though among us? The love of one another is really the expression of our love back to God. I want you to turn to first John because it just connects with this. It's almost like John had written this, which was Jesus' words, and then he pens after writing that, he writes this in 1 John chapter 4. Verses eleven and twelve, first John four, verses eleven and twelve. And really I'm going to start with uh verse nine by this. The love of God was manifested in us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him. In this is love, not that we love God. Remember where the circle started Not that we loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. And then verse eleven Beloved, if God so loved us, that's really a sense. Since God so loved us, we also ought, do you see the obligation, the owing? We ought to love one another. And then he says, no one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. How do I sense and see the presence of God? Answer: love in the community. Love in the community. Just like the world has to look and say, hmm, are they really disciples of Christ? Yes, they have love. So we also perceive that God abides in us and us in God because of the love, you see. Look forward to verses 20 and 21. Removing of excuses, removing of those that say and think they have love. Here John even had to do that. If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a what? And you think I'm blunt. Some people think it's insensitive to be blunt with God's word. But God's word is blunt. To smooth over when God says something directly, to smack us in the face, to smooth that over is not faithful to God. I love God, hates his brother, he's a liar. You're a liar. For the one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen. Do you see the connection? And then verse 21, in this commandment we have from him that the one who loves God should love his brother also. Let's go back to John 15 for our third point. And this is really the main point. This all leads up to the sacrifice of love in verse thirteen. Greater love has no one in this than one lay down his life. Greater love is a comparative in Greek, but when you add has no one than this, it then ends up being not just a comparative, but a superlative. You can't find a greater love than this. It's the greatest If you're looking for the greatest example of love, if you want to know how to do this love, Jesus speaks of it here. The answer is sacrifice. This is the greatest expression of love, the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, which he said he gave for his friends. Jesus went to the cross and laid down his life for his friends. Now I want to make a couple of clarifications. First, this statement does not mean that our love for God is less important than our love for fellow man. That's not saying the greatest love is the love we have for fellow man. That's not the comparison being made He's not comparing our love for God with our love for fellow man here. We ought always to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. We know that. Jesus made that so clear in Mark twelve, verses twenty-eight and following It it says this one of the scribes came and heard them arguing and recognizing that Jesus had answered them well asked, What commandment is the foremost of all? Remember there's six hundred and some commandments Jesus answered the foremost is hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength. The second commandment is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no commandment greater than these. There's the order. So that's not what Jesus is comparing right now. And you can also go back to Deuteronomy 6 where that was quoted. And besides, love for man is related to our love for God, as John said. If you love God, then you will love your fellow man. So it is the second greatest commandment, and it is tied to the first commandment. It is the way of even expressing our love for God. Now, a second clarification about what Jesus is talking about here in verse thirteen. This does not mean that dying for people who are our friends is greater than dying for people who are our enemies. And that's one of the confusions sometimes people think the Bible contradicts itself here, because in Romans five eight it talks about God demonstrates his own love towards us, and even Brother Doug uh quoted that at the beginning of our service You know, that while we were enemies, while we were still helpless, Christ died for the ungodly. And so you might say, well, that's got to be the greater love, because Romans 5. 8 says it's the greater love, and then you come And you left scratching your head maybe a little bit. Anytime you study the Bible, you have to always go with context, right? Context, context, context. In John fifteen, Jesus is not comparing dying for the enemy with dying for a friend. He is in the company of all friends. Judas is gone here. There's just the eleven of them. These are his friends as he's going to go on to talk about. The point is that the greatest love that one can be showing for his friends is to lay down his life. What greater thing, what greater possession do you have than your very own life to lay that down for others? There's nothing greater than your life. So if you lay down your life for another, you've shown the greatest love that you can for a friend And so that's his point. If you tie Paul and Jesus together, we would say that yes, there's a sense that when we were enemies and we were seen as enemies before the divine tribunal, we broke God's commandments. We are really adversaries of the King of Heaven. And in that position, yes, Christ was sent to die for us to redeem us back to Himself. But now there's a faith relationship, and in Christ we're beloved as Jesus is loved, and we are now his friends because we do what he commands, as he goes on to write about. These here are Jesus' friends, and they will prove their friendship by their obedience to his command. And so Jesus did lay down his life for his friend. Actually, lay down his life is the life of his put down is literally what it said. He's going to take the life of his own and he's going to put it down. To death is the point. A loving sacrifice. He presents this here so we understand what it is, because none of us are as filled with the Spirit and as Christ-like as we ought to be. And we need this. It may seem that this is too far beyond you, but this is where your eyes should be. This is where your eyes should be on this example. This is what ought to be going on in your heart as you're coming out to church and meeting with believers and reading your Bible. It's loving sacrifice. His example is for us to know his love and copy his love. You know, people talk big all the time. Talk is cheap, isn't it? Talk, talk, talk. Remember what Peter promised earlier the evening, Lord, why can I not follow you? I will lay down my life for you right now. And then he went and denied him three times. We don't even know ourselves all that well. We tend to listen to these kinds of messages and think of all the people that are not loving us. Is that what's been going on? Looking out of the corner of your eye, a person over there that hadn't been loving you. I sometimes have the same reaction. And it's wrong. It's wrong Lay down the life. There it is. Lay down the most precious thing you have. Sometimes we have we have trouble letting go of good furniture. We give away the old furniture, you know. Anyone want the old furniture? We got that nice special new piece of furniture. I ain't giving that to anybody. No, you know how hard it was for me to find that. I speak to myself as well. We can't give a nice piece of furniture away. How can we give our life away? Sacrifice. Do you know what sacrifice is? To really sacrifice this way, you know what you have to do? Here I'm going to give it to you, okay? You have to volunteer. If someone forces you to do this, as a member of Hope Bible Church, you will empty your wallet now. If someone forces you to do that, it's not a sacrifice on your part. It doesn't bring God any glory. It has to be you volunteering. You have to say, Wow, that's gonna hurt Um but I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. And you know the other thing is you can't look to the right and to the left and say, I don't see anyone else stepping forward. You know that is with the volunteers, it's everyone steps backwards. And then whoever's left standing there, you know, and all of a sudden they're the ones that look like they step forward and they volunteer. That's how it is sometimes in church. Let someone else do it Someone else can visit 'em. Someone else can get involved. Someone else can pray. Not me. Ah, I'm too busy. Now, there's one sense in which we cannot imitate the death of Jesus, and I'm not going to elaborate on this because of time. Christ died on the cross, laying down his life to pay for our sins, right? First Peter for this is three eighteen, for Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust. so that he might bring us to God. If you want to know how to get brought to God, believe in the death and resurrection of Jesus. Put your trust in him and you can be brought to God. He died for you to pay for all of your sin. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. God made Jesus, who had never sinned, to become sin on our behalf on the cross is what it means, so that we might become right in God's sight, the righteousness of God. And that's why Charles Wesley wrote that hymn, Amazing Love, how can it be that thou my God shouldst die for me? So understand when Christ went to the cross, he was making a payment none of us could. To try to imitate that part of it would be blasphemy. We don't do that. Jesus' death was not just a positive example. If you grow up in a more liberal Protestant church, they talk about the wonderful example of Jesus on the cross and we need to be Tolerance and love one another, they forget that God was angry with sin, and if Christ hadn't gone to the cross and died, that wrath would have fallen on us. The application for us is not to try to redeem mankind. The application is for us to become humble and to serve each other, to be willing, if necessary, if it ever gets to that point And it most likely won't, but if it ever did, to actually lay down our lives for other church members. If I can be blunt about it. Emotion is not so much the key. How you feel about someone is not the point. Words are not the key. Action, voluntary, sacrificial commitment to other people, not just in your family, but in the family of families, the family of God, the church. It means saying no to me and yes to you. But I wanted to go home and watch that show. Go out and visit somebody. I like Romans 16, verses 3 and 4. Paul writes, Greet Prisca and Achilah, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who for my life risked their own necks. To whom not only do I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. These people did put their life on the line to help out Paul. Think Paul ever forgot that? Remember 1 John 3:16, we know love by this. We figure love out, we understand love, we perceive love by this, that He laid down His life for us, and we ought To lay down our lives for the brethren. What he goes on to talk about there in 1 John, we don't have time to develop it, isn't let's all go out and die for one another, because that's not usually the application. He goes immediately to the giving away of physical, tangible things, money. He says, whoever beholds his brother in need, a true need, not a phony need, a true need, and closes his heart against him. You know how you close your heart against him? You just say no. You just say no, I'm not going to meet the need. That's how you close your heart. So there's the need, you see the need, you can meet the need, and you just say no. That's closing your heart. And then he asks, How does the love of God abide in that person? That's in 1 John 3. Love is not something we are simply to admire in Jesus, but we are to begin practicing it. How do we begin practicing it? Start with the things you own, start with the time you have. That's where we start. We are your Christian brothers and sisters. Like I said, most of us will probably never have the opportunity to literally lay down our lives for one another. I'm not sure we would do it if given that opportunity. But we can behold the brother in need. We can behold the someone who's lonely, the someone who needs a ride to church. Start with the smaller things. Someone in the community maybe that's a believer even in another church. It's not just in this church, it's any believer that you see It extends to the unbeliever as well, but this context is about the one another's here. It means having a heart of compassion and learning to genuinely care. I'd like to give some applications in closing. I know we're kind of out of time, but I want to give some specific applications here. And you can write these down. How can I begin to lay down my life for other people here at Hope Bible Church? The first thing is work on relationships Start by being more involved in somebody else's life. Start with a small group, start with accountability groups, start with somewhere where you commit yourself to others. Whenever there's an event, it's very disappointing when an event is planned for and so few come out to it. It's almost like, well, we have a picnic, we have a a missions conference, we have a uh a gamma conference, we have uh some other thing and then and then when folks do show it's a joy it shows there's a community that cares and when it's largely empty everyone else thinking someone else was going to show up it's very discouraging Because it doesn't just say they didn't think the event was important. It's a barometer on the community of believers itself. Make friends across boundaries. Invite children over to your home Take the initiative in the relationship. Don't just settle for what's easy. Singles make friends with singles and married people of the same age, having babies at the same time, making friends with those people, or older people making friends. Those are fine. Go beyond that's what I'm saying. Secondly, meet physical needs. We have a care ministry. I was told by one of our care ministry Deacon candidates recently, it's been rather hard. You get people to sign up for a list to go visit people, but to actually get someone to go visit someone when the time is needed, it's no I don't have time, no, I don't have time, no, I don't have time, no, I don't have time. And that's when the people We'll volunteer to be on the list That is something we need more help with as there are physical needs. And I don't mean to chastise us all in that regard. There have been plenty of visitation that's been done here, many, many meals that have been made for one another. folks that have showed up on a move day, but some of you haven't. You haven't done that yet. And how can it be said that you really love the people here if you're not doing at least some of that Prayer, of course, is a third application. You see the prayer needs that come on Hope Book. Do you take time to check Hope Book? You have your favorite ways of getting online. Is it really that big of an adjustment? to go and to read the prayer requests and say, at least put a word in there saying, yes, I am praying for you. Is it that hard for you to do? There's some that you see their names over and over and over again, and men they're mostly ladies. Where are the men's names? Yes, I'm praying for you. Yes, I love you, yes I'm concerned about that. Or our prayer meeting on Sunday morning, or your prayer meeting in small groups, connecting and praying. Hospitality is a fourth way. You know, it's so inconvenient to have a messy home, isn't it? To have to cook. And boy, those kids didn't behave all that well when they came over. Well there's love. Make a sacrifice. It's a small sacrifice actually. Have other people into your home. What about just our ministries we're trying to tie together? You know, n not everyone's gonna homeschool. That wasn't the point of the announcement this morning, but where people can band together Why not band together and prove that we are really a community? We want to start an awana. There's another possibility. Build a youth ministry. You know, it is true that when we were smaller there were opportunities to do things in lots of other churches, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. until everyone just is doing that as habit and then we don't have the community here. Where's the community? Where is the sense that we do more than show up on Sunday morning, listen to good Bible preaching, amen, it have very long talks in the foyer, and then there's no community. On Wednesday night or whenever else. It can't be like that. It just can't. Another one is don't be so easily offended. Oh I know I'll say this and one of you is going to be easily offended. It is, we stand up, we repeat the membership covenant, you know, to be slow to take offense, to be to be quick to reconcile And we're exactly the opposite. We're very slow to reconcile and quick to take a friend. Well, I just don't think they should have talked to me that way. Well, maybe they shouldn't have, and maybe they should have. Maybe you needed to be talked that way. Maybe your pride is hurt more than anything else But blaming the church and pointing fingers at their failures and going off, that's nothing more than protecting a cold heart. And the last one is don't wait. Don't wait. This is where a lot of you would hear everything I said up till now. You amen it. And what you're going to do is you're going to wait. You're going to wait for someone else to do it first. Well, when other people invite me, I'll invite them back. Why? When other people are nice to me, I'll be nice to them. Why? Because you're loving yourself? See if you love them, get past yourself. Say no to yourself, but I'm afraid to talk to them. Throw the fear out These are applications where we can grow in our community love towards one another. My fear is that we're going to become a nuanced Carefully written doctrinal statement kind of church that doesn't know what it means to be a community of believers And I know that's unfair for some of you. And for those of you who have really been doing that, I I I I I I apologize, but I'm not really speaking to you. I'm speaking to the fact that we now have 500 people in this church. And may God move in our hearts to say no to ourselves, our agenda. Say yes to each other, time, treasures, gifts of the Spirit, careful with our words to edify, build up, and really love one another Father, start with me and with the elder board. Help us to evaluate our own time. Help us to give and share. And our deacons Who are servants of the body, and our small group leaders and their wives, and our women leaders, help us to demonstrate, to go out of our way, to be tired and inconvenienced for the church. Lord, to not give up on our brethren. And to be honest when there's coldness of heart and lack of maturity and unwillingness to go the extra mile. May we be honest in our relationship with you, Lord. May you apply your word to our hearts. We ask it, please, in the precious name of Jesus. Amen.