Mothers and all ladies, I want to speak to you today about your decision making In particular, about the importance of making decisions which express your faith in the confidence and power of God. God's power. God's ability. Yes, you men too, as leaders of your home, need to have confidence in God's power. You must exercise faith in order for there to be Good, strong decisions, godly decisions made in your home. But the truth is women often have more vulnerabilities than men, and they struggle with confidence, they struggle with having fear. Wives often worry about the decisions their husbands are making. What is that guy up to? What is he doing? And they worry. Daughters often worry about their father's guidance You mothers know, too, that you can become quite anxious, quite worried, even fretful about the future of your family and your children. So God wants you also to exercise a dependent kind of faith in Him in order to gain courage right in the midst of your circumstances, whatever they may be. And they're always. different for different people. In Matthew chapter 15, verses 27 and 28, a woman there, the Syrophoenician woman she's been called, begged the Lord Jesus to heal her daughter. She was desperate. She knew she was unworthy of Christ's attention and power and healing, but she came with faith nonetheless. And Jesus said to this mother, O woman, your faith is great, it shall be done for you as you wish. Clearly, God in Christ honors the faith of mothers And so God values your clinging to Him and to His power. And we would say the opposite is true as well. God is never pleased when any of us try to fix our own problems Apart from what God says we should be doing, God is never glorified when we trust human convention and not his infallible word. Well, Genesis chapter 16 records an historical account of something that occurred in the lives of two mothers. Neither of these mothers were perfect by any means, but both of them were believers. And it is instructive to us as they were believers. And they were both, though, learning lessons in believing better, for they believed, but their faith needed to increase. Now the story happened a long time ago, really a very long time ago, long before the time of Christ, long before the Dead Sea scrolls were even written, long before King David In fact, five centuries before Moses the prophet was even born. The date is just before the year 2000 BC. The place is the land of Canaan, the land of promise. during the time of Abraham and Sarah's nomadic travels within its borders. The occasion concerns the amazing promises that God had made to this man Abraham. Do you remember what promises God gave to Abraham and how important they were? Well, prior to Genesis chapter 16 in Genesis 12 and in Genesis 15, those promises from God to Abram during a vision were given. They were promises to greatly bless Abraham for his faith in God, to multiply his descendants like the sand of the seashore, to grant the land that he wandered on back and forth as an everlasting possession to his offspring. And also, maybe the greatest blessing was to be a blessing to all the other families and tribes of the earth. Those promises called the Abrahamic covenant, God made sweeping universal promises, magnificent promises, which would cover all of The unfolding history of how God would go about saving his people. We call that redemption history. All of that begins right here in Genesis In fact, the rest of the Bible beyond these promises to Abraham in Genesis is nothing more than the outworking of those promises. God made the promise to Abraham And then you read in Exodus and Leviticus and you move on into the New Testament and you see God through the centuries fulfilling those promises. So the times were weighty, to say the least, in terms of Earth's history. This was the foundation of all that God was going to do to save the world. aren't just two stories of two mothers, but they have a lot to do with what God would do in terms of world history. The only little catch to all of this magnificent future that the Lord God had promised, to own the land forever, to have countless descendants, which would lead to a savior who would bless all of the other families of the world, a wonderful plan. The only catch was That Abraham still desperately needed a what? A son, an offspring, a child. And so when we pick up in Genesis chapter 16, Abraham, who at this stage was still called Abram, was already an old man. Worse yet, his wife, Sarah, who at this time was still called Sarai, was also old. In fact, she was beyond childbearing age And was without a child. So it seemed all of God's promises would never come to pass. So Sarah steps into this void and she comes up with a sensible solution, or so it seemed. Open to Genesis chapter 16 in your Bibles and let's find out her solution and how God had to work to fix her solution. In this chapter, Genesis 16, we will learn about Sarah's sensible solution as she looked at it through four phases of the story. Four phases of this story, and we're going to read the story as it unfolds to us. The first phase of the story is Sarah's problem, and we encounter it right there at the very beginning of verse 1. Look at it. It says, Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him No children. There it is. There's the problem. Clearly and succinctly stated. Sarah had borne Abraham no children Ever, never at any time. Of course, don't misunderstand, it doesn't mean that they were celibate through all of these years. They certainly were trying Even way back in the land of Ur, where they were called out of into the promised land, they were functioning as a married couple. But while all of the other couples that they knew in their social circles, even back then, were having babies, they were not. They had none. Zero. Zilch. Baroness, of course, is always hard for a couple, but in those days it was an even bigger deal than it is today, for descendants were crucial for a family clan and for the passing on of the inheritance And since they had been so long without a child, it made the likelihood of pregnancy even smaller, particularly in Sarah's mind, because, well, no one knew her body quite the way she did. Now you also need to recall as some background to the story that Abraham and Pharaoh were quite rich. They already had many possessions. possessed many flocks and herds, they had many servants, they were like an entire clan there, even though they didn't have children. And I'm sure their servants could be overwork overheard Maybe whispering around the tents, and that's how they did live, and tents they would pick up and move on and reset the tents, and the servants would be busy doing what they would do. And they knew of the promises to Abraham for sure, and I'm sure they were whispering saying, What are they going to do? Doesn't Sarah know that she's beyond childbearing age? What does all this talk about? Abraham having many descendants and blessings. And the old man doesn't even have one child yet. What's he going to do? Well, you know Sarah had to think about this and at some point the the harsh reality set in on her that it looked like this would never happen. I mean, this was a woman who had many skills. She was a strong woman. She was able to fix many problems. She was a rich woman. She was in charge of many servants. She had much responsibility. She had traveled the world in that day. She had stood by her man through many difficult dangers. She knew how to handle problems. She wasn't weak. She could fix problems. She was very capable. She also was a very beautiful woman. According to Genesis 12, 14, her beauty was evidently stunning The kind of beauty the ruler of Egypt would like to have for a wife. Even as she got older, she retained much of this beauty. But this was a problem, though she was a very self-confident, courageous woman, this was a problem she didn't know. how to fix. It was beyond fixing, really. She just had to learn to live with the failure. And it was a personal failure. It was a grievous failure. in her light. I don't doubt that she shed many a tear in her tent at night. It was a public embarrassment. It was a family crisis. It was personal to her. Listen, Abraham only had one wife And she was it. And she was barren. She must have felt like a dry well in an arid land. Not only was she useless, but she was an aggravation. Everything was supposed to come from her, and she could provide nothing. Just an aggravation to everybody, maybe even quietly a disappointment to Abraham. Yet God had said, God had confirmed to Abram back in chapter 15 and verse 4, the air that he was talking about was going to come forth from his own body. There was no doubt about that. Abraham had already tried to substitute his servant to be an heir, Eliezer, one of the servants in the tents, a trusted man. Abraham said, What about this guy? And God said, No, he's going to come from your body. Well, somewhere along the line, she added everything up, and she came up with a sensible and sacrificial solution to fix this problem. And that leads us to the second phase of the story. And that is the solution that Sarah devised. The solution Sarah devised. Again in verse 1, notice And she had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar. Verse 2. So Sarai said to Abram, Now, behold, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Please go into my maid. Perhaps I will obtain children through her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai. After Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan Abram's wife Sarai took Hagar the Egyptian, her maid, and gave her to her husband Abram as his wife. Now you know to a modern reader this is a shocking maneuver on Sarah's part, isn't it? And you read this sometimes and you read the Bible and you say, They did what? This is this is Abraham, the man of the New Testament we're supposed to look up to, the man of faith And Sarah? Was Sarah really telling Abraham to have relations with another woman just to get a baby? Um yep, that was the plan. That was her plan. Abraham, take my maidservant, my personal attendant, go into her and produce an air for yourself. The child biologically would be the maidservants, but Sarah Would be given credit for the child because she supplied the woman to Abram and the woman was her slave. Presto. Problem solved. Sarah's failure is fixed God gets to keep his promises. It's a win-win-win solution, as far as Sarah could see, who could not be in favor of this suggestion. It even took sacrifice on her part. By the way, though this solution sounds quite immoral to us, it really wasn't considered immoral in their culture. That's why we always have to study scripture in its historical context to understand. Ancient tablets that were discovered from this time period in the Near East show that barren women were not only allowed, but in some cases expected to do this. The Code of Hammurabi, for example, speaks of the duty of a wife to give her free man a female slave to bear children. The Nuzi texts reveal a similar arrangement during those same days, where children born to a slave girl were under the domain of the mistress. Very similar to what we read right here in Genesis 16. In the book The Bible in Archaeology by J. A. Thompson, he writes this. There were in fact four possibilities available in the ancient Near Eastern cases where a childless couple lacked a son. They could adopt a son. The husband could marry a second wife. The husband might obtain a son through union with his concubine. Or the wife might provide the husband with a slave girl. This is the choice that Sarah made So the woman provided for childbearing could become a wife or a concubine, but her status would be secondary to the head wife. So this was not considered to be adultery. This was considered to be smart business. It was not considered a breaching of the marriage covenant, but of fulfilling wifely duties. According to custom, Sarah was acting responsibly. It was like she was saying, This is provided for you, Abram, in place of me. I sanction this. And now everyone can see that I have done my duty and I have provided my husband with an heir. It was actually done out of respect for the spouse and for the whole family clan. Notice Sarah here in verse 2 does not even refer to the woman by name when she talks to her husband, only by her status. Here, take a maid. It wasn't a personal thing, it was a duty. It was not about lust or romance, it was about business. It was about responsibility. They were a society that clearly was different than ours, that society honored duty far above personal pleasure and the erotic. Now, this maidservant's name was Hagar. She probably was one of the maidservants that Sarah had received from Pharaoh back in Egypt, since she's called an Egyptian, and they had already traveled to that land. Yet the name Hagar comes from a Hebrew word, and the name means to flee. That's an appropriate name for her, as we'll see later in the story. This Hagar was appointed to wait on Sarah personally. And Hagar was completely subject to the authority of Sarah. Psalm 123 in verse 2 picks up on this submissive relationship. It says, as the eyes of a maid look to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the Lord our God until he shall be gracious to us. A very dependent relationship Also it appears that Hagar had no say in this transaction. Notice in verse 3 that she was given to Abraham and then taken by Abram. As a servant, her mistress had authority over her. Hagar is called a wife down in verse 3, but it is doubtful there was any ongoing physical relationship. As we learn, Hagar would only have one child by Abram. So Hagar was assigned this task, be a substitute. mother. What a very interesting role to have to play. Imagine what her thoughts were. So on the one hand, understanding Sarah's motivation, getting back to her, you have to admire Sarah. She did indeed stand by her man. She was not like so many women today who think liberation comes in throwing off the very assignment that God has given to women. And who wanting to advance women, ironically, in the process really demean true womanhood as God has designed. By turning women into functional men in society, doing what men do just to be, quote, equal. One great lie of our present age is that women can only become great, can only become significant when they function like men in our world. That's a lie it seems almost everyone believes I mean today we celebrate Mother's Day, but how much truly does our society honor Mothers Unless you go out and do something, mothers, besides just watching the kids at home, you're not really considered all that significant But Sarah was different. She understood the beautiful design that God had given women. She loved it. She embraced it for herself. In fact, she really excelled at it. I mean this is a woman again I say who traveled to all kinds of places with her man to support him. Imagine leaving the comforts of home and err, the challenge of going to a land You never knew, and standing by these promises that you hadn't seen the fulfillment of any of them, and believing all of them along with Abraham and putting her life on the line. This was a woman of substance Abram could not have had a better supporter. His great name today is in large part because of her. When the New Testament evaluates the totality of her life, it presents Sarah as a role model of faith and a role model of submission as a woman, what a woman should be like. Even in Proverbs 31, it praises the woman because she brings honor to her man. Well Abram Was Sarah's head, as 1 Corinthians 11 and Ephesians 5 in the New Testament teach, and she supported her head She embraced her role as a wife, embraced the promises, and as far as we can tell, she sincerely desired to help And you have to admit, the solution she came up with was responsible. It was thoughtful. It was logical. It was even sacrificial. It was though terribly, terribly wrong. Wrong. Not primarily because her husband was involved in a sexual act with another woman. Interestingly though, that clearly is not the way a marriage is supposed to function. You won't find God rebuking that anywhere in this passage. The act wasn't motivated by a desire for fleshly indulgence, nor for unfaithfulness. The primary error that Sarah made here, listen The primary error was her sin of unbelief in the promises of God. Unbelief in the power of God to fulfill what God said he was going to do. And really, in Sarah's case, the unbelief that she had was harder to detect because it seemed that she was acting in faith. It seemed that she was responding to the promises. It seemed that she was doing that in order to help the promises along. Do you see that? She seemed like she was believing. She wanted to be perceived like she was cooperating with the plan of God and the Word of God. But she was doubting. And in order to know that and be convinced of that, just compare how Sarah had responded to the promises with how Mary, the mother of Jesus, responded. Mary asked how it was possible, because she didn't know a man. Once the explanation was given to her, she said, in essence, I believe. Be it done to me according to your word. And she believed. But to Sarah, bearing a child as a 75-year-old woman, that was too hard for the Lord. And so she acted, just to help the promises of God along. You know God, he's up there in the heavens and he might not know how things work down here. Folks, we have to say that God doesn't want that kind of help from us ever He doesn't need us to help him do what he said he's going to do. Doubting in a pious way is still sin. Listen, God has absolutely no doubts about his own power. So why do we? So often we go about doing things in our lives thinking we're trusting God, and really we're just trusting in ourselves, trusting in our career, trusting in our degrees, trusting in our bank accounts, our insurance, the things that we know how to do, our ingenuity, our connections in life. And when we get a heavy trial on us, we find out what we're really trusting in. We call ourselves believers in Almighty God, but believing is one of the hardest things that we have doing. Rather than waiting for God to work in a way that would glorify Him, rather than clinging to the scriptural promises, persevering in prayer, we act prematurely. But lying just below the surface of our actions and decisions is a motivation of really wanting to alleviate our fears, and that's how we know it's not a fate. Or wanting to save face before others, and that's why we know it's not obedience. Or of impatience, which shows that our faith has no endurance. And this can happen. This can happen even to women of faith. It might be interesting to ask: how did Sarah get to this wobbly point in her faith? What made her think she needed to do this? Well, I think the text gives us a couple of hints. If you look again in verse 2, it shows how Sarah justified the action. The Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Do you hear something in those words? Was that true? Technically, yes, it was true. Only God can grant life. Only God could put the child in the womb, open the womb of Sarah. So if there are no children in a marriage, it is that way, assuming all else is the same, because it is God's will, at least for the present First three shows that it had been ten years, that they had now been in the land. That is a very long time to wait when you're trying. Well, just because God had not yet made her pregnant did not mean he was never going to do it. Yes? But Sarah began spending more time focusing on her unfulfilled circumstances than focusing on and meditating on the solid promise of God. And she began reading her circumstances incorrectly by assigning to God a lack of concern for her. God has prevented me. Those are words of disbelief, also complaint. Now don't be too hard on her, because we often sound just like her in many of the things we say. Now there's something else that began happening in Sarah's mind, I think. She began reinterpreting the promise given to Abraham As far as she could tell, God had told Abraham that he was going to have a child, and the child was going to come from his body, but ah, she had not yet been named. It's funny how our doubts can lead us to reinterpret God's Word to make it say what we're willing to believe from it. We reinterpret not because we're really careful with the text, but because we're doubting the text. We're doubting what God said. I mean, isn't it obvious when Abraham was married to Sarah and he said you're going to have a child and the child's going to come from your own body, that that obviously, from the context, would normally include the wife That should have been obvious to her. And a lot of people today will just do the same thing with the Bible. They'll doubt God's word and they'll reinterpret it. One of the things they do with Genesis 1. It can't be possible that God created this world in six literal days. Science has proven otherwise, or so they think. And so it can't be that, so let's reinterpret it. But the text is very clear in what it says. And there are many other places in God's Word we do that when we doubt God's word Evidently, Abraham had some doubts too, didn't he? He's not really blameless here. Unfortunately, Abraham's response did nothing to redirect Sarah's thinking back to the promises. Look at the end of verse 2. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarah. Mm-mm. I thought this was the man of faith. You know, back at chapter fifteen, verse six, it says Abram believed God and God reckoned it, that is his faith to him as righteousness, the foundation text in the Old Testament to show us how a man gets right in the sight of God. He believes God and God counts his faith in him as righteousness. Where is all that faith now? Well, saving faith is not perfect faith. You know, men, there are times where we ought not to listen to the voice of our wives. Nah, don't get all aggravated at me, ladies, on Mother's Day, because I know you're thinking that the opposite is also true. There's sometimes a wife ought not to listen to the voice of her husband. There's some occasions where you cannot do what a husband says because of sin. And you have to be strong enough in your faith to know that. There are other times where you know what they're doing is wrong and you have to, shall we say, try to reverently redirect your husband's thinking. And there are also, of course, plenty of times where we as men ought to listen to our wives and we don't because of male pride and stubbornness. We just think we know better. I didn't hear any amen from women out there. I don't know what's going on. But there is a time when we men, as leaders of our home, need to recognize a voice of doubt and a voice of fear coming from our wives and not listen to that. But this time Abraham also limited God and accepted the pragmatic solution. Well, solutions not of faith are doomed to failure with God. So third, the third phase here. We see in verses 4 through 6 the problems that Sarah's solution caused. The problems that Sarah's solution caused. Look at verse 4. He, that's Abram, went into Hagar and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her sight. And Sarai said to Abram, May the wrong done me be upon you. I gave my maid into your arms But when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her sight, may the Lord judge between you and me But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your maid is in your power, do to her what is good in your sight. So Sarai treated her harshly, and she, that is Hagar, fled. from her presence. Now you know when a solution causes more problems than it solves, it wasn't really a solution. At first though things seemed to get rolling along pretty well with Hagar's pregnancy, right? I mean what Abraham could not do with Sarah for years and years got done instantly with Hagar. It was bingo on the first try, it seems. Maybe Hagar's pregnancy even reinforced their false notion. This was the will of God. God opened the womb. See, God provided a son. It was a really good idea. But you know how the Lord God works? He often lets us succeed in our own ideas temporarily just to teach us a lesson. Well, we're feeling good and proud about the decision. God's just wanting to teach us something. And very soon after that, new problems began to develop. Unanticipated problems, I would add. Four unexpected problems I see here. Number one, Hagar despised Sarah That wasn't supposed to happen. Notice at the end of verse 4. When Hagar saw that she had conceived her mistress there, I was despised in her sight. It's funny how you think you know somebody until they get a little bit of power. Then they get a little bit of power and you find out who they truly are. Well that's what happened. Sarah must have thought, now this is a very trustworthy maid. This is the one I'm going to give to Abraham and all of a sudden boom lady changes overnight. She gets a little sadest and she's feeling bigger about herself. How quickly Hagar's vanity became unmasked. In her new and heightened status among the tribe of Abram, Hagar instantly became puffed up. Think about it. Among their society, it was like she went into the king's bedroom and she came out a queen. That's how important it was. Instant status. Also, instant friction It's interesting, uh Proverbs thirty, verses twenty-one through twenty-three is so true. Fits here. Under three things the earthquakes And under four it cannot bear up, under a slave when he becomes a king, and a fool when he is satisfied with food, under an unloved woman when she gets a husband. And a maid servant when she supplants her mistress. Well the ground was a shaken in the promised land right now, for sure. Just think of all the oohs and awes that Hagar got as she paraded that pregnant body around Seeing her stand next to Abram and all the status that goes along with it, the soon-to-be provider of the year. And also look over there in the other corner and see Sarah's face growing more and more indignant. Well, there was a second problem it caused. It caused friction between Sarah and Abraham. That's verse five. Unfortunately, their society with their rules forgot that the first purpose of marriage was not bearing children, but was companionship and oneness And so solutions like this did nothing for oneness in marriage at all. In fact, they did the opposite. May the wrong done me be upon you. I mean, those are fighting words from this woman. At the end of the verse, she even calls God down from the heavens to judge between the two of them. I'm so confident about my position, I'm standing on this side, Abraham, you stand on that side, and God will come down and judge all of this. We'll see who's right Man, I mean this woman was something. She was no pansy. She's strong This too may have been one of those male-female things. You know how it is. Abraham's thought bubble. You've got to try to get inside of it. What was he thinking? First the woman comes up with the idea. Then I do what she says. Then she blames me for it. Right, guys? Sarah's thought bubble looks a little different. That man is so insensitive. I give him what he wants to solve his dilemma, and then Hagar goes around gloating and he does absolutely nothing about it. She is incensed. But you know how it is when we make a big mistake we don't want to admit it so we get angry at others. And Abraham's lack of sensitivity only fueled the antagonism. He was being the dumb husband. But Abraham must have realized that Sarah's complaint had legitimacy, for he gave her the right to be in charge, so verse 6 says. The third problem here is that Sarah mistreated Hagar. Says at the end of verse 6, so Sarah treated her harshly and she fled from her presence Evidently, the exact relationship between Sarah and Hagar was now in doubt. Hagar was probably asserting herself a little bit more each time. But Hagar miscalculated Abraham's intense love and loyalty for Sarah. And so Abraham acts like a judge here and makes it clear that Sarai in the tenth still has authority. over Hagar. And then Sarah takes full advantage of her power, now knowing what her maidservant is like, when she was seemingly in power, takes advantage of her. Remember, Sarah was used to being well respected. And so Hagar's disrespect would have been a real change for her, and her pride really comes out of here too. Well, the fourth problem that Sarah's solution caused was really the biggest problem by far. Abram now had a child on the way, and that child was not the child of promise. We now have a little baby in the tents of Abraham who is a boo-boo. He's not supposed to be there. That wasn't in God's plan. And Sarah doesn't even want the child around. So, in verse 7, we see that Hagar fled the home. And the scene shifts out to the wilderness and to the fourth phase of the story. And that is fourth, how God fixed Sarah's solution. How God fixed Sarah's solution. You can see the irony in this passage. It's really amazing. Look how God fixes things. First, God sent an angel to help Hagar, who had fled away from Sarah. Look at verses 7 and 8. Now the angel of the Lord found her, that's Hagar, by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shore. He said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, where have you come from and where are you going? And she said, I am fleeing from the presence of my mistress, Sarai. Well, now you can see how Hagar lived up to her name. She flees. She indeed flee. She did indeed flee. But it was the angel of the Lord who found her. And here you see God demonstrates his love, concern, compassion, and care for this woman who has been cast out, for this mother. Down in verse 11, the angel says, the Lord has given heed to your affliction. He even knows this mother's name, Hagar. And he found her by a spring of water. Of course, this is an understandable place for her to be, having left the protection and provision of Abram's tents out in arid land, she is on her own, she has to survive She's by a spring, and notice she's on the way to Shur. Shur is on the border of Egypt. Where else would an Egyptian maid flee back to, but to her homeland. And look how the angel of the Lord addresses Hagar in verse 8. Hagar, Sarai's maid, where have you come from and where are you going? The thing about God is he always wants to elicit from us a confession What is going on with you? He wants it to come out of his mouth. What are you doing here? Why aren't you back serving Sarai? And Hagar makes no attempt at all to hide it from the heavenly messenger. So next, God fixes Sarah's solution by sending Hagar back to Sarai. We read that in verse 9. Then the angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit yourself to her authority. You might say, did God really expect Hagar to return to Sarah even though she was being treated in a harmful manner Well, that's exactly what it says. Return and submit. That might seem very unfair to women today. That is exactly what God says. Put yourself under the hands of your authority, literally. You are under Sarah's authority. God takes our submission to any authority in our life seriously, for it is God who establishes authority on this earth And God is going to prove his care for Hagar in the midst of her troubles and affliction, for he has authority even over Sarah's authority. God also goes on to fix Sarah's solution by making unique promises to Hagar. And these we read in verses 10 through 12. Moreover, the angel of the Lord said to her, I will greatly multiply your descendants so that they will be too many to count. The angel of the Lord said to her further, Behold, you are with child, and you will bear a son, and you shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has given heed to your affliction. He will be a wild donkey of a man. His hand will be against everyone, and everyone's hand will be against him, and he will live to the east of all his brothers. Now, at this juncture, we see that this appearance by the angel of the Lord is none other than the pre-incarnate appearance of the Son of God. Before he took on human flesh in the New Testament, please notice importantly in verse 10, the angel speaks in the first person. I will greatly multiply your descendants. I will do this. This is not just another run-of-the-mill kind of angel. This is the angel of the Lord. This is God Himself speaking. In the Old Testament, when Jesus Christ, really we would call him the Son of God, there appears, he is called the angel of the Lord. Not because he was a mere angel But as the angel primarily means, that word means messenger. The Son of God in the New Testament, John 1:1 is declared to be the message of God, the Word of God, the Lagos of God. Even before he became human, he was the Word of God. He is the messenger of the Lord, the angel of the Lord, the Word of God. In the New Testament, we explicitly see that it is the Son of God's role to reveal and explain God the Father to mankind. Jesus told all of his disciples in John 14, 9, Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. That was his role, to explain the invisible God by becoming visible to us. That was also his role that he had in the Old Testament, though in more subtle ways. Here, the second person of the triune God. comes in person to this lowly Egyptian maid servant, a mother cast out. And what a promise, what a promise he gives to this mom At this point she has only one child, that child isn't even yet born, and yet from this one child Hagar will have many, many descendants, too many to count, he said These descendants are not going to be the Israelites. This child was not a product of the promise. The Apostle Paul in the letter of Galatians chapter 4 Verses 22 and 23 points out that Hagar's child was not an example of the product of faith on the part of Abraham and Sarah. But an example of the product of human works, trying to achieve the will of God, trying to bring about the promises of God apart from faith. This child was the product of Sarah's sorry solution, not God's magnificent promise. And yet, because of God's great love for Abraham and also his compassion for Hagar, and honoring Hagar's faith in him as well, God would bless her son. Yet in a different way than the child of promise. Hagar's son would still achieve greatness, but the greatness would be in this world system. You know, these many descendants of Ishmael are part of the makeup of the modern-day Arabs. The Arabs find their ancestry in quite a mix of Middle Eastern and probably African nations and tribes. Hagar herself was Egyptian, you may remember. And they claim that their ancestry goes back to Ishmael. Notice verse 11: You shall bear a son and call him Ishmael. Ishmael means God hears. The last part of verse 11 shows that God specifically heard her cries due to her affliction. She's there out in the wilderness and she's crying, and God hears. Up to this point she didn't even know that she had a son, and now the angel makes it clear you're gonna have a boy And God goes on to explain more about this boy's character. He's going to be a wild donkey of a man. The wild donkey was an onager. Did actually live in the wild places out there. And this means that Ishmael was going to be a man out in the wastelands, traveling alone. He'd be uncontrollable, untamable, wouldn't listen to commands. No one would be able to contain him. The figure of the wild donkey suggests a nomadic lifestyle, much like the lifestyles that the Bedouins had for centuries, freedom-loving people. And the angel of the Lord goes on to say his hand will be against everyone, and everyone's hand will be against him. He's not going to get along easily with others. He'll both give and receive a tax. He would live to the east of his brothers. The east could refer geographically to a designation. East of the promised land would include Jordan and Syria and Saudi Arabia, where the Arabs live today. It could also be translated that Hebrew word in defiance of his brothers, and some interpreters believe it actually has both connotations. From this description of Ishmael, it's no wonder that his descendants have ongoing strife with the children of Israel, with the Jews, even to this day. Today's headlines from the Middle East witness to the truthfulness of these pronouncements by God 4,000 years ago. And so God was going to have to fix Sarah's solution, but Sarah and Sarah's descendants would still have to live with the consequences. of her unwise decision. And so with Sarah's promised son and all of his descendants constantly have friction with the sons of Ishmael because of this decision, not of faith. Well, please notice that Hagar proves herself to be a believer in verses 13 and 14. She called the name of, then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are a God who sees. El Roy. For she said, I have have I even remained alive here after seeing him. Therefore the well was called Bir Laharoi And Moses even marks its designation between Kadesh and Beared. She believed in God. She called on God as a God who sees. Here she is now in the wasteland, a simple mom, no one supporting her, hanging on to the promises of God, even before her son is born, and before she returns to protection of Abraham's tents, and before she sees Whether or not Sarah will receive her. And not only did God see her and hear her affliction, she says she saw God and lived. She saw God. No one can see God at any time in his essence, John 1. 18 says, but this was the revealing of God in one manifestation to her. And this was a life-changing encounter for this mother. Well, finally, the birth of Ishmael is recorded in verses 15 and 16. It's recorded so simply, but the problems for the family would not be so simple. It says, so Hagar bore Abram a son. And Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore Ishmael. Abram was 86 years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to him. Well, God was still going to work in the life of this family. I just think it's so wonderful that even though we make bad decisions, poor decisions, Decisions not of faith, that God and His sovereignty still works. I want you to look at the next chapter, chapter 17, and I want you to see how God would work. Just in closing, I want you to see this. After he reiterates his promises to Abram in the beginning of chapter 17 and institutes circumcision as the sign of the Abrahamic covenant, let your eyes go down to verse 15. It says in verse 15, then God said to Abraham, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. I will bless her. And indeed I will give you a son by her. Then I will bless her. And she shall be a mother of nations. Kings of peoples will come from her And then Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said in his heart, Will a child be born to a man 100 years old? This is a few years beyond the last word. And will Sarah, who is 90 years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. The man still isn't fully believing. But God said, no. But Sarah, your wife, will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. Aren't you so grateful to God that he is so gracious with us. We sometimes think that if we make a bad decision we've missed God's best for our life. Listen, God and His sovereignty can always work out things for wonderful in your life no matter the decisions that you have made. It's just important that now you learn to make decisions by faith and you obey the word of God. And when you do that, He will bless you mightily. You must believe in God. You must believe in God in the midst of your circumstances. That's the message of this story. There are so many crucial lessons to learn from this historical account In the midst of any of your dilemmas, predicaments, even dangers that you feel you face, we must always Take things to God in serious and persevering prayer, believing God before we jump to solve any of our problems by our own abilities. Do you understand how important that is? Even if you think you can do it, pause and wait And pray and ask God, is this the best way you can be glorified in my life? Or in my ministry, or whatever. God does not help those who help themselves. He helps those who in desperation cling to him and his power. Furthermore, we need to learn in all of our decisions that we make to learn to look down the road and see the consequences for our decisions. Too often we're looking only here and just a few steps in front, and we're not thinking, if I make that decision, what will be the consequences ten years, twenty years, yay, even fifty years down the road My example as a parent, you as a mother now to your children, the decisions you make could have consequences for generations. Be wise in your decisions. Live by faith. Cling to the Word of God. And lastly, a very important lesson: never, ever assume you have studied and learn and understand the Word of God well enough. Go back to it and read what you already know and reread it and meditate on it. and see what exactly it is saying and ask yourself what you have to learn from it. What is the wisdom from the scripture for your situation? Fill your mind with the priorities of God and His Word. Let that overtake the way you think, and then after prayer, make your decision. Because likely anything before that is just going to reflect the priorities of your culture, the priorities of the way you lived in the flesh before you came to faith in Christ, and it will not be honoring to God. So, mothers, I leave you with this challenge this morning. Know the word of God. Know it well. And trust in the promises of God. And it will go well with you. Amen. Lord God, we ask for your grace and mercy to fill us with greater confidence and faith in your promises Where you have not given us a specific commandment as they received, we would understand that this book is a love letter from you to us. That we would meditate on it and understand it as application in our life, in our relationships, in our home, in our church, in our ministry, even in the way we treat our body, what we do at the workplace That, Lord, we are to put your kingdom first before our eyes. We are to live for your Son, the Lord Jesus. We are to glorify you in all of our decisions. We are to be men and women of faith Help us, God, to live by faith, to not waffle in unbelief, to be firm and strong in our confidence that you are alive and well and working in this planet and bringing about each and every single promise that you have given to us. We pray particularly for our moms again, strengthen their resolve this day, God, to live by your book. To live by your book in front of their children, for they're being watched, and their faith is being watched. So give them thy holy grace, for we ask it in the blessed name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.