And uh definitely want to thank the worship team uh for serving us so faithfully. Uh it's always a a joy to to sing songs that are filled with with scripture and uh theology and uh I definitely want to thank them for that. And uh I can truly say that I thank God in all my remembrance of this place. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you as a church uh family. I thank God for the the training and experience that I received uh while I was a part of Hope Bible Church. I came here in 1999 And uh the first time I preached was in 2001 at Hope Bible Church and I actually found the videotape uh from the first time I I preached and I'm like, what in the world was I doing I I I looked at myself, I had like uh my my jacket was at least two or three sizes too big, my tie was off to the side Um had a thick New York accent and I kind of lost that, but I was like, wow, they actually let me get up there and do that. So praise God uh for uh allowing me the opportunity to to practice on you guys I uh also thank God for the support I received uh through seminary. You guys are always a part of my uh testimony. Each time I tell people about my experience in in seminary I I I never failed to mention that, you know, Hope Bible Church is the uh one of the churches that really supported me. It was the only church that supported me. As I as I went through through seminary, you know, a thousand dollars a month. I mean people just can't believe that, you know, a church would would do that. uh to send a man through seminary to be trained. And I I I constantly thank God for uh what this church has done for me. And uh every time I tell people about what I'm planning to do that actually I'm coming back to Hope Bible Church and taking some people with me And they're going to support me again to go out and do a church plan. People are like, what in the world is wrong with this place, right? Just sending people away. And um I mean they they just can't believe and they say, wow, what a what a gracious and uh and and just unselfish church. What an unselfish congregation to do that. Most people are trying to to build up their own kingdoms, but but this place is actually trying to multiply you know what they're doing in other places uh on the East Coast. So uh I definitely thank God uh for Hope Bible Church. Each time I I think about you, I'm thankful for you and uh I'm thankful also that I I have my sermon notes this morning. Last last time I I preached, I I preached without sermon notes. And uh this time I have my notes, so that means that the sermon will probably be worse than it was last time. But uh But anyway, we're going to have a wonderful time in the Word of God. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Colossians chapter 3? Colossians chapter 3. We're only going to take a look at one verse in Colossians chapter 3. It's going to be verse 16. I'll go ahead and read it for you. The Apostle Paul says this: Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. With all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Let's pray Heavenly Father, I do thank you for this morning. I thank you for this congregation, and I thank you so much for your word. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as the weak instrument in your hands To bless your people. Father, it's to your word that we look. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You know, there's a lot that we could say about the Bible. There's a lot that we could say that we believe about God's Word. We could say that we believe that the Bible is revelation from God. Revelation from God. It comes from Him. That the Bible is inspired by God. God breathed. That it's inerrant. But it's infallible. The God's word always comes true. It's clear. It's authoritative. It's necessary. It's comprehensive. It's sufficient We could say that we believe all these things about the Word of God, but the question that we're going to consider today is a bit more personal than that. It's a bit more personal because the question that Paul asks is more than what we objectively believe about the Bible. The question that Paul asks is uh, are you full of it? If all this is true about the Word of God, if we believe that it's revelation, it's inspired, inerrant, infallible, clear, authoritative, necessary, sufficient Are you full of it? Are you full of the Word of God? Years ago I learned this poem by Maud Fraser at Jackson. Didn't really try to memorize it, it just kind of stuck with me. I heard it in a sermon one time, it says, What if I say the Bible is God's holy word? Complete, inspired, without flaw But let its pages stay unread from day to day and fail to learn from there God's law. What if I go not there to seek the truth of which I glibly speak for guidance on this earthly way? Does it matter what I say? Doesn't matter what we say about the Word of God if we're not full of it, if we're not going to it. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He recognized the need to be full He says, Oh, that you and I might get into the very heart of the Word of God and get that word into ourselves. As I have seen the silkworm eat into the leaf and consume it, so ought we to do with the word of the Lord, not crawl over its surface, but eat right into it till we have taken it into our inmost hearts. It is idle merely to let the eye glance over the words or to recollect the poetical expressions or the historic facts, but it is blessed to eat into the very soul of the Bible Until at last you come to talk in scriptural language. And your very style is fashioned upon scriptural models. And what is better still, your spirit is flavored with the words of the Lord. And then he continues, he said, I would quote John Bunyan as an instance of what I mean. Read anything of his, and you will see that it is almost like reading the Bible itself. He had read it till his very soul was saturated with scripture. And though his writings are charmingly full of poetry, yet he cannot give us his pilgrim's progress And most of you have read that, that sweetest of all prose poems, without continually making us feel and say, why, this man is a living Bible! And then this famous line, prick him anywhere, and his blood is bibbling The very essence of the Bible flows from him. He cannot speak without quoting a text, for his very soul is full of the word of God. And don't we wish that was true of us? Oh, that you and I might get into the very heart of the Word of God and get that word into ourselves. That's what this text is driving us to. We are to be scripture-saturated saints. That should be your blood type as a believer. My blood type is scripture. And it was to be true for the Colossian believers as well. In this section of Colossians, Paul has been talking about the character of the new man. Uh started even in verse one of chapter three. It says, Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. We've been raised up with Christ. We're new We've put on the new self, look at verse 10. Those who have put on the new self who is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. Verse 12, look at verse 12, it says, So as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, we've been made new. We've been chosen by God. We've been raised up with Christ. And there should be something that's radically different about us. Our conduct is different. Our speech is different. The way we treat one another is different. We forgive, we forbear, we love And what we hunger for is different. What we hunger for is different. We look to be saturated with the Word of Christ. What should saturate our community is the Word of Christ. That's what should saturate us. The word to dwell when it talks about let the word of Christ richly dwell within you, that that word dwell means to be at home. Let the Word of God be at home in your life. And it's clear that the Word of Christ is to be a permanent resident. It's to make a permanent home in your life. In the Greek there's a prefix. That's attached to the word dwell, so that it would literally read, let it indwell in you. Let the word of God indwell in you. Let the word of God be in in you. It's like permanent. It's not something that's easily easily dislodged. And the Word of God is also to be not only to be permanent, but it's to permeate or to fill every corner of our lives as well. The Word of God is to richly dwell in us. To dwell in full measure. It's to be abundant. The word of God is to be given access to every part of your life. Access to every part of your life. I like what Matthew Henry said. He says, the Word of Christ must dwell in us Not as a servant in a family who is under another's control, but as the master who has the right to prescribe and direct all under his roof. Then he goes on to say, Many have the Word of Christ dwelling in them, but it dwells in them but poorly. It has no mighty force and influence upon them. Not only is the Word of God to be a permanent dweller, to permeate our lives, but it's to dwell in our lives with great perception as well. Perception or wisdom. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. You can know Scripture without being wise in the Scripture. Isn't that true? You can know Scripture without being wise in it. 2 Timothy 2. 15 says we must rightly divide or accurately handle the word of truth The sword of the Word of God isn't to be flailed around carelessly, but it's a precision instrument. We're to be wise in our handling of the Word of God. And not only is it to be uh an instrument that we handle with precision, great perception, but it's it's to dwell in us personally. Let it personally dwell within you. The you that he's referring to is the body of Christ. Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. It's not just talking about the leaders. Not talking about the pastors. He's saying you, you as a congregation, as the church, let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. He's not talking about some spiritual elite. Let the word of Christ richly dwell in you as a congregation. I know this sounds basic and it is, but this assumes that you can understand the Bible? Assumes that you can understand the Bible, and it's worth a little bit of time. The reformers who affirm the need for educated teachers in the church, they also affirm the doctrine known as perpiscuity Perpiscuity. It's uh the clarity of the scriptures, that the scriptures are clear. By this they didn't mean that there aren't things hard to understand. Even Peter recognized that, that there were things that Paul wrote that were hard to understand. He says that in 2 Peter 316. But uh rather the doctrine of perpiscuity or the clarity of the scriptures says that the basic message of the Bible is clear enough for any literate person to understand. If you can understand language, you can understand the Bible. That's basically what it's what it's trying to say. The Westminster Confession of Faith states it well, it says in all things, scriptures are not alike plain in themselves, nor alike clear unto all. Yet those things which are necessary to be known, believed, and observed for salvation are so clearly propounded and opened in some place of scripture or other that not only the learned but the unlearned In a due use of the ordinary means may attain unto a sufficient understanding of them. And there there's been all kinds of attacks on the clarity of Scripture. All kinds of attacks on it. Recently I read this article by a visiting professor at a school of theology, a popular college, who spent 14 pages in this article arguing against the practice of Bible reading. I mean, of all things to argue against, yeah? 14 pages, arguing against the practice of Bible reading. Listen to what he says. He says the oft-repeated phrase the Bible says characterizes the history of evangelical convictions about the Bible that to read the Bible modestly would yield the confident assurance that the word read was God's word for us. But the attendant piety of the phrase and its implicit biblical justification are embarrassing for some evangelicals. And biblicism itself is a subject of disdain. And then he goes on to say this, there are vestiges of a Bible reading apologetic, you know, a defensive Bible reading, a Bible reading apologetic. In this century's emphasis upon Bible study, the commitment to Bible reading among evangelicals sustained a series of commitments based on the conviction that the Bible could be taken as read This author says Christian faith seems to be healthier without biblicism. Like you'd be much healthier as a Christian if you just stopped reading your Bible and just come to me Don't don't read your Bible yourself. Just come to the professor. Professor, you're in good hands. You're in good hands here, right? Basically, you'd be better off if you left it to the professionals. Very similar to what the Roman Catholic Church taught And still does that the the meaning of the scriptures is determined by the Holy Mother Church. Just leave it to the church to do that. It's up to the church to judge the true sense and interpretation of the scriptures. In the Council of Trent, it states that leave it to the professionals. Leave it to the clergy. Don't waste your time reading the Bible yourselves. You can't really understand it anyway. And then there are others who say, No, we want you to read your Bible. Please read your Bibles. But for goodness sake, don't be certain about what you're reading. But read it. We want you to read it. But if you claim that you actually know what it means, I mean that's arrogant. But but read it. The Bible is full of mystery. We're all on this journey together, and who knows which direction we're going in But we're we're all just kind of getting along here. But we're we're tired of people saying that we actually know what it means by what it says This is known as post-conservatism. It's expressed in what's known as the emergent movement, and thank God in many places it's dying. But uh let's try to choke the life out of it today. John MacArthur gives this description in his book, The Truth War. He says, Uncertainty is the new truth. Doubt and skepticism have been canonized as a form of humility. You know, it's humble. If you say you really don't know what the Bible means. That's humble. Right and wrong have been redefined in terms of subjective feelings and personal perspectives. Kristen Bell, who was a wife of an emergent church pastor, Rob Bell, she says this. She says, I grew up thinking that we've figured the Bible out, that we knew what it means. Now I have no idea what it means, and yet I feel like life is big again. You know, life is big when I have a Bible I don't understand. Life is just big. You know, the the walls are knocked out and we can just kind of float and journey around Life is big again. John MacArthur observes that the idea that the Christian message should be kept pliable, you know, you can move it around any way you want, ambiguous, seems especially attractive to young people who are in tune with the culture. And in love with the spirit of the age and can't stand to have authoritative biblical truth applied with precision as a corrective to worldly lifestyles, unholy minds, and ungodly behavior. And that only makes sense, doesn't it? Because if the Bible's not clear, it can't be authoritative. If the Bible's not clear, it can't be authoritative. I mean, how do you know that don't commit adultery means don't commit adultery? How do you know that? It's like you remove the authority of the scripture when you say it's not clear. How do I really know that that's what it means? But we're not to leave the scriptures to professionals and we shouldn't leave it up to up for grabs as if it's some mystery. That we're just hopeless to figure out. According to Colossians 3. 16, the word of God is to fill the believer's life, be a permanent influence, a permeating influence. You're to grow in your perception of its truth, and you're to do that personally because God has left us a clear word. God has left us a clear word. It's perspicuous. So we're to be word-driven, bibbling, dripping, scripture-saturated saints. That's what you're to be. That's what you're to be. But how do you really know that you're scripture saturated? Do you know you're scripture saturated just because you've memorized a couple Bible verses? No, hey, I went to Wana. Right? I'm scripture saturated. You know, go ahead, quiz me, quiz me. Right? That's not how you know your scripture is saturated. There's three specific ways in this text that we can check ourselves to see if we're scripture saturated. It's not just what comes in, it's what comes out. It's what comes out. That's how we know we're scripture saturated. It's been said that the surest way to check that you're carrying a full bucket is to see if you have wet feet. Because if you have a full bucket, it's gonna start to spill out, right, as you're walking along. The the c the clearest way to see if you have a full bucket is to check if you have wet feet. These are the the wet feet of a scripture saturated life. It's uh teaching Admonishing and singing. Those are the three. Teaching, admonishing, and singing, found in Colossians 3:16. These are the wet feet of a full and overflowing life. Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you with all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another, with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. uh participles that are used there, teaching, admonishing, and and singing. First of all, we have teaching that's mentioned. And if you Remember in Colossians 1. 28 it's already been talked about, teaching has already been discussed as one of the responsibilities of the spiritual leader. In uh Colossians 1 verse 28 it says, We proclaim him Admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom so that we may present every man complete in Christ. This was the responsibility of the spiritual leader The apostles as spiritual leaders were given the spiritual responsibility to teach within the churches. Within the church, there were those who have been made ministers. According to Colossians 1 25, gifted by God and given as gifts by God to the church. In Ephesians 4, 11 and 12, we read that he gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelists Some as pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of the service, to the building up of the body of Christ. And not everybody is to be an official teacher in the church, right? Not everybody's an official teacher. 1 Corinthians 12, 29 points that out. All are not teachers. But that does not take away the responsibility from the rest of the church As mature believers, you are to become teachers in one sense yourselves. You are to become teachers yourselves And that's listed here as an evidence of being filled with the scripture that we're in all wisdom we're teaching and admonishing one another. It's one of the one another's in scripture. You know, we learn about all the things we're to do for one another, love one another, serve one another. Here's another one-another. We're to teach one another. Teach one another. It's a responsibility that the the church body has to to one another. It's not just for the pastors. The the writer of of Hebrews who was writing to a group that was under the truth for a number of years. In Hebrews chapter 5, verse 12, he says, For by this time you ought to be teachers. You ought to be able to instruct somebody else by this time. Instruct them what you know. And that that like I said, that doesn't mean that everybody should be a formal teacher in the church, but it did mean that they should know enough to start instructing other people. In Titus chapter 2, we talk about this verse often with the ladies. Titus 2, verse 3. Older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips, not enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good. The older ladies are to be teaching the younger ladies, right? Teaching. The women weren't to be the formal teachers of the church according to 1 Timothy 2. 12, but they were to be involved informally in the church teaching one another. Teach one another. Everyone shouldn't have a pulpit. In the church. And you don't need a pulpit and a mic to teach. And that's often what people think, right? It's like if I'm gonna be a teacher, I need a you know a class. Give me a class. Give me a pulpit and a mic, you know, tie and a suit or something But you don't need all that to teach. And you know, James 3 says, let not many of you become teachers. You know, let not many of you hold this office. But um It says knowing that we shall incur a stricter judgment. But everybody can share what they've been learning with somebody else. And unfortunately what happens in the church is uh you know people walk into the church and they they look at the pastor and say, well, I guess that job's taken. They go into a a a classroom and they see a teacher, well I guess that job's taken. Go to a small group, well somebody's already leading the small group and what do they say? There's no place for me to serve. No place for me to serve. It's like what do you what do you mean by that? There's plenty of places to serve. Right? Plenty of places to serve. Find somebody who knows less than you do and teach them You know what that's called? Discipleship. It's called discipleship. Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them, right? Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. If you are full of the scriptures, it's going to start to spill out. You're gonna want to teach somebody what I've been so excited, what I've been learning. Let me let me show this with you. Let me share this with you. You're gonna want to teach somebody. If you're full of the scriptures, you're gonna want to share it. Are you full of the scriptures? And we should long to have spiritual conversations when we're with believers, shouldn't we? We should long to have spiritual conversations. David Brainerd, who's becoming one of my my favorite heroes in the past. He was a uh a missionary to the the Native Americans in the kind of pre-colonial days, colonial American period. And he said this, he says, it is sweet to hear nothing but spiritual discourse from God's children. It is sweet. Sweet to hear it. And he he lamented the fact that he could scarcely find Christians that wanted to talk about the Bible with them. He'd get with Christians. I mean he's he's been out in the woods trying to minister to these Indians, and then he gets around believers and he says, I want to talk Bible. And instead of wanting to talk Bible, they want to talk about everything else. And he says, Lord, why? Why can't I find a believer that just wants to talk about you? Why can't I find a believer that wants to talk about the Bible? I mean we can talk about the weather, sports, politics with anybody, can't we? But it's like when we're with believers, let's talk about the truth. Let's bring out the book. Let's talk about the book. That's what we should long for. Spiritual things, spiritual conversation. The next sign of a scripture saturated Saint is admonishing. It's got teaching and we've have admonishing verse sixteen admonishing one another And again, admonishment, it's a part of the minister's responsibility. It was already mentioned in Colossians 1. 28. Admonishment is the word nuteteo Literally means to put in the mind, to place in the mind. It can be translated exhort, instruct, admonish, or warn somebody. This is uh can be considered teaching with a little bit of bite to it. Teaching with a little bit of bite. And it's not just the pastor's job to do this, right? Romans 15, 14 it says, And concerning you, my brethren, I myself also am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able also to admonish one another. Another of the one another's, right? Admonish one another. To the church at Thessalonica, Paul wrote this and 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 14, it says that we urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with all men. As a church, it's your duty to admonish one another. When you see a believer that's struggling, see a believer that's in sin, admonish the brothers. Do it in a gentle way, in a patient way. You know, it talks about right here. Be patient with all men. Do it in a patient, loving way. But don't let a believer walk into sin without walking over you to get to it. It's your duty to admonish, encourage, comfort those that are struggling. It's our duty. Don't let a believer walk into sin without walking over you to get there. All right? Admonish one another. Too often we look at somebody who's doing something wrong and we kind of shrug our shoulders and say, hey, you know, it's not my problem He heard the message up there, you know. He's got a Bible at home. He knows what to do. No, admonish him. Bring the truth to bear upon his soul. Don't just ignore it. You know that a believer's walking into sin, make sure they they they have to walk over you to get there. And that takes some spiritual nerve, doesn't it? A little bit of spiritual backbone. But it's it's what God has called us to. Philippians 4, 2 to 3 is a great example of this. If you want to look that up later, there were two ladies that were weren't getting along in the church, and and Paul says Go after these ladies. I mean don't don't just let them continue in this way. Go after the ladies. Talk to them. Help these ladies to get together. Don't just ignore it. It's your responsibility to help them get together. That's what's one of the evidences of being full of the scriptures That we're not allowing people to walk into sin without us doing something about it. And the the third one is singing. Singing With psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And there's a A little bit of uh debate on how this verse should be read. Uh there's there's one position that says it should be read that let the word of Christ richly dwell within you with all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another. And then They look at this and how should we admonish one another? You know, with psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. But there's a another view that says that the way the punctuation should work is let the word of Christ richly dwell within you with all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another, period. And then with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness. So there's two ways that this verse could be read. In other words, our Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs the way that we teach and admonish one another? Or our Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, the way that we sing with thankfulness in our hearts to God. Those are the the two positions. And my position is that it makes more sense to say that the Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs are the way that we sing with thankfulness to the Lord But that's the way the punctuation should work in this in this verse. But that's not to say that songs don't teach and admonish us. Because songs do have a a teaching uh impact on our lives. One commentator says it's no exaggeration to say that songs have taught more theology to new converts than textbooks. And one of the reasons that this has been true historically is because many ancient people could not read. Couldn't it read? One illustration of this is found in a in a book on the ministry of John Newton. It's written by one of my friends, Todd Murray. In his book Beyond Amazing Grace, he says this, Newton ministered in only a poor parish in rural Buckinghamshire for 16 years. Many of the people in Olney were illiterate lacemakers. Whatever a lacemaker was, I haven't looked that one up. Illiterate lacemakers who practiced their intricate trade in lowly cottages In order to pass the time while they worked, lace makers often recited or chanted to one another rhyming stories or poems called tells. It was hearing these tells as he passed by the windows of homes in and around Olney that gave Newton the idea of writing new spiritual tales. For the people of his church. If they could not read, they certainly possessed a great capacity for memorizing, and he was determined to give them something worth chanting. It was these poems that would eventually become Newton's great hymns. He wanted to teach the people through song. You can't read, but you can memorize. Let's teach you something worth memorizing. It's another one of the reasons that songs have taught more theology than than textbooks, is because songs are just so memorable, aren't they? As long as they're still memorable. If I were to ask you, you know, without looking at your notes, what what were Pastor Leek's points from a week ago or two weeks ago? I'm I'm waiting. And I I believe in preaching, right? I mean otherwise I wouldn't be doing this. But uh but songs, if if I were to say, you know, somebody can can somebody tell me the the first verse of Amazing Grace? Oh it's just so easy, it just flows, doesn't it? It often seems to me that the the benefit of preaching is more about like that change in the moment, you know, the small changes in the moment that eventually get you somewhere, but but the songs are just what sticks with you for a lifetime. I have a dying grandmother. You know, she you know she can't interact with conversation, but she can sing hymns like nobody's business. You know, you just mention a couple words and she's got the whole song just in her mind. And it's got good theology in it And I'm trying to remind her about the truth of the scripture through these songs that she can still sing and has in her in her mind. And that's one of the reasons I warn people about what they listen to because it's it's hard to get it out once it's in there, right? I mean for for me I grew up with uh East Coast hip hop, eighties, nineties. I mean you just mention the verses like I'm gone, you know. Just dominated my my thinking and and certain songs they just come back without any effort at all. It's like you don't even you don't even want them to come back and they're coming back, you know They just have a way of sticking with this. And that's why if we're going to be saints that are full of the Scripture, we should have songs that are full of the Scripture, right? Scripture-filled music. Singing in Colossians 3. 16. It's tied back to that initial command, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. How? By singing. Right? Singing is connected with letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. The music of the church should be biblical music. The music of the church should be biblical music. Warren Wersby says a singer has no more right to sing a lie than a preacher has to preach a lie. The music of the church should be scriptural music. And if we're going to take this verse seriously, our singing has to be biblical. Singing has to be biblical. Scripture saturated. That's what's going to spill out. And deep spiritual teaching and shallow music don't mix. Deep scriptural teaching and shallow music don't mix. You want something that expresses what's going on the inside of you. The truths that you're learning. You want some kind of expression to that. And shallow music just doesn't cut it. You need music that's gonna drive you back to the scripture, the scriptural truths that you've been learning about, and express that. And Paul mentions at least three different styles of music here. The first he mentions are our psalms, psalmists. It's uh most likely referring to the Psalms of David, as it does elsewhere in Scripture. Interesting to note that the the root of this word salmas it was uh uh another word uh salo, which means to to pluck or to twang. Actually is used for plucking instruments. You know, so if if you ever had a problem with the guitar, there's there's twanging going on, you know, in the in the Bible here. Some twanging Uh just in case you were worried about that. But uh the early reformers they they actually excluded music, you know, from the from the church. They they didn't see any instruments in the the New Testament and excluded it. But the word itself for for psalms allows for music. Because the the root of it means to twang, you know, to pluck an instrument. And for my percussionist friends, you know, Psalm 150, it talks about cymbals, and they were loud. But uh Psalms most likely refers to the Psalms of David and we put many of the Psalms to music, don't we? And sing these scriptural praises back to God in James 5 13 it says, Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing Psalms. You know the word for praise is there in James 5. 13 is the word Psalms. If anybody's cheerful, let them sing Psalms. Next word is hymns. Singing with Psalms and hymns. Hymns are likely referring to the early theological praises of the of the church, praise to Christ as God. Pliny the younger, who was uh an ancient Roman politician, he wrote to uh to an emperor during that time in uh AD 11, around uh 111 or 112, to tell him of this strange sect of people called Christians So he's writing about these Christians, telling telling them that the Emperor, listen to what these Christians are doing. Christians in Bithynia met on a fixed day before dawn and recited an antiphenal hymn to Christ as God. Uses the same word. Hymnas. They're singing these these hymns to Christ as God. And the hymns likely were, you know, these theological praises of Christ as as God, singing these theological truths. And many believe that in Colossians 1, 15 to 20, we actually have one of the hymns of the early church. Colossians 1:15 it says he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. Somebody put that to music, all right? Somebody put that one to music. You know, Christ is God And finally, uh, we have spiritual songs that are mentioned as well, singing with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. And these most likely referred to the songs of praise that were more of a response to God's truth that just kind of Spontaneously came from the heart. Came from the heart. Again, history helps us out here. Tertullian in his apology, he describes an early Christian gathering. And he says, each is invited to sing to God in the presence of the others, from what he knows of the holy scriptures, or from his own heart. No, these are just expressions of the heart to God. What he knows of the scriptures from his own heart. Right? And even in this brief introduction here, that we have these Different, you know, words mentioned for the songs that they sang, which lets us know that the style varied, right? Style, even in the early church, it it varied. What was most important was not the style, but the content of the lyrics. Was it scriptural? Was it biblical? If it is, we're singing it. Alright? Is it scriptural? Is it biblical? We'll sing it. We'll sing it. It's more about the content than it is about the style. A scripture saturated saints wants it no other way, right? If you're scripture saturated, you don't want any other thing to sing. I want music that's going to drive me back to this. Drive me back to the book. Drive me back to the truths that I know and believe and love. It's no wonder that the record of Christian awakenings during the last 2,000 years shows that whenever the Word of God is recovered, it is received with great joy, which inevitably is expressed in song. If you're full of the scripture, this will be the sign. Teaching, admonishing, singing. Those are the signs of being scripture-filled. And what's interesting to note is that the signs of being scripture-filled are also the same signs of being spirit-filled. Same same signs, they're identical. Flip over to Ephesians chapter five. I want to show you something there. Ephesians chapter five Look at verse eighteen. It says, uh, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit? How do we know? Verse 19: Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. That sounds familiar. Singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father. To be scripture-filled is to be spirit-filled. To be scripture-filled is to be spirit-filled. Pull back over to Colossians 3. 16 and we'll wrap this up. Because sometimes you you read, you know, be full of the spirit, or somebody asked, you know, are you full of the spirit or something like that? And you say, What what does that mean, right? What does that mean to be full of the spirit? Does it mean I have to like roll around a bench or something Speaking a language somebody doesn't understand? Run around the building a couple times. What does it mean to be full of the Spirit? What does that mean? It means that you're yielded or surrendered to the Spirit's control. It's not to have some mystical experience. It's to be yielded to the control of the Spirit. And if you're yielded to the control of the Word of God You're yielded to the Spirit who authored the Word of God, right? That's how you know you're you're spirit-filled if you're yielded to the Scriptures. One of my favorite characters in Scripture, oh let me go ahead and turn there. I'm sorry. Acts 7. I love this. Acts 7. One of my favorite characters in scripture is uh the first martyr of the church, Stephen. And we learned that that Stephen was a man who was full. He was a man who was full. He had a good reputation, full of a good reputation. Look at I'm sorry, Acts chapter 6. Look at verse 3. It says, Therefore, brethren, select from among you seven men of good reputation. Full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may put in charge of this task. If you remember there were that there was that dispute between the the Jews and the Greeks, the Hellenistic you know Jews and You know, the how the the food was being distributed to the widows and they're saying we need to put somebody over this work. So let's find men, seven good men of reputation, full of the spirit, full of wisdom, whom we we may put in charge of this task. We need somebody that's full of the Spirit, full of wisdom. Put in charge of this. In verse 5, it talks about Stephen, who's a man full of faith, full of the Holy Spirit. He was full of grace. Look at verse 8. Stephen was full of grace and power. He was performing great wonders and signs among the people. He was filled with great boldness. If you remember in verse 9, it says it right there, and some men from what was called the synagogue of the freedmen, including both Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and argued with Stephen. And Stephen, full of boldness, argued back. So you have this man, he's just full, full of wisdom and grace, and power and boldness, full of the Spirit, a man full of the Spirit. But what do we also know about Stephen? What do we also know about Stephen? If you're reading in Acts chapter 7, you'll see a sermon of 51 verses, and they're all full of what? Scripture. Stephen with the man full of the Spirit because Stephen was the man full of the scripture. 51 verses just reciting scripture from memory in his defense. He was full of the Spirit because he was full of the Scripture. Full of the Scripture. If you pricked Stephen anywhere, his blood was Bibline, right? Scripture was Stephen's blood type. And that's what should be true of us. We should be spirit-filled saints because we're scripture-filled saints, full of the scripture. And as we fill our minds with truth, we can't help but respond and thanksgiving for all that the Lord has revealed to us. Amen And you can be thankful that those ministries are going on right here at Hope Bible Church. The teaching of the Word of God is happening. The admonishment from the Word of God is happening. The singing of the Word of God is happening. This is a place that's that's full of the Spirit. You don't look in here and say, hey, this is the I don't see the Spirit here. Where's the Spirit? You know? I don't see anybody rolling around. Where's the Spirit at? You guys believe in the Holy Spirit? Right here. We believe in the Spirit. We believe in the Spirit. We're full of the Spirit because we're full of the scriptures. That's how you know. That's the evidence. All present right here. Do you appreciate it? Are you taking advantage of it? Taking advantage of all that's offered here? The classes that teach the Word of God? This is what God's people hunger for. And if you examine your life and you say, I don't know if I have that appetite. I don't know if I have an appetite for the scripture. You need to ask yourself a more fundamental question. Do I have the Spirit at all? Right? Am I a believer? Do I know Jesus Christ? If I have no appetite for that which the Spirit has authored, that which is spiritual food for me, if I have no appetite for this book, Do I know the Lord at all? Do I have the Spirit of God in me? And if that's you this morning, it's through the Word of God again that we come to faith in Jesus Christ, right? In uh 1 Peter in chapter 1 and verse 23 it says, For you have been born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable. That is through the living and enduring word of God. Romans 10, it talks about faith that comes by hearing, and hearing by what? The word of Christ, the word of God. It's how we're saved, it's how we're sanctified. That's how we're full of the Spirit. It's through the Word of God. We should be scripture saturated saints. Scripture saturated saints. William Carey is uh considered the father of the modern missionary movement. He left for India in June of 1793 and he didn't see a convert for six years Well, Carey's another one of my heroes. I love this guy. He said this. He says, I would not abandon the mission for all the fellowships and the finest spheres of England. My greatest calamity would be separation from the service. May I be useful in laying the foundations of Christ's Church in India. I desire no greater reward, nor can conceive a higher honor. If like David I am only to gather materials and another to build the house, my joy shall my joy shall not be less. So here he is, he's just faithful to this work. Even six years not seeing a convert, I'm faithful to this work If I can just be used to lay the foundation, if somebody else builds on it, I'm satisfied. But God was pleased not only to use them to lay the foundation, but also to build upon it himself. And the greatest means of building was through the translation of the scriptures. He translated it into Bengali as well as several other Indian languages. In February of 1801, more than seven years after Kerry arrived in India, he saw his first convert, saw him baptized, was also able to see the New Testament printed. First book for the common people ever printed. It was a historic event. He and his small team prayed, they thanked God, and William Carey chose Colossians 3:16 as his text for preaching. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And Marshman, a fellow missionary, composed this hymn. You know, so we see how the word of God and the music just works together. Carrie preached and Marshman wrote a hymn for the occasion. Marshman, a fellow missionary, composed this hymn Hail, precious book divine, illumined by thy rays, we rise from death and sin, and tune the Savior's praise The shades of error dark as night, vanish before thy radiant light. Now shall the Hindus learn the glories of our king. Nor to blind gurus turn, nor idle praises sing, diffusing heavenly light around, This book their shastras, their scriptures shall confound. Deign, gracious Savior, deign, to stoop to condescend. Stoop, gracious Savior, to smile upon thy word. Let millions now obtain salvation from the Lord. Receive salvation through the scriptures, sanctification through the scriptures. And we're to be full of the Spirit. And it comes through the Word of God, right? It's all through the Word of God. That's why our focus in this church, I know, is uh the preaching, the expository preaching and teaching of God's Word. And it's my prayer that you would be full of it personally, full of it. And that you see these signs of of being full in your life. That if you're full of the scriptures, that you'll see it just spilling out in every area of your life. The way you know you're carrying a full bucket is that you have wet feet. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we I thank you so much for your word. Your word is so rich. Your word is so powerful. It's your word that changes lives. It's your word that's changed our lives. Without this word, our lives would be forever unchanged. We would have remained in our sins if it was not for you communicating to us, revealing yourself to us, sending the Savior for us. Father, we're so grateful. And I pray that our lives would continue to be transformed as we we study and read and give our attention to this book. Father, what else would we want to give our attention to? What else would we want to talk about as we get together with believers? Father, I pray that we would be encouraged to dig deeper than we have in times past. And Father, I pray that if there's anyone here today that recognizes in their own life that I don't have that kind of appetite for scripture. Father, I pray that you would convict them, that you would allow your word today to be an admonishment to them, that they would come to understand the Savior through the words of Scripture. That faith would be created in their hearts through the hearing of your word. That's the only way that it happens, Father, through your spirit and your word. May you do your work in our congregation today. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen.