The cross of Christ. Not just, oh, Jesus died for my sins, so I can go to heaven So much more. The cross of Christ provides the entrance into the Christian life where there's no forgiveness apart from his death. But the cross of Christ is more. The cross of Christ is the motivation for continued obedience You and I are called to forsake our lives. You and I are called to believe in things we haven't seen yet. You and I are called to be different from the people around us who won't like us because of our Christian faith. Somewhere deep inside of you, you better have some motivation that keeps you going forward, and I would like to suggest to you it's the cross of Christ. The power to change. The power of the cross. To change you. If you don't think you can change, I don't think you believe in the power of the cross yet. I think you sang about the power of the cross. The power of the cross is to change you in me. And I believe in the power of the cross. We're going to talk about obedience today, because the Word of God talks about obedience. We're going to talk about obedience. And as we talk about obedience, something inside of you is going to say, but I don't want to obey. And when that something inside of you says that, you look up at that cross and you will find all the motivation that you need. Son of God obeyed by going to that cross. Do you understand? He obeyed all the way to the cross. What do you and I have to do? So what do we have to do? What's that big of a deal? Are you going to carry the sins of the world on your shoulders? Small, tiny, what he asks in return. Let's turn to James 1. We're going to read verses 22 through 25 and focus on a pretty pointed passage on obedience. I'll read it, you follow. Ask God to work in your heart. But prove yourselves doers of The word, James writes, and not merely hearers who delude themselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror. For once he has looked at himself and gone away, he has immediately forgotten what kind of a person he was. But One who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer, but an effectual doer. This man will be blessed in what he does. It's pretty simple. Doesn't take a lot of interpretation. It just takes our whole lives to figure out why it's so much better to obey God and why whatever we think will be better is not. So is the lesson of life. Well, a little bit of review. Look back at verses 19 through 21. If you're with us, maybe those words are still resounding in your ear about the importance of listening well, hearing well the Word of God. It is a context about the Word of God. We need to receive it well, not get angry at it, be humble and teachable before it. Uh be willing to lay off filthiness and lay off wickedness, as the verses said, because this is a word that can work its salvation in you. It saved us past. It's saving us present in the form of sanctification. There's future culmination of salvation where we get our glorified bodies. This is the word that accomplishes it. accomplishes that for us, so we need to be dedicated to the Word of God. We even got the Word inside of us, you may remember back in verse 18. It says God brought us forth by the word of truth. That is, we were born, we were birthed by the word of truth, we were regenerated because of the word of God. And because that word is so important to us now, given our situation in life, we need to be welcoming of the word, always actively wanting the word. Now, in part I know that must be true of you, you're seeking out a church where there's a lot of word. that is preached, but it needs to go deeper than sitting in the comfortable seats that you're in. It needs to go to a lifetime of pursuit of the Word of God to be applied in your life. That's what he's really talking about here. Now there's a connection Between verse 21 and this section. And as we transition in, I'm going to give Dr. Hebert's explanation. He just says this. Here's the transition. Wholehearted acceptance of the word Must result in act of obedience to the Word. Wholehearted acceptance of the Word. That's what we learned the last few times Must result in active obedience to the Word of God. In other words, if you accept the Word, you're going to do what it says. You are going to hear the Word in such a way that you want to make application of it to your life You're going to be listening and trying to find what it is that God wants you to believe, what he wants you to do, what attitudes to change, what faith to exercise. You're going to want to do that Paul wrote in Philippians 4 9, the things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. the presentation of the apostolic doctrine, even the apostolic example. He says, don't stop and admire it. What you saw and you heard in me, practice these things. And then he goes on with the blessing, and the God of peace will be with you. The blessing always comes because of the act of obedience. Now we're going to be talking about application, so I wanted to give you a quote from a book on biblical interpretation And application. It's a simpler book if you want to get it. It's a good one to put in your library. It's by Roy Zuck. It's called Basic Bible Interpretation. And in there, on the chapter on application, he writes this. Christians tend to make one of two errors in applying the Bible. Either they give too little attention to application or they give too much attention to it. In the first error, some feel interpretation is enough. That Bible study is complete when a passage has been interpreted. In the second error, others tend to move toward application before fully and accurately interpreting the passage. However, application without interpretation leaves us open to applying the Bible improperly. Neglecting to apply the scriptures reduces Bible study to an academic exercise in which we are concerned only for interpretation with little or no regard for its relevance for and impact on our lives. So we can't fall into either one of those ditches. We want to make sure that we're interpreting carefully, then applying, and not stopping with the interpretation and saying, well that's neat. I know that passage now. I must be maturing. No, it has to be applied. One of the most important passages on the doctrine of the Bible and the use of the Bible in a local church is the famous 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17. You know it. All scripture is inspired, right? God breathed. And it's profitable for, though, and this is the part that people are not as familiar with, for teaching, for reproof. For correction, for training in righteousness. Why? So the man of God will be adequate, thoroughly furnished, or equipped for every good work. Why did God give us scripture and have it inspired so that it makes an impact in our lives, right? We are to practice righteousness. We are to practice what we learn from this inspired text. We are to put it into practice, and then it changes our lives and brings blessing. Even the pastor is told there, everything that you need for your life and for the ministry life of your congregation is all in the Word of God. It's not only inspired, it's fully sufficient, so we need to dig into it and we need to practice. Alright, so simply stated, looking for what this is about, this message is about, it's just this. This text tells us put the Bible into practice in your life. life. Do that. It even tells us why. We're not going to get to the why until next next time that we're uh in this passage. But uh we're going to look at this in two stages. There's the exhortation to apply the word. That's at the beginning of verse twenty two. And then the rest are the reasons to apply the word. We'll get to that hopefully Next time. Okay? Here's an exhortation. And that's what you're going to hear. A strong exhortation today to apply the Word of God to your life. Look at it. Verse 22. Read it again. But prove yourselves doers of the Word. And not merely hearers. And we're going to stop right there. That's what we're going to cover today. Prove yourselves doers of the word. Let's just start with that That's a positive command. I like positive commands. They're good. But there's a negative one that's going to follow, and the negative one is also helpful. But we'll start with a positive. But prove yourselves doers of the word That little but there of the Greek conjunction de is not so much an adversative as if he's correcting in this passage something from the previous passage. It's more like a continuation. It's more like James saying, I've been talking about your relationship to the Word of God and the verses before that But I'm not done talking about it. I want you to realize that when I was saying to you you need to listen to the Word of God, well, that's not all your responsibility to the Word of God. It's more than listening. It's Doing as well. If we don't go all the way into the practice, then we didn't really even listen to it properly in the first place, right? So he says, prove yourselves doers of the word. That's an exhortation. It's a very important exhortation. It's one we need to hear. It's one you and I need to hear because we're exposed to a lot of the Bible and we hear a lot of Bible teaching. And so this really should be a very careful warning to a church like ours. Are we proving ourselves to become doers of the word? Actually, uh the verb there. is a present tense command. I think you know by now the present tense talks about in Greek an ongoing sense to it. It's from the verb genomi, which actually means to become, and so it could be translated this way. Keep on becoming doers of the word. Keep on showing yourself or proving yourself, becoming a doer of the word. He's not trying to say that none of these readers had ever obeyed God at any time. Of course they had. He's exhorting them, keep proving yourself to be people who, when you hear the word of God, you do something about it. That's his point. These are Jewish believers, remember, Jewish Christians. And they were not to be passive listeners. They were not to think of the time in church, their time wherever they were gathered as a time to be passive listeners, but they needed to listen actively in their heart and then go on to actively practice it as well. Doers of the Word. So just stop right there. If someone who knows you well, or a group of people who know know you well, would they say about you that you're someone they can tell is trying to practice the Bible. I don't talk about talking about the Bible. We all talk about the Bible. I'm not talking about going to church. Just are you someone who in your life they can tell, now that's a person, not perfectly, but that's a person who's trying to put into practice the Word of God. Is that how your friends would describe you? Is that how your relatives would describe you? Hopefully they would. And if they're unbelievers, someone would be irritated at you. You're trying to apply the Word of God. Get away from me. They don't want that around you. That's a good sign. That's a good sign. All of us are are you know not perfect in that, but you're trying to implement the Word of God. You're not an excuse maker. You don't just say the words. You're like, no, I'm trying to put into practice what this says about anger. I'm trying to live forth what God wants me to do in terms of giving. I'm trying to follow Christ in his humility and on and on and on it would go. Doers of the word Doers of the Word are people who practice the Word. If there's practice of the Word of God in your life, you're a doer of the Word, correct? This is not once in a while. Well, last Easter I did something nice in the name of Christ. This is not a novel kind of obedience. You know, the religious people that are mostly nominal, that is religious and name only, want to throw the little bone towards God every once in a while, like, look, I did a little religious duty, isn't that practicing? No, that's not practicing. That's uh trying to make an excuse for the rest of the year. Then there are those that they practice well on Sundays. He wants me to preach it. That Sundays we show up. Sundays we're kind. Sundays we volunteer help. Sundays we pray. Sundays we listen to the Word of God. Sundays we make our families look like they're a nice Christian family. But not Mondays, certainly not Tuesdays, and the rest. That's not practicing the word. Would you agree? There's nothing brilliant in that Doers of the Word, listen to the Word, and listen to sermons They listen to the reading of Scripture. They listen as they read Scripture, as they read their devotional books. They listen with an intent that when they're done listening They're gonna do something. They're gonna change something. They're gonna add some obedience to a weaker obedience. They're going to correct an attitude. There's got to be a change. There's no change. Not a doer. James, and may I add, the Holy Spirit insists on ongoing practice of the Word of God, a lifetime of practice of the Word of God. Isn't that what a disciple is? A disciple of Jesus? What are you doing? Following him, you're obeying him. You're listening to him. Scripture reading we had, he says, I want you to go into the city and I want you to find this cult. And I want you to do such and such, and it says the disciples listened and they did exactly what Jesus said. They were followers. They obeyed him. They practiced the word that Christ gave to them The word. When we say the word, what do we mean? We mean the word of God. What did James mean here in this context? The word. The word of God. That's not hard. The same word that was implanted in you, verse 18, the same word you're to receive, welcome into your life That same word is an authoritative word. It carries authority with it. It's not the word of your pastor, it's not the word of your friend, it's not the word of some talking head on TV. And God knows they have no authority. It is the word of God. And we're so used to saying that we don't listen to that. The word of God, the voice of God. The teachings of God Almighty. The commandments of he who sits on the eternal throne. Do you hear it? He's talking in this book. When we hear this book, Well, the reason why we respond to it is we recognize it for what it is. It's the Word of God, the Word of the Lord Most High. Now the Jews were pretty They were pretty used to hearing something like this exhortation from James. In their synagogues, before Christ had come, the rabbis would say things like, Now make sure you're practicing the word. Make sure you're practicing the word the law of God. Don't just read the law of God. Go out and do and perform the law of God. And so there was a lot of external performance. The Jews were aware of that and they would practice that. In fact, this goes back to Exodus 24, 7. There Moses took the book of the covenant and read it. This has a law in it. He read it in the hearing of the people. This is at the very beginning when they received the law. And then the people said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And we will be obedient. Well, that was a nice intent. They understood the voice of God comes in the law of God. Today people say, Well, God told me to do this and God told me to do that. No, God tells you to do this. This is where God speaks, right here. And this is a living book. It's fresh. It comes out with a message. The Spirit of God takes it and makes that. Whenever someone has an impression or something that's outside of this scripture, that's not God talking. That's their conscience. That's the world. That's another spirit. It's not God. And you need to be very careful with that in discerning. James is writing to Jews, and these Jews believed Jesus was the Messiah. They'd come to faith in him, they were gathered. In the diaspora, they'd heard the gospel and they were gathering together in homes or whatever building they could find. And now he's writing to them. This isn't really something new. He's saying, Be a doer of the word. He's reminding them of the importance of that. In fact, an active faith is a lot of what the book of James is about. Would you just glance forward to chapter 2 in James? It'll be a long time before we get there, but I want you to see it. Verses 14 through 17 Starting verse 14 of chapter 2. What use is it, my brethren, if someone says he has faith, but he has no works? Now notice it says no works. Obviously, if you have some works. Then that's helpful. But no works. I have faith, but you can't see any works coming out of them. Then he asks, can that faith save him? In other words, can that kind of a faith save a person like that? And the answer is no, because that's not really a true faith. Verse 15, if a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed, and be filled, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what use is That. Even so, faith, if it has no works, is dead being by itself. So, whatever faith we're talking about, a Christian faith, a faith that saves us, is a faith that is active. It does something. It moves us. That's what James is saying in here. It's the theology behind these exhortations. By the way, James's half-brother Jesus. Remember, he's his half-brother. Taught the same thing at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. Let's turn to the end of the Sermon on the Mount and see that, because you see a heavy emphasis in Jesus' teaching in Matthew 7. Turn back to Matthew 7. Towards the close of that, really, and what is the conclusion to the sermon. Let's start with verse 21. And look at the emphasis he puts. And you'll say, Why isn't Jesus talking about faith here? He is. He's talking about the kind of faith that listens so as to obey. Verse 21, he says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Who gets in Those who do, not those who say. Oh Lord, Lord, no, no, no, no, no, that's that's not that's not gonna be it. It's going to be what did you do when I taught you? Did you practice it? If you did, then your faith was real and you can enter into the kingdom of God. Go a little further, and he ends with a parable. Verse 24, he says, Everyone who hears these words of mine and acts upon them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. He goes on to talk about the opposite as well, right? Hmm Do the word and I'll bless you. Don't do the word and your life will come to ruin. You say, where is being saved by faith? It's in there because a salvation A faith that leads to salvation is a faith that leads to increasing steps of obedience. It's the only way to harmonize that. He's not teaching that we earn salvation by our works. He's saying that if you're going to be saved, you have to have the kind of faith that doesn't just profess, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord. Year, Lord! Where's the obedience? Where's the life change? I think this is a message that the American church needs to hear because it's so easy to come to church in America. There's no cost to it. And so we tend to attract within the church those that are really not serious at all about obeying the word. They'd like to hear things. Scripture is to be obeyed. Scripture is to be practiced. Scripture is to be applied. Let me give you another one. Luke 11. Verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight. You don't have to turn there, I'll read it. While Jesus was saying these things, one of the women in the crowd raised her voice and said to him That she's the first modern-day Roman Catholic. She said, Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breasts at which you nursed. Do you get my point? Blessed is Mary, though she didn't know her the name. Jesus didn't go along with that. In verse 28, he said, on the contrary. On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the Word of God and observe it. Jesus was a Protestant. Took you a little bit of time there. It's not about blessing Mary, it's about doing the word of God. No, he wasn't a Protestant, but you know what I'm trying to say The Protestant Reformation was all about that. What happened to the Word of God? It's like this much in a service, you know Moved the other stuff out of the way, brought the pulpit back, slammed the Bible on top there, and told this guy, do that, preach it The word. And then people started to hear it. People started to grow, and now the word is honored, and the people start to obey that. That's what the Protestant Reformation is all about. Sola scriptura. It's only scripture. Because only God talks in Scripture today. 1 John 2, verses 3 and 4. We know by this that we have come to know God. If we keep his commandments, not if I have a wonderful feeling in my heart. You don't gain assurance merely from subjective mystical experiences. You gain assurance of salvation by the fact that you see something changed in me. And now I'm wanting to do, not perfectly. And really, your growth in the assurance that you are saved will parallel your growth in obedience to the Word of God. The more you push that word down, the more doubt you'll have about your own salvation. 1 John 3, little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and truth. We will know by this that we are of the truth and will assure our heart before God. People doubt their salvation, doubt their self-why? Because you're not obeying God Because you're not obeying God. Of course, you're going to doubt. As long as you're not obeying God, you're going to always be doubting your salvation. The Holy Spirit will never reinforce an awareness and a conviction that you're one of God's children If your life is characterized by disobedience, it just will never happen. You'll never get joy, you'll go into depression. So we can't take obedience lightly. Now we come back to James. We look at the negative side, the other half of verse 22 there. Prove yourselves doers of the word. And then he adds this, and I'm glad he adds it, and not merely hearers Some people really don't like the negative statements in the Bible. You know, it's always about accentuating the positive. Let me tell you why I like the negative statements. In the Bible. They add clarification definition to my mind. I mean this, and I don't mean this. And when you put those side by side, I'm like, oh, because I might think I'm doing the positive command until he says, and not this, and I'm like, uh oh. Uh-oh. I thought I could do that and that. Nope. So the negative commands help me to understand the positive commands as well. So we don't want to push them away. They're very important. What is a doer? He's not merely a listener. He's not merely a hearer. Hearers. Acro acroacase. Word just means a listener. That's what it means. I tried to do a little digging here in terms of the the uh culture. The uh Greco-Roman culture was known for having lots of listeners. The philosophers love to uh to debate, sit around here a good good debate about what's truth and listen to one another They had entertainment, they had theaters, they'd go, they'd like to hear a good orator. There were some evidently very skilled Greek orators that would mesmerize the crowds, get them laughing and crying and raising their emotions this way and that way, retelling some of Roman history. And they have very, very good orators. And they went to those things expecting Just to hear. They would come for that. It was for entertainment. It was wow. And so there were many places in society where people were just hearers. They went merely to hear. That's exactly what they did. We have the same thing today, would you agree? We have our movies, we have our concerts, we have our guest lecturers. Our philosophers, those who wow the crowds, politicians. And even though we know nothing they're saying, some of these politicians is true, we're like, wow, they're a good speaker. And we just we come there and listen. And we hear. And that's what we are in those contexts. We're just hearers. We're not planning on changing our lives when we listen to anything like that. I hope you're not. We might leave the movie theater just really moved and crying and all that. You get home, sleep it off, and everything like that. Next day it hasn't changed you. You know what I'm talking about We just we just listen. We nod our heads when we agree, and we kind of go like this when we disagree. Even in school, there are some students who take classes and they're called auditing classes, right? They're auditors. They've come to hear. They don't want to take any tests. They don't want to write any papers. They don't want to do anything. They want to listen. Pick up some knowledge maybe. They're auditors. They're auditing a class. Auditors are not disciples. They're not really in the class, sorry. They're just auditors. They're to fly on a wall listening in. That's it. Disciples are disciples. Followers are disciples. They hear and do. The others just hear, right? I like to tell the children in Hope Academy when I speak in their chapels, boys and girls, this is not just another subject. Don't treat Bible and chapel time like science or social studies or literature or whatever. Those things sometimes you listen It doesn't change your life. This is one when you listen. You need to not just be listening for something new that you didn't know. Oh, I've never heard that story before. You need to be listening so God talks to your heart and changes that little heart. are yours. To you, I would say, do not be an auditor of God's word. Do not come in here with an attitude that says, you know, I'm just kind of like just kind of scoping things out. I'm not talking about joining the church, I'm talking about you're listening to the word of God. Don't be an auditor of God's word. My apologies to those of you in the back row today. Don't sit in the back row every single week. And act like you're not going to get involved in the Word of God. You don't want to be anywhere near it. I know you may have other reasons. But you know what I'm saying. I just kind of come in And listen, you're an auditor of the Word of God. That's not obedience to God. And worst of all, don't be a person who hops from church to church. Oh, that was a nice sermon. Critiquing sermons. I don't know. Did the Lord gift you to come down to earth and critique all the sermons in the area churches? That's your contribution to the body of Christ. The laughter tells you all you need to know. The word nearly shows that listening is not bad, by the way. He's not saying don't listen, go do. Some people are they don't want any more Bible study. They're done with Bible study. Just give me something to do. Well, we do need something to do But this isn't stop the Bible study. I don't want to listen anymore. Let me be active in my Christian faith and get out and go do, do, and do. No. You can never get out and go do well until you become a very good listener. That's why we took that part first. Some people want it get out and begin to evangelize. Get out and begin to make a difference for Christ. Good. That's wonderful. You need to listen and listen and be trained and know what you're getting into and know how Satan operates and you're not anywhere near as mature as you probably think you are and you need a lot of teaching and a lot of correcting. So there's a lot of listening that's good. It's not not listening and doing. It's just don't be merely a listener, right? Merely listening is not the goal. Merely as monon, alone, or alone, or only It must never stop with listening. Good listening results in good interpretations of the Bible, but then when you've interpreted the Bible, now you're accountable since you know what it means. You are accountable now. To believe it, to act upon it. Now I know in applications sometimes there's not three steps to go out and obey this passage Sometimes that's not what application is. Sometimes application is just rejoicing in the truth that you're learning. Sometimes it's letting that truth grip your heart so much that it humbles you that you're willing to be more obedient. Sometimes it's it's refining something and learning that part of what you believe was wrong and you receive that correction. Sometimes that's the proper approach to the Word of God. But often it is it is getting out and loving someone. It is learning to give thanks more with your lips. It's praising God for the wonders of his excellence. Character. So there's always application in every passage. Even you're an Old Testament passage and it doesn't directly apply to you. There's still a principle that applies to you. You may not have to go out and sacrifice a little lamb, but you can remember and rejoice in the Lamb of God, right? You can thank God for that salvation. You can develop your understanding of that doctrine better so you can pass it on to others so they understand. So yes, it starts with listening. It does not end with listening. If you wanted to run a race, would you want to get a good start? Some people lose the race because they don't get a good start, right? But imagine getting the best start of everyone that's running, and you're out in front of everyone Like the same bolt or something like that in your dreams. And then you decide at the after fifty yards, I'm gonna have everyone now just kind of slow down and not finish. You'd force it. You lose. That's what hearers only are. They've come in, taken good notes, they're all gah, but they don't do anything about it. Stop at the fifty fifty yard line. Sit down. Eh, it's too far to run. Listening is not the goal. Listening is not the finish line. Doing is the finish line Merely listening treats the word like it is not what it is, going back to that theme. The authoritative word of God. With the power of heaven invested in it. God said that the gospel is the power of God and the salvation. It's God's power. It has the weight of the King of Kings with it. When he says something, he was able to back up his words and say, Heaven and earth will pass away, my words will never pass away. Well that means that we're all gonna have to give account to our words and how we responded to his words. His words last Jeremiah 23, 29, is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer which shatters a rock? The Word of God reached into each one of our souls who were saved and took very proud and blind people and opened our eyes and shattered our hard hearts and brought us to faith against our will in one sense. Our sinful will had to transform that will so that we would be humbled and say, I need you, Lord, save me. The power of the Word of God. Isaiah 66, 2, for my hand made all these things. Thus all these things came into being, declares the Lord. But to this one I will look, to him who is humble and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at my word. You tremble before the word of God? You ever had the experience where you read something and you understand God is talking to you from that word and you better obey. You better do what He says or else. And don't think because you're a child of God that there will not be chastisement. Oh, there will be. There will be pain. He is a father. He knows how to give that pain. And he knows not just how to do it generally, he knows how to do it specifically for you. Jesus said in John 8 51, Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. Do you understand how powerful the word of God is? I just listen to Jesus' word and keep it. I will never see death. That means death will never have power over this person My body may die, but the New Testament doesn't even acknowledge that as a death. It just says, that's sleeping for a while. It's going to be raised, imperishable. That's what we celebrate next Sunday. Death has no power because of the word that powerful. Do you think such a word is this that God rewards us for showing up on Sundays and just listening? One of those pirates of the Caribbean movies is two uh uneducated low-life pirates. They're in a rowboat. They're rowing away. I think they wanted to steal a ship or something. One pulls out a Bible, he begins to read, to lecture the other guy, who's doing all the work, by the way. The other pirate criticizes him for pretending to read. You don't know how to read. You do not know. Put the book down. To which the first retorted, It's the Bible. You get credit for trying. No, you don't. Sorry. You don't get credit for trying to read the Bible. That's kind of funny, but Pretending to have the Word of God in us. It would almost be better that we didn't read it. I mean think at it think about it from God's perspective. He's given you his word, the word of life, the word of power. You read it, close it like it's not that big of a deal, and go about your day. Forget it five minutes, three minutes after you've read it, it's gone. Psh. You treated it like it was lighter than the sports page. Because at least the sports page you remembered. It's no big deal See, this is a major problem for people who have been in church for multiple years. And it's potentially a bigger problem for people who have been in a church where there's the exposition of the Word of God for years and years. And you can actually quietly work yourself into a place where, maybe not in the entirety of your life, but for a lot of what you hear, you have become a hearer of God's word only. You don't even come in expecting to have life change or to apply. You're used to listening. You do that every Sunday. You're good at that You listen. You're a listener. There you are. You're listening. But are you a doer? Are you used to doing? You go out doing. Do you practice? something afterwards? Or is it now a habit of yours to hear only? Ezekiel Ran into this problem in his day. In fact, God had to tell Ezekiel what was going on. This poor guy's preaching to the Israelites. They're not listening to what he says. Ezekiel 33, verses 30 through 33. The Lord is speaking, he says, But as for you, son of man, your fellow citizens who talk about you by the walls and in the doorways of the houses, a little gossip going on Speak to one another, each to his brother, saying, Come now and hear what the message is which comes forth from the Lord. That sounds good. They come to you as people come and sit before you as my people and hear your words, but they do not do them. For they do the lustful desires expressed by their mouth, and their heart goes after their gain. And they want money. That's what they practice all week long. Getting money. Behold, you are to them like a sensual song. Terrible thing to say to a preacher. You are like a sensual song. By one who has a beautiful voice and plays well on an instrument, for they hear your words, but they do not practice them. It's tragic. It's the last thing a preacher wants to hear. Then he goes on. So when the judgment comes to pass, as surely it will, then they will know that a prophet Has been in their midst. They just wanted to treat it as, oh, it's so sweet, it's so wonderful. But he could speak so well, such a good vocabulary Don't wait for the judgment to find out you're listening to the Word of God, not because I'm a prophet, but because this book is the writings of the prophet. Have you slipped into the bad habit of being mainly a hearer? Do you come in and regularly think, that would be a great sermon for so-and-so? Oh, I think I'm going to get them a copy. And the point isn't not to pass out sermons. I think you understand the point Someone who is just in here to listen will say after a sermon something like, Oh, that was interesting. And then poof, it's gone out of the mind. Others, right after the message, as soon as it's done, Bible's closed, I have so many things to do today. Psh, and it's gone. There goes the word just sort of spilling out. Whatever you got, you spilled it out on the way out Some praise the eloquence of the preacher, his jokes, his stories, his exposition. That's kind of where it ends. Some are stimulated intellectually. They wish they could sit around after the message and really kind of churn that one out more and talk that one through, but to them it's all theological curiosity. I think, unfortunately, we have some professional sermon listeners in our midst. Others dismiss this the message saying, I've already heard that before. Some of you come because you want to hear something new. I've been I've been there. I I remember this time when I was in seminary, I was getting so much of the word, my heart wasn't right. We kind of showed that there was something wrong with me. And I would just start to listen to some class or some chapel or something like that, 'cause like, no, I already got that. I can't listen right now to you know start writing. I know you can get there, but uh that's not good. Most of what we learn is not new anyway, right? I mean come on It's just learning to do the things we heard since we were young. What we need is not to learn something new, we need to perfect something old. Of course, others listen for their favorite topics. Eschatology. Demons and the occult. The pulpit commentary, one of the older commentaries, says: The highest praise that can be bestowed upon a Christian minister is not to tell him how much his preaching is enjoyed on Sabbaths. But to let him see how well it is being translated into life on the other days of the week. Dr. MacArthur says, proclaiming and interpreting God's word are never ends in themselves, but are means to an end, namely the genuine acceptance of divine truth for what it is, and the faithful application of it. Counseling is plagued by hearers only. Counseling is a huge industry today. They come to their session, they vent their frustrations, they want to be heard, they want to be understood. They say that they'll apply the word. Particularly if it's just give me something to read. They'll read that. That's just more listening. But some don't come back doing the homework, or they do it so sloppily, or the night before they realize, I haven't focused on this. Let me throw it together real quickly. They don't really want to change. They just want to appear that they're taking steps. I'm in counseling. I'm going to counseling every week. But when they leave, their hearts still want to do what their hearts want to do. Jay Adams writes, many want to be happy before doing. They make doing depend on the right feeling But happiness is not the goal. It is always the byproduct of the change. Some wait for a change before they begin the doing. Some want the courage, the strength, the right feeling first This was a part of the self-deception about which James warned. The blessing comes from the change, but it is found only in the doing. You really can't get anywhere with people in marital counseling if they just want to make sure the counselor knows how bad their spouse has been. When one just comes to point out the many faults of the other, the intent clearly is not help me change. I want to change And listen, someone else not doing the word of God is not a very good excuse for you not doing the word of God. All you kids, are you listening out there? You teenagers, if mom and dad don't obey the word of God, you can never use that as an excuse before God to say, well, that's why I don't go to church and I don't listen and I don't obey. Some of you have been sitting in this church, you grow up in the church, you hear the word of God, and you know what I'm talking about. You know You know you're just a hearer, you're not a doer. You haven't got active in your Christian faith. You haven't even been baptized You sit there week after week growing up in a church hearing the truth, and you're a hearer and not a doer. That defines your life. And probably in your head somewhere it's like, well, you know, my parents this, my parents that. MacArthur says, when people are blessed with regular in-depth preaching and teaching of Scripture, they may become so enamored with their knowledge of God's Word. that they become self-satisfied with that knowledge and forsake the effort to live out the profound truths they have come to understand. But a true believer, his conscience and the prompting of the indwelling Holy Spirit will keep convicting him of his failure until he becomes obedient. You are going to be kicking against God for a long time, and brothers, it is a long, hard ride that way. It is a long, hard, bumpy ride that way. Some of you aren't just hearers, you're good talkers. Oh, you can talk. You're smooth. You know the right thing to say. You know how to bring up just the right verse. Yeah, I need to get into the word more. I used to come out on Fridays, but so early in the morning. I've been a small group in a while, but I'm I'm gonna get back into it. Some people avoid obedience because in their mind they say, obedience? That's like that's like legalism. That's like all about the law and doing. I'm in the grace. This goes back to what June Jude warned everyone, right? That they the false teachers turn the grace of God, twist the grace of God into licentiousness. Meaning, I like to say it this way, grace is your license to go out and sin with no consequence. Really? Grace is a power to teach you how ugly and bad sin is that you would never want it. To affect your desires, to affect you at the level that is down deep inside. So you look at that favorite, cherished sin, and you come finally to say, I hate that thing. I hate it. It just keeps ruining my life. It brings me no joy and no joy of anyone around me either. Obeying is not legalism. Obeying is obeying. Legalism is taking credit for all the good deeds that you do so you can gain favor with God. An external religion only. It doesn't come from the heart. The Holy Spirit strongly moves inside of believers to affect their behavior on the outside. Starts on the inside. Back to Roy Zuck's book. We must be sure that in the entire process of studying, interpreting, and applying the Bible, we are relying on the Holy Spirit to guide us. As the Word of God penetrates our souls, it enables us to see areas where improvement is needed and enables us also to overcome weaknesses by the Holy Spirit's enabling. And he ends with this quote, apply yourself wholly to the text. And apply the text wholly to yourself Give your all in Bible interpretation and then give your all in Bible application. Another way of putting it is plunge into the scripture and the Holy Spirit will let the Word of God plunge deep into you. And leaders, I would say this to you do not resist divine truth as you read it and prepare for it for others. There's always the deadline, the next thing that has to be done. Oh, this is going to be good to preach. Oh, this is good material. It needs to affect our own hearts as well. Howard Hendricks, in his book, Living by the Book, writes: the Bible was not written to satisfy your curiosity, it was written to transform your life. The ultimate goal of Bible study then is not to do something to the Bible, but to allow the Bible to do something to you. So truth becomes tangent to life We frequently come to the Bible to study it, to teach it, to preach it, to outline it, everything except to be changed by it And in that book, he states four things that we do as a substitute for application. I'll give these to you very quickly and end with it. We substitute interpretation for application. We think it's enough just to explain the meaning, and then that shows that we are a mature Christian. Also, we substitute superficial obedience for substantive life change. We want to make quick adjustments and then that's it. Then we think we've applied the Word of God. We don't want to go deep on our attitudes. We substitute rationalization for repentance. We explain in greater detail why we know we're disobeying. Well, now I know why I'm disobeying. I'm disobeying because of this, this, and this. See, look what I know now. I know I'm disobeying, and I know exactly why I'm Disobeying. That's not repentance. That's a very good explanation of why you're disobeying. We substitute an emotional experience for a volitional decision. Well, you got to me today, Pastor. I'm just crying. I'm just weeping. You smushed my toes today, Pastor. Emotional experience, no volitional change. 1 John 1:6: If we say that we have fellowship with God and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. 1 Peter 2:2, like newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the word, so that by it you may grow in respect to salvation. Romans 6:19: just as you used to present your members as slaves to impurity And to lawlessness, resulting in further lawlessness. So now present your members, that is, the members of your body, as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification Father, sanctify us. Help the hearing of your word translate into the doing in ways in which it would please you at the heart level. Help our heart first, but then also our tongues and our hands and our feet To be transformed by the book of books, for so we've prayed it in Christ's blessed and holy name. Amen.