The as we've gotten to know the Williams family, I thought, you know, they serve as such a good example for what I'm going to talk about in the message this morning. Which is about service and uh to give us all just a challenge in that regard. If you'd open in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 7 through 11 This is a a great epistle written by the Apostle Peter. It was written to those who were suffering. and uh were persecuted and um certainly uh having those that were serving uh in a country where It's not encouraged to be a Christian and where it uh often could result in persecution is a great example for serving in the midst of hard times and suffering Knowing what it means to sacrifice, taking a family of seven, leaving the United States of America, Georgia, going over to another country and uh investing so much time in sacrifice, that is not strange. That is biblical. That is what God wants us all to do, in one way or another, to be sacrificing for the advancement of his kingdom. Let's begin by reading 1 Peter 4, 7 through 11, and then we'll get into it. The end of all things is near, Peter writes. Therefore, be of sound judgment and sober spirit for the purpose of prayer. Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another, because love covers a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to one another without complaint. As each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Whoever speaks is to do so as one who is speaking the utterances of God. Whoever serves is to do so as one who is serving by the strength which God supplies, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To whom belongs the glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. You can just sense it as that kind of a passage that leads to the glory of God. Well, as we said, 1 Peter was written by the Apostle Peter, also called Simon Peter, Cephas in other places as well. He indicates that in this epistle that the Christian is a different kind of a human being from others in the world. He calls us aliens and strangers on the earth in chapter 2. In chapter 4, he talks about how surprised people in the world who are unbelievers are when you don't run with them into the same excesses of sin, and then they make fun of us and our faith. So knowing that we're strangers on the earth, Peter reveals his purpose for writing the letter right near the very end. If you look back at chapter 5 and verse 12. Towards the end, he says, Through Sylvanus, our faithful brother, for so I regard him, I have written to you briefly exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God, stand firm in it. In other words, you're going to be persecuted, but keep standing in the grace of God. Keep serving. Keep doing what is right. I think as we think about Hope Bible Church at our 14-year anniversary. We think about how God has been growing the size of our church. Now He is opening up more and more opportunities for us to serve. Look at all the technology we have and freedoms we have. Think about the strategic geographical position in which we have been placed here in the Greater Washington-Baltimore area. With all of those opportunities being given and presented to us at this time in our church's history, I think a challenge to rise up and meet those opportunities and enter even more into the work of God is fitting for today. Peter did write this letter sometime between 62 and 65 A. D. It was late in his life, very late indeed, possibly at the beginning of Nero's persecution against the Christians Christianity became increasingly persecuted by Rome because it became more and more distinguished from Judaism and therefore was not protected by Roman law anymore. And so much of this letter instructs believers how do you live a godly life in the midst of persecution? In the previous section in 1 Peter four Right before verse seven, it teaches that Christians are to live for the will of God. If you look back, you can see that they're to live for the will of God and not for the lusts of the flesh. Now the flesh wants to go in one direction. God wants you going in the other direction. You have a new nature. You have the Spirit of God in you, and He's tugging you in that other direction And he's saying, let go, don't live for that old agenda which uh your your the lusts of your flesh want. Uh if you need to, suffer for the cause of Christ and enter into doing the will of God. That is far better. So our section here, verses 7 through 11, extends really what he wrote in verses 1 through 6. He's urging the churches over a broad, broad spectrum there in the early church He's urging them really this way. Now that you've properly armed yourself with that will and determination and attitude that says, yes, I'm willing to suffer for righteousness Just like my Lord did. Now I want you to get busy serving the Lord. Get busy serving the Lord. So what is Peter doing? He's really passing on to all of the churches something similar to what Jesus passed on to him. And to the disciples in the Great Commission, when he said, Go into all the world and make disciples of all the nations. That was following his resurrection, but before his ascension. That's really a life that is called to dedicated service. That is not just for those that are in full-time Christian ministry, for we all are in full-time Christian ministry in one sense. We are all to be busy about the Father's business no matter what we do. This devotion to the church and to its ministry and to its mission is what Peter wants us to get here. He's going to give us instruction about that. It really tells us in light of Jesus coming back soon, in light of the fact that this present world system is passing away, What should we be dedicated to? We should dedicate ourselves to something that's going to last and be of value. That is the advancement of the church. And to challenge us, he gives us three truths from this passage, three truths about serving in the church. First is the timing of our service. You'll see that at the beginning of verse 7. And then the types of our service that takes most of our passage from the end of verse 7 to the beginning of verse 11. And then the target, or you might say, the aim of our service is seen at the very end. The timing and the types and the target of our service. Let's look first at the timing. Look back at the beginning of verse 7, if you would. The end of all things is near. Wow. Wisdom dictates that we understand the times in which we live. That's what wisdom requires. We understand the time in which we live, and therefore we understand how we should live based upon the time. I have to make decisions, you have to make decisions Your family has to make decisions. The church has to make decisions. What dictates the priorities in those decisions? Answer: the time in which we live. The time in which we live. And so Peter writes, the end of all things is at hand. That's an amazing statement, really. Don't just read that as a biblical truth. Read that as something he meant. The end of all things is at hand. It's an incredible statement. All things. Pantone. It stands emphatically forward in that first Greek sentence. It could be translated literally this way All things the end of has drawn nigh. Well when you see an emphatic and unqualified statement like that having to do with the end times. It is designed to be all-inclusive. It's not talking about some things, but all things. It's not just the end of a certain aspect of what's going on, but the entire present world's system is coming to an end. Everything that we know of the way it is running now, life as we know it, even nature as it operates, and all the peoples and their institutions, the governments, the schools, the businesses Families, buildings, cities, laws, armies, you name it, everything is nearing the end And that's why there's an urgency to Peter's call for action here. In fact, he says it's at hand. It's come upon us. It's already drawn very close. It's right there. It's within reaching distance. It's not far away at all. This is the exact same terminology Jesus used when he was going around in the uh land of Israel as he began his ministry and John the Baptist as well. The kingdom of God is at hand. Same terminology. Matthew 3, 2. And Matthew 10, 7. In fact, here it's in the perfect tense. What does that mean? It just adds a little more color to this, that it the end is already drawn near. And the end doesn't mean things are going to fizzle out into nothing. The end, the telos, can also be thought of as a goal. The goal, the end. Everything is reaching a goal. It's not just spinning around, it's not going to fizzle out. There's an objective, there's a goal, and the end of all things is coming. We're moving fast towards that goal. That intended end by God is already drawn very close. Now When you realize this is the truth and not a fantasy, that ought to change the way you think about your life and your decisions, don't you think? See, the New Testament writers, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, had that conviction the return of Jesus Christ was very near. Hebrews 10, 25. Exhorts us, don't forsake your own assembling together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. That the day was drawing near, even though no one would know the day or the hour. That's the same verb, by the way, drawing near. James 5, verse 8. You too be patient, strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand Jesus said in Matthew 24, 44, in the Olivet Discourse, For this reason you be ready to, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not think he will. That's like today, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. We've heard about Jesus coming for two thousand years, yeah, blah, blah, blah. You know, he promised he's going to do it and he did. Think how long they waited for Jesus in the first coming, and then boom, he came and everything changed It'll be the same way. What are some of the very last words in all in the Bible? The last book of the Bible is Revelation, and it's a capstone of Revelation. No one's to add to it. And the last chapter and some of the last verses of the Bible say, and there Jesus, yes, I am coming quickly. That's his promise to us. You either believe that or you don't. And then it says, Amen. And John adds his Maranatha, come Lord Jesus. The end of all things is at hand. That's a prophecy. And it's for our generation. And it's true. It's exciting. I get goosebumps when I really start to realize that that is true. The end of all things is at hand. It's like you can already see the breaking of the dawn. The sky is already starting to brighten. That's how Peter wants us to think. Jesus is about to break into the world again and nobody's going to stop his agenda. Peter's reminding believers But you need to have this conviction. And if you have this conviction, then you will rise up, particularly when the going is hard, and you will keep going in your service for Christ. You will Serve your Lord because you know He's coming soon and His reward is with Him. Listen, the passing of the centuries does absolutely nothing to nullify this promise. All the passing of the hundreds of years, the 2,000 years does is tells us we're 2,000 years closer to when this is going to happen. That's all it does. And if you think about biblical history, if they were in the end times then, we're in the last of the end times. If that was the 11th hour then, we're already the minutes before midnight when it's going to strike. We are. We're living in that time. Listen, God has given end times believers knowing how hard it would be to have faith in the end times. So many years that have passed by. He has given us a great sign in taking that dispersed people, the nation of Israel, were off their land for eighteen hundred and fifty years or so, and brought them from the four corners of the world and put them back on the land Gave them Jerusalem again, which still stands, amazing. Gave them their own nation and have them surrounded by nations that hate them right now today. That's a sign for us And that's not all that long. That's just from 45 and four and sixty-seven and and forward. And not just that, look at Europe all gathered together again. The European Union, the reformation of the old Roman Empire, just as literal prophecy says is going to happen. And not just that, but technology that now can fulfill the literal uh prophecies that are given. We have satellites and computer chips, and now we know how that stuff can actually happen literally. We are the only generation to ever live at this time So if Peter could tell those guys the end of all things is at hand, I think we should be saying it louder. Louder, not falling asleep. We should be alert. When everyone else thinks we're crazy, we ought to believe. No, it's about to happen. It's exciting. Jesus is coming back. What's he waiting for? Well, one thing is 2 Peter 3, 8-9. It says his patience holds him back. He's waiting for the fullness of his elect to come in, not willing that any should perish, that any there is his lect in that passage as you read it. He has his elect, his chosen ones, he's bringing them all in to salvation, and he is waiting, and at that point in time he will come. No specific date has to be given to know that it's going to happen. It's still, yes, it is at hand. But here's the question then for us in application. Do we make decisions about our lives and how we spend our time and our treasures and all of that? Do we make our decisions thinking about Christ's soon coming? See, that's the question. See, in order for you to organize your life around the coming kingdom, you have to say no. in your life. You have to say no to some things. A lot of things. And a lot of things that you're going to say no to, there's nothing wrong with them. But you still have to say no to them. So you have room in your schedule, enough energy in your body, enough time in your week, so that you can be busy serving Christ and making the most of your time. Do you understand that? That's the nature of the times in which you live. That's not just a poor pastor trying to get more people to serve in the church. Okay? Well, there might be a little bit of that going on there. But it's the truth of the word of God. You don't want to all of a sudden find out Christ came back and you spent so much of your time doing what? Well, it was good stuff. Was it the best use of your time for Christ king? Pursue a life of more money, more earthly comforts, more this, more that, fun travels, recreation. You know, haven't you Read the headline. Christ is almost coming back. He's almost there. He's just about to break into human history. What about your life? How's it going to count? The end of all things is at hand and Christ is coming back. Really, that's all that matters. All that you do for Christ is that matters. When he comes back, he's going to reward those who serve them how well you serve him. Really no matter what you do, you should really only have one job title to all of your life, whether you're at work, at home, at church. You know, with your family, whatever. I am a servant of Jesus Christ, the coming victorious king. That's my title. That's who I am. Now, you own the times, you understand these are the times, and you say, okay, I want my life to count. Whether I'm young, old, doesn't matter. I want my life to count. You recognize Satan is going to try to lull you to sleep. Satan is going to try to distract you. Satan is going to try to discourage you. Satan is going to try to deceive you He's always working. There are spiritual forces at work. against the church and against you. You're wondering what's going on in your life. Why are things so discouraged? Satan is working to discourage you. And you can't let that happen. You have to stay alert. So now Peter spells out next what we need to do. Look at the second part of verse 7. The end of all things is near. Then he says, Therefore, be of sound judgment and sober spirit for the purpose of prayer. The therefore, let me tell you the implications of the fact that the end is at hand. There's four actions here Or four applications, if you would, four types of service that you and I should be excelling at. The first is be of sound judgment and sober spirit for the purpose of Prayer. Those two commands are linked. Being of sound judgment and sober spirit are similar. They both are emphasized in relationship to our prayer lives. What does sound judgment mean? It means be in your right mind. Think carefully. Be prudent. Think things through. In this context, weigh everything in your life carefully. Know what is about to happen, know about the judgment on the world, know about Christ's coming, and respond in your life properly. This is very similar to what he wrote back in chapter 1, verse 13, where he said, gird your minds for action, keep sober in spirit, fix your hope completely. Completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revealing of Jesus Christ. Your whole life and your hope is to be oriented towards the coming of Jesus Christ. Every decision of your life should be pointed towards his coming and what he's going to give you when he comes. Be of sober spirit is similar. It means don't be spiritually intoxicated. Don't be dull to spiritual realities around you. Don't nod your head. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know all that to be true. And then go on and make decisions in your life as if you didn't know it was true, as if it wasn't going to happen. And notice the particular action that comes from these attitudes in prayer for the purpose of prayer. It comes to fruition in prayer. Or literally the prayers there. In other words, what? Spiritual alertness and sobriety make all of life ring clear because you know what's going to happen, and that feeds your prayers. Now you know how to pray. You know what's about to happen. You can see the position of the world. You see where the church is and relations it at, and it feeds your prayers, and you know how to pray. There's urgency in prayer. And so you pray soberly. By the way, prayer is not a symbolic act, not just something we do like here in church, you've got to pray. It's a necessary work. It's needed work. It's necessary work. Prayer is not a lesser church activity. Sometimes we sign up for things. You sign up for prayer? Sign up for prayer. That's not a lesser activity. It's the very heart of the church's ministry. Prayer is not a chore to check off, good, I did some prayers today, good. I'm a good Christian. See God what I did. It's a privilege. Prayer is a privilege. God said, Pray and I'll give you things. It unleashes the power of God at work in our lives. That's what prayer is. Where there is little prayer, there may be much church activity, but very little that gets done truly for God and His kingdom. It is in prayer for the needs of the saints and the salvation of the lost where the church advances and the church fulfills its mission We hear the thunderous hoofbeats of Christ on his white horse approaching. He is coming. First in the rapture, then in the second coming. All of that's really one event, separated by seven years. It's described sometimes as one event But there's various aspects to it. But he's coming. And the the hook beats of his horse, they're they're they're they're heard. We're living in that kind of a time. So how do you pray for others and for yourself? In that situation. Let me ask you this question. If you believe this, why aren't you over there in that prayer meeting on Sunday morning? See, the elders and the deacons are in the back every Sunday we're praying for you. If you believe this, why aren't you gathering with other believers, getting in there and praying fervently for what Christ would do through your life and the life of the church I'll tell you why you're not there, because you don't think it's important. It's not really all that needed. And goodness sakes it's inconvenient. You stuck it right there on Sunday morning, Pastor. Get in there and pray and show your faith in God and show that prayer is needed. When we pray and we take this power seriously, then God will work in a greater way in our church. I really believe that. I hope you do. There's a second action here, verse 8. Above all things, keep fervent in your love for one another. Do you sense a priority there? There's a real priority said there. Above all, that accentuates this particular exhortation. This is of prime importance. Love is to drive forward the work of the church And we're to keep fervent in it. That word is ektenate. It means to stretch out to full capacity, to love that is going at full gallop. You'll sometimes use the horses as they're stretching out at full speed In other words, a constant and intense kind of a love. We are to have love for one another this way. We are members of each other, right? Church is a body, we're members of one another, we're designed to go together, we need each other, so Peter says, have a fervent love for one another. It's that simple. Get past yourself. Get past your problems, find someone else, and show and demonstrate love to them. Don't be sitting there, who's ministering to me? Who cares about me? Who's listening to me? Love somebody. Serve them. Loving each other is central to what we do as a church. It should be central to what anyone does as a church. Why do you come on Sunday morning to not warm up that seat that you're on right there, right? It is to find somebody and be a blessing to them. Did you know that? So those of you that come and listen and leave, you haven't got it yet. You're to come and listen and do. I know sometimes people have to leave. I'm not trying to make you feel guilty. Someone have to leave early this morning, they'll feel guilty driving the car away. That's not the point Many it's it's habit. Do you come thinking I'd like to find someone that I can pray for, someone I can listen to, some need I might be able to meet? Do you come thinking that church is the people and I want to love the people and I want to serve them Church is a community of believers loving each other. Notice the benefit of love Peter describes next, because love covers a multitude of sins. Not talking about covering your sins. Love doesn't atone for your sins. Jesus' blood atoned for your sins. You can't atone for your own sins. It means love covers up whose sins. Someone else's, right? Now that assumes their repentance and sorry for their sin. What it means is you don't take their sin out and go, aha! You sin and parade it before other people. No. No, it it it it takes a blanket and it just kind of covers the sin and says, I know you did sin, you did sin maybe even against me, but I see that you're sorry for it. That's the end of it. w it's all covered. That's what love does. Love forgives. Some of you may need to forgive one another. Some of you may be talking about the sins of other people in the congregation rather than blanking them in love. And you're talking about it because you don't love that person. You're not forgiving. You're bringing out into the open their sin when it ought to be buried. Satan loves to do that. Satan loves to discourage workers By bringing out their sin and then accusing them. First he lures us into sin, then we sin, and then Satan stands there and says, See, this guy sinned, this gal sin. They can't serve Christ They're sinners. Look at that. That's no good. Well we shouldn't sound like Satan. You know, we we have to correct one another. There is church discipline sometimes when someone is is unrepentant and they're stubborn, we have to bring their sin out in the open and tell the whole congregation. This person we've tried and tried and they're they're just not turning away from their sin. We want you to go after them and love and try to restore them and pray for them. And we have to bring that up. But the vast majority of times we're covering it over because they're repenting. We're covering over the sin, not bringing it out. Proverbs ten twelve says, Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all transgressions. That's what love does. Love is powerful. Well, let's face it, after 14 years, we have not yet, as a church, attained perfection. Would you agree? I imagine 14 years from now, if the Lord tarries that long, I'm not convinced he will, but if he does, we're still going to be an imperfect church. We're still gonna be gossiping. We're still gonna be neglecting one another. Still there'll be judgmental attitudes. There'll still be uh unfair criticisms that are marshaled against one another little clicks that form, griping, all those kinds of things. That's still going to be happening. So we need love to cover our selfishness as we repent. How many times did Jesus say we were to forgive one another? It was what? 70 times 7. And you know he didn't say count to 490. And then stop. That wasn't the point. Third action. Third action we're to be doing during this time, the types of our service. Be hospitable toward one another. Do you see that? That's connected grammatically to love. Hospitality is one concrete way to demonstrate love. We read that in our scripture reading, Romans 12, 13. Contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality. Do you practice hospitality? This is a command from God that you practice hospitality. Do you do that It's interesting that word. Fila Zenoi, it means one who has an affectionate concern for strangers Hospitality offers other brothers and sisters food and shelter, room and board, particularly when they were traveling around and then they were sort of strangers to someone as they came to town. This hospitality that's mentioned here was more than a nice thing to do back then in the early church, where often church members would travel from one place to another doing the business of the Lord. And they would need a place to stay. Well the inns were terrible. They weren't like Holiday Inn today. They weren't like that at all They were terrible, they were filled with all kinds of immorality, they were not safe, and so you would much rather come and stay in somebody's home. Hospitality met a real li l uh need and demonstrated love Brotherly love, shown in hospitality, would tie all the churches throughout the Roman world together. They would have a place to stay as they traveled around. The third letter that John wrote accentuates this in verse 5 and following. John writes there, Beloved, you are acting faithfully in whatever you accomplish for the brethren, and especially when they are strangers, and they bear witness to your love. before the church, and you will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God. For they went out for the sake of the name accepting nothing from the Gentiles, therefore we ought to support such men that we may be fellow workers for the truth. As they go on their way, refreshed, so we enter into their work, their work becomes our work. You get it? It's the joy of hospitality. You participate in the work of others through your hospitality. And then Peter adds this little note here practicing hospitality without what? Without what? Complaint Oh man, that puts the finger on the sore spot, doesn't it? Because sometimes we do it out of duty and then there's a little bit of grumbling going on after we do that. Hospitality, uh, that can be costly, right? It can it can be time consuming, it can mess up your home. You open up your home for something and they don't treat it right. Like, well, that's the last time I invite them home Or look how much they ate and drank. It's costly. Well, uh the complaining and the murmuring destroys the recipient's enjoyment of hospitality. Yes, hospitality is a sacrifice. That's what it is. That's why it's called love. Love that's easy is not love. Real love is when it's hard, right? Some homes, someone comes, they roll out the red carpet for you. Other homes, they crack the back door. There is a difference. There is a difference. It is an expression of the heart of generosity towards giving up material things for the sake of the brethren. How could you use your home? To evangelize? You could use your home to evangelize. People won't come in here. Use your home. How could you use your home? To help the poor. Around holidays and things like that. Help them, invite them to your to your home. To help Christian workers. Missionaries, etc. Evangelists. And to serve the church. There might be different ways to serve the church in your home as well. Use your home. Alright. Fourth. And the final action here is to employ your gifts in serving one another. Look at verse 10. As each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another. Do you have a gift from God? Man, that was weak. I'm setting you up. Do you have a gift from God? And uh there's no indefinite article in the Greek, so it's not trying to limit it this to one. It's not that you have one, it's that you're gifted. It may be several gifts, it may be a combination of gifts, that's his point Every believer is gifted. Every believer is in the body. Every believer has a function. 1 Corinthians 12:7 agrees. To each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. And notice we are to employ it in serving one another. Why were you given a gift? Why did God give you a spiritual gift when you came to Christ? Why did He equip you? Answer: to serve. The people in this room, to serve the people in this room, and those who in the future will be in this room through your evangelism. It's to employ it in serving one another. That's what we said. That's what love is. You get busy using whatever you have. You don't look over at this person and say, they're more gifted than me, therefore I'm not going to use my gift. You don't do that You don't look at this person over there and say, well, they hardly use their gift at all, and I use it a little bit more. No comparisons. It's about you faithfully using your gift in sacrifice and in care for others. That's what it's about. Please notice we're stewards. It says used and employed in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. You're not the owner of the gift. You are the steward of the gift. God dispensed the gift to you at the time of salvation. And he decided you're going to have this gift, this ability, this spiritual ability. He's given it to you, not so you sit on it, not so you put it on a shelf, but so you use it. That's why he gave it. He wants you to use it It's required of stewards that one be found trustworthy, 1 Corinthians 4. 2 says. We're stewards of our gift. So use them. And notice the kinds of gifts that are given. It talks about the manifold grace of God in that verse. Do you see that manifold literally is mini-colored? It's a variety. God doesn't gift the church the same. He gives a whole colorful variety of gifts to his church. So there's differences and yet there's unity of purpose, but those differences serve and minister in a variety of ways. In other words, a local congregation like ours is equipped by God on purpose so we can carry out a whole variety of ministries. What might they be? Well, some are equipped to help the sick and the weak. The church is equipped to trumpet the truth before a sinful world, and some are particularly gifted in that The church is equipped to administrate and organize ministries so that everyone's working together and it's done efficiently and people are used well. The church is equipped to counsel people and exhort to teach profound truth and systematic education, to encourage and to strengthen, to correct and to train, and many other things. There are many gifts of the Spirit operating in many different forms and ministries to advance the cause of Christ. The Lord of the church made sure the church was equipped. How well are you using your gift? What are you doing here at Hope Bible Church to use that gift? And I don't mean just once in a while, I mean to excel at your gift, to really hone it and get better and better at using your gift With love, the gift is equipment, and then it empowers you to use it to build up the church. Because the church is the focus of what God is doing in the world today. He's building his church. Jesus is building his church. This is his priority, his church. He wants to build it. But what are you doing? And and and can it be said of you as it is of others that you serve when it's inconvenient, that you that there's sacrifice next to your service That it's not just well, I found something to do that fits neatly into my little schedule for one or two hours a week. Is that your kind of service? That's That's not getting it yet. You don't understand the times in which you live. You don't understand the import of your gift. You don't understand the importance of the church yet. And so Peter is he's writing to people that are persecuted, and he's telling them these things. And here we have life so much better, and we should be so much more encouraged. He breaks down all of the categories of uh Gifts into two broad categories in verse eleven. Notice he says, Whoever speaks, let him speak, as it were, the utterances of God. Whoever serves Let him do so by the strength which God supplies. It's not that there's just two gifts of the Spirit speaking and serving. That's sort of a category of gifts. There's encouragement and teaching. Back then there was prophecy and the apostles had speaking gifts as well. Well we have speaking gifts that are operative, and whoever does that needs to make sure when you speak, whether it's counseling, whether it was singing up in a choir, whether it's talking to someone out in the foyer or on the phone, talking in a small group, having a conversation with someone. Teaching systematically in a class. Whatever it may be, make sure what comes out of your mouth is like the utterances of God. Wow. Make sure you're not passing on worldly human opinion to them. Make sure it's the logion, the utterances of God. Not that new truth is coming through your mouth to others. That's not what it's talking about. But the words that come out of your mouth, you've so carefully thought about them that you're going to pass them on God's biblical advice to them And people can count on, when they hear something come out of your mouth, that it's the utterances of God. That is, it comes from Scripture. It's biblical advice, it's biblical counseling, it's biblical correction, it's biblical training, it's biblical, it It's God's utterance And that's how you should be using your gift. That's what we strive to do here at Hope Bible Church, and we pray we'll be successful in that. That we give people what God says, even when it's hard, right? And then there's service that encompasses all kinds of ministries, givers and servers, and helpers, and those who show mercy and administrators. And even leaders, there's a lot of doing, there's a lot of action that has to happen there as well, right? And we we need many doers, you heard, you know one fun announcement already about that. But the truth is there there are many areas of our congregation that need service. Our children's ministry needs service. Singing is a service. There are many different ways to be involved and to be active. And I believe you should be excited about using your gifts in service. Notice what it says to those who are serving. Whoever serves, let him do so by the strength which God supplies. Listen, some of you have been serving for a long time. And you're getting kind of burned out, and you're getting kind of tired, and you're getting kind of your your service doesn't burn with a flame anymore. It's kind of just trotting along there a little bit. You're not a gallop anymore And some of that might be because you you've been running around and serving, but you haven't been guarding your heart and you haven't been feeding your soul on the Word of God You're active and you're busy and you're faithful and we thank God for that, but your spiritual life has gone flat You can't keep serving like that. Before you're a Martha, you have to be a who? A Mary. You have to sit at the feet of Christ and absorb his word. If you're neglecting the devotion time, neglecting the time in prayer Well it's no wonder you're not excited about ministry. Probably irritated him even preaching on ministry this morning. He's just asking for more because your heart doesn't love to do it right now. Because you've been burned out, you see. You're not excited about the things of God, even if Christ comes back, just fold your arms. Yeah, well I did a lot of work. What do I get for it? Be excited because the work is good, because the pay, as they say, is out of this world. It's good to serve. It's good to sweat for Christ. You will never be disappointed for the time you sacrificed for Christ. You'll only be disappointed for the time and treasure you held back because you thought there was something else that was more important there isn't. Nor can you name anything. But you have to rely on God. I love what Paul wrote to Timothy, 2 Timothy 2:1. You therefore, my son, be strong. And then he adds this: in the grace of the That is in Christ Jesus. Grace is a power that strengthens servants. Be strong in the grace that Christ provides. You need that. And now I need to add this too: that our service needs to be done well. It's no good to do our service to Christ. In a last-minute sloppy kind of way. That happens at church a lot. You know, most of us here are not paid for what we do. But if you were paid, would you do a better job? That's the question I always ask volunteers. Last-minute preparations, what does that tell the Lord about your service? Half-hearted attention to the details? Lackluster volunteer work, tardiness, poor organization? Would an employer keep you? If you did that at your job. And yet the church often gets that multiple times from volunteers as well. Maybe you think because I'm volunteering, I ought to be commended. You know, we were told earlier today, because of the mercies of God, we are to offer our bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is our spiritual service of worship. I'm going to tell you something. You owe Jesus Christ your entire life. You're not serving Alan or me. You're serving Jesus Christ. When you bring sloppy kind of second work through your volunteer work in church, that reflects on your attitude towards the Lord Jesus Christ. Not me. That's on you. Now I'm speaking to different people here at different times. And you let it be applied the way you need to apply it. But do your best for Jesus Christ this year. Let it burn in your heart to do your best. You have a ministry. Do it well. Take the initiative. Try to figure out not how to maintain the ministry, how to improve it, how to make it better. Amen? Respect the work of God because of your Savior Jesus. Now we come last, and I'm going to go quickly through this, although this is important. The target of our service, the last part of verse 11, the target or the aim of our service. So that, here's the result, here's the purpose that is, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belongs the glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. That is why you serve. When you're wondering why am I doing this which is not being noticed and is hard And it's inconvenient, and others are not stepping up to volunteer to do it. What is my aim? What is my goal? Answer, it's given definitively right here, so that God may be glorified. You love Christ, you want to glorify God. Glorifying God means living your life in such a way that God is truly honored the way He deserves through your life. That word glory refers to a a radiant display of something, a bright, clear, dazzling showing forth of something, like a fireworks display we all saw recently. When God's beauty and holiness and his attributes are seen and on display, God is glorified. Is God being glorified through your life and service? The church exists to glorify its head, Jesus Christ, right? When the church languishes with unproductive members and those who don't want to serve and they're focused inward only on their own problems, God is not glorified. Love is not shown. When we serve God's church, and the church functions with Christ-like attributes, and the church is healthy, and the church is active and advancing, God is glorified. And here we're to glorify God in all things. That takes it beyond the church. Everything that you do, like 1 Corinthians 10:31, whether you eat, drink, or whatever you do, do all to what? The glory of God, right? You serve and do all that you do in your life because your desire is that God would be lifted up, God would be honored, God would be praised. He deserves it. You want others to stand in awe of God, and so you serve. And notice God can only be glorified through Jesus Christ, it says. He'll be glorified through Jesus Christ. You know that Jesus Christ is the perfect picture of the invisible God. That's what it says. In Hebrews chapter 1. It says of Jesus, he is the radiance of God's glory, the exact representation of God's being. When people saw Jesus, they saw God. Jesus displayed the attributes of God perfectly And so God is glorified through Jesus being on display. But here's the thing. Here's the thing. Is the church today since The day of Pentecost in Acts 2, the church is the body of Christ on earth. Let me put that another way. The church is the embodiment of the Spirit of Christ on earth. To be seen by the world and therefore to display God to the world. And so it is important that the church is healthy and active and growing. And that's where your service fits in. As it is, God is revealed through the church, and Christ is glorified. That's just amazing for me to think about. We house the Trinity in the church. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit said to come and take up residence in us so that the church in Ephesians 2 is even called a temple, a building growing into a temple, brick by brick by spiritual brick. That's what our mission is. See when I think about that, I think that's why I'm dedicated to the church. That's the reason I dedicated my life to the church. I I didn't want to go around and just Do other things. I wanted to build the church. That's what I wanted in my life. I hope that's what you want in your life. You want to use your gift to build the church so that in all things God can be glorified And on and on and on into eternity, as Peter brings us right to that eternal perspective at the end, forever and ever, literally unto the ages of the ages, flowing along endlessly with no end, let his glory be for all eternity. It's all his anyways. It belongs to him. That's not a wish, but a statement of fact. All the glory and the dominion belongs to God and Christ And so I say to us on our anniversary service here, Hope Bible Church, let us dedicate ourselves to building the church of Jesus Christ, not just this local church. But in the mid-Atlantic area, through our missionaries, through our help and encouragement of other believers that we see that are in other local churches in the area as well. In other contacts we can have throughout the world in other ways. Let that be our aim, let that be our purpose. You know why? For the glory of God. You know why else? Because the shadow of Christ's return has already fallen on us. This is the time in which we live. Amen. Let's just pray. Father, impress the truth of this on our hearts. Now we would be excited about every minute, every hour, every day you have put us on this planet. Or if we live for you, we never have a wasted moment, no matter what we do. Help us to love your people. Help us to practice hospitality, to be sober, and to pray fervently. Encourage our congregation to be more dedicated to praying, Heavenly Father, deepen us. Strengthen us as leaders, Lord, to follow your will. Help us to be more holy. Help us to be a good example of service and sweat and sacrifice. Thank you for Jesus who's coming. We just bless your holy name, and it is in the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.