I want to just mention some of the materials back there that you're welcome to take and and uh and keep or look at, leave it may or may not be interested in, but I'm gonna talk about discipleship and how Jesus discipled. All right. And and I'm personally under the conviction that In the church, we need to take a much higher priority in training people for ministry, including being pastors. I believe that the church is mandated to be the primary responsible agent to train people for ministry, including pastors. I'm not anti-education, I'm not anti-seminary. But If the church's responsibility begins and ends with writing a recommendation and sending somebody to seminary, understanding that man almost never comes back to the original church And he almost always goes from seminary to become a pastor without any substantial practical training in the life of the church. I think we're seeing some of the desperate consequences of that. And so uh because in my role when I was m working in Texas, I I I was responsible for doing all of the lead on hiring and firing, etc. And so I would interview guys all the time And you guys, neat guys, love the Lord, finishing seminary, I would ask them simple questions. Have you ever taught five weekends in a row? Almost never. Most of them have never signed in on an elder meeting. Most of them have never done a funeral a wedding, any kind of formal counseling. Most of them have never done anything with the church budget, read a church constitution, understand bylaws There's just tons of things missing. They've not had the privilege to be involved in shepherding through hospital visits or leadership development. They've got the academics. I'm not opposed to the academics, but I'm saying they're not ready The church needs to train guys. And I think the church can take a far more active role in training guys. And that's what our materials are for. We just help churches to do that. We actually provide scholarships to churches to help them if they need to help an intern and things like that. So we're were truly not looking for money, I'm not trying to make I'm I I I quit a good job. I'm still connected with the church there where I helped in their internship program, but I did it 'cause I wanted to use the rest of my life helping churches just regain the vision that the Great commission is fulfilled as it is in the book of Acts through evangelism discipleship. And if you read the book of Acts, you will notice that leaders were developed developed organically, if you will, that is through the fulfillment of the Great Commission. As we teach people all that God has commanded, then they begin to serve according to their gifts. We help equip them according to their gifts. And then you see in the book of Acts, what happens? Thousands of people believe. Churches are started, elders are appointed, you see new pastors popping up, and but you also see that as you walk through the book of Acts, did you did you see Paul by himself very often Not very often. Barnabas? Nope. They're investing in guys training them for ministry. And you guys, the the Lord burdened my heart with that early of youth ministry. I cannot even describe to you the blessing for me to look around the country and say that pastor there in Rogers, Arkansas He was in the youth group. Did their wedding. At Pastor and Baker's home. He was a kid in the youth group. That guy in Merville, Tennessee He is a kid in the youth group. Those missionaries in Lebanon. They were kids in the youth group. Because I'm just telling you, the Great Commission, you've got to see the bigger picture. You have to understand that as a church and as church leadership That that you're preparing the next generation of leaders. And to not plan that and develop that in the context of the church, frankly, I I think is a disservice to the Lord I'm not saying seminaries are bad. I'm really not. I'm just saying the church should take primary responsibility to train people both theologically and practically, and then use whatever other right resources that are most helpful for that person in the context of that church. in that man's life. And that could be any number of things. I just think the traditional uh process that we've gone through has hurt some guys. Anybody who's been in seminary here, if you were in a preaching class, my guess is if you heard some of the guys preach in their last year Seminary, you went, yikes. I'm not sure they're gifted to do it. But you guys, they're finishing seminary. The church, if the church is training, they find out if they work with them, they affirm it. Elders lay hands on them. And I think it's kinda ironic that oftentimes uh a church will have somebody they'll send off to school and they're gonna go off somewhere else. A couple years later the church is saying, Man, we need to hire somebody. It's like well you already gave them away Now you've got to find somebody else that somebody else gave away and see if they'll fit with your church. It's kind of weird. And so that's the passion of my heart. But I want you to know that it started in youth ministry. Because I thought we we should be doing more training. I mean God is really you know, He brings people up, they're gifted in different ways. We wanna prepare 'em for whatever ministry God has. And so so that's where we started and I really did that for for For twenty-six years before I ended up leaving countryside to spend the next whatever few years the Lord gives me on this earth, just to encourage people. to recognize you can do this. So in the back, some of them just talk about sample internship. And like in the because the truth is in an internship, some churches can't pay for an intern, right? I tell guys there are times I had to I and I tell a guy, I I can't pay you to be an intern But you can do our internship and work full time. I'm gonna charge ya. I'm not gonna charge ya. You're gonna come out of my training debt free. Because I won't charge ya. And you know what? I'll give you everything I've got. I give you uh I'll invest everything I've got in your life. And some churches can help. And and that's fine. But but at the end of the day, I don't think a church is gonna get a pass if they say, Well, we just didn't have the money to train somebody I just think the church needs to get that vision, renewed vision. I think it would actually bless the seminaries and it would bless the church because the seminaries know they don't have all it takes. They have academics, but the church has what they need far beyond that And so I think you I think they're gonna be working together. So that's what these talk about. And and it for you in youth ministry, I just want you to know that's where the Lord really burdened my heart, because as I watch these kids and I'm thinking these kids could change the world If if they would really grasp what it means to walk with the Lord. The ordination training, I'm going to leave these back there. Uh but you can look through the theology. These are things that if a guy goes through some of our training, what they have to learn in the course, FBL pass, and ordination. So those are just things to kinda look at. But Feel free to take what's back there. And and it if nothing else, it may not be part of what you do, but you might pray for your church or other churches that I think as a culture we need to get a better vision of how to train guys in the church. Just to renew that vision, I think, would be good. So, and where does that come from? Well, Jesus training disciples. So uh so I think there are two words And I've already mentioned two words that I think are some of the most profound words in all of Scripture. I think within the two words they incorporate repentance, faith, lordship Uh and they're the two words that Jesus said when he called somebody to himself. What were they? Follow me. Think about those two words. Because you know, like anything when we become comfortable with a topic, we tend not to think deeply about it. But can you imagine if I came here and said to you I want you to follow me. But what are the implications of that? I mean when you think about that, Jesus tells somebody, follow me. The implications, whatever they're doing or have been doing, They're done. Repentance, right? Turning to go a different direction. What does it mean? It means that I'm going to put my faith in this man. And I'm gonna go wherever he goes. I'm gonna go wherever he goes. And whatever he tells me to do, I'm going to do. Lordship Follow me. That's what Jesus said. Because it's an amazing picture. And then he says that to all of us, right? If anyone will come after me, let him Deny himself, take his cross. Follow me. Follow me. Well you guys, when you look at how that was demonstrated in the scriptures. It's really beautiful. Paul expresses the relationship in this way in 1 Thessalonians 2 verse 78. But we prove to be gentle among you as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. Think of that picture. We proved to be gentle among you as a nursing mother cares for her own children. Having so fond an affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives because you had become very dear to us. So when it comes to ministry, you guys If if you have a youth ministry program where you have a Sunday program and a midweek program, and that's the only time you see the kids that you're working with In many respects for them, you're just fulfilling a commitment that you made. You're doing your ministry assignment. Okay? When you care for them as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. When you have so fond an affection for these kids that you love to be with them, you want to know them. That's a different level. One's fulfilling a ministry assignment. One is truly engaging in the lives of people. You guys when we were young in youth ministry, I mean we were broke. We were broke. And uh I remember we talked about having kids over to our house. We were young married, and my wife's like, you know, like we we didn't buy a lot of groceries. We didn't buy a lot of meat, things that were expensive, because we didn't have money. And so but I wanted to invite kids to come over like Sunday afternoon And she's like, what would I what do I make? Said, peanut butter and jelly. She's like, really? That's what we got. That's what we eat. It's like a peanut butter and jelly. Those kids today would tell you some of the best times in their youth ministry days, going to the Wyatt's house on Sunday for peanut butter and jelly. Ministry is relational. It's wanting to be with those kids. It's having them you guys discipleship means that they see you in the context of life. You see them in the context of life. I get that you can't do that with everybody, but you guys when we look at Christ Think about this. Okay, let's just walk through some of the things in his life. We know Jesus was constantly teaching, right? He was teaching in the synagogues. I'm not going to give you all the scriptures if you want them later. That's Matthew 4. But he taught at lots of outdoor events like the Sermon on the Mount. feeding the five thousand, feeding the four he was always teaching, right? He was teaching in many contexts. He he was teaching to to the masses, but then there were times that that he would he would teach to specifically to his disciples. As is they're kind of grappling with the things that he was doing. So teaching was the substance of his life. I want you to know teaching is extraordinarily important. You have to be learning and growing in the Word and you guys all of life is an opportunity to teach. It is. And and so youth ministry is based on uh a knowledge of God and a knowledge of his word. And so as youth Minister to these kids, all of life becomes opportunity for you to impart to them biblical truth in words, in your actions, the combination. to describe and define discipleship. And in fact, I mean some of the things that he says about discipleship i i are c are kind of scary. I you know I suppose that when Jesus first told the disciples, you know Deny yourself, take up your cross, follow me. They're kind of bewildered. What do you think they thought after Jesus died? Yeah, maybe even sh shocked, you know, because when they said take up your cross before the cross but after you watched the cross That had to be pretty profound. In fact, we know it is, because as we watch then, as they'd come to an understanding, we watch how that transforms their lives. in their ministries. Or or uh when he describes the hardships, Jesus was so clear about the hardships of ministry. So when he describes the Christian life Obedience to God. He describes it as sheep in the midst of wolves. Matthew ten. So Think about that. Alright. I know in Colorado they're talking about releasing wolves again. How do you think the ranchers feel? Pretty excited. Not at all. Why? Oh man. Oh man. And you but you can't kill the wolves. And they tag them and radio them and everything else. So they just say, well the taxpayers will have to pay for whatever loss you incur. Okay. Let's suppose you're the livestock Sheep in the midst of wolves? Think of that dynamic. How does that make you feel? Yeah, not a chance. I mean that's the visual picture Jesus used to explain the reality of what it's like being a Christian in this sin-cursed world You guys, that's pretty powerful. And yet keep in mind that as Jesus is teaching these things to him, the disciples, they are seeing the reality in Jesus' life. They're watching what he goes through. They're watching what he faces. They're watching what he they're watching the religious leaders that right And and you guys so so it's important to understand Don't you like it? Not only is Jesus teaching them, but he's showing them what this looks like. They're seeing it in living color. And you guys that's discipleship, right? I mean he's talking to them about listen, life is gonna get hard. You there are gonna be challenging things. There's gonna be opposition. And then they're seeing him face the opposition and they're seeing him And you guys, that's our kids need to see that. If they see leaders that are going, I can't believe God's doing this, I can't believe I have to go through that, and we get all the whining and carrying on, it's like, where does that come from? I mean Jesus said if you're gonna follow me you're gonna be treated like I am. And we say, yeah, but we live in America. No, no, no. He says everybody who desires to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. So it's not because we live in America, it's because we're not living godly in Christ Jesus. Jesus. That's why. And you guys, for our kids to see that your Christianity is real so that you can talk to them about the Christian lifestyle, you know, don't know churches can be hard It can be painful sometimes. Relationships can be hard. The unsaved can be brutal. Jesus, as he's training guys, he would he would give them responsibilities for ministry. Right? Can you remember sometimes that he gave them responsibilities for ministry to his disciples? He engaged him in memory, sent him out on a mission trip? Oh, he did s you know, you gave them some basic responsibilities too. You know, you'd say so This would have made me very uncomfortable. I don't know if it would make you uncomfortable. You know, I want you to go and show and so you're gonna see this little pole tied up there, just kinda take it and tell them, you know, uh the master needs it It's like, dude, that's really awkward. I mean we better not be off. Can you imagine walking there going This can be uncomfortable You know, what are they gonna say as they start walking away? You know Jesus gave them some some pretty basic assignments. But you know if you want the one that I think is really funny actually is Old Testament Elijah When when God says, okay, no things are going bad here, drought, no more water, no more food, go north instead of south, north where Baal worship is really strong, not south where you can get away from it And go up and I want you to ask a widow to provide for you, a gentle widow, no less. And and they're like widows in those days. Then nothing. Widows. Can you imagine? He walks up to a widow and she says, Well I'm making my last meal from my son and I and then we're gonna die. Now I don't know about you, I say, you know any other widows around here? But he says, Why don't you feed me first? I'm like, wow. Wow. You talk about confidence in God. What that's what God told me to do. I'm gonna do it. Well you guys Jesus modeled that Perfectly. And then he he sent his his disciples on ministry opportunities and gave them experience in the course of ministry. And you guys, that's part of discipleship. We'll talk about that more with involving kids in ministry. appropriate times, appropriate times not to do that. And and how to balance that. Jesus was selective in his training, right? He didn't try to train everybody. You guys he ministered to the multitudes, but he focused on how many? Twelve. And then of those twelve, there were actually three that had some kind of unique opportunities, right? I mean he only took Peter, James, and John to the to the Transfiguration Uh i i in his last days of life, you know, when he's uh in Gethsemane he told his disciples, Sit here while I pray, but he took with him Peter and two sons of Zebedee. So there were times that he focused on a much smaller group as part of his training. And you guys, as you minister to kids Couple of things. One, not all of them are going to relate to you. You you know, you're you're gonna minister more generally to some. But then there's some kids that you're gonna really be able to invest in. And and you guys sometimes I think the whole concept of clicks is a little oversold. Okay, I I'm not saying that it's not you gotta be careful with kids that they're not isolating other kids, but you guys you're not friends at the same level with everybody. You're not. So you bunch of clicks No, I mean we're designed it that way. Now I do think we have to be careful that we don't just intentionally exclude or be unkind and I think things like that. But you guys it's not unnatural to have certain people that you relate to more or or are responsive to your leadership. And so you You'll have to minister to everybody, but there will be times God gives you special opportunities to invest in those who you can then disciple at a at a greater level. Our Lord did that. Jesus teaching about compassion. I mean didn't he teach that? You know, y you think about the uh the the woman at the well. I mean the t the disciples were astounded, weren't they? They went to get some food and they come back to Jesus talking to a Samaritan woman and a immoral woman at that And yet as he did that, and they begin to see what does it really look like to have compassion on people. So Jesus teaches about these things and then he demonstrates it. And so for for your young people to see your compassion for people I mean it could be as simple as saying to one of the gals, hey, why don't you come over? Let's make a meal for this family that's going through a hard time. Let's take 'em over let's take the meal over to them Or whatever. Or hey, uh you know, uh it at Christmas, I'm gonna go down. There's there's a ministry downtown that w with food brings food to the hungry. You wanna come with me and let's just go See, not everything has to be programmed by the the youth director or the pastor or whatever. There's a lot of ministries that just should be a kind of a normal part of our lives. Jesus warns his disciples about the religious leaders that and then he showed them what it was like. I mean in John 8 when Jesus says, You're your father, the devil Pretty blunt. But he he helped them to understand that there's gonna be opposition. There will be. I love it when Jesus responds to their questions. You know as you develop relationship, you know how it is in a group. Sometimes you say you try to get that interaction and stuff like that, it's like Ooh, this thing just tanked. Awkward. Um but the more you develop relationships, the more you can interact and the more intimate way, just dealing with with questions. I I also think in a group, if you ask safe questions, that at least helps people to participate. You know, it just helps I usually tell a group, even adults, I'll say, I'm gonna ask a question and I I But don't answer this one, okay? Because I don't want you to get it wrong, it's gonna be uncomfortable for all of us, you know. And then I'll tell them, okay, this question's fair. You can answer this one, not trying to trick you or anything You know, you just y you just want to help people not feel like they're gonna be embarrassed. But Jesus would respond to the questions and they had quite a bit. So here's some of their questions. Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? Why couldn't we drive out the demons? Who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? How often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? What will there be for us since we left everything to follow you? How did the fig tree wither? You know. I mean the disciples got to ask Jesus all kinds of questions as they're trying to figure out and understand the Christian life. Jesus also asked his disciples questions. And and and so he would he would take time to interact with them. On one occasion Peter was asked about whether Jesus paid a certain tax or not. Jesus asked Peter what he thought, and then the Lord had Peter go get the money to pay the tax. from what? The mouth of a fish. You guys we read that stuff like, come on That's just incredible. Philip was trying to sort out the difference between knowing Jesus and knowing the Father. In his confusion, he asked Jesus, show us the Father. Jesus responded with two questions. Have I been so long with you and yet you have not come to know me, Philip? He has seen me, has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Jesus was approaching the end of his ministry on this earth, and John 16 he asked the disciples, Do you now believe So you have this relationship. Jesus would correct the disciples. You know there were times that they were just trying to understand the Christian life and it was pretty disorienting to them The disciples encountered a disturbing event in the course of their ministry travels. A Canaanite woman had a demon-possessed daughter who was shouting at the disciples. It was clearly irritating and disturbing the ministry opportunity. The disciples begged Jesus to send her away. After an interesting conversation between the Canaanite woman and Jesus, he healed her daughter and commended her for her faith, contrary to what the disciples thought should happen. Right? And it is it's as you're walking with somebody that you can you can have that kind of uh relationship where you can bring con correction instruction. Uh one of the guys that's on that book back there, Murphy, Brian Murphy, he was unsaved when I first met him. He was in the high school group. His buddy bought brought him to youth group. He eventually came to Christ and and really demonstrated a love for the Lord and I I remember he was a really good athlete. He's just good at anything he did and he got into surfing. We lived in San Diego. Pretty soon he spent tons of time surfing. And uh And there's nothing inherently sinful about surfing, but you guys, good things actually can become sinful when they take our time away from things that we're supposed to be doing. So there is a tension there you have to be careful of. And and I remember I didn't realize this at the time. I don't know if you ever develop habits that you don't know about until somebody tells you, but but the kids in the youth group knew that if I ever asked them to go out for a coke, they were in trouble. But I didn't know I did that. But they knew if he asked you, hey, let's go out and get a coke. They said, Don't go. It's not it's not gonna be good. And I didn't know it for years, because eventually like on my birthday I'd get a like a case of Coke I mean when I turned forty I got like forty cases of Coke. And finally they told me, Yeah, we c we know you, Rock. You say that, man, it's like weird Get out of it, get out of it. So but I invited Brian to go for up for Coke. And we went out and we sat down visiting and I he was a high school student and I just said, you know, Brian, I uh I'm gonna love you and I'm concerned. I just feel like you're getting into this sport. I know you're good at it, because you're good at everything, but it's taking so much of your time. I just feel like it's it's becoming a distraction to biblical priorities. And uh he and he came from an unbelieving family, so he didn't have Christian support at home. And he said, uh, what do you think I should do? I said, well I'm going to make a recommendation, but I'm not saying you should do it. I'm just saying it's an idea. Because I you I think you you know you need to rearrange your priorities. But you guys it's hard to rearrange your priorities like slowly. It's just hard. So I I said I'm this uh this is not thus saith the Lord. But To make it easy, you could just bring your surfboard to my house, put it in the garage for about six months, and just just realign everything without the distraction, and then bring it back in in a controlled manner I said that would be the probably the easiest way to do it. But you don't have to do it that way. I mean you can just try to adjust your schedule and timing and things like that. Ed Boyd brought that surfboard over. Said, put it in your garage. He's a pastor in Bakersfield, California now. And he's been serving the Lord for probably 35 years there, 30. And so when you have a relationship, sometimes you bring correction, but you guys it's in a relationship, if it's always only in a group where you're saying, Be quiet, don't do this, don't do that, you know. I mean it's that's that's not based so much on on relationship and you still have to do some of that. It's part of having a group. But but you guys, Jesus, he he brought, you know, when they were arguing about who's the greatest and all of that, Jesus would bring correction into their lives to help them You know, Jesus' example and instruction on prayer was pretty powerful as as he taught them how to pray, but they would watch him going away to pray, uh, even in Gethsemane. Well You know, when he came back, can't you keep watch and pray? Jesus protected the disciples, uh, even from the religious leaders. You know, when uh the the religious well, he provide he protected them in things like uh the storms, right? He's sleeping on the bottom of the boat. Boats everywhere. Ah Christ. He's like You know, they still. You know, it would protect them and things like that. But but also from the religious leaders, because the religious leaders took some pretty hard shots at at the disciples. When the disciples were walking through the grain fields on the Sabbath, they'd pick some heads of grain to eat and the Pharisees accused them. Right Well the Pharisees did that to the uh disciples more than once, bringing accusations against the disciples and the disciples and Jesus would protect them. And I think in ministry as you're training people, I think there's a blessing in the context of the church as you're training them They'll go through some hard times and and maybe y you have to provide some measure of protection and and care for them. Jesus consistently teaches what it means to be a servant What does it look like to be a biblical servant? And they watched him do that. I you guys, I don't know. Have you ever thought what would it have been like to be sitting there in those last moments with Jesus when he Comes to wash your feet. And then you see them on the cross next. I mean that's pretty profound. And and you guys we need to model servanthood And we need to teach servanthood. And and you guys the the thing about servanthood, we have to understand is servanthood is twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. You know, we we talk things like, uh, this week's my day off or this Saturday's my day off. No, no, no, no. It's a change of ministry. It's not a day off. Retirement. No, no, no, no, no, no. Change of ministry. Okay. Christian life, you guys, we don't have days off. It's just a different focus of ministry on any given day. Jesus. model that. And you guys, we've got to be willing to do whatever in our service to the Lord. Jesus will the whole picture uh uh uh washing the feet. It's that we need to be willing to do any menial work with an attitude that glorifies our Lord It doesn't matter what the work is that we need to serve with that kind of heart. Jesus would teach things that are gonna come later to try to help him understand what's coming. I think that's helpful for us even to to you know like COVID, dare I bring up that word today, has defined our culture. You guys, we are so easily distracted from our mission. We're just so easily distracted. You know, and people the mask and all of that. And I mean it's not my favorite thing to wear a mask, but what I think of is Jesus put on a body God put on a body. If I have to put on a mask, if I have to be uncomfortable, I think it's okay. I think it's okay. You know, w we get distracted by things. I mean I think COVID, what it tells us, do you think it's gonna be hard for God to get the attention of the world? It's a little virus. It's affected the entire globe. Wait till God really wants to get our attention. You know, the circumstances that come into our lives, those are just opportunities, right? I know it creates difficulties, decisions we have to make and all that, but because we need to understand when God is intentional. Was he shocked? He even knows where it actually came from. We're not going to get political. But you guess God's intentional And and whatever happens in this earth, he's going to use it ultimately for his glory. We just need to be busy recognizing the opportunities that are coming because of it. And quit getting so caught up with all of the the political issues related to it. We just need to say, okay, Lord, you brought this. How can I use this in a way to exalt you How can I take advantage of opportunities for ministry? Because you see, Jesus did that as he instructed and helped them understand how we need to think about this life. And then of course at the end of his life, if you go to John 17, we don't have time, but you can see how Jesus prayed for his disciples. And then prepared them to take over the ministry. I mean John 17 he's praying and and he's essentially entrusting them to God's care as now he anticipates leaving the earth And the disciples are going to carry on the development and ministry of the church. And uh and so that's that's Matthew twenty-eight being lived out for us. That's making disciples, but you guys I I just you just have to understand that it's it's so relational. It's it's that you're not just going there and seeing the kids and playing games and having a Bible study. Uh and and it it's not It's not just, you know, doing my assigned call a week or whatever it is to kids. Okay? I mean you can do those things and y and you can show care. I and and that's okay. But I am saying that that biblical discipleship means that you're saying, hey Let's let's have a couple of these gals over the house or I'm gonna take a couple of these guys fishing or w wh whatever you do. Uh or You know, I'm we're gonna go share the gospel somewhere. I'm gonna take some of these kids. Whatever you do. But they become a part of your life. I mean they become part of your family in many respects, because you love them Like a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. And I'm telling it as you care for 'em in such a way, it's not a ministry assignment anymore. It's your heart, it's your life, it's your passion, and it's your joy. I I just wanna I I I I just want to emphasize this whole concept of loving God with a supreme love because I I I I I'm not sure that any of us truly grasp what that looks like when when it says love God with all your heart, heart, soul, mind and strength. Jesus said some words that probably maybe three or four years ago I'd read 'em over and over and over and over, you know, but but I just stopped And you know, sometimes when you stop, you go, I I kinda need to think about that some more. Matthew ten thirty-seven he says, He loves father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. He loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Luke 14, 26 and 27 it says, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life He cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple And I began to think more deeply about these verses. And and think, Kita, what does it look like to love God supremely? How do I teach and encourage others to love God supremely? Well, I've got to begin to grasp what it means. And and The more I I thought about it, I don't know if you've ever heard somebody say, I I just don't know what I'd do if God took my spouse. I don't know if I could take it if God took one of my children Really, really So the very gift that God gave you is now your idol. Because you love them more than you love God. Right. Because at the end of the day, if I love God supremely First of all, I will love every other person the way I should. Okay? Because now I can truly because the degree we know it doesn't mean technically hate them because it's the sec second greatest commandment Is the love. The idea is contrast. That my love for God is so supreme that my love for every other person is is it's like the difference between love and hate is just so great. I love God that much But you see, if you love God supremely, you will trust God with every other love of your life. But if you don't love God supremely The very gifts that he has given you will become your idols. And I had to wrestle with those things. Say what does it look like then for me? Because if I love God supremely and have that confidence in him, you guys, you have to know that I trust him. I trust him with my kids, I trust him with my grandkids. Am I saying you guys if God was to take one of my grandkids home that I would just be going, eh, whatever. No. No. God allows us and even encourages to have appropriate grief and understand the value of life and all of those. It's not that. It's that we trust him. We like his sovereignty when things go according to our plans, but his sovereignty is about things going according to his plans. You know, you know it is yeah, God really blessed us, he let this happen. He said that so if he didn't let that happen, has he not blessed you? Yeah, well you know what sometimes we we skew things a bit. You know it's interesting when it says, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father, mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life Now I think that's interesting because that's not talking about the person. If you were you if you want an introspective person Okay? Then one of the battles you likely have is that when you do something that you perceive as stupid, whether it is or not, you beat yourself up. I'm so stupid, I can't believe I did that. I hate that I'm going, I can't wonder any of you like that, don't say it Okay? But introspective people will will struggle with that. It's it's a one of the battles that they just face in this life. That's not what this is talking about. It's it's not talking about when it talks about uh In even his own life, he cannot be the mighty hate even his own life. He's not he he's saying that, no, actually, even the reason that introspective person does that is because they actually love themselves. Okay. They just totally focused on themselves. As long as they focus on themselves, they're not focusing on God and just being obedient. Even if you've done something stupid, it's okay. That's why Jesus died. Not because you're so good, you're really a must Right? So my that's why he died. And so you say, God, I'm sorry, I shouldn't have. You know, and then you serve God. You've got to be busy serving God. But the reason we don't, we dwell on ourselves, is because we love ourselves. I think the love of self is actually one of the biggest, maybe the biggest obstacle that we have. And and I think it's demonstrated in a in a lot of ways. For instance, you know, most of us are well taught in the scriptures. So you know what God says about obedience, right? So so So w real quick, what's our responsibility then saved? Share the gospel, right? These are gonna be easy questions. You can consider okay. It's to share the gospel. Do we struggle with that? Most of us. Why Love of self. It's love of self, you guys. It's because I'm not sure what they're gonna say, I don't want to be awkward, I don't know, you know, but it's you it has to do with we're loving self more than we're loving God. Now you guys the truth is none of us will love God perfectly in this life. These are gonna be challenges for our whole life. but we need to be in pursuit of them. Or or how about uh a relationship with the Word of God? You know, what's our relationship? It's supposed to be due devotions? The Bible never says due devotions. But it's study the Word, meditate on the Word day and night. That's a relationship with the Word of God. So that we can think biblically and act biblically all day long. Why don't we do it? Say we're busy. No, no, no, no. This is the issue of love, not time. We do what we want to do. You fill it with other things. You've chosen not to put that as a priority. Besides, same in prayer or or when we get angry with God or impatient with God. You guys, that's whole love of self. And so I think those are struggles that we can have. And so when we work with our young people, first of all, we got to deal with it in our own heart. How do I love God supremely? So that in whatever circumstance he takes me through, I will trust him. I'll trust him in the joys, I'll trust him in the tears. Okay? We settle that in our own heart. We begin to pursue that. And then we want to teach kids that. Because as you look at the scriptures, our love for God is essential to our obedience to God. It it's not a transaction that we have. I've done this, now I go to heaven. It's a relationship established where we become a new person in Christ. And now before we couldn't love God, and now we can. And and so in Philippians three nine to eleven. T Eleven, Paul says, may be found in him not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God in the basis of faith, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his spirit. You know that that this relationship that he desires in his love for God. And and uh It it it's reflected then in a love for his word. Uh in first John four eleven, beloved, if God so loved us, we'll love one another. Uh it it it ultimately defines the Christian life. I I think it's easy to love God when we want to get something from. You know how kids do that? How many of you have children Okay, have you ever had this moment where they're really not being very nice? And then something all of a sudden switches and they're being really good and you're going What do you want? What do you want? And you know they've good for a while and then they pretty much they come up and they're they usually know is it safer to go to mom or dad, but they go and Um can I go to so-and-so's house or whatever? It's like, aha! I knew it! There was something behind us. We do that too. We do it at the adult level. And we can do it with God. You know, that that maybe our life is not what it needs to be but you guys we want God's blessing, we want God to provide this or provide that or whatever. And you guys we can kinda get in our minds where we're doing things to try to get God's favor to to accommodate our desires. But that's that's really not a picture of biblical love. Biblical love is knowing that I want to be pleasing to God and I I want to serve him well and I want to trust him with whatever comes into my life. And we don't do that perfectly. The example that's most helpful for me Is because it's easy to get discouraged, right? 'Cause we fail and we struggle in this life. Uh so with my grandkids, uh sometimes they'll draw a picture for me, especially the little ones, and they color 'em And they bring them to me. And you guys, sometimes I look at it and I have no idea. I have no idea. It's like, you know, and then they'll say, they call me Daddo. This is a picture of you, Daddo. You guys I don't look at it and say, a green face. Really? You know? Or like My head. I don't do that, right? What do I do? Oh, that's a love Great. I don't quite go that far. But you guys when I when I see this, what are they doing? They are doing what they can with the best of their ability. And they want to do something sweet for their grumble. And when I look at it, it's like, you know, sometimes I have to say, Wow, explain to me what you're doing, you know, but But then I say, thank you for doing. Thank you for taking the sometimes they'll have lines and they'll out of the lines some and stuff like that. You know, but y it's a treasure. And it's a treasure so much that what do grandparents do? They put 'em up in their office wall, they put 'em on a refrigerator. That's kind of the way we are with our Heavenly Father. And it helps me to think like that that you guys In this life, God has graciously redeemed us. We never deserved it. It's not because we're so good, it's because we're so bad, but He's so kind to redeem us Not only make us as children, but put us into service. And you guys, as we walk through this life, we're not going to get it all right. I mean, every day we struggle with sin. We just do. But you guys, as we desire to grow in our love for God and our desire to please him, we're adults bringing our picture to him, if you will, and we're kind of outside the lines and we didn't get all the colors right. And all of that. You guys, it pleases God that we desire to honor Him and desire to learn and desire to grow. And in this life it's never gonna be the right colors and perfectly in the lines. That's when we see Jesus. At the same time, we want to be like that little child, bringing him our life with the desire to give him honor and to give him glory. You know, Jesus said, uh, I will not speak much more with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has nothing in me, but so that the world may know that I love the Father. I do exactly as the Father commanded me. That's our demonstration of love. First John 5. 3 talks about if we love him, we'll keep his commandments. commandments won't be a burden. And you guys, when Jesus said these words, so that the world may know that I love the Father, I do exactly what he says. He says, get up. Let us go from here. Where's he going? You know the cross is coming. And and uh and so loving God needs to be the passion of our heart. And then it will be demonstrated in loving people that we also want to teach our kids. We we want to teach them to love God. You know the verse Romans 828? God causes all things to work together for good. People use that verse all the time. And uh I think oftentimes a little bit out of context uh when it says God causes all things to work together for good, uh to those who what? Yeah. It says to those who love God. And and and you guys I think a lot of professing Christians will they want everything to turn out good, you know And and so we say so so it always turns out good for Christians. It's like it's talking about people who love God. And those who love God want God's purposes fulfilled above all else. And the objective of that verse defined in the next verse is to so that we will be conformed to the image of his son. You guys, how are we conformed to the image of Jesus It's usually through the course of circumstances in life and oftentimes difficult. So the goal of all things working together for good is that ultimately God's purposes are accomplished, including making you more like Christ. That's the goal, not getting life better. More comfortable or how I want it, you understand? And so so that genuine love for God is just such a huge, huge thing. And it's so much so, like in first John chapter two, uh verse three to four what time did I want it D to be done for lunch? Okay. It says first John two three and five, by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. The one who says I've come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar The truth is not in him, but whoever keeps his word in him, the love of God has truly been perfected. By this we know that we are in him. Interesting. First Corinthians 16, 22 to 24. If anyone does not love the Lord, he is to be accursed. Maranatha. Whew If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed. And so, uh, God makes promises to those who love him, but I do think sometimes we use that whole concept of loving God pretty casually and we need to think of it more deeply. And I would say we need to teach our kids well. that our goal in obedience is the fruit of we l I love God. I want to please him. It's not, man, if I don't read my Bible, bad things are gonna happen or you know, that that kind of uh almost fatalistic type of of obedience. So we're gonna go to lunch, but let me tell you where we're going next so it gives you an idea, because I've been I know you feel like I just preach and preach and preaching at you. And I have been But I hope it's helpful because if you don't get those parties right up, we can talk about all the details all we want and it won't be what it needs to be. I'm just telling you But but we'll talk next about uh some of the issues in the youth ministry. We'll talk about kids serving proprietons to serve, not to serve. Um we'll talk about You know when kids are maybe more obedient at church than at home, some of you as parents that might be helpful. Uh a little bit of purity, extracurricular activity. We'll just talk some of the issues. Uh um So recruiting leaders, you know, help try to help parents. We'll talk about some of those issues. So I'm going to start just hitting some topics, okay? Because I know that that would be helpful. And then in the the last session Uh I'm going to get into the process of biblical change, and I think this is is extremely important because so many of our kids now are exposed to really bad things and so they get things in their mind that they're there, they're going to be there forever And so how does a Christian gain victory over sinful temptation? Because my experience is that Many Christians feel like victory is going to come when that temptation will no longer plague me. And they pray and they pray and they pray that God will take away the temptation. But you guys, the thing is God's word says that that's not gonna happen. That actually temptation is common to all men and God always provides a way of escape. But I'm not sure that we teach well What exactly is that way of escape? So if a person comes to me and they said, Rock, I was tempted a thousand times yesterday to think about bad things. I I feel like I'm just out of control What do I tell them that provides a solution, a biblical solution, so that the thing that actually has been destroying them might be an impetus for something actually good in their life? Okay, so we'll talk about that. Then I'm going to talk about just a whole bunch of just r kind of different issues as it relates to counseling kids that I think are important to keep in mind. Where I think it's easy to get in trouble if we if we don't think rightly about those. So that's what we'll there w what we'll go after lunch and a lot of different things there