All right. You know, when we when we're working with kids, I think the the challenge is making sure we're thinking about helping them to grow in their spiritual life. If our goal is ultimately to present every man complete in Christ And then we have to think through ways to accomplish that. And and uh you know when they you look at scripture there are some young people in scripture that actually were used pretty dynamically by God, right? And so uh we we just need to stay alert and astute as far as how is it that we can equip kids. And I think there's some basics that obviously need to happen when a person comes to Christ You know, there there needs to be a demonstration of of uh a desire to please the Lord, right? I mean Christ is a new creation And so you're obviously going to want to teach them the value of God's word and the importance of enjoying God's Word. I think providing tools for that can be helpful. Uh we had I didn't bring them with us, but we have like when I was a youth minister, I we just write some just general different read-throughs. It would be, you know, give it a little bit about a book and ask them, you know, they could write what is passage say what are you learning you know just simple things that can help them you can always go online and look and get those if you want but but it's you know it's some kind of method to help kids to get into the scriptures uh And develop good disciplines. Okay, good disciplines. In other words, you don't want them to get in the habit of when they read the Bible, they just kind of open it up and and read whatever's there. You know, we're we're uh I presume that all of us here are are committed to teaching as much as reasonable, you know, verse by verse. We let them Uh again, I'm not I'm I'm doing topics here. So I'm not opposed to topics, but we want our kids to learn to read the book of James and understand the context and understand the flow. We want them to learn to be good students of God's word. And and you guys, I I mean kids can learn so much. I mean they just really do have a lot of capacity. And so I think being intentional and making sure they're growing in the word, they're desiring to please the Lord. You know, kids are going to be kids, but adults are going to be adults. So it's not as though they're going to be perfect, but as they grow, we want to expose them to what does it look like. to serve the Lord. So we we want them to to be involved in evangelism. We want to be sharing with their family members or or sharing with their their fellow youth members and and stuff like that. We want them to to be serious. I remember a kid one time, he was a good kid in the youth group, and he just quit coming for a while. Found that I talked to him, it's like, where'd you go? And he said, well, I'd come to youth group and he'd be just teaching the word and I was really grateful, but then I'd go out with my friends at the youth group, they're talking about things they ought not to be talking about, and so I just find somewhere else. You're a chicken. That is so weak. Do you think I'm the only one responsible for telling the truth? You're as responsible as I am to tell them the truth. You just have more opportunities because they're not going to say to me what they'll say to you. And they'll like you as much as they like me. Yeah, then the kid because he was game. He goes, Okay. He's a pastor in Pivorian, Illinois. Yeah. Maybe that means. But you guys, it's it's helping the kids understand that if you're gonna stand up for Christ You will you you might have some kids in the youth group that actually don't like you. It happens. Right You're as responsible as being the testimony to these under kids. You need to do that. And so we want to help them to recognize both the opportunity and the sacrifices required as they learn to walk with the Lord. But you guys guess in 1 Peter 4, 10 and 11, it says, as each one has received a special gift, employed in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Whoever speaks is to do so as one who is speaking the utterances of God. Whoever serves is to do so as one who is serving by the strength, which God supplies. So that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom He wants the glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. And so we know that if God saves a person, He also gives them, and he gifts them to be serving in the body of Christ. And there's no indication that you can't do that until you hit a certain age. And we obviously want to be careful because of maternity issues, but we do want to help the kids to begin to understand what it means that God has gifted them and that they're responsible to serve within the body of Christ, within the context of the church. And that means that we try to help them to get exposure to ministry opportunities. And I think that that can be done in a lot of ways. But there are all you know with anything, there's kind of downsides that you have to watch out for So uh like if I I'm just gonna illustrate, I don't probably apply, but you know if you have an evening service where the pastor is preaching and you have children's ministry or wana or something Are kids going to necessarily choose to go to church or go help in a woman? Well, it just depends, right? Because for some kids You know, a church would be a great option. So I'll go play with the kids. Well that's that's not necessarily a reflection of service. I mean I get it. But it's not y y you just gotta be careful because sometimes the choice is not how to serve the Lord, it's how to do what I would enjoy what I would be able to enjoy more. And and so y those are gonna be roads you're just gonna have to navigate and you know it and it it's like I don't know, you ever do mission strips and you ask Parents, now you may have to sign that your kids walking with the Lord demonstrating faithfulness at home and stuff like that in order for them to go on the bishop's trip. And some parents signs it and you know good well they're lying. You see that? Because in the parents' mind, some, as, well, if my kid will go on the missions trip, maybe they'll come to Christ. And so I'm gonna kinda let it escape. And you're going, this is not what we want. Because this is contrary. Well, kids that were really helping to learn to serve and da-da-da-da. And what it does is the opposite of what's intended sometimes in the It allows the unsaved kid to go on a trip, a missions trip, and participate in all the events of that and not even be genuinely in Christ. And so it can't teach hypocrisy. I mean there's just there are minefields, right? And you're not going to avoid them all. You're just not going to avoid them all. It's kind of the nature of this. But at the same time, you do want to identify kids that have clear testimony. They they uh are growing in their walk with the Lord, and then how can we involve them in service? What ministry? Now what are places that you have kids that serve in your churches? Are there you have some of them serving in different ways in your churches? Anybody else anymore? Okay. It you know it it's kind of thinking through because you you would when you involve them in ministry, you know you need to have some kind of oversight to make sure that they're growing, they're actually being responsible and being in testimony things like that. I think there are different ways that kids concerned. That depends on your church leadership and your ability to provide oversight But you know I don't think it hurts to have a young man help them ushering, something like that. and be responsible. I think you can do things like that. I think you can do things with greeters. Uh I think children's ministry can be a good place. But but It I don't think it's ideal to have kids go because they want to go together to serve it. I think if a kid has a desire, but I think that you know There's a lot of potential in children's ministry. So now the lady that I know that works best in children's ministry works with two-year-old kids. She's amazing. She's amazing. She teaches those kids little truths and she practices with them. Week in and week out, month in and month out. Those kids don't go to the two-year-olds and walk out just being watched It's amazing if you saw her eat her. And I love her. She's very committed to teaching little truths. And so I think when we talk about getting involved in children's ministry, we have to teach them that it's children's ministry. Children's ministry. And they need to understand as you go, you need to learn to pray for these kids. And as you go in, you want to remind them Jesus loves you. You know, Jesus loves you. Jesus died truth. Even those simple truths. You want to teach them how to import biblical truth. But at the same time, I always want the kids to understand that listen If these little kiddos followed you home and watched how you behave with your brother and sister or your mom and dad, they need to be able to follow your pattern. It's really important. They need to be able to follow your pattern. And so in discipling kids into ministry is a lot of work. And it's oversight and it's encouragement and it's monitoring. But you guys, kids need to learn to do that. You might find that somebody gets you think, you know, this kid might be able to teach Now I'm probably not going to just pick them up in front of the youth group, lease them out right away, but if I see a guy that really is is growing then I'm I'm gonna work with them and I'm gonna I would offer classes to the youth group that they could come out for a special class. We teach theology, we teach how to teach to young people Okay? And and we would teach them, how do you teach, how do you prepare a lesson? Have them write it out. Have them practice. They do that today, 10% where it's at. And they'll have the guys come in. And some of us will come in to listen to them and review them. And I mean if I had a kid that's grown to the world, I'd put them in front of the youth group and have them share their testimony, after they practice it, and make sure that they were clear and clear with the gospel I mean I want them to understand their role in ministry, that they are responsible to serve the Lord. I just want to be careful in that process, that I don't, you know, you want to take somebody slowly and make sure that they're maturing. I also want to make sure that they're being reasonable at home. Now you guys, being a Christian at home is like a hard place to be a Christian. You know that, right? So I believe that the church parking lot is borders on a miraculous place Okay, ready? Family gets in the car and it's not done so well at home. Getting ready to go to church because they're late again. The kids want, you know, and then there's hollers, come, hurry, come, we gotta get it's gonna be light, we're not gonna get a few. You get in the car, and you get in the car and it's like and you pull into the church and you pull into the church It's an incredible transformation. Because when you open the doors of the car in the church parking lot, everybody gets out, praise Jesus, praise you every friend Christian for you. It's like It was a war something there. I think it's funny. And did you guys experience that? Come on. I mean they're just those moments, right? I think it's funny. It is hard at home, right? It's hard growing up and it's hard learning and things like that. So we don't expect perfection, but we do want to know that the kids are growing. And they're learning at home. They'd be struggling, but they're learning. We don't want them living in rebellion at home and then coming and serving the church. So like my own boys, there's a point where like they're serving in a wana ministry But like one of them was making he wasn't doing so great at home. And I'm back. And so it's like fine, I sit down. I don't want to just use it as a You can't serve if you don't do what you need to do. I want to be careful. I want to help them. And so I would sit down with my son and say Okay, let me just share my concerns from a full perspective as a dad and as a Christian that I'm thrilled that you're serving the church And I think God has gifted you to be able to do that. I think it's wonderful. I think it honors the Lord. But if you come home And then you're not being respectful of your mom and we're having consistent challenges with that, that doesn't honor the Lord. It just doesn't it doesn't please the Lord and it's not right and it's not good. And for me to allow you to live in two worlds like that doesn't honor the Lord. And so I'm just asking, I'm not making a You know, the city I'm not saying this is I'm just telling you, I think you need to think about it. I think you need to pray about it. And I'm appealing to you to recognize the issues and and resolve them and um take two or three weeks and then we can visit again and see where we're at. But it's just that important. This is not just about obeying death This has to do with his walk with God and how well he represents God. And so I think that's important. So I think about views as a kid in ministry, I do want to being touched with parents and make sure that things are going at least reasonably well and and even they're growing through the difficult parts of um of just growing up. I by the way, uh I I it's not uncommon for a parent to talk to me and say You know, my kid's sometimes kind of a pain at home, but they come here to church and everybody lost it. That makes me crazy. It's like everybody thinks of the just the greatest kid in the world at church and then I have to deal with them home. It's like They don't see this. I tell parents. Actually, as frustrating as that can be It's not all bad. Okay? Because the kids that I've worked with, that are over the top in trouble, are kids that could give couldn't give a rip what their parents say and could absolutely care less what anybody at church says. Now you got a big problem. Now you got a big problem. And so when they're at home and you're kind of having those struggles and it makes you a little crazy The truth is, if they still want to please a church, at least they have a conscience that at least they they have that desire, and they're not getting it right at home, but that's something to work with and that typically you can work with. But when the kids that I know that have gone off the top on both sides, I mean it's off the rails. I mean we're we're talking these kids are kind of probably a little bit prism you know, they're just they just don't care. They just are painful people. And so so there are those tensions and that maybe you have that as parents, you've seen that and you're like, huh, that's how parents did stuff. It's good. And if people say, well, what's the value of youth ministry? You guys, in the scriptures it says in a multitude of counselors there is much wisdom. Do you think I wanted to be the only one giving them for it in my voice lives? No! I was so grateful for the godly men in the youth ministry that invested in my kids because You know how it is? They're teaching the same things that are important to me, but there's a time of life that my boys are hearing what they say, but then they hear from me And uh you know, you get that when parents come and say, my kid came home and said, Yeah, so and so told me that we needed and my kids are calling it's like Like I haven't told you that your whole life. You can't say that. You just say, well, praise the Lord. You just go to somebody else and tell them the same things. I will say when you define youth ministry, you guys the youth ministry should look like the church. You know the whole church growth movement grew kind of out of youth ministry. Okay? That's created a church that makes the unsaved fit in. It's like, there's a problem. The youth ministry should reflect the same priorities of the church. If I'm in the church and somebody comes in and sees the work that I'm doing with the young people, They should see the same priorities when they walk into the sanctuary. Now we want to teach, you know, age-related in a way that's going to be helpful for the kids, but we want to have the exact same priorities to think that's what we do. Okay, so any questions in that issue of helping kids to get engaged in service? I think I just think there's a lot of different ways you could do it, but that you're preparing them to be leaders. Any questions or thoughts, ideas? I know I've heard some criticism of youth ministry in that unlike other ministries, there's large segments of unstructured time. So you have, you know, your Bible study, you have your games, but then you have this large amount of time where kids are kind of milling around Or not all the kids are involved in particular game. Um so that's where, and this is sort of from the the cynic standpoint, but that's where young people kind of pool their ignorance or their foolishness. So as opposed to these other ministries like the Wana, it's highly structured and then then you leave. Yeah, and you know sometimes it's connected with you know Bodhi Bachman was pretty pretty hard on the youth ministry, things like that. So so sometimes I hear people critiquing the different kinds of children's ministry And a lot of times the sort of unstructured extra around time is is kind of the the negative they'll put on youth ministry. Do you think we need to be aware of that? Do you think that's being alarmist? There are any number of opportunities for troll. And and so in any ministry the kids can stay I mean it it I mean today you know what the big challenge is is the kids are sitting on their phones all night long and their parents don't know it. So problems kind of occur anywhere and within the context of youth ministry. Are there uh are there areas to be concerned about? Do you then, just like any other ministry, just move more careful at the adult level, do you know we're better at kind of hiding what we do. And so uh I guess what I would say is is just for anybody, lots of unstructured time can be trouble Right? I mean we we can be like that. We have a lot of unstructured time. And but does that mean you can't enjoy some fellowship and relationship and interaction Of course not. But am I going to be careful with standards with the youth group? Yeah, i. e. , do I want them hanging out outside where it's dark at night? No, I probably don't want that. Frankly, I I don't know about you, but in youth groups I've worked with, there's typically a few kids that are a bit of a challenge. And and If they have an opportunity, they'll cause trouble. It was interesting. I had a man, he was in the he's in his 30s now, and he called me a couple years ago now, and he was a tough kid I mean he was a tough, tough kid. And he won cancer things and I I mean to tell you what. He was an idiot. I mean it was so bad that I had to tell his parents that I think you better put walks under your feather's door because your kid may kill you. That's bad. Okay. And uh this kid called me a couple years ago. I mean he's been he's gone down the drug road and all he has basically friends that have died because of the They're just awful. Awful. I surprised to be called. And when we get together, yeah, so we met for a cup of coffee. And I mean, when you look at him, he looks through rough life. And uh he was going through a particular he had a kid out of wedlock, I mean his whole life was just a warm, it was just a master. It was interesting that he he said uh He's going to do a particularly hurt financial side. And he started off by saying to me, Rocky, I just, as we start, I just want you to know I'm still not interested in Christianity. I don't want to deceive you. Okay. He said, I I've seen a lot of hard things in my life. I've had friends die and I just I can't see how God would permit all of that. So I just I want you to know where I'm coming from. He's going to ask me for some financial help. I said that's true. Okay. So I said, it's interesting to me that you see all of these awful things of life, but you watch people die, and you know it's all because sin is so rotten The only one that's made a provision for the big problem that you've seen is God, and you choose to keep loving your sin and hating God. I don't get it. Like it's interesting. He came to me for counsel for weeks. And uh Just I just I told him in company he tells his uh living girlfriend that he's gonna see his therapist. And I just kept sharing the gospel with him, but trying to help him understand. And I don't know what God's going to do his life. But you guys, he said to me, he said, you know what used to really freak me out about you, Rocky? No. We'd be on a camp. You'd be laying there. And you sleep with your eyeshadow. I don't sleep with eyes on. You do too! This is weird. And look at you, your eyes are open. So I'm not sleeping. Because of guys like you. It's gonna be tough. And you guys say you do have to I think you have to be wise and careful, but does it mean they can't have time? No. And And but but do you have to balance it? Yes. And in wisdom depends on your kids, what they're like, what you know, and because because you do want to provide an atmosphere as best possible at safe and monitor. I'm not sure I know exactly how to phrase this question, but for catching your church, you know the Lord, you know that they have a relationship with him. In keeping with priorities for your church, how do you foster an environment within your church in which kids feel like they can be involved in service? Yeah. It's an yeah. It's it's a culture that you you just have to develop over time. Um you just have to start somewhere And I think you find a place where the adults, the ministry, are comfortable with having young people come in and participate with it. They see it as a mentorship opportunity. And I think as you begin to develop that so that your kids begin to see that happening with some of the kids, adults begin to see that happening I think that that builds an atmosphere that makes that more comfortable. I think kids oftentimes will do better. if you know if if a couple of them are gonna serve like as ushers and I don't mean only serve them because that's where I want to do it because this but but sometimes having somebody there with them to participate can be helpful. But it but it's a culture you've developed over time. Because if your kids have never served You know, some adults will struggle with that at first, but if you if you put 'em into the right place where they can really be a blessing and be, you know, mature is it Can you imagine? I mean these are those they see these guys kids when they're little kids And for them to actually see that and watch that process and then all of a sudden have this kid teaching an adult Sunday school class, you'd just be amazed what that does to the class and to the people who just are so cherished. the preciousness of that, but but it's something that's developed and it it does take time. And the leadership of the church needs to be on board. as far as what you're doing and where you're gonna evolve them and how you manage that and and and what you'll do if there's issues, you know, to to try to help shepherd the kids through the best I can do. Anybody else have ideas? And once you start, then you can get some kids, as long as you manage it well, you just don't want kids using the ministry as an excuse to be messing around That's when it gets trouble. You know, they're supposed to be helping us, but they're just keeping all talking to each other and running around or whatever. I mean that's the problem. But on that schedule thing, I I I was always pretty careful with schedules. Like I I I didn't I one of the kids enjoy fellowship together. But we always have a lot of leaders, you know, so we have good oversight If there were kids that are having specifically difficult problems, we want our leadership to be aware so that they could just monitor because well it depends. I worked in both really small youth groups Uh and then I worked at a really large where it's like, whoo, you know, you're working with like 30 or 40, 50 liters in the kits. And I'll be honest, if you've got a small you could enjoy it. Enjoy it. The fact that you know them and you're working, you know, because as you get bigger what happens, you you end up working mostly the leaders tell the conference on the street. Yeah. Yeah. I have a question. How do you help you? Minister to other good. Her might be telling But yeah, I would disability uh how you how you help incorporate The kids 'cause every kid is not going to be able to disappear. What do you do with kids Yeah, that's good. You know, within the the context of church and ministry, uh let me I let me just make it clear that that within the context of the church, anybody can be equipped to serve according to the gifts that God has given them. Within the context of the church, that's that's God these sons. God through the Holy Spirit imparts gifts And then, you know, what does the scripture say? It says the leaders of the church are equipping the saints for the work of service. And so that should be happening across the board. Now, let me say that in his ministry, there are some kids that are going to be outgoing, some kids are going to be shy, some kids have certain abilities andor disabilities. And and so it's it's not a one-size spits all. So like even at this group, let's let's say I don't know you, so I'm not gonna pick on anybody because I won't get in trouble But uh let's say w one of you is talking to your neighbor next to you. There's some guys in the youth group if they're talking, Okay, I don't know what you think. Ethan, I see the book. Um so so I so Ethan, she didn't know I've got Ethan You know? And Ethan might have that personality that's like, you know, anybody and he's fun. Ah, but there's some people If I just glanced across the room and the kid's talking, and he sees me just glance at it, it's gonna melt. Isn't that true? I mean it's the way that it we're all built differently that way. And so we've got to be careful with kids. And you know, even uh like I have two boys and one of them says, Why do I get all the spankins? I said It's because your brother watches. And it's like, why would I do that I mean right? It's like he knows what's going on. He's like, I don't want to go through that. You don't care, I don't know why. Making us both crazy Okay? But but we're all different. Now you guys, within the context of like relationships So if if you were sitting in church and somebody, two rows up, you saw them, and you think they're there for the first time Are you the person that's gonna, as soon as church is over, get out of your chair and you're gonna walk over and hi, I'm so what's your thing? How many of you are that kind of person Okay. How many of you? You're gonna see them, you're gonna know their first timers, and you're You two new go outside. How many of you that person? I'm just telling you, it's hard, even at the adult level. Some people are better at it than others But we always want to help our kids, encourage our kids. I think one of the best ways is if you're a small group, it's sometimes easier to help them and encourage them. In a larger group, we have to break it down into small groups and we have to teach them. I do think the more we teach kids to love God where they truly are getting it, the more we can teach them to be kind and love each other. With my boys, when we would go to church, we would pray on the wife. We would talk on the wife. And I would remind them. You understand that as you go to church, that there are probably going to be ministry opportunities for you. So you need to keep in mind that you're not just going to youth Sunday school to go to youth Sunday school. So you learn You know, it's going to church too. Those are part of it. But you need to walk in to the youth room or into church, always thinking, is there somebody that I need to show love and care to? So I would teach my voice that consistently. I want them to know that ministry, you guys, it's around you all the time. We live in a society I think culturally it is not a very current society. Because the truth is, because even as adults, is we're us walking around the church campus, and I I as I walk by somebody I say, hey, how you doing I could tell usually, and you probably could, if somebody's kind of discouraged, you know, they're okay. And you have a choice to make I'm busy, gotta teach a class, whatever, do I keep walking? Or do I stop and say, hey, that's not for me? You're doing okay I'm telling you, I think a lot more people share their hearts if somebody will listen. And we want to teach our kids. And and I I mean I I've seen kids who who have reached out and loved on people that are different or have struggled with event. But you guys I've also had parents come in and say You don't love my kid. How do you defend against that? Me, what have I said? Yes I did. Yes I did. Yeah, I mean just nobody go There's nowhere to go. Well the kids don't love my kids. And it's like you know what? I I can't make the kids love. But you guys here's the truth Okay? If your kid is struggling to fit in, the answer for you is not to defend them and make everybody reach out and try to do something because Jesus didn't fit in And because I think that there's a challenge with all of this, that if my kids are struggling, I want to tell them, you know, Jesus was not treated well. But you, you can reach out and make a difference. You love on those people. You care for those people. Now don't get me wrong, I'm still going to encourage other kids. Come on. You know, we need to reach out. We need to love. This person, if I would see somebody sit by themselves, I'd go grab somebody. Hey, you know, because I want to teach them. Go sit, go encourage that person. We would work to try to help them to do that But there isn't, I mean when a kid's parents is protecting them so much because, oh, people don't love you, people don't reach out to you, people aren't your friends, it's like you're teaching them some really bad evidence You've got to help them understand they were awful to Jesus, but Jesus still loved people. And I'll be honest with you, in those difficult times, if that kid would learn to reach out, they could be the one to change the dynamics of that group. They can help make the difference. So you're working both sides of it. Okay, you're working both sides. And and there will usually be some kids in the youth group that are just not steady with Believe it or not. And you know, obviously that's just that's a whole different dynamic. You know, you you're not gonna get those kids acting like Christians until God opens their eyes. Does that make sense It's a constant effort though. But it's a constant effort in the sanctuary with adults. Okay? As a church we're saying, hey, help us make people feel welcome. And there's a few of you going, Yeah, I'm there, I'm there, and there's some of you going, Woo, you know, you're sitting there at the closing song and the perspiration and you're going, ah, you know, I don't know. This is awkward, you know. So it's it's something that we're always working on in every context. regardless of age. Any other questions along those points? Okay. Let's talk about kids in purity. Because I'm supposed to be bad. Okay. Because when it comes to maturity and dating, courtship, arranged marriages, I do know people that are in that. You know, that they're from another country. We could argue the nuances of dating, courtship uh strengths and weaknesses, just like we could argue uh when we when we practice with somebody who's going to interview for a church job, one of the questions we'll decide, so you think homeschools are best, don't you? And we want to see what they're gonna say. If they start perspiring. Uh there's a lot of different ways that we can or tools that we can use. But you guys I I know homeschoolers that have walked away from the board, I know homeschoolers have done good. I know public schoolers who walk away from the board. I know public schoolers who have done great I remember we homeschooled our kids and I remember one time I was at work and my wife called me. She's just a sweet little fighting she called me and my boys were in high school and she said, Rocky I don't care if you put them in reform school, military school, public school, private school, put them done with homeschool. Tsunami, I'll I'll be right home. I started homeschooling after that so On my day up, one day off, we'd homeschool from seven in the morning to seven at night. I'd say you miss those two problems, fix it. I said mom doesn't make it, we all admit. Do I look like mom? They love their mom after that. Very long basically. But they loved their mom. She was so much more story. There are all these different things that we come up with to try to create a path. And you guys I I I've met people who have gone uh kind of the the real strict, I'm the priest of my home, homeschools, you know, and and again I I mean I we did some of those so I'm I'm not saying that it's bad to do that but when when you start taking a position thinking that you're gonna create a situation that's your kids are gonna turn out because you got that kind of control. I have a surprise for you If you take a negative and you put it with a negative, and they have a baby, it's not a positive. It's nice. Okay? And you do not have the capacity to change your own child's heart. You can't do that. And so when I meet somebody and they've done so well on parenting and they're trying to tell everybody when you follow my I'm thing, have another baby Because you think it's because of you. And you need to bow your name and thank Almighty God. For changing the heart of your child. I'm not saying we don't have responsibility. God has given us things that we are responsible to do in the oversight and care of our kids But don't you ever think that your kid responded to the gospel and begin to walk with the Lord because you got it figured out You're a sinner. I'm a sinner. And you guys parenting teaches us that we are not in control. And only God can teach your heart. When we talk about purity, so much of the discussion related to purity in relationships has to do with these teen years. And it's like, folks, we've got to deal with purity from Burns. And you guys the whole idea is we're teaching our kids the gospel and we're teaching them to walk with Christ. We're helping them live as Christians. We're talking to them about, you know, whatever, if it's for it, whatever's crude, honorable, right, pure, lovely, of good review, if there's any excellence, any worthy praise, dwell on these things, but we're patterning that for them, right? The things that we choose to watch. I like that verse because it's interesting when it says whatever is true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, whatever's a good thing. Then it says if there is any excellence, anything worthy of praise, dwell in these things. Now you guys you you've probably heard the illustration, you know drive on a mountain road, I'm from Colorado. I mean we have some passes like Bed Mountain Pass, it's a huge pass. People i the road is so narrow on most of it that you cannot try to guard route. We have plows go off, guys die, cars go off, people die. I and I mean if you don't like heights You'd have a heart attack. I mean it's it's steep. You do not see people driving up that road seeing how close to the edge they get. They just don't do that. It would be foolish to do that. Because as Christians, when it says whatever is true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, good repute If there's any excellence, the idea is take all of the things that are good and the best for the most excellent and then focus on the most excellent But you guys we teach them from when they're little and we talk about purity. Why? So that they're going to get out of trouble or not get in trouble in a relationship? No. We can honor God. I think sometimes parents get more concerned during the teen years because they're concerned about the embarrassment it's going to be if their kid does something stupid But you guys, we're parenting our kids for purity because God says, be holy, for I'm holy. We're wanting them to do that because they love God, because they want to serve Him But you guys as parents then we ought to have that same commitment to purity, purity in our minds, purity in our hearts, the things, you know, uh that We have if we're comfortable watching it, are you are our kids comfortable watching it? Are we comfortable with our kids watching? I mean, what are we willing to expose ourselves to How important is periodic? Because this is more about honoring God with our lives than it is getting them through the teen years without getting pregnant. And and so sometimes I think when we focus in a particular area we can get in trouble. We need to seek a bigger picture. And that's what called the purity essentially says, hey, that's your whole life It's not just relationships. And whether you call it day, whether you call it courtship, whatever you call it, I mean there there are some minefields there. Because folks, I mean, best I know is the design ultimately is for a man and a woman to progress to physical intimacy. They're going to get married. And so there's going to be mindfulness, and I think the passage that I think is is uh Pretty interesting. First testimony is four. So I just think there's an interesting progression. And when I did pre-merdown counseling, I kind of work through these issues. It says in verse 1, finally then brethren, we request and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us instruction as to how you ought to walk and please God, just as you actually do walk that you excel still more. So the church at Thessalonica, I mean, does the church that really responded to the gospel or setting the great past uh uh Great pattern of life. And here Paul's encouragement saying that listen, you know how you should walk and please God. You actually are walking and pleasing God, and he's commending them for that and saying, Expel still more, you know, you're being faithful, praise God. And then he says, For you know what commandments we gave you by the authority of the Lord Jesus, for this is the will of God your sanctification, that is, that you abstain from sexual immorality. It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa He starts by saying, I commend you because your faithfulness to God. Keep it up. By the way, don't get involved in sexual immorality. That seems like They give it to me. And then as you read on, he says that each of you know how to possess his own vessel and sacrification and honor and other vessels. passion like the Gentiles who do not know God. That no man transgressed in the father's brother in the Bible, because the Lord is avenger in all these things, just as we also told you before Solomon warned you. For God does not call us for the purpose of impurity, but of sanctification So he rejects us as not rejecting man that the guy that gives us voice script to you. You guys, I I mean I when I speak to young people, I want them to understand that that this is an area where there's tremendous vulnerability. I mean he goes from commending people who are strong in the Lord to say, be careful of this And and and so there are dangers and you guys our kids need to understand that their mindfills, but they'll until they get married, they won't understand the full dimension of those challenges, probably Nonetheless, I mean when I meet with kids, I'll talk about this. And I'll talk to them about the importance of maintaining the highest standards in order to honor God that you do have to be careful. And and in the youth group, am I going to have standards that I don't foster habits that are not helpful? Yeah, I am Because you know what? You know, don't wake them loved until it's time, right? I I mean there are dangerous, you know, a couple of I mean statistically, let alone just biblically the the earlier people get involved in a relationship, the more danger there is as they progress. And and so we want to teach our kids that I mean, you know, not many people can be in a relationship for four or five years without getting in trouble. And and so you gotta teach proper biblical standards. But I would also say Where I've seen some people get in trouble is they have a good, faithful kid, leader kid in the youth group, and they really are good like this And so the parents let their guard down a little bit because they think for some reason that they're not going to struggle with the same temptations that everybody else does. And it's like, that's a bad idea. And I don't care how strong he's talking to committed Christians that we do want our kids to understand, but hopefully it's not all about dating, it's because we've been talking to him about living a life that pleases the Lord and being faithful to the Lord, and so it's just a regression right there. as you work with them. Because purity is, you know, I mean if you're not maintaining purity in other areas, then then frankly you're probably going to be in trouble when it gets to relationships to start with. And so it's it's a dicey area. I thought you've got to see the bigger picture of truly and teach your kids. We need a pattern too. And and a lot of people have come in to my office as parents and they want me to work with their kids on biblical principles because they don't want their kids to get in trouble, but they won't submit to the same biblical principles. In other words, they they want the Bible to deal with their kids. But they don't want the Bible to deal with their own hearts. And you have that conflict I'm telling you here Any other thoughts on that particular one? Doesn't answer the issue of dating and courtship. At some point if they don't develop a race to relationship, it's hard to get married, whatever you call it And so I think it's more critical for them to have commend this how am I going to honor the Lord in a relationship if you were pleasing? But if you've not taught them that and help carefully there, then, you know, obviously you've got other Any thoughts, questions? Well, this is a little off topic, but I've I've just had my eyes open more and more to the just the absolute danger of social media. And I mean I don't know if you saw Lisa Littman study a study on such gender dysphoria and all the the social media that that plays into that. It's like study after study from the secular world comes out where it is just a It's a bombshell for our young people. So sometimes I feel like just saying, parents, it's it's foolish if you give your kids smartphones and social media accounts. But also you don't want to be legalistic, you know, and and start making arbitrary rules that aren't spelled out in scripture. I I think it's unwise. So uh, you know, it it just makes me wonder how much church leaders should be really waving red flags and just warm appearance of it It's awful. Yeah. I mean it's just awful. And you guys the thing is it's changing so fast it's hard to keep up with I forgot what time. Total agree. Okay. Um You could there are there are things that are that are are controllable with social media. There's some things that are not. And I mean you talk about an area of constant. I could do that full time just with with families with issues like this, okay? And and uh some of it happens real innocently that all of a sudden stuff comes up on social media that a kid didn't even intend to see but it you know and then it started trending. And it's awful. I mean it's heartbreaking. It just you know Sweet. Um he can't have unmonitored Time with technology without becoming so vulnerable. And or have either having software on or Telling your kids, I am gonna look at your phone every night. I am you know and we're we're you know you gotta work out a plan to help them. And where people get in trouble is is they Their kids are good kids and so they trust them and then they don't realize that some point the kids see something and if it's unintentional and then it kind of leaks to other things, then they get scared, and then it be things kind of go south from there And you know parents that let kids take their phones to their bedrooms at night? That I hit. Allow kids to be on computers in private places or iPads or whatever. It's a bad idea. Computers or TVs and bedrooms? I I'm just telling you, I could tell you crisis story after crisis story as you would break your heart And now you got this kid that's got all of this and you're trying to work back from it. Kids in the kids are in touch all night, a lot of them. Texting, FaceTime, messaging, whatever they're doing There it there's it's just unbelievable. When you you ought to know how many hours they're on the phone or how many there are you know, but At the end of the day, though, you know, you're trying to teach them to be responsible because they're going to be using technology if they're going to live in this world. I mean it would probably be part of their job or whatever. And so all along you've got to be teaching them biblical principles and the idea of honoring the Lord or Proverbs 15. The eyes of the Lord are in every place watching both the evil and the good. You know, when you're doing good, that verse is comfort. And I teach people, do you understand that you're never in private? You would never you understand that? I don't care where you're at. I mean I I visualize, I mean not only can does God know Everything about me, where I am, what I'm doing. He knows what I'm thinking. And probably has a host of heavenly angels watching too. It's like I have an audience I never think that I don't have an audience. Never. And we need to help people understand that. But I'm not just talking to kids. Uh tell you what, I've watched one man after another blow up his family by being an absolutely selfish, sinful man. you know, seeking his own pleasure and rejection of of honoring God. And it's sick. It's awful. I mean, and you think I'm hard? Read what Paul says in Ephesians 5 These things ought not even be named upon. Then he talks about these being sons of wow. And so sorry, I'm asking that I I've been in so many situations like that. I I just watched family after family, marriage after marriage. It's like really? And you're in Christ? What are we doing? So technology, and you know I wish I could give like a a clean, clear answer, but I I'm just telling you, you've got to look, you've got to check things, you've got to help them, there has to be accountability, they have to know it And you guys I I'm uh I don't think you have to be sneaky, you just tell them. No, you will never have privacy with this phone as long as you're in my house, I'm just telling I will check it every day, I will you know you just tell them that. It's you don't have to sneak around. This is the way it is. I love you. And and we're going to monitor this and I want to help you. You know, at some point you're exposed to something. For whatever reason. I wouldn't you know I'm going to talk this afternoon. How do you help people who have been exposed? How do you help them now to think right and not be in perpetual trouble? So I'd be guess all the time that feel like they they uh They're enslaved to their mind. And as a Christian, we're not, but I want to help them build how do you then gain victory? So we'll deal with that right after lunch. But it is there are things. Uh let me let me say if if you're in in a small youth youth church every name is like, oh how many people in your church? Yeah, how many people in your youth group? You know we get into those habits and it's like it wasn't But you guys, my commitment, my heart is if I showed up at Sunday school and one kid showed up I'm teaching them because they obviously need my undivided attention. I'm not combining. If one kid shows up to go on an activity, I'm not canceling. If I got to do it a little different or whatever, I'm going to spend time with that kid. And I'm going to enjoy it. And and you guys, you you are faithful with the peak the church with those guys that that wrote that book with me? I was only at that church two and a half years And it was not an easy church. It was difficult. And yet I have lifelong relationships from that because it was a little group and we spent a lot of time together And so you just just know who God gives you. The issue is not how many. The issue is what are you doing with the one got ones that got rights? Make a difference in the name of Christ. If there's one, there's one, there's a hundred, but make a difference and be faithful with them. You guys, when it comes to Dealing with the difficult kids. I mean I want the kids to come as much as possible, but there are points in time where I will not let a kid come. Okay, these are difficult days that we live in. And that's a church leadership decision. And I would always want the church leadership to be involved in that. But if I find out that a kid has had some bad habits, that that relate to other kids, moral issues that could put other kids at risk. We have to address that. And sometimes that means you can have a parent com, sometimes that You know, but but there have been times that we've we've had kids they couldn't go to the bathroom without a parent with them, those kind of things, because there were issues. Or sometimes they couldn't come to youth group. I think coming to youth group is a privilege And I I don't think you can always have the door wide open. And because these are difficult days. I but I would say I would not make that decision unilaterally, just me and Those are decisions I would take to the leadership of the church, ask their wisdom to explain what's going on and how we can best shepherd and monitor. I mean, I want to be able to minister the unsafe kids But it's a point the unseen there's a verse in uh Proverbs uh thirteen, I think twenty where it says, He walks with wise men will be wise for the companions that will suffer harm And you know it doesn't say if you if you walk with a fool you'll make him wise. It's the other way. And so we want to be careful. We want to be careful because you can have a person come in and stir up a lot, a lot of trouble And trying to balance your responsibility to minister to them, but protect the other kids, it's not an easy thing