But I appreciate your your being here. And I I I have have prayed and anticipated our time actually for a number of months and I I the last thing I would want is to waste your time today. I know some of you You made some sacrifices to travel and be here and it's a long day. But I hope it will be a fruitful day. Uh let me just give a little bit of my history life-wise so that you have a perspective. When I went to college, I started a secondary university up in Northern California. I was going into wildlife management. That's what I thought I wanted to do. I didn't enjoy the sciences so much, and so I moved from Northern California back to Southern California and I was invited to help in the youth group in San Diego. And I'd never done that and I thought, well, okay, I I became a Christian. I came to Christ when I was 13 And so I got involved in the youth group and I remember I I was invited to go to kind of a they it was larger church, they had small groups of youth meeting across the county and they asked me to go uh to one of those and be a part of it. And I remember as I said to the man who was there teaching with he loved the war. But I mean it was boring as rocks, I'll be honest. It just really was. And I thought And we're just convicted in my heart that it ought not to be this way. Our kids need to understand what it means to know Christ. And again it was a life-changing moment for me. I mean at that point, honestly, I expected I'd be in youth ministry for the rest of my life. Uh and and I began serving, I did internship, and I started working in youth ministry. youth ministry and I worked in Utah, Colorado, San Diego before I went to Texas. So I worked in youth ministry about 15 years before I went to Texas And in Texas, I worked in youth ministry about 10 years. And and uh my I have two boys, ten grandkids by the way. right now. Okay. My boys competed their whole life. It's like really? Five and five kids. So uh but but when again I was always my own boys unfaster In fact, before they came into the youth group, I asked them, would you like me to step out and go into another area of ministry? And it was a great deal. Light in my life when they said We've waited our whole lives for this. You know, I mean they were like perpetual users, right? And so so it's a sweet opportunity to be my own voice view faster But when when my youngest was 18, he was in an awful car accident with his girlfriend. And so that kind of changed our lives. And my wife's self-help was real poor. So she was in and out of a wheelchair. And so our lives got pretty complicated at that time. Indeed, the ministry requires a real devotion of time and energy. And I I just didn't feel like I could keep doing doing that. And so for my son, he he had to learn to walk again. And you know, it was a complicated time of life, but it was a transitional time for us. And then eventually my wife passed away. So she with our Lord, but I am remarried. I live in Colorado now in the mountains at 9,000 feet. It snowed this week. Man, it was hot when I got off the plane. We haven't seen these temperatures for a long time. But I I've always loved you. I still love you ministry. I speak to young groups whenever I have the opportunity. And I delight in it because I I disbelieve the value of working with kids. It's unbelievable. The youth ministry manual back there, you can take those. I have another box. It's supposed to be here. It's up four boxes. Three showed up. The other ones in UPS Wonderland We have no idea. So if you're from this church, if you'd let the other folks take those first, because we'll get the rest here. But but I wrote that with two other men. I was their youth pastor. One of them was unsaved when I met him. Came to know the Lord in youth ministry. They both went into youth ministry. They've probably actually seen your pastors today because I started working with them about 40 years ago. or so. And and uh I I I just cannot even emphasize to you enough the potential of a young person. We are committed to walking with Christ. And to have people that will actually shepherd them through that process And you guys, my heartbeat with Excel. Everything back on that table was free. And I just want you to know what we do with Excel is all free. We're not selling anything. We're not it's to say, you know, it's a church We have the privilege to train people, to train them all the way to become pastors and elders and deacons. And I think we can use resources to do that. Idea education and all of it, we can use resources, but the church needs to be the primary place to equip us. It took him to serve on board. And and you guys the truth is the guy that took my position when I left countryside as the senior associate pastor, I was his youth pastor, shoe pastor. Think about that. I am old. I've known him since he was a little kid because I was good friends with his pastor, because I trained his youth pastor And then he came and served with me, and I was able to be a part of his training. And then he became the youth pastor after me, and then the family pastor, and when I left just a year ago He took my role as senior associate pastor, Countryside Bible Church. What a privilege, right? That's what the church is about. The church equips people. We're going to talk about that a lot today because I just think it's so vital for us to understand what really are the priorities of the church. What really are the priorities of a youth ministry? And how do we best serve our Lord as we seek to fulfill his call for our lives in the context of ministry? This is interactive now. You know, when you think about it, what qualifies a person? Because culturally we know what people would say, right? But but what qualifies a person to serve in youth ministry? You gotta love Christ, yeah. You gotta love Christ. A walk with Christ though. We're gonna do it. You need to be walking with the Lord. You know, it's not a personality thing. God gives us all different personalities and those will engage in different ways with different kids. But the truth is at the end of the day, Jesus' words in Luke 9, 23 to 26, he was saying to them all, if anyone wishes to come after me, he must what? Deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. Forever wishes to save his life will lose it. Whoever loses his life for my sake, he is the one who will save it. profited if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself. For whoever is ashamed of me in my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory. glory of the Father and of the holy angels. Galatians 2. 20. These are not a new thing, right? I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Right? Yet not I, but Christ lives in me In the life I live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Or, 2 Corinthians 5, 17 to 21, if anyone's in Christ, he's what? A new creature. Old things have passed away, behold, new things have come. Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to Himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation, namely God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against him, but he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore We are ambassadors for Christ as though God were making an appeal through us. Listen, I love this language. We beg you, we beg you on behalf of Christ. To be reconciled to God. And in that famous verse, He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Were the greatest of all commandments. And I'll be honest with you, this has been the Lord's convicted of my heart that sometimes the verses that I've known the longest and am most familiar with, I've not truly meditated on. Teacher, Matthew 22, what's the greatest commandment of the law? He said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul and with all your mind. I mean think about what that what does that look like? What does that look like in my life to love God supremely? This is the great and foremost commandment. And then of course the second commandment, you shall love your neighbors yourself. I'm going to talk about that more in the next session as it relates to how do we teach young people That to be a Christian means that you're learning to love God supremely. It's a love relationship. And I think sometimes we lose that. And and and we we we pff we can't. That's the heartbeat of biblical Christianity. I remember one time I I asked a youth group, I said, how many of you are Christians and you know hands is I said how many of you really, really love God and hands are doing this? And it's like that was the same question It's the same question. But of course the scriptures say if you love me, you will obey me, right? Well, as it relates to God's word You know, if you're gonna be a uh ministry leader in any respect, if you're gonna live the Christian life as you should You have to love God's word. You have to be committed to God's word. God's word has to be a priority in your life. I mean, I think it's a strange day when we live in a Christianized culture, if you will. And you ask somebody, I mean, are you spending regular time in the Word, like studying it and all of that? You know, and people say, well, you know, I mean it's I've just been so busy Really? Really? I think it's kind of weird what we do with the word sometimes. It's like if I said, hey, why not this week, why don't you read the book of Genesis? Just read it cover to cover. Just uh Get the big picture. You know what a lot of people would say? Fifty chapters? That's fifty chapters. It's like Yeah, it's only fifty chapters. It's not a big deal. You can read a novel like this. I mean I think it's weird when we look at the epistles and it's like they're letters for crying out loud. How many of you get an email and you read a paragraph and go, whoo, that was a lot of, I'm going to read the next paragraph tomorrow. I get breaking things down to teach and things like that, but you guys, we we're kind of strange the way we've approached Scripture. And I'm telling you, if you're in any kind of ministry leadership You have to love God's word. If you don't love God's word, get out. Okay? Just get out. Because this is about loving God and loving his word. In Psalm 119, 97. Oh how I love your law. It's my meditation all the day. Meditation all the day? I mean we're trying to find time for devotions. It's like really? But God says actually you need to meditate it on it all day. In fact, it speaks in other places, right, Joshua. We meditate day and night Psalm 1 talks about meditation being that the beauty that allows us to flourish spiritually and accomplish God's objectives. You guys, it's God's word. Oh, how I love your law. It's my meditation all the day. And you guys, I would when When we get down to the reality of what qualifies you to lead in any ministry, it's your love for God, and it's your love for his word, and it's your commitment to obey Christ. I love the words follow me, right? It's your commitment to follow Christ in such a way that you can say these words with the Apostle Paul. Philippians 3. 17. Brethren Join in following my example and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us. The things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me. Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Do you hear what he's saying? He's telling those who he knows, listen. Follow the pattern of my life. Or in 2 Thessalonians 3, 7 to 9, for you yourselves know how you ought to follow our example. Because we did not act in an undisciplined manner among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with labor and hardship We kept working night and day so that we would not be a burden to any of you. Not because we do not have the right to do this, but in order to offer ourselves as a model for you, so that you could follow our example See at the end of the day in Ephesians 5 when it says, therefore be imitators of God as his beloved children, people who sometimes I'll run to somebody say, well, I just struggle memorizing scripture. I said, let me just give you one verse. In fact, I'll just give you a few words so you just do part of it, okay? Be imitators of God. Just meditate on that the rest of your life. Be imitators of God. And you guys, ministry has everything to do with you living a life of self-denial. of you establishing biblical priorities because of your love for God and then the resulting love for people. So that it's see see i in the in the the formalities of ministry, we often isolate ministry to uh to programs. But but ministry at the end of the day is relationship All right. It's teaching God's word and it's modeling God's word. So I'm going to spend quite a bit of time there so that I might wear you out. Because we're going to take time after bit and we're going to look how did Christ do it? How did he train Men. How did he minister to people in in this profound way that said made such an impact? But you guys If I ask you this question, which I'm not, I mean I'm gonna ask you, but I'm not gonna ask you to answer it, if the kids in your youth group followed you everywhere you went What would they learn about your Christianity? If their patterns were the same as yours as it came to priority of the Word of God, if their patterns were the same as yours when it came to evangelism If their patterns were the same as yours as far as how you work in the workplace or how you drive If they followed you everywhere and mimicked your life How comfortable would you be about that? Because at the end of the day, when Jesus said, follow me, that's what he was saying, right? When Paul says, follow my example, Paul says, follow my example as I follow Christ, so he wasn't presenting himself as one who is perfect, but he was presenting himself As one who desired with all of his heart to live in a way that would be pleasing to the Lord so that those who he was equipping could watch him and learn from him and follow his example. Jesus re gave this rebuke in Matthew 23 in verses 1 to 3, Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples, saying, the scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the chair of Moses. This is awful. Therefore, all that they tell you all that they tell you, do and observe. But do not do according to their deeds. For they say things and do not do them That's a terrible situation, right? So if you're going to be serving in the ministry, it's not that you're perfect or get it all right. But folks, you have to be growing in your love for God. You have to be striving by God's grace, and this is something that is a perpetual challenge, to love God supremely so that you can love people appropriately, so that your convictions are so deep that you understand both to glorify God as well is to set an example for these kids. You have to be faithful. You have to be faithful. In all areas of life. Youth ministry, it's it's not just activities and it don't get me wrong, I love the fun. I re I enjoyed spending time with kids. But it's serious to help them understand what does it look like to live as a Christian. In Hebrews 13, 17 it says, obey your leaders and submit to them. For they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable. You understand that when you're involved in ministry and you're caring for these these young people or whoever it is you're working with, that that You you have a weighty responsibility for their souls. You have a responsibility for their souls, for how you impact their lives in the name of Christ. And so Just to begin, there's basic questions that you have to ask yourself as far as your service. You have to answer before God. And and the things like, well Am I doing this because I really love God and I'm trying to learn to love Him supremely as my greatest love? Because when people ask it's this thing with parenting in the book of parenting back there, parents say, what's the best thing that I can do to help my kids? Should I homeschool them? Should I public school? Should I do this? Should I do that? You should actually live as a Christian. And the truth is that's not happening in a lot of homes You want to know the thing you can do most to help your kids? Show them what it looks like to love God supremely. Show them what it looks like to love God's word. Demonstrate those realities. Christianity is not Sunday or Wednesday. Would you come home from work? Talk about the opportunities you had to serve the Lord at work When you wake up in the morning, pray about the opportunities they'll have today and you'll have during the day, Christianity becomes your all-consuming life. And so you have to ask yourself. Am I learning to love God with that kind of a love? And if I am, is that then being demonstrated in my love for His Word? Is it being demonstrated in in my love for his word? You guys how many of you like today? You think you know you you some of you come away to be here. I mean, you don't even have a clue what's gonna happen today in your life, right? None of us do right. Only God knows those things, right? Do you feel like you have enough wisdom for any given day? I don't. How could you? You have no idea what God's gonna do You guys, we come to God's word and we love God's word because we are desperate people for God's wisdom. And he gives it to us. He promises to us, makes it available to us. And so, as a Christian, You have to love his word. And I will say, because we sometimes we get in our mind, you know, I wake up in the morning, it's like, well, but I don't really feel like spending time in the Word. Who cares I tell myself all that time. You'll think, man, this guy's kinda hardcore. You guys you ought to hear n the conversations in my mind It's like, well I don't feel like it. Who cares? That's what he tells me, who cares, Rock? This is not an issue of what I feel like. It's an issue of this is God's word. And then I'll say, do you need God's wisdom? Of course Then sit down and say, God forgive me for the struggle in my own heart, but please, please help me to understand your word and glean your wisdom so that I can be who you want me to be today. Because we we have to be committed to God's word. You have to be learning and growing in God's Word That's part of biblical leadership. But I'm telling you, the more you grow in your love for God, the more you will grow in your love and compassion for people, the more you'll be committed to a living example and want people to be with you and help and encourage them. The more you can make a difference in the name of Christ by His grace. Your prayer life. I'll be speaking here tomorrow morning and I'm going to talk about prayer because I think oftentimes our our prayer life kind of reveals our perspective of of Christianity and life in general And uh it and it's easy for our prayer life to be mostly consumed with uh physical things. And you go, yeah, cast all your care upon the Lord because he cares for you. But read the prayers of Scripture They're deeply spiritual. And I would tell kids in the youth that we will pray for grandma. But I do want you to know grandma one day is going to die. So are you, so am I. And so one we gotta think beyond that. We can pray for the physical But we've got to think about the spiritual and what's her spiritual condition and what are the opportunities that she may have or others may have because of the difficulties You know, my own wife, she had a lifelong health issues. We were in and out of hospital for thirty one years of marriage And and uh one time she had to take she tried new medications and she took a new medication and it shut down the electrical system on her heart And my wife was uh a a saint. I mean her body she had she got rubith juvenile rheumatoid arthritis at thirteen years old and it never went into remission So her joints were destroyed from her jaws to her toes. But she loved the Lord and never questioned God. But she did ask me a good question one time She says, so Russie, I'd like you to explain how God's sovereignty works on things like we didn't know what medication to use. And it was getting extremely complicated. But we needed to do something. So we selected the medication. It didn't go well And so now she needs a pacemaker on top of already complicated things. And then she says she was just a asking, so as you try to make those decisions, because it doesn't say thus saith the Lord, do this or do that, right? So how's how does that work? And I I said, Well I'm gonna I'm gonna answer that with one word. Okay. I went through the three patient. Perfectly, but I'm a little shady on the details, okay? I know it works perfectly. But from a human perspective What I do know is we're going to meet people that we wouldn't otherwise have met. And at least in part, I suspect God has opportunities for us for ministry. Because that's how he works, right? That's how God works. That's how he you guys sometimes you know when we go through hard things, we think so much about the hard things that we don't realize that, you know what, this little action I got in, I'm gonna meet somebody I didn't want to meet. Is God intentional? You bet he is. Could this not be a divine opportunity? I mean it's just learning to think right and to pray right and to recognize opportunities so that we live spiritual lives and our prayer lives should reflect spiritual things. Physical are fine, but you guys, they ought not to dominate. They ought to be in submission to the spiritual perspective that we have of life, commitment to evangelism. You know, do you have a heart to to minister? I mean, do you believe God has divine opportunities for you every day of your life? Now I'm asking for you to respond. Do you believe God has divine opportunities? See, I think we often get so busy with our schedules that I know I'm gonna go this way, I'm gonna go here, I'm gonna go there, but we don't stop and say, God help me to see the things that you want me to do today. I see a business appointment. This may be a guy that desperately needs Christ I'll tell people in the hospital, I'll say, I I know that you're struggling immensely in this hospital and you may or may not survive. The docs told you that. I'm just telling you, that person that comes in and cleans this room may be in worse condition than you Could be, couldn't it? See, it's a it's a perspective in recognizing divine opportunities everywhere. You guys, are you theologically astute? See, some people go into youth ministry because it's fun. Well, I like the fun. But it's really, really serious stuff. And you have to be students. You have to be theologically astute. You have to be theologically in earnest. I tell people one of the challenges in the church is that I would spend way too much time in counseling people who came in correcting what somebody else in the church told them I can't believe God would want you to love like that. I'm like, really? Look what he did to his son. You really think this life is all about you and having what you want? Yeah, I mean so so being theologically astute, so would you interact, we'll talk about counseling, specific things related to youth, uh probably after lunch. Uh Your relationship with the Lord, does it define your life? I mean, is your life consumed with it? Not just with your ministry time or your church time, but your life consumed with it Does your if you're married, does your marriage honor the Lord? If you have children, are you leading them as as you should? Your work ethic, if they mimicked your work ethic, what Would that be God honoring you? You guys, when it comes to being qualified to serve in ministry, youth ministry or otherwise, the truth is, uh You're committing to walk in a manner that pleases the Lord in such a way that those who you minister to can follow you everywhere. And if they mimic your life, they will honor your Lord. Not that you get it perfect, but even in your imperfections, when they see how you respond, When you fail, they learn how it looks. So the other thing that I want to say that I think is real important, and I know in many ways I'm speaking to the choir, but I'm going to do it anyways. is you've got to get the gospel right. You've got to get the gospel right. There there are way, way too many people out there that think they're okay with God because they made some decision at some point and they're counting on that that that God's gonna be okay with them. But you guys Jesus said, Jesus said Repent and believe the gospel in Mark 1. You guys, I mean if I ask a class, how many of you want to go to heaven? I mean, there's always somebody, right? Not me. But most people, of course, will just believe in Jesus. The demons believe and shudder. And you guys, when you present a gospel that's just selfish, then that's how that person lives out what they perceive as the Christian life. Oh, so coming to Jesus is going to heaven. It's just a change of destination. No, it's it's really not that simple. Because the truth is You are an enemy of God. Your enemy. Because of your sin. Because of your rebellion. Your life is in opposition to a holy God. And God hates sin. You have a big problem. And you guys, the truth is, if we don't come to grips with the seriousness of sin Then what is the motivation to change how we live our life? It just kind of a change of destination. But you guys, it's it's it's a It's a recognition of the holiness of God. It's a recognition of the gravity of sin. It's uh you know the in Psalm 51, 4, against you, you only I have sinned and done what is evil in your sight So that you are justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. I found it to be interesting because I've counseled scores and scores of people over the years and and people that come in who have been confronted or caught in sin patterns or whatever I can't even tell you how rare a day it is in the church for somebody to come in and say, I just want you to know that I'm coming to grips with how much I have offended a holy God. Tom must never hear that. I got caught, my wife's mad, my husband's mad, my kids are whatever But you guys, we need to understand the gravity of sin. Our kids need to understand the gravity of sin. This is a the issue that you're an enemy of God, but you can be reconciled. So we're going to beg them on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God. But you guys in doing that, we need to make clear the truth of the gospel. We need to make clear the fact that that Christ died because of our sin And I'm telling you for a Christian to realize that I have a relationship with God because Jesus on the cross suffered the punishment of every single one of my stinking sons. so that I could be treated as though I lived his life? How can a person live the same after that? You can't. When the Holy Spirit opens your eyes to the truth and you recognize the transformation that took place. You guys, our kids need to understand. Sin is a serious, serious thing. And when we talk to about faith and repentance, we know uh That they're they're gifts. Repentance of faith. David Duran or Doran says repentance and faith are God's gifts produced in the hearts by the work of the Spirit God opening our eyes to the truth in 2 Timothy 2. 25 with gentleness correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance. That's why lives change, right? Because when somebody's confronted with the gospel and God opens their eyes and grants them repentance, it is a life-changing transformation. Philippians 1 29, it has been granted for Christ's sake not only to believe on him But think of the second part. Not only has it been granted for you to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. We like the first part. But it's been granted to us to also suffer. We'll talk about that more later. Our salvation ultimately is for God's glory, and our kids need to know that Second Corinthians four fifteen for all things are for your sake, so that the grace which is spreading to more and more people may cause the giving of thanks to abound to the glory of God. You guys, when we come to Christ, it's for God's glory, right? As our lives are transformed, it's for God's glory. As God uses to minister other people, it's for God's glory. Our kids need to understand that their salvation is ultimately for God's glory. You know, I I uh I have a 13-year-old grandson and I meet with him weekly through Zoom. We have a discipleship deal that we do. We work on things like how to think right as a Christian. And it's really fun to to help him to understand because he's got four siblings. Anybody have sibling rivalry in your home? I mean it has a long history, you know. And to help him understand what does it look like as a thirteen-year-old young man to think More about God's glory than your own comfort or get in your way. You know, you know like the first Corinthians ten thirty one. Whatever you do, whether you eat or drink. I didn't memorize that verse. And I said, Now that seems really big. I I mean whether you eat or drink, how can how do those become issues? And I asked him, I said, So what's it like at your dinner table when it's time to do dishes? How how does it work with the siblings cause 'cause I've been there watching. And you know whose whose turn is it to empty the dishwasher? Whose turn is it to watch that dish? How come you don't watch you know you know how the tensions can be and you guys you know that? Do you know how selfish you are We all struggle with selfishness, right? That I I told him. I said, you know, it sounds like a pretty simple verse, but I bet you have a hard time with it when it comes to dish time. And he's like Yeah. You see, the Christian has to learn that this is all about God's glory. That's why if your parents are even wrong, you still have to honor God. Because it's more important, right? When to teach them right. I think it's important that they understand that a proper understanding of the gospel means you realize you've been purchased Acts 20, 28. Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood. In 1 Corinthians 6, 20, you have been bought with a price. See, we need to understand I I don't have the freedom to be in charge of my own life. Do you? No. We don't have and the kids that we teach, we don't understand. When you come to Christ You have been bought with the price. You actually are not in charge anymore. It's no longer you deciding. How or what you do. We've been transformed at 2 Corinthians 5, 17 to 21, so that now we're a new creature. We have a whole different perspective. Ephesians, you know we know Ephesians two eight and nine, right? For by grace you but faith. What's verse ten? We are his workmanship. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Then it says, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. So when you talk to somebody about coming to Christ, they have to understand that, listen, when Christ saves your soul, he now sets you on a course because before time, he's already ordained the works that he wants you to do. Now you're on a new mission with new responsibilities And obviously God makes this promise in Philippians 1. 6. I'm confident of this very thing. He began a good work and you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. 1 Peter 2. 9, you are a chosen race, a royal priest, of a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. Ephesians 1. 14. He's given us a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession. Titus 2. 14 He gave himself for us to redeem us from every lawless day to purify and for himself a people for his own possessions. Zealous for good deeds. You guys, when it comes to youth ministry, and and obviously this crosses over to any ministry, you guys when we talk to somebody about faith coming to Christ, we need to tell them accurately the truth. what the gospel is, what Christ did, what the problem is, and then how this changes our lives miraculously through the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit. They need to hear the truth because you guys, once they come to understand the gospel, then our mission is help them to live out to those good works. It's to live out that faith. It's to grow with that faith. And if you get it wrong at the beginning, if if you present some kind of a soft gospel, just believe in Jesus. He loves you. He just wants you to go to heaven. It's like There are so many people that are going to stand before the Lord. That picture in Matthew 7, you know where they say, Lord, Lord, what does Lord mean? Master. People standing before Jesus at the end of time saying, Master, Master, if you call somebody master, what does that make you? A slave. So we're not talking like uh a servant in a restaurant, you know, where you can serve like a few hours and go home and go, shh. Okay, when we talk biblical slavery in the scripture The picture is God is perpetually our master. We are always his bond slave. We want to live in submission to him because it's a privileged responsibility Right? Well in Matthew 7 you have all these people saying, calling him Lord, Lord, Lord. And what does Jesus respond? I never knew you, you worker of iniquity. In other words, they're calling him Lord, but they're not living in submission to him. And I tell people all the time, I'll be honest, the end of the day, it doesn't matter if you call him Lord or you call yourself a Christian. What really matters is if he calls you his child. That's what matters. No, it 'cause I think it's our culture is if I know the theological answers, I think I'm gonna be okay with God. In fact if you continue in that passage at the end that gives the illustration, house built on the rock, house built on the sand. Ironically, both people know the same theological truths. They both know the same things. But one of them lives in submission to the truth and one of them doesn't. I think that there are a lot of people today, and we can be we can deceive our kids if we're not careful, that think because they know the biblical answer they're okay with God But that's not true. The truth is if you know the biblical answer, you have to if you're in Christ, you have to live then in response to that, joyfully live in response. Otherwise, you know, I think you there're just a lot of people that can be that can be seriously confused and misled. So working with young people. So here are some of the delights, because I I've had the opportunity to teach in a different context, but you guys when you work with young people, they they have their whole lives in front of them And I personally think for the most part they're they're really just fun people to work with. I think junior hires, you know, it's like they're living between two worlds, right? I mean they're coming from childhood to adulthood and I mean they can be on one hand, you know, playing with the truck and another hand talking about girls or talking about you know, it's just a a completely wild time In high schoolers you have the dynamics and challenges and stuff, but you guys, some of those kids are willing to do just about anything, and sometimes that's bad. But but if they can focus that If they could focus that on a walk with Christ. And if you could love them and mentor them in such a way that they could experience that. And you could pattern that and you could encourage them and be involved in their life. I uh you guys, I'm just telling you, I think it's just an um uh it it's just an amazing time of life They're not set in their ways. You know, if I'm teaching a group of people that are like my age, most of those are not at a time where they're gonna make a lot of like major life changes You know, I'm not saying it can't happen, but I'm saying when you're working with young people, they they their whole life, whatever God gives them, is in front of them. They typically are more willing to take a risk. You know, you see those personalities and some of those personalities are pretty strong and you say, Man, if that kid doesn't submit to the Lord, hi yay, it's gonna be awful. But the other side of that, man, if they would get a hold of the Lord How exciting, how neat would that be? You know, the kids going from junior high to high school, you know, they're kind of progressing through mental changes because, you know, when they're younger, they don't think abstractly very well So I've seen where where kids, elementary kids, their their daddies died. And and uh you know they're they're getting in the a limo to follow the coffin and th you know what they're doing? They're like playing with the windows and stuff like that. It's very hard for them to think abstractly and death and all of the but as they progress through through school, as they grow older, their minds begin to grapple with issues more. And they begin to be able to think more abstractly and and and the blessing of being able to impart God's word and the ministry and the challenges of following the Lord, it just becomes so precious to be able to do that. So in youth ministry we need to have some some clearly defined goals and we'll talk about some of those today. And I I personally would start with the the Great Commission, what our Lord gave to us Before he left this earth, when he said in Matthew 28, 18-20, Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So the instructions are pretty simple in the sense that if you're here today in Christ to go and make disciples. Now I think in missions uh there has been a period of time where I think missions kind of struggled with this concept And they made it go and make Christians kind of thing and and not seeing the bigger picture. And you guys ultimately our objective is doesn't stop with evangelism. It begins with evangelism. But that's only the beginning And and so our objective is to make sure we share the gospel, teach people to repent and believe, that we want them to follow the Lord in baptism, because that's a step, of course, in many cultures, that's a a life-defining step. because it's gonna cost you. Our culture is obviously not like that. But then it says, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And now there's a responsibility that's placed upon us, right? That that when we're ministering to people, we have the privilege to share the gospel and then encourage them in their walk with the Lord, we have a responsibility to then impart to them all that God. commands all that God has taught. That's that's a discipleship. In Colossians 1 it says it this way, verse 20 29, we proclaim him admonishing every man and teaching every man with all wisdom so that we may present every man complete in Christ. For this purpose also I labor striving according to his power which mightily works within me. So So as you think through your ministry, I mean the question is, what do you what do you want to accomplish? What are you trying to accomplish in the lives of the kids? And I and I think sometimes youth ministry is gravitated towards uh, you know, you come on Sunday morning, somebody stands behind a lectern, they teach a lesson, you know, maybe you have groups or whatever And then you go home. And then maybe you have a Wednesday night or Friday night uh deal that you do and and you come together, maybe activity and you have a lesson and then everybody goes home. And it's and it's like we need more leaders for crowd control. And and that's not what we want leaders for. We would like to have control. But the objective of biblical leadership is that how do I participate in the fulfillment of the Great Commission in the lives of the people that God has entrusted to me. So if I know I have to evangelize, and then if they come to Christ, I want to help them in obedience, baptism being a step of that process But then it says to teach them all that God has commanded. That that's why expositional teaching is so important. I'm not opposed to some topical. I think you can do some topical well, but I think for the most part You want expositional. That is you're teaching consistently through the scriptures. Because you want to teach them all that God has taught, right? So you teach them through the book of James or the book of four you get them the context help them to see and understand culture and the issues and what God is instructing and both the specific and the general truths. But you guys You might not be the person behind the lectern teaching the lesson. Do you have a responsibility to teach God's truth? You bet you do. You bet you do. So don't think, well, I'm glad they're the one that has to study to teach. Just because you may not be the one behind the lectern. Folks, it's our privilege in this process of discipling people to impart to them God's Truth, God's instruction. See, that's why all Christians need to love God's word and need to be growing in God's Word. So that when they you're a part of their lives They're hearing from you about how to be encouraged in their walk with the Lord and things that they can learn and how they can grow because you want to help them become what? Complete in Christ. You want to see these kids go from being unsaved to saved to begin to learn to walk with the Lord and learn God's truth? And you guys our kids can they can learn lots more than we give them credit for sometimes And then we want them to serve and we oversee that and then if they struggle and they ought not to be servant, we want to help them there. But but it's that investment fulfilling ultimately the Great Commission You know, I think there's an interesting verse in 2 Timothy 2. 10 where it says, Paul says, as he's really preparing to die at this point, he says, for this reason I endure all things for the sake of those who are chosen. so that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus and with it eternal glory. I endure all things for the sake of those who are chosen. The idea, I think, is that I'm willing to go through whatever God wants me to go through for the sake of those who are yet have yet to come to Christ need to come to Christ. I I'm willing to endure anything for that to happen. Because Christianity today is pretty soft in a lot of places. Where I I think a lot of times, Paul, he's gonna die. He knows he's gonna die. You guys, I think s way too much of our Christianity is is kind of about God accommodating what we want. But you guys, when do people see your faith with the greatest clarity? When is your faith on the grandest display? When? It's in suffering. First Peter chapter one makes it clear that without suffering, it would be hard for you to even know if your faith is genuine. So suffering actually is a necessary thing in the life of a Christian because it it the fire of testing demonstrates the integrity of your faith The Lord takes us all down different roads. From me. A lot of my grieving has been done in public. You guys understand that in this church, your pastor recently went to be with Jesus. So the kids I know and love Many of them adults now watched What does it look like when your kid's in an accident and they're told there's no hope? My son's brain was torn, all his major organs went into it through his diaphragm His body was just in. He's a pastor today. Never walk good right again, but he can walk okay. But he loves the Lord But you guys, his rehab will never end. Or when you walk through that coming, that's like my wife has tell me no one. People recover from that all the time. But her system was so compromised. Is it God's good? Very good. Is he always good? He's always good. Is he always faithful? He's always faithful. Yeah. And you guys the truth is, as I stood by her side with my boys and in-laws there, it's like Can you imagine what just happened? In one breath, she went from here to glory. Wow. Amazing. And in my mind I do. She finished well and God was done with her. I obviously haven't finished well and he's not done with me. So I better keep doing what he's called me to do. But you guys, it's as you walk through the challenges of life And you have relationships with people and they watch how you learn and they watch how you grow and they watch how you struggle, but they see Christ in you That's what it means to disciples. And we're going to look at how Jesus did it, because I think it's so important to see. Because I think we're a culture that tries to program So much. And I'm fine with programming, but you got you gotta get beyond that. The relationships have to be real The relationships have to be long-standing. They have to be precious and important and valuable. And that means some pretty serious life-on-life. And so in the next section, I just want to walk through. I just want to walk through how Jesus did. What did he do? What did it look like? And how do we mimic it