After they told you that this is what they were gonna do? And I think of it like that. And I think how comfortable well I'm already going to be uncomfortable if I'm in a courtroom. I already know that. But how comfortable am I going to be if I tell them what I just told that I mean, would reasonable people think that what I did and how I did it was wise? Would it really honor God? Because sometimes it's easy to do things that are maybe uh efficient. But at the end of the day it's like that's really not smart And that's how we want to train our staff at countryside because you I mean I'll be honest you live in a day where you feel like it's just a matter of time you can end up in court And we need to think wisely. And you know what? I'm okay if I'm gonna be punished because I did something this biblically right. But I'd rather not be punished because I was an idiot. And I just did something blatantly stupid. Or I didn't take time to do things right. I did involve appropriate people or whatever it is, you know. So you gotta be careful, you know Wisdom, yes. Related to the um if if it is something that you think the parents should know, would you first suggest it to the kid like Do you would you would you consider telling your friends I can but how to do it as well? Yeah, it's and again we're we're kinda getting into that nebulous hypothetical, but I would say It's it's a good thing if you're in a situation have a relationship with a kid that you say, you know what, you really need to you really need to talk to your folks. This is not appropriate for me to know without their knowledge. And and the y you know the kids better, right? So that you're dealing with. Some kids will will do that. And if you want me to go with you, I'll go with you. But if you can just talk to them, but I you know, I need to circle back and and just talk through this with them And so that they know that you're gonna do that. It kind of depends on the volatility of the situation. So if I'm talking a suicide thing, I gotta I'm gonna I'm gonna navigate that a little different because If they agree to that but they're mad at me and they're really serious about it, then we could go down a bad road fast. And so There are are certain things. If I really believe a kid is suicidal, I I'm I'm probably gonna take them and engage with their parents and it's gonna happen in real time now because the windows of opportunity disappear if things go bad. And so but other things, yeah, I would if they would go talk to their parents, I would want to encourage that and involve their parents. And you guys had to develop some respect with the parents, right, to They know that I'm a partner, I want to work with them, I want to help them. Some parents are gonna be more helpful than others, truthfully. Sir. Yeah. And I I again I because we're talking in kind of nebulous terms without specifics, sometimes it's hard to define. Uh uh but but I would say Depending on the situation, I want to mentor and shepherd that kid in every way I can. So if I need to spend special time to help them, to minister to them, if the family doesn't have real disregard If I think it's a life-threatening situation, or I think we all understand in abuse type situations that we ha we have requirements to file. I it that's not a judgment case And again, like in my role I've overseen a lot of our staff, and so they would have any number of issues come up and and I would just make it clear. N if there is a suspicion of abuse We must file. We don't have a choice. That that we that's mandated to us. Now personally If I'm counseling adults, because sometimes, like a parent will say, start to use the word abuse loosely And I'll stop them. I said, let me explain something to you. Because it's important you understand this. I'm fine if you use the term abuse You need to make sure what you mean by it and what I understand by it. Because if you give me any indication that there's a concern for one of your kids being abused, I will file If you're using it dramatically to make a point to me, use a different word. Okay? Because you're gonna put me in a box. And I want to know if there's a concern for you, I want to know, and I will file. But but in our culture, um Frankly sick and tired of people throwing words around in order to justify unbiblical behavior and rather than being objective and I think we're just better if we just use biblical terms for what goes on we'd be able to deal with things Better, okay? But in a in a situation if I was concerned about a kid's safety like that girl that I had in my office at what that one point We eventually actually took that girl, she moved in with us it with agreement with the parents. Mom was crazy and alone. She'd threatened to come over and blow our heads off I call the sheriff and he'd say, I really can't come in until she gets there and it's like, Well, I hope you're quick. I mean I mean seriously It's like she ended up in a mental hospital and we ended up getting this girl was seventeen when we took her in and the family in our church adopted her. so that she could begin a new life as an adult. And so neat things, but I mean it w it was dicey, it was it was ugly, uh it was it was tragic, but it was what it is. So it's hard with some of the tell me your name. Thanks, David. It's it's hard with some of those to navigate and and I mean it takes the the wisdom of Solomon sometimes as you walk down those roads. Yeah Other questions? Yes, ma'am. Do you bring your children when they were Yeah. How does a good question look like? I mean when you have someone who requires so much one on one, how do you pour it into Someone else is born by that. Yeah, what do you do with those little ones when you have a young family? And so uh That will vary with circumstances because it also, you know, it's hard if you have little ones in a room, somebody's teaching and they're going crazy, you know, you have different issues. But but the other side of that We would take our kids to a lot. They're not little anymore, but they were. And uh We would take 'em but but m my wife was real good if they needed to go out, she would take them out. But but my wife was disabled in many respects and and so uh It was great with the girls because my wife would take 'em and take care of 'em. She handled that fine. But then then then then you know, the gals come and help with the boys and the kids would help and they could see our family in real time. But we'd all we'd have 'em over a house too, our kids, you know, the youth and and had that relationship. I I I just think there's a benefit to to the kids in the youth group knowing your family, knowing how you parent, knowing what your kids are like. But but sometimes it works, sometimes it works for us to take 'em on camps and they'd be a part and and but sometimes It was just too much. We need to have somebody watch 'em or my wife might stay with them or whatever it might be. Uh but our kids my k my kids have been to more camps than you can possibly imagine, truly They have been to a bunch of 'em because they'd been going since they were little kids. And uh that's and then that's why they were so excited when they finally got youth camp age. Now they actually go as as teens, you know And so there was a blessing to have them apart. And and uh the the guys that the men that had relationship with my kids over all of those years was pretty sweet. Guys that were in the youth group or young men that grew up and grew out of the youth group So again, you don't want your kids to be a distraction to the ministry, and I get that sometimes it's too late and it's not a good idea But I think there are other times it can be kind of neat to have your family apart and kids getting to know 'em and kids helping with your kids and taking care of 'em and and playing games and I uh you know, and your kids get to see you serving and I I think that can be pretty sweet. To the extent you're able to do it, practically. And I know your kids don't get a lot out of it, but it can be a ministry to the teens and to you. Thank you. Mm-hmm. What was your name? Jessica. Jessica, thanks. I'm sorry I don't know everybody's name. If we're going a couple of days, I might be able to get it. But one day I'm I just I'm in trouble that I just wouldn't wouldn't make it Yeah we're not gonna go a couple of days. That would be like torture. Any any other questions? What's some other ways that you build relationships with parents? So also foster relationships with kids because sometimes it's kind of building off of Jessica's question, it's like I've got three boys that I need to be a father to, but then you've got youth group kids that you want to develop relationships with and Do those lives just intersect so that you're just kind of bringing everybody together? Do you take those kids some places that you don't take those kids or just You know, and it's how do you make all of those concentric circles work together? Yeah, you don't have so much time. So so uh Like with parents, I'll be honest, I would try to organize things where parents could kind of come together and I could get them to get to know them better. And I would do it and think sometimes I'd have an activity night, parents and kids and we'd play games and stuff. Uh sometimes I just have a parents night to to just be a I just want to share with you about the youth group what we're doing, things that are coming, you know, be accessible, know we're praying for you. I remind 'em that I know sometimes the kids come home and say, Wow Rocky told me this and I know you've been telling that for the last fifteen years. I know that I just want you I know you do that. Uh I'm just glad to be a real reaffirm what you say and kinda help out in the process here. Wanna be exce you know, I just do those kind of things and again not everybody will come. But that's true even with the kids, right? So you're just trying to at least minister to those that would be interested in it. We would I I wouldn't typically I I would have activities with the youth, so a Friday night activity and m my kids might go along on that, in fact oftentimes did. But when it came to spending time with the kids personally, usually it would be by having them in our home. You know, hey, we're gonna have a game night in our home. You wanna come over and play spoons? You can't see it because of the beard, but I have this great scar right here from an incredible game of spoons. And I did win. But we're flopping over the floor. all over the place and I remember it's after church because I had a white shirt on and somebody said somebody's bleeding it's like who? They said I looked down and it's like me where's it coming from? So We had so much fun doing that kind of stuff. So we didn't have to create like these extra events in our lives. It's like, hey, you guys want to come over for lunch today? Uh, or we're gonna go out fishing, or you know what, I've got to take this vehicle down out of town and come back. You wanna come with me? It w it would be more than th those kind of things where it's just more part of our life. It's like just g you have the kids there and the kids are helping. Hey, would you mind watching them for a while and and hey you want to come over and we'll bake something? You can help me with the kids and we can do it. You know, I mean there's just different ways you can do where it's part of your life where you're not going I can't do all this too much. And again, it can't be with everybody in the youth group, depends on your group. But but normally it there's a few that you have that opportunity to build more intentional relationships and if you have more leaders that helps to spread that load out. Does that make sense? 'Cause you only do so much, right? And I mean even today, like during the summer, when I go back home, I mean somebody stopped by our house on night before lost, and his family of Seven spent the night at our house on the way back from Idaho to Texas and they spent the night and they took off the next day and Thursday somebody else will roll in when I get back. We love that People that come out and it's just part of our life and we should often do our work and keep keep but we come up and we enjoy people and minister and fellowship and y it's just not you gotta keep it from the mentality of project to more of this is what our life Yes, this is just how we live and it's just a part of that. So it's fun then. Otherwise make you crazy. Any other questions? people to your house and fake cookies or whatever. So sometimes there would be people that would just gravitate that you would gravitate to, but you don't want to feel like you're singling them out and not being inclusive, so should you rotate who But Jesus Jesus was exclusive, so I'm just telling ya, okay? I mean he wa I mean he picked twelve and then he There was three that he did very specific things with that he didn't do with anybody else. I I'm saying that generally you want to minister to everybody, but you can't do everything with everybody. You can't be equal with everybody. Life just doesn't work that way. You won't relate to everybody in the same way. That's why we it's nice to have different people serving in the youth ministry, right? Because some kids are going to be attracted to you, some kids are going to some kids are scared to death of me You get that, don't you? You could see that, right? There are some kids that would be afraid of me. I mean really if I talk to them like no don't do that. They'd go home and say Rocky yelled at me. I've had that happen. It's like, Yeah, and wait till I raise my voice. Y you I mean that's just the way it is. So there's other leaders that work better with some of those kids because I don't want to scare the kids. I I really Don't. I'm gonna tell them the truth. Uh but you know we so we try to balance that. So some kids I'm gonna be able to work more with, but that's why you have multiplicity of leadership, because one person is not gonna relate to all of them. And not all of them will want that relationship, period. So y you you work with those that you can. But I I don't think you can have the idea of that we gotta I've gotta try to be e equal because it just doesn't work. I mean some of them are gonna want that. Uh you're not gonna relate to as well and that's okay. Just okay. Yes. How did you come to have the passion for the youth ministry and you know first come to Christ? Was that all part of it or what What was the genesis? Yeah. So so how I came to the no lord might be interesting. So so my my folks went to church all the time when I was young And so and my my uh my father actually was a fighter, he was a boxer. And and so that is why I got the name Rocky, but not from that movie. That happened way after I was born Uh so when I was young, it was actually Rocky and Bullwinkle, and most of you probably aren't familiar with that, but some of you that are old enough. Uh so it was hard to have a good friend because, you know. Anyways. So my my father was also very gifted vocalist, so they loved him in big churches. So he sang a lot. He's very, very gifted. He sang sang in the military and things like that. Uh when I was thirteen I I began to understand my sin and I needed a savior and I remember I was in the car and and just with my dad and I was real nervous and I I got up my nerve to tell him I want to become a Christian. And I was quite surprised when my father said, uh, next Sunday in church just go talk to the pastor. And that shocked me. Well, I realized several years later my dad was as lost as a day as long. And and his life the more I got to know and understand was was quite contrary to the things of God. As soon as we got out of school, church stopped for pretty much ever. And uh and so I did. I I went and and they had me talk to one of the elders in the church that I was in. I remember I was thirteen years old and I went up and he shook my hand and he was missing a finger. It freaked me out. You know, the things you remember as a kid. Shared the gospel and I believe that's when I got saved. My folks like to move. Not because they had to, 'cause they my dad just did. So before I got out of high school I lived in about twenty different places So I don't know most of the places I went to school. I would not know like friends from my past or anything like that. I mean that's how fast we moved, mostly on the west coast, some up in Idaho. I was born in Illinois, I lived there six weeks. So that's kinda how my life was is a young person. Uh and so uh you know, I was part of a youth group, but I really I I mentioned earlier I really wasn't thinking ministry, I was thinking wildlife management. I really think I did do wildlife man management. It just it was in a whole different way than what I'd planned. But but it was in God's providence, I'll be honest, I I uh when I moved to San Diego and I started attending this church where I was helping I sat in on a youth It's just really, really boring. And I I really the man had a good heart. So it was not a really affection of his heart, but it just made me concerned that if our kids don't understand how real it is to know Christ, it's going to be awful And that just stirred in me a a passion to do that. And I just slowly began to do that. I'd never taught in fact in college you guys I know you won't believe this, but I I I'd write three written reports for I'd ever get up in front of a class and give a oral report. I mean I th I was just that was terrifying to me. I still get nervous. I know you won't believe that when I get up in front of people. I get nervous when I was coming here. Uh and I just got God help us all. I do pray for you immensely. Please, God, don't waste their time. Please help me to speak the truth. Because that's what's ultimately most important. But I just the Lord just gave me that heart and and so he gave me the privilege to do that for a long time. And and then as life changed he moved me into other areas for which I'm grateful didn't expect, but I'm grateful and you know, here we are, and I'll be honest to you guys. I I just want to finish well. I mean, I feel like uh I don't know how much time the Lord will give me. I have a heart to see churches really train youth, train leaders, train pastors. I just feel like the church it that's where it needs to be. I just want the church to be the church and help with resources and I I I just love to do that. I mean that's That's kind of where my heart and my life is, and my dear wife supports me in that and loves to be a part of that. She I talked to her a little bit ago. She said, Oh, I wish I was there with ya. She's holding down the fort right now. And so so anyways. Yeah, you're welcome. But I I appreciate you having me here. I I really am the accessible I tell you my card is back there. I don't know everything. I can't answer all the questions. I really can't I I it's just God help us all. We tried to draw from the wisdom of God's word, but I would help in any way I could if possible. Okay. You want to throw out a topic and see whatever you want to say about it. Um are there any special considerations in this ranked teams, but we'll only have one there. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good question. I probably need to talk just a little bit about gender issues too, might be good. Um yeah, I I mean those create some can create some difficult dynamics and I guess as a just as a Christian let alone a pastor. Uh I think when we can come alongside like if a mom's got a boy or a couple of boys and she's raising those kids and dad's not in the their law reason. I think to the extent godly men in the church can come alongside and be a support, be an encouragement, develop relationships. Uh I think you know where women can help invest. Like the church that I'm going to right now, there's a man uh came out of the military serious PTSD, but he's the uh sole caretaker of three little girls His wife left. And uh man those women in the church are so good to help him and be a part of that. I have a uh a friend who's a single lady I was her youth pastor, so I've known her since she was a little girl in Colorado. And so she ended up moving to Texas where we were at. And and she's a she's a uh P I C U nurse, pediatric ICU. And she'd always wanted to get married, but the Lord never opened that door for her, and the baby came up on the floor. And he had massive heart problems. She adopted him. And I mean, she took him home when there was no way that kid would ever see the outside of a hospital. Went through I I mean, I don't know how many surgeries. And and uh I mean she loved that kid and took care of him And and and I was like his grandfather. I mean I really I mean he was like my grandson and and we just had that relationship, right? I'd known this gal since she was a little girl. I mean uh now she's a a mum and taking care of this this boy and and we all knew where it was likely going. So I mean the day that uh he went to be with the Lord. But what sweet things. She's adopting three little boys right now. Within 18 months, two of them are brothers. Uh two of them are medical needs because she's PSC. She she but she wor has to work full time. She works like two twelve hour days, so she gets insurance then she takes care of those boys. And so we engage we're at a distance now, but but like on the anniversary of her son's death, she almost always come up to our house and and spend time with us. And Sorry. But but that's ministry, right? That's that's recognizing needs in your church, recognizing circumstances that people have, and then just the Lord uses who the Lord wants to use. But I think that's where game I think sometimes We can be so programmed in our ministry that that we just lose sight of the needs and opportunities around us. They're everywhere. They're just everywhere. And when we get kind of in a focus that my ministry is like Sunday morning Sunday school, or my ministry is Tuesday night or Wednesday night or whatever it is, then we tend not to look with clarity when those other times and other needs and other opportunities. And it's like, man, you guys, there's so many neat ways to minister to people. Um, but I I think we've sometimes failed to see 'em. Uh I I just want to say as it relates to the gender issue, you know, I mean things over the last ten, twenty years have just you know, they've snowballed quite f quickly. But but you guys know that that uh you don't have to worry about your kids. That is you you raise them you God is still in control. I mean I know our society and our culture is totally out of control, but God is not That is not out of control. And there's kinds of weird things going on. I mean, we know a man cannot become a woman, okay, and a woman cannot become a man. Okay, scientifically, no, the best the furthest you can get is a woman can become uh masculine and a man can become feminine, but you can't switch genders You just can't. Now the fact that people are pursuing those things is just a reminder of how lost people are and how desperate they are to try to find some satisfaction and meaning in life. And they're pursuing these bizarre avenues, and our culture is fostering it, and it's creating huge complexities in families. But you guys, at the end of the day It's just like a sign flashing, we need Jesus. Okay? And so don't get too caught. I mean people say I don't what's gonna happen to my kids? What's gonna happen? It's like God's still God. Love him and serve him. Trust him with your life. Trust him with your kids. Trust him with your grandkids. He can handle anything. No problem. What I need to be busy is recognizing is our world is on display with a neon sign. saying, we are so lost. And and they're so they're pursuing all these things. And you guys at the end of the day, they just need the gospel. We can get caught up in the politics. We can get caught up in all kinds of things and just waste our time. But at the end of the day, we need to pray for them. We need to seek opportunities to show the gospel, and we need to show them biblical love. And and you know what? I you know if you sin in this pattern versus this pattern, the bottom of the day you end up the end of the day you end up with the same problem. You're separated from a holy God And God can redeem that. And the truth is we've already seen so many people pursuing these paths looking for something ending up with suicides and just awful, awful things. Because it's you we know. You guys, everything that the world pursues to fill that need doesn't work It doesn't work. So we just need to recognize, you know what, as we see all of this stuff going on, there's going to be more opportunities for the gospel. Now as that happens, some people are going to respond to the gospel, and then more people are going to hate you. And and they're gonna hate you for what you stand for, and they're gonna say that you hate them, and they're gonna see you as the obstacle to world unity They're gonna say, I mean they the day that Christian the Christians are taken out of this world, I think the world's gonna say, God finally delivered us. That's I what I think they're gonna say. Now we can have world peace. All those obnoxious separatist people that were unwilling to love and are gone. I think the world would be thrilled with that, don't you? But you guys, that's our role. And and the darker the world gets, the brighter the light And I just think we need to be not so much concerned about the the reality of it and and be deeply concerned about how can I be the best witness for the gospel in the midst of it And just let God be God. Let him do what only he can. And and I think when Christians get all worried about it, it's like, hmm, why are you like that? Who is your God? Who is your God? He's doing fine. Got it all figured out. Any other questions? So when you come across the transgender, like I know in public schools you have to respect, you know, I was Michael, you know, last year in seventh grade and I'm, you know, Michelle in eighth You know, how would it say Christian do you acknowledge that or do you speak to it at all or do you you know, what would be the Christian response? I can't speak to everybody, of course in the church we're gonna we're gonna speak the truth and and and obviously have restrictions. You know, I think most probably have put things into their their constitutions and bylaws to protect the church that were gender specific and bathrooms and things like that that are really important. I think for families in in families there's going to be harder things. I mean the thing is, I uh because I would talk to somebody here that's hard they have that issue, you know, we're not gonna acknowledge that that is legitimate. Right. Okay? But we're not gonna be mean and hateful Either. I mean the truth is, you guys, if you didn't know Christ, what would you be like today? Well. You'd be lost for sure. I mean, you've heard me, you kind of see my personality. Think about it. Lost. It would be awful. It would be awful. And sometimes I think that we forget that sinners continue in their sin because they're blind. They're blind and they need to hear the gospel and God to open those blind eyes. And so I I think that when we communicate, we want to communicate that, but we don't want to be hateful About it. It's like, well if somebody's a thief, I'm am I gonna treat 'em hateful? No, I want 'em to hear the gospel. And does it create some difficult dynamics that are are gonna cause offense? Yeah I mean I I'm not gonna let somebody come in my house and share a room as though they're husband and wife when they're two men. I'm not gonna do that, right? Because who do I have to honor first? God, and that means uh I've gotta say no. But that's not mean, frankly, it's loving to tell people the truth as long as I do it in a spirit of Christian love, compassion, and concern for them And so it but i it does create there are families that are facing very, very complicated times. Hmm. Travelers that don't We have upgraded, but anybody that wants peanut butter jelly, we always have it. I I really do more real cheese now. But we can we can even add to that. Yeah. Yeah. So so uh you gotta give us runtime but literally if you wanted to come to Colorado we're s we're south And then uh you from the springs, I'm two hours from Colorado Springs drive, three hours from Denver. And uh literally you drive it's just okay, flatlanders you drink lots of water before you come because we are high We don't want you get sick. Altitude. Okay. But uh if you gave me runtime and you wanted to come up, you know, like looking next summer or something like that, we'd we'd schedule a time and and put you up. You can hike whatever mountain you want up there. Go fishing up there. Chase bears, if you would like. Every now and then they wander into the yard, but we have two big German shepherds, it's not a problem. Mountain lions, you're on your own. Um we haven't talked at all about like a activities um which I'm sure in the course of your ministry you've probably done hundreds of uh all kinds of activities. Um what have you found to be uh kind of the more effective types and and I'm not just talking about camps, but even service activities. Yeah, uh, yeah. So Yeah, I do like having fun. So I do enjoy the kids and I enjoy the activities. And there's some things that we do just have fun, like dodgeball, you know, d Doctor Dodgeball or the different uh kind of dodgeball games. Some of those are You know, I it's just fun. You know, they're just things the kids have fun with and I I have fun and I'll be honest, I've thrown the ball opposite arm so many years, it doesn't matter which arm I throw it with. After a while you can get just get good either way. And uh now I'd throw something out if I did it. But uh but when it comes to the the overall program of youth ministry. So I would normally do non-traditional camps because I could do them cheaper, I could involve more kids, and I would be more in control. And so that meant if I went sayed in the church and and took his skiing or something. You know where I could take 'em and I could do it where we could include as many kids as possible. Uh uh plus I like that personal time. I didn't particularly like taking a group and joining with a bunch of other groups because it was too hard to spend the time with the kids that I had. I I would go with like one other group where I knew that youth pastor, usually I had been that youth pastor's youth pastor. That's so I knew them I knew them really well and we could spend time and we come out here to Okoe. What is the river? There's some rafting rivers. And down in South Carol is down for the south, I don't know. There's some rivers we come out to and we do like class five rafting and stuff like that. But we would do those kind of things 'cause we could do them reasonable priced if we camped and, you know, did things uh maybe less traditional. And then we would always use one of our guys to speak or somebody that we really knew well because we're trying to develop those relationships and rapport and so we would design everything for that. I'd love to take groups to Mexico. I do it all the time. But you guys, South Lake, where Countryside Bible Church is, it wasn't always like this when the church was originally built, but it grew up into an extremely uh wealthy area. You know, like Pat Summeral, the late Pat Summerl lived down the road. Okay? I mean, when you drive by the houses it's like that's not possible. Just massive in the sports guys, you know, twenty thousand foot homes, thirty thousand foot homes and stuff like that. It just kinda grew up in that area. Now everybody that comes to that church is not wealthy like that. There's a whole variety folks. But I'd take 'em to Mexico. We'd drive down there and then I mean I remember it's so I found an orphanage down there where we could stay on the floors, take sleeping bags. We'd get there and it'd be nice. And it's hard enough crossing the border. I mean, it's complicated. And then we get down there and turn on the light and the bugs would go and the kids would be gone, whoa I mean 'cause some of these kids, you know, camping is like if you did a motel six Okay. There are bugs everywhere. I said just be glad when the light came on they left. Could be worse. But I would I could do that because it was cheaper to take them down there, obviously long ways from here, but I could help them to see what most of the world lives like And we could go down and serve orphans, we could go down and serve in churches down there, and we develop relationships and so we could do some pastoral training and things like that. I think engaging the kids in missions, you can do that locally to get kids to go down and understand there are people that are hungry. And I get that there's a subculture that intentionally lives on the streets. But there are some people that that they're not intentional. Life has taken some very hard turns and and to help our kids engage in those kind I would look for those kind of things. But then I would do some things that were just fun and exciting and dynamic that it was just neat for I mean I've taught I don't even know how many people I've taught to snow ski. And uh man that's fun. They wipe out the we would have so much fun. Oh, I think you could do this, Hill. Yeah, I guess not. And and we're such that I mean honestly we always had somebody designated to go to the hospital. We did. And we used them. But but we r I I mean I I just did things that we could enjoy. But we teaching would always be a part of what we did. And and it would always be designed where we could kind of spend time, get to know each other, have fun, play games, be wild. I mean Kind of mixed up kind of stuff. But I do think, you know, when you spend time with kids and you just have fun with them, it can just build rapport. You know, because they those guys I mean I you guys would be great. I mean look at that. You can get a we can get kids with you. You can knock 'em across the room. But they like that, right? A lot of those guys they like getting out there and goo doing that goofing off and things and I mean we did go over the top on some 'cause I had a really rough group at one time. Point and big. Oh my word. So we played a game called Glow in the Dark Football. And we got in a room like this and turned out all the lights and sealed all the windows, and the only thing you could see was the football That was it. And you put one group on one side and one on the other. And you couldn't throw it. You could hand it, but you couldn't throw it. You just had to get it to the other wall. We actually put it in the middle to start And you say go. I mean you can't even see who's coming. You're running and you're seeing that ball and you're trying to go and then you hear this That was one of those games that finally calmed our group down because I remember some big guys walking off going, man, I'm not doing that no more. Those guys are nuts. We we okay. You you wanna hear another fun one that you probably can't do today anymore without getting in trouble? We used to take a clear plastic hose about this long. And then take an egg and crack it. Put that egg down in there. Just put a kid on either side and say, Go And it just blow. And that's a lot of pressure, so if you try to do this it goes Woom You don't want to take a breath. That's awful. I better quit, I'm gonna get in trouble. There was a day you know, when I started we didn't have to wear seatbelts, right? Okay, so life has changed a lot Anyways. Yeah, we did have fun. So okay, anyway, any other serious questions? David. during your lesson and you ask someone to read and they're all looking around at each other and they don't want to read or answer questions. Is there a good way to interact have them interact? Yeah, well okay, first of all, I personally would not ask a kid to read in a class unless I talk to him ahead of time. Okay, that's just that's just personal. Yeah. Then if you have that kind of a problem, I would change the dynamic so up a little bit. The reason I wouldn't have 'cause I had a son that had some learning challenges. Somebody would ask him to read in the class, y you know, he would just die. Now I'm no you're not saying that. You're not pointing at somebody. Some people do. They'll say we're just I was in fact I was in an adult Sunday school class in a church two or three weeks ago and in the adult Sunday school class, they just started having everybody read around and I'm thinking, that's dicey. I mean that's just dicey. You you can really make somebody embarrassed when you do that. I I would tend then if you kinda have that awkwardness is to try to build some rapport with the kids, get to know them, and then say, Hey, this Sunday, would you mind if I ask you just to read this one verse? And because otherwise if you kind of get in that if it already starts where you have that habit where you ask and and it kind of becomes kind of their social norm, if you will, that Everybody hesitates. But if you get a couple of kids on board and just talk to them ahead of time or say, Hey, would you mind next week if we did that? If we you know, and just talk to 'em personally. I don't want to embarrass you and make you awkward and and just kind of work it up to that. I think you probably could could get there. Because it is once you start that anybody and nobody does, it's hard to overcome that inertia. Yeah. I have a question. Yes, sir. Can you uh share your uh practical music on how you tell students to those who have clear understanding of the gospel intellectually But they would say always, but my salvation I'm not hundred percent sure. Yeah, but they've heard the gospel but they they continue to declare that they're unsure. Yeah, they articulate the gospel clearly. Yeah, so so it's a good question. So here's what there's sometimes a Your parents say, you know, my my my child's profess Christ or whatever, but I'm not sure. I wonder if they are. And I tell them, Well, if every time they do something wrong you begin to question whether they're saved, that's not gonna help. Right. So when somebody says that Well let me just ask you, so with clarity, have you repented of your son? And if they say yes. Then do you believe that Christ is who he is, the only one who can save you, the Savior, your substitute? Yes. Well, that's what's required. The evidence now is that Christ says, if you're in him, you uh the Ephesians 2 ten, your is workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. I would go to the Philippians two, I think it's eleven and twelve or twelve and thirteen, where where it talks about uh work out your salvation with fear and trembling for his God who is at work and you both are willing to work for his good pleasure. That you have man giving a hundred percent effort, God accomplishing his eternal work. Okay? And I'd say so now, here's the truth Okay? You need to quit thinking about am I, am I not, because if you've repented and believed, then let's just start you on a course of obedience All right? So we need to get you in the word and and we need to get on a pattern and then we need to start talking about a place where you can start serving in the church and you need to be accomplishing. And at the point you just determine you don't want to do that then that's a demonstration that you don't believe. Because that is what happens in the life of a person who comes to faith. But let's quit. Because I think sometimes people will just keep that little thing going and it's like You're just avoiding moving on. I mean if you're in Christ, let's get busy. And if you're not, let's deal with reality. But but it's not, let me I come to faith now, I wait to see how I feel, what this looks like. Now you you start moving forward and serving. And then if a guy just doesn't want to do that, then there's a problem. You know, there's a there's a problem as far as their their unwillingness to submit because the truth is when you come to faith that is submission, right? I recognize my ways wrong, God's way is right. Uh so even with parents who wonder, kid really say to I tell them, don't keep bringing that up Because you'll make a kid crazy. Because you'll really you you kinda teach him that you can feel saved when you're doing right and when you're not, you have to always question your salvation. And I don't think that's a good pattern. I think there's a place for that But a way to tell parents, if your child that professed Christ, best you know they're in Christ, obviously only know God knows, then teach him how to live as a Christian. Just keep teaching them how to live as a Christian. And at some point, if they've really never come to understand the gospel, that's going to reveal that to them And they'll be able to come to Christ. But if they're in Christ, they will begin to learn and grow and and and mature in their faith Uh so just keep teaching them what it looks like. And and they might even come to a point where it's to say, I'm not sure and they and then you can review it. But if a parent I've had parents that it's like It's like, well I think they are. Well I'm not sure they are now. Well I think they are. It's like, can you imagine if every time you sinned you thought like that? It'd be awful, because we are a mess So I think that's the amazing part of salvation, that God would forgive us past, present, and future sins. So related to that. Yeah, good good question. So there's a judgment call here. So no, I'm not saying thus saith the Lord. Okay? But I I would say with baptism you have to be careful. I mean I know some people at the point, you know, you express fight, you're going in the tank. Okay? And and uh uh In in many cultures with baptism, when you're baptized, I mean to tell you what, you're gonna be alienated from family and friends and things like that. I mean it's that level of demonstration commitment. Our culture is not like that. And and Is y with kids, especially young kids, it's kind of hard to know, you know, because oftentimes they want to please their mom and dad And it's just hard to know level of understanding as they come to faith. Can they come to understand the side? Of course they can. But an awful lot of kids It's pretty superficial because we see that later in life when we're dealing with people and then they're saying, you know, I thought I came to know the Lord when I was five, but I I don't really think that my life didn't change. I didn't really know and understand and what are they so I think you want to be careful. I think it's helpful to give them time to just show their love for the Lord that it's not just pleasing mom and dad. And and so I think a lot of churches will wait till they get in that junior high-ish or high school-ish. I'm not saying you have to do that. I'm just saying it's it that's one of those events that's supposed to be a one-time event, baptized, and then you live on with the Christian life. Uh and so I I I would just want to be careful and and some kids may be mature enough that younger you feel confident and you have to make that call and the church leadership has to make that call and I'm I'm fine with that. Uh you see I think with communion see communion is the thing that happens more regularly. You know, it's not just a one time event And so um some churches would be a a little more casual with communion because Uh it's not like you do it once and that's it. I still think you need to have a really clear testimony from your kid though, and from me with my boys before I would let 'em participate in communion, they had to explain to me the different uh elements and and and responsibilities in communion. They had to ex they had to tell me You know what exactly was gonna happen. You know what's the juice represent? What what's the bread represent? Uh What does it mean to examine yourself? You know, it talks about proclaiming the Lord's death. They had to be able to talk through all of those with me and tell me what they meant. Because if they can't do that Probably a little early. But when they could do that with clarity and explain those things to me, I I was fine with them. taking communion at at that point. I mean obviously they'd give clear testimony of faith. But I I beyond that I wanted them to be able to be very clear what everything happened in communion was about and that they could speak it. So that's just what I did. But uh those are decisions churches make that are kind of and there really are different, you know, people land different places with those things. So just some thoughts. Okay. Anything else? You all have been great. Thanks for coming today. I know some of you got quite a long drive going back, so hope that goes well. And uh hope you have just fruitful ministries. Enjoy. It's a privilege Just a privilege, then remember that voice that our Lord says that, you know, we keep watch over their souls as those who will give an account. And we want to take that relief. with responsibility. You may just close in prayer, Gabe. Let me pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for our time. Thank you for each one that's come here today. For their love for you, their desire to serve you, to please you. Lord, I know each one comes from a different context, different family, different Set of circumstances, I just pray that by your grace they would individually continue to grow in their walk with you and their love for you Lord, I pray that you give them wisdom that's from above, a wisdom that will allow them to accomplish your work for your glory in the lives of other people. I pray in this life that you would allow them to bear much fruit for your glory. Lord, when the challenges of life come, when the opposition, when the suffering comes, I pray that you'd sustain them. And I pray that they would remain steadfast in your truth. And Lord, I pray that in the darkness of life, I pray that they would remain steadfast testimonies of your grace. And Lord, I just pray that until that day that you come or you take us home, that they would just remain faithful to your cause for your glory. Lord, we look forward to the time when when we can be in your presence, we don't have to discuss the challenges of sin. We can simply Enjoy your glory and being able to uh to worship you in purity. We look forward to that in Christ's name. Amen.