I want to uh hit a couple of subjects and get to some of the counseling issues. And so one of them just has to do with recruiting leaders. Uh I I'm I'm just totally opposed to a come one, come all and help us with the youth group. Okay? I I'm just Totally opposed to that. I'll be honest with you. I think the church ought to put its best leaders in the youth ministry. Youth, middle school, high school, college, because those are the people that are in those critically formative years That's when they can make life decisions. And I I just believe that we ought to put our best teachers, our our faithful workers, committed Christians. I I think it's huge. And so if you're in that position where you're involved in recruiting leadership, my rule of thumb is it's always easier to get somebody in Than it is to get them out. Now in my world, I'm going to be responsible for both. Okay? And I'll like the second one So I'm really careful with the first one. And and you guys I I mean I think that that there ought to be a very careful process that determines if somebody comes into the youth group to serve And so the question is, so would I do I want parents to be youth leaders? Maybe. And maybe not. Okay? And so, because not all parents are walking with the Lord. And parents don't always want to come in because they want to serve the Lord. Right? And I need to know why they want to come in. And you say, okay, now that's getting kind of dicey, right? Yeah That's part of protecting the flock. That's part of shepherding people. You've got to be willing to deal with hard situations. Now parents who love the Lord that are coming in to minister to the kids, not just watch their own might be a real gift to the ministry. But parents that are coming in because they don't like what you do and they have another way, or what da-da-da-da, you know what? They're gonna wear you out. And so I think it's always easier to go slow. Make sure you have Very specific guidelines for people who come and serve in your ministry. And frankly, the clearer you are on the front end, the better you are as you go through the process So if a parent comes in and says, hey, you want some parents to work under Yesco? I said, maybe. And they look at me kind of funny. And it's like, well obviously that doesn't work with everybody. I'd love to sit down and talk to you. And then I'll ask him, tell me, why would you want to come in? But then I want to know about their spiritual display. I want to know what their spiritual priorities are. Okay? And he's saying, yeah, but you're old and you can do that. Okay, since you mentioned that. So here's how life has gone for me. I'm uh 63 years old now. I was 18. Just get to my 19th year when I started working with youth and went through internships and stuff like that. So this is my experience. When I was young in youth ministry and single, there were certain parents who would say you just can't understand because you don't have kids But not all of them, but there were some. And then I got married and I had kids. And then there were some parents that would say, um Yeah, but your children are too young, so you can't really understand what we go through with our teenagers in school. Okay? Then my kids got older. They became teenagers. They were in the youth group. Yeah, but your family's just different. Then they graduate. And then there's some parents that say But things have changed since your time. There's some parents no matter what. I'm just telling you. And it's not a reflection of your age. Okay? And so, but there's some parents that will and be grateful for your input. But when I was young, because it's like, how do I overcome The fact that I am young, I don't have teams, but I want to impart the truth of God's word to people that sometimes, and back many times will be older than me. Because you really don't have a good youth ministry if you're not also ministering to the parents, okay, at some level. And so these verses are verses that I've memorized at that time, and I would commend them to you, especially if you're young, which is almost everybody in this room. In Psalm 119, 97 to verse 105, it begins with, Oh how I love your law, it's my meditation all the day. And you guys it starts there. That if you want to lead and lead well, God's word has to be your meditation all the day. Continues, your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever mine. In other words, because God's word is so prominent in my life and such a priority, it gives me the ability then to deal with those who would even oppose me. It says, I have more insight than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the aged because I have observed your precepts. I have restrained my feet from every evil way that I may keep your word. I have not turned aside from your ordinances, for you yourself have taught me How sweet are your words to my taste, yes sweeter than honey to my mouth. From your precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false wife. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. How that passage helped me Is this not a the the focus is not, well I want to be smarter and big, you know, it's that God I want to be wise with your wisdom to minister to your people in a way that's honorable to your holy name. And God is making it clear. This is not an issue of your age it it really has to do with your biblical priorities because you can minister to people of varied ages If you're learning and growing in God's word and you minister God's word to them. Now, I would say that as You know, as I've grown older, there are things that I would counsel now that I wouldn't have counseled when I was 25 years old. Okay? I would I would and I'll talk about that in a minute. You know, I would refer and get help and speak other wisdom But I mean in just the normal ministry to people, adults, parents, kids, whatever, I just knew that the Word of God had to be such a priority in my heart and mind So that as I ministered to people, regardless of their age, I was ministering the truth of God's word, that it was that kind of a priority. And I think it's important to keep that in mind. And so So on one hand with with leaders recruiting leaders, folks, in your church, you've got to have some leadership to work on a you know what's what's really required of somebody to come in. Honestly, I'd rather get to know somebody somebody's new, and I'm not going to bring somebody in that I don't know. I'd rather spend a few months or a year, get to know them, spend time with them and all, because uh I mean to me uh I just The kids that I'm working with with are they're pretty precious to me. And and I I want people to come in that are gonna love them with the love of God and are going to be committed to high standards, then the truth is there are people that want to work in youth ministry because it's fun, because of the activities, because of the camps, because those things are all neat things, but that's not why I want them And and you can get people that want to come in and work and serve in the ministry that just are not spiritually mature people. And that's that you don't need that. And you don't want that because ultimately it's uh it's counter And then let me just say that I do think if you're working with youth in your leadership capacity, I know we have a lot of volunteers here. But you can have a ministry to the parents. Okay? You can have a ministry to the parents. And that might be sometimes having a parents be maybe you bring in somebody else, bring your pastor in, bring an elder in. or somebody. Maybe it's you instruct. Maybe it's you doing part of it and then one of the other church leaders doing part of it. But you guys, for those that are parents here, you know it's hard. I mean it it it's hard and and it and hearing from the people that are working with your kids could be hopeful and hearing about their love and And having a relationship. So if the parents are struggling, they feel comfortable talking to you and say, could you you know could you help us out? We're not sure what to do. And and so I know that when you do parents' meetings, a lot of times the parents that you wish would come don't. Nonetheless, for those that come, I think you can benefit them and you can help have them partner in prayer with you and and do things that are useful because I I do think there's that danger of of kind of the the youth being such a separate entity from the church that it's like the only one the only people that really know what's going on are the youth leaders and the kids. And by involving the parents more, I think it can I think it can be helpful. And you let them know if you're prayer and they'd be there to support them, you want to hear from them, and and uh uh you you just don't want to hide from them And and I don't think that you need to. I think there are many parents that really appreciate the involvement of adults, people willing to be committed to their kids. And it's nice that they know who you are and have access to you. With that, it makes you vulnerable. Okay? And so I I get the world where you know parents mad, mad, mad at you for whatever reason. And I can commiserate with you or that's my I told some folks that is my cell phone on that business card back there. You can always call for text Seven times we can call. Because I I mean I know what it's like to give have somebody coming at you and not very happy, but you still gotta say, Lord now, how do I handle this wisely? How do I honor you? How do I fulfill your purposes. And so some people because of their they're scared of parents, they avoid them. And I I just think that's a bad idea. the church. I think it's better to get to know each other. We're doing activity at some point where everybody, kids and parents, can come together. Just you know you can think through creative ways to build bridges. I think that can be helpful Any questions on that? I'm going to move into some counseling next. So So a young man comes to you and he's been exposed to pornography. Average age today, I think, is somewhere in the eight years old. I don't know. It's awful. Just awful. And so he comes and maybe his parents caught him. Okay or stuff on his phone or whatever device that you can look at things that are not good. So they bring them to you and say, uh, this is what happened and and you know, truthfully, because I I'd have people, you know, wives drag their husbands in and all of that and you know they come in, it's pretty unhappy moment, right, in the office Just in case anybody's wondering. I mean I every now and then somebody would come down and they obviously one of them would be really mad and didn't want to be there and they'd sit down in my office and I'd be sitting there and and one of them would say But I just want you to know that I I really don't want to be sure. And I say, be truthful I don't either. But since we're here, why don't we try to make some progress? Because we're all pretty uncomfortable right now I mean that's the truth. You want to sit in my office close. It's not very pleasant sometimes. But the issue is how do you help somebody gain victory? How do you help them develop patterns of life that protect their minds? Because everybody in this room has been exposed at some level to something that plagues your mind. Maybe you're a warrior. Maybe you have anxiety, maybe you have anger, maybe it's morality. It could be anything. Every person here has a struggle with your mind. Everyone And so how is it that we learn to think consistently in a way that's honoring to the Lord? And so in James 1, 13 to 15, it says, let no one say when he is tempted I'm being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then when lust is conceived, he gives birth to sin. And when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Folks, I mean ultimately sin begins and progresses in the mind, right? So so at some point, maybe uh somebody says something unkind to you, and then what happens to your mind? You should think about that Think of what they said or how they said it. You know your mind just starts turning on that, right? And it turns, it turns. Well the longer it turns, the bigger trouble you're going to get into because the progression here Is that it that fosters until eventually it is how you express yourself. It's how you live. If you refuse to let your mind dwell on that then you wouldn't go down that road. But you guys, we tend to let our minds dwell on that. As miserable as it can make us. So I have a granddaughter, she done it. And when it's time to eat, there was a period of months where no matter what you put on a plate, she didn't like it. Even though she did like it You know, it's just like weird. And so her parents, yeah, you know, crying, uh, take a spank it, uh, you know, food, no, uh, back, spank it, uh, it'll be just like this is like miserable And then finally she put the food in her mouth. But she wouldn't chew it. We're sitting there, this is pleasant. You know? And we all look at that and we say, that is totally irrational. I mean she's making herself absolutely miserable. I get it if it's what she didn't like, but it wasn't. It's just stubbornness And she's making herself most miserable, but she's contributing to all of our misery, except some of us. But you guys I use that in counseling all the time. You know that? Like it. Thanks for welcome. But you guys, here's the deal. Sin gets nurted in our minds. And as long as you allow your mind to spin You're heading for trouble. And I'll have people come in and they'll say, Rock, I just can't stop it. It keeps coming. It keeps coming. I'll say, then you're not in Christ. Because Christ makes a provision. So let me help you understand what the provision is so that you can use it, because that's what people need. So are you familiar with the verse, 1 Corinthians 10, 13? No. No temptation? Mistaken? Do you know the verses prior to it, Ar? Let me read it to you, because it's interesting. So First Corinthians ten, beginning in verse one. For I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that our fathers were all live in the cloud, all passed through the sea, all were baptized into Moses, in the cloud and The sea, all ate the same spiritual food, all drink the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock which followed them. And the rock was Christ. Okay, so what he's saying is, listen, they all had the same spiritual exposure. They all saw the same things. And it makes it clear. And Christ Himself was with them. And then it says, nevertheless, With most of them, God was not well pleased, for they were laid low in the wilderness. And then it gives examples. Now these things happened as examples for us so that we would not crave evil things as they also craved Do not be idolaters as some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drinks, fit us to play, nor let us act immorally, as some of them did, and 23,000 fellows what they Nor let us try the Lord, as some of them did, grumbling, and were destroyed by the serpents. Nor grumble, as some of them did. Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction upon whom the ends of the ages have come. Therefore, let him who thinks he stands take heed that he does not fall. No temptation is taken But it's just this common demand. Now you guys in this context, how many people took the way of escape? Almost none. Okay? That's the point he's making, is that with Israel, they had the same spiritual opportunities Nonetheless, with most of them, God was not well pleased. Because even though God provides the avenue for us Most people would rather live in their miserable, sinful condition. And so they choose their own way. Even though it ruins their life, it makes other people miserable, they continue doing the same thing. And so with that context, let me just walk you through some verses that I think are helpful to teach people so that they can get victory. In Ephesians 4, 17 and following. It says, so this I say and affirm together with the Lord that ye walks no longer just as the Gentiles also walk in the futility of their mind, being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them. Because of the hardness of their heart, they have be have they, having become callous, have given themselves over to sensuality, to the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. Now, we don't have a lot of time, so I'm sorry for that. The point is, Christians shouldn't think like unbelievers. That's what he's saying. We're not darkened in our understanding. We don't have that futility of the mind. Christians are not supposed to think in the same way that unbelievers think. And then it goes on to explain in verse 20, you did not learn Christ in this way If indeed you have heard him and have been taught in him, just as truth is in Jesus, that in reference to your former manner of life you lay aside the old self, which is being corrupted in accordance with the less of deceit. And then it says, and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind. You guys, the mind is the pivot point here, right? You have to be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And you guys you see that throughout Scripture, right? Romans 12, 1 and 2. It talks about being transformed by what? The renewing of your mind. Colossians 3, 1 and 2, what's it talk about? Set your mind on things above. You guys, this is going on. We have that unredeemed flush in some part. The mind is it contributes for that that our minds can dwell on things that lead us right down the tank. And so it says, but we're supposed to be renewed in the spirit of our mind. And when we're renewed in our mind how we think, the result is we put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness to be truth. Therefore, laying aside falsehood, and watch this, this is now the putting off the putting on. Lay aside falsehood, and then it gives the opposite. Speak truth to one of each one of you with his neighbor who are members of one another. Be angry, but don't sin. And there's an appropriate place for anger. But you guys, that's really clearly defined in scripture that has to do with God being a holy God and a righteous God. Our anger is often about You may not. And so it's going to get there. It says don't give the devil an opportunity. He who steals, you don't steal any longer. What do you do? You labor performing with your own hands what is good So that you can share with somebody else. Because I think my experience is that many Christians who come for counseling, they're willing to work at putting off, but they are not willing to work at putting on You cannot have biblical victory if you're unwilling to put off and then put on. Because see, the putting on now is pursuing righteousness. When he says, Don't steal, he doesn't just say don't steal. No, work and work hard enough that you have extra so that you can give it away Well see, a lot of people say, well, I'm trying not to look at it, I'm trying not to think about it, I'm trying to- Well, no, no, no, it's not just doing that, it's putting off. But then you as a Christian have to pursue righteousness with your whole heart. And we'll talk about how do you begin and work through that process. He goes on, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for advocation, according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. See that Don't let unwholesome words, but what? Have the right words. So when I'm especially doing marriage counseling, says, I'll say, you know, you've heard uh if you can't say anything good, don't say anything at all. You think that's true? No, that's awful. If you can't say anything good, get on your knees, repent of your sins, stand up, and speak what is kind and gracious and appropriate to the moment. Well we don't like the putty long part, right? Because that's kind of you gotta humble yourself. You gotta deal with your own sin versus dealing with somebody else's sin. So they're putting on. Sometimes we grate against that. It goes on and it says Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you are sealed to the day of redemption. I think it's interesting that that verse is inserted here because it seems like it's It's in a strange place because we're going to go back to putting off and putting off. I I do think there's a reminder here, but listen, if you're in Christ, if you're in Christ Do what's right. Do what's right. I mean, he he he transformed you, he regenerated you so that you can put on righteousness So you gotta put off, but you gotta put on. And then he goes on, let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. And then here we go, put on. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other. just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. In either case there's other key verses. Romans 13, 14, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Make no provision for the flesh in regard to its loss. But y so here's an interesting deal for you. So so I get to make no provision for the flush, right? So so that if you have been going places you shouldn't go, you can go with different routes and And you know if you have problems with technology, you can put protective stuff on it. You can get rid of things. There's a lot of things you can do in and putting off. But let me tell you something interesting. So when I meet with somebody who's got uh a pretty serious habitual sin It could be alcohol or it could be whatever. And I'll say to them, okay, before you take a drink, or before you look at something or go somewhere that you shouldn't. Would you make one commitment to me that before you do it, you'll call me? And I'm going to beat you up I'm just going to try to help you and encourage you. But would you could you just make that one commitment that before you do it, when you're in the throes of the temptation and this of real struggle, would you commit to just call me? And if I don't answer You be I I will get back to you as quickly as I can. Would you do that? And you know they almost always say yes. You know how many people have made that phone call? Zero. Zero. I've counseled scores of people. Zero. And you know what it typically is when they come back in? I said, why didn't you go? I just didn't want to interrupt your schedule. That's a lie. That's a lie. You didn't call me because you wanted to sin and you didn't care about God or anybody else You did what you wanted. That's the truth. Guys, those are hard things, but see, you can't just try to put off and not put on You've got to do the whole package. That's where victory is. And I think the hard part about counseling is people come in with issues and what they need is simply biblical discipleship, learning to put on righteousness But oftentimes that's not what they want. They just want this problem fixed. It's the problem's not fixed until you begin becoming who God wants you to be It's not just trying not to sin, it's learning to live righteously. It's learning to pursue God with all of your heart. The mind plays such a critical role. So I alluded to Romans 12-2, when it says, be not conformed to the world. but be transformed by the renewing of your mind or caution, set your mind on things above. I talked earlier about Philippians 4. 8, what several things are true on all right, although they could review any excellence think on these things. In Psalm 119, verses 9 and 11, 9211. He says, how can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping it according to your word. With all my heart I have sought you. Do not let me wander from your commandments. Then it says, your word I treasured in my heart that I might not sin against you. Psalm 19, I just love that chapter. Because it it helps us understand what it looks like for a person who truly loves God and loves his word. It's a passionate love. You know, when you talk about treasuring something in your heart, you guys, it's it's more important. You'll let anything else go before you let that go. We live in a culture, it's like we've got to convince them to let something go so you have a little more time so you can at least read the Bible. It's like, no, no, no, that's not the picture here. Picture here is I'm willing to let anything go to make sure I can spend the time I need to to get to know the God that I love. In 2 Timothy 3. 16, it says all scriptures inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training, and righteousness. So that the man of God may be adequate and equipped for every good work. I mean, God's word provides everything that we need to be all that God intends us to be. The thing that I think is missing in Christian disciplines today, in many circles, in the same issue, I'm just saying I think it's generally a concern, is the idea of biblical meditation. So in Psalm 1. 2, it talks about the man who is like a tree by streams of water that's growing and bearing fruit. It says, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. In Psalm 119, 48 it says, and I shall lift up my hands to your commandments, which I glove, and I will meditate on your statutes. In verse 97, I read earlier, Oh how I love your law, it's my meditation all the day. In Joshua 1. 8, it says, This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. So that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have success. So here's the deal. How do you meditate day and night? Because I think oftentimes people read those verses and they they just they go past them like it's impossible. I mean how do you meditate day and night? Because I think that's the missing discipline, and I think the effect of it has been really traumatic because I think the lack of understanding as it relates to biblical meditation has fostered sin patterns that people are not able to gain victory over. And so they don't end up serving God as they should. I think the lack of biblical meditation means that people are going about their days, just living life during their day without any awareness of the divine opportunities that God has for them in that given day because they're not thinking about spiritual things in the course of the day So I mean I'm not gonna I'm asking a question, but I'm not asking you an answer. So so like on Monday you start your day and you now you have school, you have meetings, you've got work, you've got this, and you go to that And we plan all of this stuff and do all of these things. Because without biblical meditation, we can get to Friday and not make have made one significant spiritual impact a whole week Now he must recognize that you know that guy that I was just meeting with for business actually was an opportunity to share the gospel We can live our lives. That's why I say it that surely God has divine opportunities for us every day of our lives. Every day. That's why He left us here But you guys, if you're not practicing biblical meditation, then you're likely not prepared For the opportunities for you because you've done your day, whatever you had on your schedule. And it's fine to plan what you have on your schedule, but it all has to be with an awareness that God may have spiritual plans, and in fact surely does in the course of your day, in the opportunities that come your way. And so so how do you learn to practice biblical meditation? Keep in mind that biblical meditation, let's take a simple, you know, John 3. 16 So if if I just wanted to focus on John 3. 16, because I doubt that most people have actually meditated on John 3. 16, because we just know it too well. But we probably don't know it near as well as we think. Okay? So but I'm guessing most of you in this room have memorized John 316. And so if you're going through today, and let's say I'm going to the day and I see something and it's like that's not a good place for my mind to go, God forgive me for that, then I just grab John 316 And I began forgot so about the world. And I stopped and I thanked. Where do I see in Scripture God's love for the world? What are the things that would just remind me in the Bible of God's love for the world? What are some things that come to your mind? God so loved the world The creation? The creator? I mean you guys what a neat place. I mean I know there's lots of issues here. There's some pretty neat things and the beauty of the creat. I mean it just sweet, neat things, God's kindness. What are other things? The kindness that somebody does to you randomly? Yeah, be the kindness of other people. I'm gonna you gotta get engaged on this one. We're gonna stay here for a little bit. God's provision. Just God's provision. Yeah. What else? I would just say people. People people are fascinated. Yeah. Well that I was thinking friendships and relationships. Friendships, relationships Think of God's patience toward mankind. That's so lovely. He's so that he gave his only son. And we start thinking about that. When when you think of that, what do you think of? So you think the cross? The cross, yeah. I think of, can you imagine, I mean I I can imagine God, the eternal God, coming to earth and taking on the body of a baby Not only that, but Isaiah 53 is so clear that not even a body that man would be inclined to look at or care about. I mean we could be creative with how you could come and really scare people But he came to the temple. You guys, could you just begin to think through John 3. 60? I'll be honest, you wouldn't exhaust that verse in your lifetime. But if I'm struggling, something comes to my mind, and I grab a verse like that, I mean literally, I can just start walking through that he gave his only begotten son. And then I would think of, man, Romans 5 that while I was a enemy Christmas. And I would just think of the grace that he was only saying that whoever should believe in him. Then I would I would begin to pray, God, thanks that you allowed me the privilege to know you and to believe in And I would start thanking God for the people that I know that have come to faith and I'd pray for them. And then I might start thinking of the people that I know that are not in Christ and begin to pray for them. We're talking about biblical meditation He gave his only son, whoever would believe in him. And then I might think of God and what what role should I play? And who should I talk to? And then maybe there's somebody today that I'm going to run into that needs God. You guys, but see, you know what I'm doing? You ever notice that you could read a chapter of the Bible and get done and not know what you read? You ever done that? Most of us have. Probably both Biblical meditation forces your mind to seriously think through the truth of Scripture in the most practical of ways. Because when you're going through scripture, you're focusing your attention on the truths of God's word. Then you're thinking about them in relationship with the whole scripture, and you're praying to God, interacting with God. Because when you're doing that You can't be thinking those other thoughts. You can't do them. And so essentially you're training your mind to go to God's word. And so that it becomes a provision. So maybe I'm walking through today. Maybe you have a problem with anxiety. Pretty soon you start feeling that well-up in your heart or anger or whatever it's like that's forgive me for having such thoughts Then I might take a verse like 1 Corinthians 15, 58, therefore my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you have your labor is not vain And I start thinking, what does it look like to be said last? What does it look like to and I begin to think through scripture and I think of people in scripture that demonstrated that and I think people that I know today that demonstrated that I've prayed for, but you see what I'm doing? I'm refusing to allow my mind to be in the pit. So here's the deal. You say, how can a person meditate day and night? Here's how. If every time you're tempted to think wrong, You pull the scripture the same verse, different verse, a passage, a theme, that you begin to meditate on it? And you do it every time you're tempted to think wrong You're gonna meditate day and night. You will. I'm telling you, you will You will. And what does it do? So that temptation that at one point kept leading you down to sin, to sin, to sin, and you thought the temptation was your greatest enemy Well God says temptations come at all them, folks. It's not going away until you hit the grave. But it's it can be an impetus to set your mind on the things above And so if every time you're tempted to think wrong, you say, God, forgive me that my mind would go that way, and you grab scripture and you begin to work through it and you begin to pray You guys, it will allow you to enjoy victory. It will allow you to be alert to spiritual opportunities for the day. It will change how you see people It will profoundly affect your life. But if you meditate, what's the goal? It's to put on. It's going to do the things that God wants you to do so that you guys should get it used to when you get in the car and you're going somewhere, that you you talk to your family, your spouse, whoever, you pray and you say, God, help me to be alert. I get these plans for today, but I don't know what your plans are. And you learn that that prayer is a daily part of your life. And maybe multiply times a day. And so the more you train yourself to meditate The more you're able to be obedient and put on righteousness, the more you're able to see people as God sees them. And then the more you're able to honor God with your mind. Now here's the deal. How hard is it to do biblical meditation? It's not very hard. Right? I mean it's not complicated, is it? It's not complicated. Yeah, it's enough structure. Well you have to be a believer and also You have to be in Christ. You have to be in Christ. Because it's the Spirit that gives us understanding. So you have to be in Christ. But you guys, beyond that, I'll be honest, it's not complicated And yet a lot of people tell not to do So why is that? Well it's like my granddaughter. I don't know, it's irrational. But sin is irrational. And the greater the pattern of sin you have, the more irrational you become. Because if you're in Christ, God has provided for you so that your mind can be set on things of God. But there are disciplines that are necessary in order to do that. And you guys, if it was complicated, we would all fail. But God has made it really so simple And so if you're dealing with kids that have gone through and they've been exposed to things, you can teach them. Teach them to memorize scripture. You guys, when we were in the Eucharist, we would memorize books of the Bible. Books. I remember one year I had a group memorized Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, and Colossians in one school year. Word perfect. Now I'm not saying everybody's got to do that. I'm just saying they have amazing potential. And not everybody can do that, but they can most all do quite a bit. And you get that word into them and then teach them what biblical meditation looks like. Teach them how to think on and to learn from and to pray and engage with the word in their mind and teach them how when temptation comes, how the word can replace those evil thoughts with God-honoring thoughts. And then can help them to be prepared for ministry opportunities if that brings their way. I'm stellarly liberating. So now the guy that says, I must have been tempted a thousand times yesterday didn't think wrong. I said, that's a thousand reminders to meditate on God's word. And if you did that every single time, think of how precious that would be in your life. Think how that would prepare you because ultimately the trials that come into their life are really to help us more like Christ. They become temptations when our evil minds begin going down this dark road But God provides a way of escape. It's through a love for His Word, desires for His Word, biblical meditation on His Word. And I'm just telling you, it's liberating Now let me say in the process of counseling, I'm not going to get too far into some of this, and some of you are are ACB trained and qualified of gay bus and you do this in in uh much more substantial ways. But I do want to just remind you that like repentance there's two kinds of repentance, okay, in in Second Corinthians 7 And in uh in 2 Corinthians 7 verses 8 through 11, uh Paul has written a really hard letter to the church because there were some hard things going on, and he says, I though I caught you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it Though I did regret it, for I see that that letter caused you sorrow though only for a while. I now rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to the point of repentance, for you were made sorrowful according to the will of God so that you might not suffer loss in anything through us. For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation, but the sorrow of the will produces death. And you know it talks about the sorrow according to the will of God and then the sorrow of the world. And so so if somebody comes in, brings uh somebody into my office that's been discovered in a sin pattern As a general rule, I can assure you they're sorry. At the very least, they're sorry that they're in my office. Or they're sorry that they got caught. But I I don't know if it's a worldly sorrow Or if it says sorrow according to the will of God. I because I can't see their heart. And and so uh when somebody comes in, I I want to help them understand that their greatest offense is against who? God. It's against God And you guys, a godly sorrow is when a believer or an unbeliever can come to faith through biblical repentance. But when they understand the offense that they've been to a holy God. And it it's a repentance that's that's grateful in that sense of being able to resolve and reconcile this sinful pattern And and you guys so a godly sorrow has everything to do with honoring God. But unfortunately in counseling, a lot of times, you know, people are sorry they're caught, they're sorry for the consequences, they're sorry for all kinds of things And and uh that's not sufficient to really change simple behavior. You know, at the end of the day, if a person's going to truly change they they have to deal with the issues before a holy God. And it is true that if a person just says, no, I just can't control my mind that dah dah dah dah, then that then I I really will tell them that then it's I mean Best I know then you're just not in Christ because we are freed from the bondage of sin. If you're a Christian, you are freed from the bondage, not from the battle But for the for the bondage. So God does provide the resources for us to walk in a way with pleasing. Now I'm going to go through just a number of guidelines. These are in the manual back, I think And um I think they all are. And so you can take a manual and get them out of there if you want. But these are just some basic things that I would always instruct our leaders with if they were going to be uh engaged in the ministry with their kids. And you guys counseling usually doesn't happen in office, right? It happens in the relationships that you have. You're talking to a kid, they ask you a question, and you're interacting. I mean that's when constantly normally happens. You're bringing hopefully to bear God's word in whatever life situations they bring up. So, although I beat this to death, I won't quit. If you're going to work with people and you're going to give answers to their life problems, you better be well versed in the scriptures. Right? Last thing you want to be saying is I think. Or you don't want to be the one that says something to somebody when they go to the pastor, they have to correct you Because you let them down the wrong road. And and one of my favorite passages is Proverbs 2. I'll just read the first few verses It says, My son, if you accept my words and store up my commands within you, turning your ear to wisdom and applying your heart to understand, if you call out for insight and cry aloud for understanding, if you look for it as for silver and search for it as for hidden treasure Then you will discern the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. The picture here is that, listen, if you want wisdom Do you really want wisdom? I mean, do you really want biblical wisdom? It paints this picture of a person with an increasing passion for it. You're like, I have to have it. I want it. It goes from just listening to really want to hear and wanting to understand and wanting to know and wanting to grasp and And so this is a passionate picture. And God says, You want wisdom, I'll give it to you. But here, you need to demonstrate. And I know people go to James 1. 5, but if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God But you guys don't use that out of context because that's in the context of trials. So that's just not a kind of here's an easy way to get wisdom, just ask God and He'll give you wisdom Here it's saying you want wisdom. You love God's word. You study it, you pour over it, you memorize it, you meditate it, love it. James 1. 5 is saying, listen. When you're in the midst of trials, deep waters of life, and you don't know what to do We're talking about a person who loves the Lord is walking with the Lord. But you guys, I don't know. Probably many of us have been in deep waters As you cry up to God, He will be fullness in the midst of those trials. But then it continues. When you ask for it You ask without any doubt. You have confidence for God's provision for you in the midst of the great trials of life. So you've got to understand both sides of that. Uh you guys these are basics, but but He you guess in our society, right? I mean men counsel men, women counsel women. I'm not saying there's not a time like there's a pastor out counsel women, but Somebody usually would be in the office or I'd be in my office with somebody outside the office and I would work to transition them to a lady that could do some ongoing counseling if they need it. We just need to be real careful. With youth, just gotta be real careful. Okay? I I mean I'm not uh This is not a thus say at the board, and I don't get too excited and I discourage like the staff that I would work with. I'd tell them please don't counsel through text, please don't counsel through email Facebook, Messenger, all of those types, because it's too easy to misunderstand. And sometimes it looks like relationships are forming that are not appropriate. It's it it's just a minefield, guys. It's just a minefield. And and I think we need to use tremendous wisdom in the situations where we encounter young people and we talk to them and we counsel them. And if there's a young gal that needs some counsel and grab your wife, grab a lady, grab somebody, but you just can't have the standards. And and our culture is just so bizarre right now. And the truth is, like when we put in child protection policies, you know who those protect as much as anybody? Our teachers Are teachers because one false accusation, what are we gonna do? We got a problem And so they protect both the kids but they also protect our teachers and you you need to have both. And so when when we start talking about the counseling and ministering to the kids. We just need to be extremely careful. That whole be holy, because I'm holy, it's it's thinking with the highest standards in mind. and being extremely careful and extremely wise. Alright? And and I know there's sometimes that the unusual come up, but I'll tell you what, uh I've got people like, hey you come over to the house right now. It's like, can't do it Can't do it. You know? And we can work something else out. Or we can be someone, you know what? I mean you just have to think wisely You just need to always understand your own limitations. When you're working with kids, you guys, I get the idea that Christians should be competent to counsel Jake Adams, but that doesn't mean they're competent to counsel everything. And so as you work with youth, you need to keep in mind that if you're getting over your head, you need to seek counsel. You need to seek counsel. You need to be careful. These are real people's lives. Remember that Hebrews 13? You're going to give an account And so so there there are some things like I I mean I've had where young gals are having a serious eating disorders. And because I'm I'm telling you, I've met with them that if they don't have intervention, they are going to die. Die And those are hard things and they're complex and we bring the word to bear, but you guys don't get over your head as you're working with kids. If something comes up and you're not sure, seek them the guides of your youth pastor, your pastor, your elders, whoever it is. Because especially today now, with all of the the you know, what the world calls gender confusion. Uh and if I have a minute I'll talk about that. But but you just need to be wise. And you guys one false accusation, or one true accusation would be awful, but a false accusation can be amazingly painful. You know, You've got to be careful using personal examples. So I've seen parents stand up and give a testimony and talk about all of the immorality they were involved in and drugs. And they're giving a testimony like in the front of a group and their kids are sitting there And then they're talking how God delivered them. You know how that's interpreted by some kids? Worked out for you. Work out for you. I've watched kids from homes like that. Not all of them. who have walked right down the same path. And I would just say, be careful, use wisdom with personal examples. I mean I mean honestly I mean you might have something that you've gone through as hopeful. You know somebody's as false guys Oftentimes I get a call by mom, right? Because I live there. But you guys, our counseling is more important that it's based on God's word. It's interesting, you know, Paul did some awful things. I've often wondered how many times he was going to a town when some lady came up to him and said, you know, my husband's dead because of you. They're still in prison because of you. Because the scriptures speak, he I mean he was like the most aggressive oppressor of the church. I mean he was opposed, and I mean I have no idea. But when he shares his testimony In 1 Timothy 112-17 he says, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who has given me strength that he considered me faithful. Appointing me to his service, even though I was once a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent man, I was shown mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief. The grace of our Lord was poured out on me abundantly along with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. Here's a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the worst. But for that very reason I was shown mercy so that in me the worst of sinners Christ Jesus might display as unlimited patience as an example of those who would believe on him and receive him Eternal life. Now to the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever on that. Isn't it interesting? He's so graphic with those words, and yet he's not I mean he uses words that help us to understand his recognition of the magnitude of his sin, but there's no glorification of sin in any way. The magnification is on Christ And I think it's important that we don't magnify sin. We don't use it. We use God's truth. And if we're going to talk if you got if you've had that awful life I think you've got to be careful how you describe that in the terms of, you know, I was so dishonored God, but in God's grace, he took me, a man who hated him And maybe a man and loved him. You know, whatever it is, but we we do need to be careful with what we use. It's it's interesting that, you know, not all the time, but it's amazing how often somebody wants to be a counselor and it's because they they're a mess. But it is interesting. I I've had numerous people come and say, I think I want to be a counter and it's like Oh my word, your life is awful. And that's we want people that know God, love God, know his word, learning his word, using His word, ministering His Word. I tell people all the time, if I didn't have God's word, I would not counsel. I would not. I would hate it. It would be awful. Because my only hope and counseling is that I take them to the Word and show them what God says. And if I couldn't do that, it's like uh Oh, and that wouldn't have anything to do with it. You know, when you when you give counsel to folks, if you're working with kids, I I think there's a benefit to giving assignments. You know, give them things to do that will help them to gain victory, help them to learn new patterns. You know, Jesus was was good at that, right? He he would it might be as simple as is uh You know, I want you uh to go down to the river and watch. I mean it could be any number of things, but he would give them things to do or or go into the mor or whatever it might be. And so so Just know as you're working with kids, if you're going to make progress, especially if they have serious sin problems, you you need to set them on a course. And then the truth is if a person's not really willing to do the things that they need to to become who God wants them to be. You're pretty limited on what you can do. You can spend a lot of time. But unless they're engaged in that process of willing and giving them things to do that will actually be beneficial as a way, that you can help them You know, patience when you're ministering to kids, kids, adults as well, but you ever get disappointed with yourself. When I get impatient with somebody, you know what I know that I need to do when that happens? is I need to remember who I am. And when I stop and remember who I am, I bow my head and attempt. Say, God, you are so, so patient. You're so kind. You know, in First Thessalonians 5, when we minister to the different people. It's with patience. It's with patience. And you know when you're working with kids, they can be all over the place. And even they may go through seasons, maybe long seasons, but they they just don't respond. But you pray over time And you know, I I know that there's kids I've worked with that are far from the Lord or never come to Christ. But every now and then I'll hear from somebody to call and been like 20 years and it's like rock, remember who I am Just want you to know walking with the water. Yeah. It's like, wow, you know, those are rough days. So just then we're in the long haul Still long haul. It's gonna be patients as you is your work. And you know when some of those kids leave the youth group, you're gonna be gone, I don't know. I don't know. But who knows what God will be? You're just one piece of the puzzle of what God is working out and accomplishing. And so be kind, be patient. You know, with kids, we were talking earlier, when you're working with teenagers, things that are problems to them, you might not see as problems at all. I mean at this stage of your life. But you better be careful how you communicate that. Because kids can make awful decisions in a heartbeat over things that we would consider insignificant. And so if you're not careful and some kid comes and they're saying, you know, they're a junior hire for crying out loud. And they're heartbroken because somebody doesn't like them. And you know, you know, you can I mean, come on, you can get over this. It's not that big a deal or whatever. You guys, kids commit suicide over things like that. And I get that it's irrational, but you guys, kids don't have the same perspective that we have. They just don't. It's like when you discipline a kid that's thirteen years old, if you say something like, listen, if you continue this pattern, we will never let you drive That has no value. That has no value. Because the idea of something that's going to happen in three, two, or three years doesn't even compute. You guys you remember Do you remember when you went into junior high? Was it two years? Did you have when was junior you only went middle school kind of three years Do you remember that when you started junior high, how long did it feel like it was going to be till you finished And then you finished 'cause then you went into high school. Excuse it's almost unimaginable when you're a kid Because kids think differently. And so you guys when we talk of discipline for kids, I tell I tell parents, you know, you we we've got to tighten this thing up here a little bit because You know, you think in months, but for a kid, you say you can't have your phone for a week. You know, see time and when you do it too long where it's not even they can't even comprehend it, it just loses effectiveness. See, we need to remember the people that we're dealing with. You know, our Lord Why did he come to earth and take on a body to ultimately become a substitute? But he also says, uh, I've been tempted in all things as you except yet without sin. You know, he's done so much as a kindness to us, right, to minister to us in our difficult situation And if we work with kids, I'm just telling you, I mean, you just have to have a sensitive heart and a careful mouth So then, if somebody's going through a hard time, you've got to be careful that if it's important to them, it's important to you If it breaks your heart, you want or their heart, you want to be able to show compassion and help them learn to think through it in a way that's honoring to the Lord. Because if you get careless, I'm telling you, it's just You know, it just seems impossible sometimes some of the decisions kids that will make in just a moment of emotion. And some of those decisions cannot be reversed. And so when you just remember your audience, remember what they're like, remember the time of life. Remember the things that can be important to you as a kid. And you can't paint long term. You know, like now you look back I look back. It's like, you know, high school. When was that? You know, 'cause times you feel like it's going at such a fast clip, but it's not that way they're not there. They're not in that world. And so just just be careful. Um just a reminder that Is a leader. You do want to be a leader in the testimony of the pattern first. Okay? I always enjoy the friendships I have with kids, but I don't always have the friendship. Okay, I wouldn't feel eager. In Hebrews 12 verses 5-11 it talks about the discipline of the Lord and you've forgotten the word of encouragement that addresses you as sons, my son, do not make light of the discipline of the Lord Don't lose heart when he rebukes you because the Lord dispenses those whom he loves and he punishes everyone he accepts as the son. With love comes a willingness to do and say the hard things. And and is it You can enjoy the kids, have fun with the kids, participate. But folks, when it's time to be a leader, you've got to be the leader. And if you've got to bring hard things to bear, you've got to do that And if you don't, the scriptures say you don't love. God disciplines because he loves us. And so there are parents that that will try to be that buddy with their kids. You know, if I'm just nice and this is all going to work out, but it doesn't work out. Right? Because then there's no respect and and then things just uh deteriorate and it can be awful. Be careful not to listen to one side of the story. Proverbs eighteen seventeen, the first who presents case is right till another comes forward and and uh questions it. And and so, you know, when one person is talking, and you you might find yourself, have you ever, you know, you kind of get traumatic when you're telling something and you tell it to your side, you might not tell it exactly the same way that other person was sitting there People get in trouble when they only listen to one side of the story. And you know kids can embellish and things like that, but they don't know those kids. I remember one time I had a gal, she just went crazy after a church service crying, screaming crazy. I mean and I was young and and my wife was young. And and so we took her in the office and she's sharing about she had been adopted into a a foster family And uh dad was doing some inappropriate things and she just told me we're having we have a youth activity scheduled at their house that night. And she's torn out all of this and she's hysterical and I'm going, I don't know if this I don't know if it's not true, I don't know, I mean I just don't know. So I think, well let me just call your mom because I gotta figure out what's do because obviously I come in. I have no idea what I'm doing So I called mom and Miguel's sitting there, my wife's sitting there, and I talked to the mom, explaining, talking to, and she thought what's crazy on the phone. I'm trying to act like everything's fine. She's going there. You know, because what she was saying was true. And so now we got a mess, right? And it was it was an awful mess. for a long time and got ultimately brought her out of that situation and stuff like that. But it not everything is true. Or It's entirely accurate. And so you just got to be careful. You have to be careful. And that means maybe you have to talk to parents or whatever. But you you don't make judgments with one side because you can get into deep trouble fast. I do think it's important. Don't think you ever know kids better than their parents. Now there are times that we've had removed kids or whatever, but that's rare. I mean it's rare okay in our context. So you you do want to have that relationship with parents as best you can On confidentiality, here's something that you need to keep in mind. Proverbs 7-3 talks about the integrity, the upright guys with the unfaithful destroyed with their specificity. So if a kid comes to me, and you can you can see how this would happen. They come and they say, Rock, I wouldn't tell you something, but you need to promise you won't tell anybody. How are you going to answer that? I can't promise that. Yeah. Can't make that promise. Can't make that promise. And tweet face. So how I would respond is say, first of all, do you know that I love you? And I will do anything that I can before God. It would help you to be the God of the children. But I can't make that promise. Because I have no idea what you're going to say, but you do know you can tell me what you're going to say. And I love you enough to do whatever I can to help you. I've never had a kid say, I'm not talking to you. Never. You can't keep to yourself. So if you got some poor gal that's pregnant, or you got somebody that they really, really want to commit suicide You can't just do nothing. And so that means you're going to have to involve people. And you're going to have to shepherd them through that to involve people. But that person in their will intention says, oh, I won't tell anybody. It's like, well now what are you going to do? Now what do you do? You just go lie? You know, hold it in, wait, see what happens, hope for the best. So so confidentiality is a bit overrated. You have to be careful. Now at the same time Because you can't promise confidentiality doesn't mean we have the freedom to just talk about things. Even in the name of uh Christianity, you know, we don't need to talk to people. We we only talk to appropriate people that are most critical for whatever situation that we're facing. And I would say anytime you're dealing with complicated situations with the team, you're always talking to your pastor owners to keep them pricey what's going on and seek their counsel. But it can get icy out there Okay, here's here just as a second. Don't don't uh don't counsel somebody that's not there Okay, I know that sounds weird. Why would I counsel somebody that's not there? But let's say I get somebody to come in the office and they're what they they're talking about somebody else I can talk to that person all day about what that person should do with the zero good. They're not in my office. Right? I can help the person that's there. So the person that comes in and they've been hurt by this other person and this person's done this and this person's done that, I need to teach this person how to respond in light of that situation Then if I have the opportunity to meet with the other person, I can counsel them. But I can sit there all day talking to them about this other person, how yeah, I think they should can't do it. I think they should do this, I think they can. They're not even in my office So when somebody comes in and there's I want to help that person how to think right in their situation. And then maybe I'm going to have the opportunity to be with somebody else or others or family or whatever it is. But but uh You can you can get you go down kind of a dark trail when you're talking to somebody else about another person that's not in the office. And uh and every now and then I get you know somebody come into my office and And uh I'll I I usually have you know I I like to know for not being surprised what they're gonna talk to me about So he's usually asked my secretary but and so when they come in, but every now and then I remember a lady came in and I don't know she was she was uh she started off fine with personal issues and the next thing you know she's going after the youth faster Those in youth pastor in the ministry here, youth work with youth will appreciate this. They went, whoa, whoa, whoa! Stop! She's gone. Well, what are we doing? We were supposed to be dealing with this, and now you're talking about somebody that's not even in my office. You'd like, let me go get him. Because we're not going to do this. I mean it's I mean we just have to be careful what we do that we don't get into bad situations. You know in the church, you'll shoot this You know, somebody comes up to you, but what did you think of the pastor's message? People can do things that are just destructive Oh Christian, God's word being proclaimed, you know? And uh well I thought, Google, if you have an issue, come talk to me. Go talk to the pastor. That shuts things down pretty fast. Right? Because we we just careful about what we listen to, how we counsel, how we respond Keep in mind, not everybody responds to counsel. Proverbs 18, 25, no pleasure in understanding, but delights in hearing his own opinions. So sadly there'll be people that come for counsel and if you just don't tell them what they want to hear, they're not interested in they're not interested in what it becomes the typical Christian. And and truthfully, counseling, it's evangelism, it's discipleship. That's what it is. And so people respond to the Lord and Some people will profess to be Christians, but they don't want to submit to the Lord. Some will uh some are Christians that believe one honor the Lord. You're gonna get it the whole mix. That's just part of ministry And uh some days you'll find yourself most encouraged, some days your heart will be broken and it'll motivate you to pray more because of the different heartaches that you see. But you guys, the ministry With all the challenges that can come with it, I mean is there anything else that would be more tussing to be able to serve the board than a script the people. I I I just can't imagine what it might be. And so I'm grateful for the work that you do, I'm grateful for your service for the the kiddos. I just would hope that you can see the big picture of that these guys, you know, we're We're gonna die. We want to equip the next generation. Continue to carry on this mission of building the church And so I don't know how many years you have. I know I'm getting kind of towards the end of mine. I don't know how many that will be But we got a lot of work to do before that time comes out. And then when the Lord's done with us, he will kindly take us home. But hopefully we end the world in that process.