Earthquakes and false Christs, wars and rumors of wars, apostasy, love growing cold The rise of the Antichrist, the abomination of desolation, the sign of the Son of Man appearing in the sky. For our last nine messages in Matthew 24 and 25, it was our privilege to examine the many signs. And indications of the approach of the second coming of Jesus Christ. Those future signs were provided for us in the present age. To keep us alert, to keep us anticipating the arrival of the King. Also to keep us vigilant in our service for the Lord Jesus Christ in the present as we are soberly aware that the judgment of Christ is coming. Now as we turn the page, so to say, to Matthew chapter 26, we encounter some more signs. Not signs of Jesus' imminent return, but signs of Jesus' imminent death. In other words, chapter 26 opens and snaps us back to the present reality that the Lord Jesus was about to experience. Yes, we had that marvelous gaze and the future glories, but now we are going to be focused upon the dread of what laid before the Lord Jesus Christ during the remainder of his Passion Week. Christ's future, we learned in chapter 24 and 25, was glorious beyond anything we could describe, even if we had not nine messages, but ninety messages. But Christ's immediate future was laden with evil beyond description. Concerning chapter 26 of Matthew, Dr. Glasscock in the Moody Gospel commentary writes this. This chapter contains the saddest record of human depravity. One of the twelve betrays the Lord. The religious leaders under the leadership of the high priest Caiaphas blaspheme and physically abuse their Messiah. And even the most vocally dedicated of the disciples, Peter, denies his Lord three times and is brought face to face with his own weakness and failure. Dark indeed is the road ahead of the king of Israel. And heavy for us will be the scriptural text. As we study it, as it is our road ahead, as we walk these dreadful steps with the Lord Jesus Christ over the next few months. It will not be pleasant, but it will be prosperous to our soul, beloved. This is a walk with Christ that we must do. I think shallow is the Christian who has not really learned to meditate and understand the agonies and the sufferings of Jesus Christ. The Christian life is out of place in this world. Christ was out of place in this world. And only as we understand his agony and his suffering can we really understand what it means to be a Christian in the present age. Dr. John MacArthur asserts in his commentary that everything up to this point in Matthew, that would be 25 chapters, has been only like a prologue, if you can believe that. A mere introduction to the great conclusion of the gospel, which is what? Christ's death and his burial and then his triumphant resurrection. After all, isn't that why he was sent to earth? Wasn't that the mission that Christ was sent to accomplish? Didn't he himself say in Matthew 20, verse 28, the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life of what? A ransom for many. His substitutionary death is so important that it's not coincidental that there's a whole section right here at the beginning of chapter 26 just to set the stage for his death. And that's what we're going to read together and study together today. Matthew 26, verses 1 through 16. Would you follow along? Matthew writes, when Jesus had finished all these words, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days, the Passover is coming. And the Son of Man is to be handed over for crucifixion. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together in the court of the high priest named Caiaphas, and they plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they were saying, Not during the festival, otherwise a riot might occur among the people. Now when Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster vial of very costly perfume. And she poured it on his head as he reclined at the table. But the disciples were indignant when they saw this and said, Why this waste? For this perfume might have been sold for a high price and the money given to the poor But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you bother the woman? For she has done a good deed to me, for you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me. For when she poured this perfume on my body she did it to prepare me for burial. Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of in memory of her. Then one of the twelve, named Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests and said, What are you willing to give me to betray him to you? And they weighed out thirty pieces of silver to him. From then on, he began looking for a good opportunity to betray Jesus. Now I want you to notice back at the beginning. That the first thing Matthew says is that Jesus finished all these words. That of course refers to the fifth and the very last of all of the discourses in the Gospel of Matthew, what was called the Olivet Discourse, which we just completed. You may remember that Matthew also ended the previous four discourses in a similar fashion with similar wording. But after this Fifth and final discourse, Matthew adds one word he did not put in the others, and that is the word all. All these words. Pos all To indicate that not only was that the end of this discourse, but the end of all the major discourses, teaching discourses of the Lord Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew. In other words, now we are proceeding to the very end of the gospel, and to new material. Matthew, who typically arranged his material, thematically rather than chronologically, set everything up here in the early part of chapter 26 and verses 1 through 16 to speak of the preparation for Christ's death. Preparation for his death. So here we are, the the healing and the teaching ministry of Christ for the most part is behind him and behind us And now we are set with Christ to ascend with Christ, so to say, to his apex, up to his very summit, to the cross, and then to the grave, and of course beyond. We might consider that today's message would be like the foothills as we began to ascend with Christ to fulfill his mission. And you know that throughout the Old Testament there had been many symbols and signs of the approaching death of the Lord Jesus. In Genesis chapter 3, the first indication was given after the first couple, Adam and Eve sinned. God then took an animal and killed it And let them see the blood, the death of the animal. And then he took the skin and he clothed Adam and Eve, their nakedness with it, in place of that pathetic attempt they had to covering up their shame with the uh with the fig leaves That animal died, in other words, to cover up the consequences for their sin and disobedience against God. That was a picture from the very beginning of the beneficial work of the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross In Genesis chapter 2, Abraham was given the greatest test to take his only son through Sarah and to offer up Isaac on the altar. God, of course ceased him from doing that, but that also was a picture of God offering up his son for the sin of the world. In Numbers chapter 21, verses 8 and 9, there's the story of the brazen serpent who was lifted up in the wilderness And every Israelite who looked upon this serpent up in the air as they looked upon it in faith, they were instantly cured from the from the judgment that had been brought, that plague that had been brought into the camp of Israel because of their sins. And there are many other signs and indications and prophecies and predictions of the coming death of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, after all of the centuries, if you think about it, of waiting for his coming, viewing those signs and thinking about the meaning of the of the Messiah coming and dying, here we're told that God has not forgotten his promise of sending a redeemer In our narrative, we also are seeing signs, signs of the approach of the cross, signs that tell us that Christ's time has finally come. These signs show us that in spite of all of the evil plotting and all of the evil motives that people around Christ had, God was in control of all the circumstances, and it purposely was designed in order to bring about our redemption. And it's just thrilling to see the sovereignty of God working through all of the details that happened to bring about the crucifixion of his Son, so that you and I could be sitting here and others like us believing in Christ and having redemption and salvation. Now today I want you to notice four signs. Four signs or you can call them indications of Christ's imminent death The Passover approaching, the plot by leaders, the precious ointment, and the pieces of silver. I'll give them again as we go. The first sign is the Passover approaching. Look back again at verses 1 and 2. The Passover approaching. It says, when Jesus had finished all these words, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days, the Passover is coming. And the Son of Man is to be handed over for a crucifixion, handed over, that is, at the Passover. Now you could subtitle this section, Brutal Death, because it speaks of a crucifixion, which indeed was brutal. Notice that Jesus continues to use the same title for himself. He calls himself the Son of Man. We learned before the Son of Man will return in glory. Now we're learning the same Son of Man will first be crucified. Notice the little notation in verse 1. It says, after two days he will be handed over. That makes most scholars place this prediction by Christ still on Tuesday. The Passover then would be on Thursday evening. So here we have not just another announcement of his crucifixion to the disciples, but even an indication of when it will be. The timing. We see that Christ is actually on a clock. He's on a divine clock. He knows that his death is about to happen. He knows exactly when it's going to happen, and he tells everybody Christ is going to be the Passover lamb. He's going to be betrayed and he's going to be slain on the Passover. Now just briefly, the Passover was a celebration, you may remember, of the deliverance of the Israelites out of the bondage of the In the land of what? Egypt. The Egyptians had them in bondage, and this was their deliverance, and they're commemor uh commemorating that. The mighty hand of God through Moses brought them out. In Exodus chapter twelve it describes the Passover's inauguration and the procedure for celebrating it. The Passover Lamb was selected on the tenth day of the month. It was to be sacrificed at twilight on the fourteenth day of the month Its blood was then to be applied above the door posts on the side and above, so that when that angel of death came over the land he would see the blood, he'd recognize that household, had trusted in the blood, and the angel would pass over that house and not inflict death to the firstborn That again was a sign and an indication, not of the blood of the Lamb being anything that would really save our souls or forgive our sins, but of what the Messiah would do for us as we trusted in his blood. They had to put faith in the blood of the Lamb in order to be protected from death. Just like today, we have to put faith in the cross of Christ to be protected from eternal death. Now, with the approach of the Passover, Jesus would be that sacrificial lamb. And by his death, he put an end to all sacrifices of all kinds of animals. They all would be put to an end. 1 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 7, the Lord Jesus is called our Passover. Paul wrote, Christ our Passover, also has been sacrificed. You may remember in John 1. 29 that John the Baptist saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold the what? The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. In 1 Peter 1, verses 18 and 19, we read this: You were not redeemed with pressure. Perishable things, like silver or gold from your feudal way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with precious blood, see, as of a lamb, unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. Far more precious than gold or silver, the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ trickling down that Calvary's cross Resulted in the pouring out of his life and his own death, the death of the Lamb of God. Why? To make a payment, to pay his life as a ransom for sin's cruel mastery. But in order for all of that to transpire, please note that Christ's death, though it was purposeful, was not a suicide. You should know the difference between a suicide and a sacrifice. The suicide is very selfishly oriented. It's not meant to benefit anybody. Here Christ was not killing himself, he was offering himself, he was sacrificing himself. He wasn't copying out on life. In fact, it says Christ would be handed over for crucifixion, and that verb handed over handed over, paradidomi, indicates what would be a betrayal, a handing over by someone to someone else. His death, though, would not come as a result of forces outside of him that urged him and compelled him to die. What we're supposed to see through all of this is that being aware of all of the events that would happen, he is willingly laying down his life for us. No one is taking over his life. No one is outmaneuvering him or out muscling him or trapping him. He's going to be killed, yes But he's going to be killed because he lays down his life, and his life will be laid down by an act of treachery, by an act of disloyalty, by one who would betray him. Now many looking at the events that would be about to unfold for Christ and have looked back on it and studied the record of the Gospels. Say that the prognosis for Christ did not appear too good. Things didn't turn out too well for him. But I want you to notice the amazing thing about the Lord Jesus and his character here is that he's not bemoaning his circumstances at all It's not that he's looking forward to them. No, he's not. But he's not dreading them in the sense that he he wishes he didn't have to do it here. He's not complaining to the Father. He understands the treachery, he understands the pain. He is going to cry out in the garden. If it's possible, let this cup pass from me. They are grievous circumstances But he's committing himself to do the will of the Father. The crucifixion would result in great personal harm to Christ You know it was death by the most diabolical means invented up to that day, a slow, torturous form of punishment. Even the Romans would pity their own victims as they hung on the cross sometimes for days. Christ was fully cognizant of what he was approaching. He knew it. He understood it. But he still purposefully embraced the torture ahead of him. And why did he do it? He did it. For our sake. Wasn't doing it for his own sake. He had no sin. He was doing it for our sake. And though the disciples, if you can just believe this, continue in their density about what is going on, they still don't get it. They still don't even understand at this point in time. Christ's prediction of his death still, the fact that he continued to predict it after the events happened, and the disciples were able to look back on those events. It would give them courage and understanding that all of this happened by divine design. Jesus was not taken by surprise. Jesus was not a misguided revolutionary as some have depicted him. He was not a well meaning but misled mystic. He was not a good teacher facing bad situations or making a bad calculation. Jesus was the Son of the Living God. He was operating on a divine clock, and he and not anyone else. was in charge of the events. Just as he had predicted it repeatedly before in Matthew 16, 21, when Peter made the confession of him as the Christ, and Matthew 17, verses 22 and 23 Listen again to Matthew 20, verses 18 and 19, where Christ said, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes And they will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him, and on the third day he will be raised up. How more specific can you get than that? Even in Matthew 21, 37 through 39, Christ taught a parable about this whole thing. Starting with Peter's confession of Jesus as the Son of God in chapter 16. Almost like in cadence or in rhythm, Christ continuously warned his disciples of his impending crucifixion. Jesus predicted the details of his death. And that is ingrained in the historical narrative of the gospel. It's it's so bogus when the TV programs and the movies and the so-called documentaries put Christ up there and act as if he was a victim of circumstances that that came upon him in Jerusalem. They have not read the historical text. This is the eyewitness account. And we have four of them, and every single one of them says the Lord Jesus knew it was coming, he had planned for it, and he willingly laid down his life. God was in control. Anything else that calls itself history is is not history at all. Well that's the first sign or indication of Christ's Coming death. The Passover was approaching. The second time is the plot by the leaders. The plot by leaders. Look at verses 3 through 5. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together in the court of the high priest named Caiaphas, and they plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they were saying, Not during the festival, otherwise a riot might occur among the people. Now we can subtitle this section, Backroom Treachery. Backroom treachery. Notice the gathering at the high priest's house. Concerning the word then there in verse three, that doesn't mean that this was the first time, the very first time that there had been any plots against the life of Christ. Certainly we've already seen them trying to expose Christ and discredit him in the debates that we saw earlier in Matthew. But also you may remember way back in Matthew twelve, verses thirteen through fourteen, it told us of plots in Galilee to kill the Lord Jesus. Nor does this meeting necessarily happen at this point. Remember that Matthew tends to group the events in a thematic I think John 11 indicates the more precise timing of their deliberations, and we'll go to that passage in a little bit and read that. It's more likely that these are the immediate plots that were being indicated by this word. Who was it that was doing the plotting at the high priest's house? Well, many of those mentioned here sat on the Sanhedrin, which was the ruling body of the Jews under Roman rule that would eventually condemn Jesus to death. That's right. You have the future jury and judge of the Lord Jesus Christ sitting here ahead of time and plotting out his crucifixion. Tells you already the absence of justice in the whole thing. The chief priests are the ones mentioned first. These were the ruling priests. These were the ones who tried to silence the children in the temple. Remember who were singing Hosanna to the Lord on Palm Sunday? They were also the ones who challenged Christ face to face and said, On what authority do you do these things when Christ cleansed the temple? Also mentioned, besides the chief priests or the elders of the people. This is probably not the full Sanhedrin at this time. There were some members of that Sanhedrin that did not consent to Jesus' death. The elders were an older, supposedly wiser people among the Jews. And then the most important figure is mentioned last, Caiaphas. He was the son, son-in-law, excuse me, of Annas, the high priest. According to John chapter 18, verse 13. Now how could Caiaphas be the high priest and Annas also be the high priest? There was only supposed to be one. The high priest was supposed to function like the president of the Sanhedrin, the ruling party of the Jews And there was supposed to only be one. But although the high priest's position was supposed to be just one and held for life, Annas was removed from his office after he had been a high priest for a while. He was removed by the Romans Who thought he had way too much power over the people. And Annas was replaced with his son-in-law, Caiaphas, in A. D. 18. And Caiaphas continued to rule as high priest until 36 A. D. Yet in Luke chapter 3 and verse 2 it confirms that both Annas and Caiaphas were viewed by the Jews simultaneously as high priests, but in a different sense Also in Acts chapter 4, verses 5 and 6, we see that after the crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension of Christ, the apostles were preaching Christ in Jerusalem. Well, guess who appeared? Caiaphas and Annas, and they were opposing the preaching of the gospel together. So there was kind of a dual high priesthood at this time With Caiaphas being the official high priest and Annas still exercising much of his power and control behind the scenes But Caiaphas is the one who's out front and centered here in this narrative. Now Caiaphas was a family name. His actual name was Joseph Caiaphas. And every passage we see Caipus in the Gospels, he is shown as pursuing the destruction of Jesus He was a cruel man. He was a decadent man. He was interested only in his own position and power, not at all in the nations, despite his words. There's been an interesting discovery that was made concerning Caiaphas. The Zondervan Illustrated Bible Backgrounds commentary writes this. In November 1990, while constructing a children's recreational water park in Jerusalem's Peace Park, workmen using bulldozers unearthed an ancient burial cave. When Israeli archaeologists arrived they found a dozen ossuaries or burial bone boxes. The most elaborate ossuary had an exquisitely decorated facade featuring two large circles, each composed of five rosettes surrounding a center rosette. The sides and top were framed with stylish branches. On the back and on one side were slightly varied inscriptions that read, Yehoseph bar Kafa, in other words, Joseph, son of Caiaphas The remains of the man very well could be those of the high priest Caiaphas who directed the Sanhedrin's trial of Jesus The tomb therefore was determined to be the burial cave of Caiaphas's family or clan. They find many of his family in there as well. That commentary goes on to note this. This discovery gives remarkable insight into burial practices of the Jewish aristocracy and offers an electrifying archaeological link to real life persons involved in the events of Jesus' final days before going to the cross. I would just add a little footnote to that discovery. Isn't it interesting we were able to find Caiaphysis's remains We got his bones now and we got his box, but I think the search for Christ still goes on, doesn't it? Notice also the place of the gathering of these men was in the court of the high priest. A Greek noun for court is aule. It most likely refers to the courtyard inside Caiaphas's home. Now some of you, if you have the NIV, Or some other translations, it translates it as palace, but Caiaphas was not a king. He was a priest, so courtyard is a better translation. What was the purpose of their gathering? Well, it was to plot together, was it not? Specifically, what did they want to do? Well they wanted to rid themselves of their problem. What was their problem? Jesus of Galilee, of Nazareth Get rid of him. He's a challenge to our authority. He's a challenge to our position. He could cause the people to follow him, and if that happens, it would disrupt the balance of power here in Jerusalem that we have with the Romans and that we benefit financially from. Remember, in chapter 21 and 22, Jesus won the debates with these guys, and he exposed them publicly, and he frankly embarrassed them and indicted them publicly before all of the people. So if he was a problem before he arrived at Jerusalem, he was a major problem and a pain in the neck now to them. The chief priest really loathed Christ. He came in and cleansed their temple, and he called them all hypocrites. He undermined the very system that they were overseeing, these chief priests. And here we see their plot taking shape with two primary actions in mind, and of course they're related. The first action they were plotting to do was to seize Christ. That was their first concern. How do we get him? How do we get him with all of the crowds? How are we going to do that without inciting the crowds who think of him as a messiah, many of them? And so they were thinking, how are we going to do this by stealth? That underscores the fact that they knew that what they were doing was unjust. From their warped perspective, verse five note, it it adds this, but they were saying, not during the festival, that is the Passover, otherwise A riot might occur among the people. Of course, during the feast of unleavened bread, the Passover, all the Messianic expectations were raised and were high. People were coming from all over the world, and if this was a time for the Messiah to appear, it would be it would be a perfect time in many people's minds. Many of them had already heard of Christ, many of them had seen him do miracles, they were excited Just remember how Christ was received just a few days earlier on Palm Sunday. Furthermore, these chief priests remembered that there were uprisings in the temple area previously, on previous Passovers. Yes, there were. After the death of Herod the Great in 4 B. C. , because of that uprising, Herod's son Archelaus killed about 3,000 of those participating in the Passover. So they knew the kind of problems that the crowds would cause for them. The expositor's commentary points this out. The leaders were right in fearing the people. Jerusalem's population swelled perhaps fivefold during the feast, and with religious fervor and national messianism at a high pitch, a spark might set off an explosion. So they wanted to wait till after the festival. Well, from their perspective, that was smart. Now that's not how it worked out, because they weren't in control. Christ was in control. Christ said it's going to happen in two days. They said, let's wait till after the festival, which involved eight days Well, Judas would show up offering them an opportunity, they just couldn't refuse, and it would happen just the way Christ said Remember, despite what the chief priest might be planning, all of this is an expression of God's sovereignty. Christ again is seen here to be in charge, and that's part of what you're supposed to get as you're reading the narrative. Christ speaks first, he says what's going to happen, and then you read all the other things, and it tells you Christ is in charge. Ultimately, of course, what they wanted was the second action. And that was not just to seize him, but to do what to him? To kill him. To murder him. They were preparing for a heinous act, the murder of Jesus Christ. Just to get into their minds a little bit more, but you keep your finger in Matthew twenty-six and flip forward a couple of books here to the Gospel of John chapter eleven. John chapter eleven We don't know exactly when this meeting occurred. It could be the same exact meeting, I think that it is, but it gives a remarkable insight into their thinking. Gospel of John chapter 11, starting at verse 47 John eleven forty seven. Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council and were saying What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs, that is, miracles. If we let him go on like this, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you take into account that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people. And that the whole nation not perish. Now he did not say this on his own initiative, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation. And not for the nation only, but in order that he might also gather together into one the children of God who were scattered abroad. So from that day on they planned together to kill him. In that fascinating Nekaiaphas is not even thinking he's prophesying for God. He's not even aware the Holy Spirit is using him, and then God is still in control. We've got to kill this guy to save our spot and our nation And those words were so true in a different sense. God meant them in one way, Caiaphas meant them in another. Just fascinating. Well, if you turn back, the third sign of Christ's imminent death in Matthew 26 was the precious ointment. And this is just a fabulous story. Come back to Matthew 26. The precious ointment. It's verses 6 through 13, but I just want to start with verses 6 and 7. Now when Jesus was in Bethany, At the home of Simon the leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster vial of very costly perfume, and she poured it out on his head as he reclined at the table. Let me just stop there. The scene now is in Bethany. Bethany we've spoken of before was a village on the Mount of Olives, about two miles east of Jerusalem. Jesus stayed in Bethany throughout the whole feast and came into Jerusalem from there. This gathering was at the house of Simon the leper. Well, he was not a leper anymore. That became like a nickname for him. He was a leper and obviously was cleansed of that, or he wouldn't be allowed to be in contact with others. Christ indeed healed him. In fact, this meal was probably given in deep gratitude for Christ having healed him. Well during this meal a woman comes and anoints Jesus with a costly perfume, a very costly perfume. And this is just one of the most precious accounts, I believe, in all of the Bible. Not just for the precious ointment, but just the precious act and the precious heart of this woman. The woman is not named here, either here or in Mark, in fact. That's rather strange, is it not? I mean, the woman was promised to be remembered for this very act, and yet there's no name. But sure enough, the Holy Spirit gave us the name. In the Gospel of John again. Let's flip forward back to chapter 12 this time in John, just a little bit beyond where we just read. John 12, verses 1 through 3. Jesus therefore six days before the Passover note came to Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. amazing resurrection of Lazarus from the dead that attracted so many people's attention. Verse 2, so they made him a supper there, and Martha was serving, but Lazarus was one of those reclining at the table with him. There he is, he's alive. Mary then took a pound of very costly perfume of pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet With her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. And then it goes on to talk about Judas Iscariot, who is complaining about that with the other disciples. Now, there's a lot of confusion about these two accounts, whether Matthew and John are recording the same account or not. It seems like it's a very similar event Occurring, though, at different times and different places. John has it on Saturday, the Saturday before the Palm Sunday, and Matthew seems to put it during the Passion Week itself. And John's account seems to place it at the home of Lazarus, but Matthew's account has it at the home of Simon the leper. But if we see that Matthew again was not arranging his events chronologically but thematically And since John and not Matthew is the one who gives the distinct time marker in their account, then the harmony between the two accounts is a little bit easier to achieve. I think that this took place not on Tuesday of Passion Week or even during Passion Week at all, but on the previous Saturday. And there's no need to postulate that Simon was another name for Lazarus. That's unlikely anyway since Lazarus was well known for having been raised from the dead and not for having been cleansed with leprosy. Some have even said that Simon would be the name of Lazarus's father, but that's just mere speculation. Notice that John does not say that this took place at the home of Mary and Martha and Lazarus, only that it was in Bethany. The town where Lazarus lived and where he was raised from the dead, which of course was the talk of the town and made it famous at this time. Bethany was not a large town. And Jesus would have many friends in Bethany because he came there frequently. And so any meal that would be offered for Christ would likely have attracted his closest friends. If Martha is there serving at someone else's home, that's simply in keeping with even visitor women joining in and serving during the meal. If Simon were unmarried due to the fact that he was a leper, then Martha's presence there would have been very, very welcomed as she offered her help and hospitality. So this is very likely the same account. The similarities are just too striking to be distinguished as two different events, particularly since Christ highlighted that event and said this will be remembered for for generations wherever the gospel is preached. For have two like that right at the same time and only one being remembered seems kind of strange. It's worth noting, too, that there's even more confusion with this because the Gospel of Luke has another account in Luke chapter 7 of an unnamed woman again wiping Jesus' feet. And this time it's in the home of a Pharisee named Simon, not a leopard. And that simply adds to the confusion because some think it's the same account as these two, because it's a similar act. And the house also belonged to a man named Simon. But Simon was a very common name in Israel, very common. And the differences between the two accounts of Luke and Matthew are so great, they clearly speak of different times. The one in Luke was in Galilee, it wasn't here in Jerusalem at all. It was at the home of a Pharisee, and it was much earlier in Jesus' ministry. And at that time there were no complaints from the disciples about the waste Furthermore, the woman there was a harlot, and Mary of Bethany was not a harlot. Harlots were usually poor, and Mary was not poor. So hopefully that helps a little bit and clears up some of the confusion about that. And you've come back to Matthew 26 now, and I want to focus on this act that Mary gives in worshiping Christ, because it's just so, so precious. Look at the act itself there in verse 7, verses 6 and 7. Now when Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the leper, a woman came to him. With an alabaster vial of very costly perfume, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at the table, and probably went on and did the rest of what John tells us as well She took this special jar and then she poured out this ointment right on Jesus, right in the house, right in front of everybody. And the jar she took out was no jar, really, was it? It was an alabaster vial, probably. Perfect housing for such lovely perfume. The vial itself was costly, most likely a long-necked vial, as they found, made of translucent stone with fine carvings in it. Some of them were from five to ten inches tall. It contained very costly perfume, we're told. Mark in his account sets the value of this ointment, of this perfume, at 300 denarii. That's almost a year's wages. A year's wages. Ladies think of going to the mall and going by one of those perfume shops and taking a whole year's worth of your husband's salary into that store and buying one little jar and coming out with it. Your husband will kill you if you got home with that, right? That's what this lady, Mary, was pouring out upon Jesus' body, just wasting it from the pragmatic and uh and ignorant sense, just pouring it all out in one go upon his body. Wow. This is something. This is really, really something. In John 12, 3 it tells us that it was a pound of ointment of spike nard. The nard plant, as I did a little bit of reading about that this week. was grown in India, in the Himalayan mountains. That's nowhere near Israel. This was not the run of mill perfume that you'd find around around town at all. The perfume was very special. It may have even been a family heirloom. But then, to the pragmatist and the tight wad, the unthinkable happens with this very costly perfume. She breaks open the neck of the vial, she pours it out, evidently all of it. There on Jesus' head, right as he's reclining at the table. Now at a Jewish banquet that a little bit of that would not be uncommon. It was not uncommon to have a little bit of small oil or something put on the heads of guests or on their shoulders as well. That would enhance the atmosphere, make it smell a little bit nicer throughout the room. But this was a whole jar of potent stuff And we're told in John 12. 3 the fragrance permeated the entire house. No, I bet if if I were there it would be spilling out into the streets it was so potent. John indicates that it was put on his feet as well and was wiped with her hair. What an act of loyalty. What an act of worship and devotion. Think of this woman taking maybe the one item on earth that costed her the most, was the most expensive item she had and just pouring it out and then taking her most precious part of her body, her hair, and just wiping it on his feet. What love! What utter devotion and sacrifice. This woman was really understanding who was there. Dr. Hagner calls it a lavish gesture of devotion in the word biblical commentary. Just great love and great reverence for Christ. Yeah, but the disciples didn't see it that way, did they? No, no, no. Look at the disciples' reaction in verses 8 and 9. But the disciples were indignant when they saw this and said, Why this waste? For this perfume might have been sold for a high price and the money given to the poor. Well they had a complete uniform reaction against it. They were indignant. And they proceeded to murmur against Mary, and then the complaint. came out, I believe, of Judas' mouth, the loudest or the first, since John attributes it to Judas Judas probably thought, hey, I'm the treasurer. He was the treasurer of the group. He had all the money. And then he saw that, and he was the first or the loudest to make this complaint, according to the Gospel of John. Maybe he just thought, I have a right to talk about the money. I'm in charge of the spensing to the poor and the ministry, you see. Ah. But John 12 6 reveals his real motives. It says there, now he said this, Judas said this, not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief. And as he had the money box, he used to pilfer what was put into it. Mmm. He was getting robbed of some of the things he could just pilfer from that box for himself, and his complaint came out. Man oh man oh man how people want to use religion for their own gain. Judas is a primary example of one who wanted to use religion for pay. But Matthew lets us know that it was not just Judas, it was all of them who dissented to this. Peter, James, John, all of them. They all spoke against the act. They all were concerned with the waste. Whatever their motives were, the motives of the others, in ordinary circumstances, we might say that their complaint was understandable. But these were no ordinary circumstances. And the disciples again with that limited vision failing to see what was going on. They saw only the material value of the jar and the ointment, and not the spiritual value of the act that Mary was doing. Couldn't see it Dr. John Walvard makes this point. Undoubtedly, the precious ointment had been a treasure held in the family for some time, and the reckless abandonment with which she dedicated to the anointing of Jesus was not a senseless extravagance, but an act of supreme devotion. And so Jesus comes quickly to her defense. Why are you bothering the woman? Yes, those comments had stung her and had hurt her and had discouraged her. Why are you bothering her? She has done a good deed to me. That must have just thrilled Mary's heart, where Jesus spoke up in her defense and said, This is a good act, not a waste. This was a good thing. They saw the waste. Christ saw the sacrifice and the faith. For Mary, there was nothing that was too great to give to her master. Was that greater than Jesus there in the home? And so Christ calls it a good act. And then he says in verse 11, you can always help the poor. You always have the poor with you. They're always available there. You can always give to them. You can always feed them, but me you will not have always indeed he was going very soon Poverty will never be eliminated until Messiah's kingdom comes. It doesn't matter how many rock bands go around the world and try to eliminate hunger. It's not eliminating the problem And that is A, the curse of the world, where it's hard sometimes to grow food in certain places, and B the selfishness of mankind. That's not going to be changed until the curse is reversed. Messiah's kingdom, and it's all the hearts of people are changed in righteousness where Messiah reigns. It's gonna be there. It's not that it's not that we want it to be there, it's not that we should be callous towards it, it's that it's going to be there The Lord Jesus was not callous toward the poor. Don't you remember just in Matthew 25 he made caring for his poor brethren, those who were believers during the tribulation and were persecuted by the Antichrist, he made caring for them, visiting them and feeding them and all of that. the very mark of what it was to be a true believer and how they would be judged, so he clearly cared for the poor. Well to do Christians might misuse this passage and say, ah I'm not giving any money to the poor. We'll have the poor with us always. Keep the money in my pockets. That's not what he meant. We can't use this for social inaction. Jesus knew what the law of God stated. Listen to Deuteronomy fifteen, verse seven, and following. If there is a poor man with you, one of your brothers, in any of your towns, in your land, which the Lord your God has given you You shall not harden your heart, nor close your hand from your poor brother. You shall freely open your hand to him and shall generously lend him sufficient for his need in whatever he lacks You shall generously give to him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him, because for this thing the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in all your undertakings, for the poor will never cease to be in the land. Therefore I command you, saying, you shall freely open your hand to your brother, to your needy and poor in your land. But Jesus was saying that this was the kind of an act that could only be done while he was with them, bodily. His spiritual presence would be with them always, right? That's what it says at the end of Matthew 28, Lo, I'm with you always, even in the end of the age. But his bodily presence would not be. And beloved, this gives us a priority. It teaches us a clear priority that worship And honor and praise and devotion toward the person of the Lord Jesus Christ is the highest and the greatest priority for every true believer. Yeah, we're to care for the poor. Yeah, we're to reach out and do all of that. That's just the love of God working through us. But nothing is higher than worshiping God. It's the priority for all of us. Many churches need to learn to practice this priority, especially those in the liberal persuasion who have dedicated much of their money and their missions to helping the poor. They've dedicated to helping the poor, but not to honoring Christ in his word by saying that in his word things are not true, that he was not raised from the dead, that he was not God in human flesh How does that bring about worship and elicit from the heart of the people the kind of devotion that he deserves? Building hospitals while dismantling people's faith in the scriptures is hardly a way of pleasing and honoring Christ. Feeding starving children while starving all of God's children from the Word of God does not honor God. God desires worship. He always has. He deserves it. Whether we're fed or not, he deserves our praise, even with our dying breath. Preaching of the word of God that is true should result in a heart of obedience that brings him honor. And then also, yes, cares for the poor. You know, we really need to ponder what she did. We need to ponder what's being said here. I really do, because I think there's a little bit of a pragmatist in all of us. Yes A little bit of a yeah, that was a waste. We could have done this, we could have had that church program, we maybe would have been able to do this. Why are we just pouring that out on on on the worship side of things? Well, because it's God that we worship. Yes. I mean, He deserves all the worship and the glory that we give Him. We put money into worshiping God that's worth it. I think there are some among us who are mature, devoted to Christ in many ways, that maybe if we were standing there with the disciples, we would have chimed in and said, Yeah, why the waste? Why the waste? We wouldn't have gotten it either. But the message is clear. The Lord is worth giving our best in worship. Worship is about sacrifice. It's not about sitting and listening. When we come to worship, we should come to give, and not just give of our monies, but give of our time. We give up our energies. We give your mind to learn and to listen, to understand God, settle in your heart there are the things that you want to do for God. There's not sacrifice. There's not really any real worship going on. There's not dedication. The worship is a sham. It's just sitting and listening and calling it worship, but it's not worship. This lady was worshiping. This lady was worshiping. Mary is the right example. And then we come to the meaning of the act in verse 12. He says, For when she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. You know the Jews would prepare their dead with washings and then anoint them with fragrant oils and perfumes and then put the linen wrappings around them. Mary did this ahead of time. Did she understand what she was doing? We're not really told, are we Was this just Jesus saying this is what it's going to amount to, or did Mary understand this? We're not told I think she understood. I think it makes sense that she understood. She was very close to the Lord Jesus Christ. And in Luke chapter 10 and verse 39, she's particularly given as an example of one who was sitting at the feet of Christ and intently listening to his teachings so that she understood what he was getting across. He was talking about his death and his burial all along. She had been listening, I think. She caught it. The disciples are jockeying for positions in the kingdom. She's listening and saying, he's come to Jerusalem to die. It's a time to prepare him. Maybe even there is an understanding that he would die as a criminal, for criminals would never have an opportunity to be buried in the normal sense. And she was preparing him ahead of time. Not that he was a criminal, but would die in such a way. Well, for this act, she was remembered. Verse 13. Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world what this woman has done will also be spoken of in memory of her. Mary of Bethany is one of the most outstanding women in all of the Bible And her example should be followed not just by women but by men. What a marvelous lady, what a marvelous woman who understood what it means to live, what it means to worship You want to understand what it's about, the Christian life, watch what that lady did. And just just measure your own life by her Jesus limited his own personal mission to the lost house of the sheep of Israel, remember? But he knew that this gospel, the the good news of the death, burial, and resurrection of the Messiah and what that accomplished for mankind in taking away sins and securing eternal life. That gospel was going to go out beyond Israel to all of the nations, and when it went out to all of the nations, there this act would be remembered. Mary of Bethany In Fawcett's Bible dictionary, it notes this: In lands distant as India, from whence the perfume came, shall her gift of it to her Lord be told? What a marvelous act of faith that God and Christ honored. Well the fourth sign this morning is the pieces of silver. The pieces of Silver. And unlike the previous one, this one's uh is bitter for us to to contemplate and think. Verses fourteen through sixteen. And one of the twelve named Judas Iscariot went to the chief priests and said, What are you willing to give me to betray him to you? And they weighed out thirty pieces of silver to him. From then on, he began looking for a good opportunity to betray Jesus. We could subtitle this last section, Betrayal. Judas, the very name speaks of the traitor. Nobody names a kid Judas anymore, do they? Here he's called one of the twelve. One of the twelve One of the twelve hand selected by Jesus to follow him. One of the twelve who went out two by two casting out demons and healing the sick And proclaiming the gospel. One of the twelve who saw Jesus multiply the loaves and walk on the sea. One of the twelve who confessed Christ to be the Son of God. One of the twelve who ate with Jesus and drank with Jesus and walked with Jesus and talked with Jesus. And probably sang and prayed with him also. This Jesus, this Judas, I mean, one of the twelve Went to the chief priests to betray Jesus. Incognito to the Jewish leaders. Well, at first glance, this might appear to be a misalliance, a disciple of Jesus hanging out with the leaders of Israel. But there's a confluence of evil intent between the two. Here we quickly learn of his motive for betrayal. I'll spell it out for you. M-O-N-E-Y. He wanted money. Some people try to figure out what was going on in Judas's mind. I mean what was he thinking? What and they try to think, well he must have just been trying to cause a conflict and uh see whether or not Jesus was really the Messiah or not. Listen, what he wanted was money. He was in it for money. The kingdom was going to be fabulously rich. It's going to be wonderfully rich. He knew that. He was told he was going to get to sit on one of the twelve thrones in the kingdom. He saw the multiplying of loads. He knew what the power of Christ could produce. He knew of the wealth that would come to the land of Israel during that time. He was in it for the money. Religion can pay big bucks in some places. And he knew about that. That's what false teachers are about. That's what false prophets are about. They're about money And covering up their sin and living their lusts. Maybe the pouring out of that costly ointment was sort of the last straw for Judas His eyes bugging out and looking at that and going, are you kidding? That's what we're following? That's what we're doing. He's off to get the chief priests. What can I get out of this deal? I'm not going to get much, I can tell. Thirty pieces of silver, the price of a slave who betrayed the Son of God. He just thought it wouldn't profit to follow the king of Israel anymore. He keeps talking about death and crucifixion. I don't know anything about that resurrection stuff You know, it might have been that Mary and Judas were the only two that had really come to understand and comprehend what Christ was saying when he was coming to Jerusalem, that he was going to die. But they reacted in completely different ways. Mary and Judas John MacArthur picks up on this. In contrast to Mary, who gave an open testimony of loving worship, Judas Iscariot gave clandestine testimony of betraying hypocrisy. For the price of a slave, see Exodus 21, 32. Judas not only sold out his teacher and leader and friend, but betrayed the very Son of God who had come to be his Savior. And once he got those 30 pieces of silver in hand, it says Judas began looking for an opportunity to betray Christ. Judas, Judas, oh Judas. Judas, do you really think that you're going to bring about the destruction of Christ? He's going to rise again. The only thing he did by taking those thirty pieces of silver, putting them in hand or pocket, the only thing that he secured was his own eternal damnation. That was it. Take your shiny pieces of silver, lose your soul. Those are the four signs of the soon-coming death of the Lord Jesus Christ. And through the good and the bad of this historical narrative the conniving, the plotting, the betraying, also the worshiping, through it all, whether the sign was the approaching Passover or the plotters assembled in the high priest's courtyard or the precious ointment that was poured out Or the shiny and glittery thirty pieces of silver in hand. God was still working through it all There's a tremendous irony in this passage, and that is despite the varied motives and actions around Christ, God was still going to accomplish what he said would happen Peter declared this very thing after the resurrection, right there in Jerusalem in Acts 2. 23, where he preached and said, This man, talking about Jesus was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. And then he pointed to the Jews and he said, You nailed him to the cross by the hands of godless men. They were culpable and guilty for their decisions, and yet God was sovereign over it all Christ committed himself at every step to the Father's loving and sovereign and protective care. He knew that God was working through the circumstances of life He knew that his father would fulfill prophecy. He knew that his death would bring about the redemption of his people and salvation for mankind And he stayed committed in faith to God's workings. That's what the Scripture encourages us to do. To put our faith and our confidence in God and how God is providentially working, maybe not in any miracle that we can see, but behind the scenes, through people's choices, yes, even evil people's choices, even people that are plotting against us or against you. Not to worry, not to be afraid, but to commit yourself to doing the will of God just as Jesus did, and trust in God's mercy and trust in God's good intent through it all Nothing bad that happens to a believer should ever convince us that God is not good. He is just the best at taking evil and turning it into something that is wonderful. In Romans 8. 32 it asks this question: God who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how will he not also with Christ? freely give us all things. All things. All things to inherit if we just learn to suffer with Christ in the present He says, we will inherit all things. What does it say in Romans 8 also, right? All things work together for good for who? To those who what? Love God and are called according to his purpose with salvation. There's nothing in your life that is truly bad in the ultimate sense. Yes, it's painful. Yes, people mean it as bad. Yes, there are things that we wish would change. Yes, we'd like things to be designed differently. Look at Christ And understand his faith in the Father and His trust right there. Learn in every circumstance of life to trust God's good plan for you, to commit yourself. to doing what God tells you to do and trust in His sovereign rule, His sovereign ability to take all circumstances and work them out for blessing. and for good in your life. Doesn't mean it's going to be easy, but it does mean that it's going to be good. And it does mean it's going to be something that you will see as good and you will be able to rejoice in one day as well. Let's pray. O Heavenly Father, our faith often is weak. And we're just glad for this text of Scripture which gets us ready for the next few months in understanding the tremendous redemption and laying down of His life that your Son came to do for us. And we pray as we walk through that and understand that we we would not fear, but we would rejoice in what Christ did for us. And we would have a a fortification of our resolution to to walk with you and to trust you and to know there's no roll of the dice No comment made, no decision, no act of weather that happens without your plan to bring it about for good to those who love you. But not to those who turn away from you, Lord, and don't trust you. To them there's only judgment. We pray, God, that we will understand that. And that those here who need to trust in Christ truly will, and will not trust in their religious upbringing, Lord, but only in Christ and what He has done for them. That you humble our whole congregation and teach us to follow you steadfastly as we study this humbling example of Christ and his death on our behalf. For so we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.