Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for each one of these dear ladies. God, thank you for giving each of us another day to Live and breathe and know you. Thank you, God, for last night and today and just all that we've been reminded of and we've learned about your word, about your faithfulness. Thank you for the worship team and just the beautiful music that has so encouraged my heart. Lord, I do pray that your truth would prevail over unbelief, God. That you would take your truth, Lord, and plant it deep in us, shape us and fashion us in your likeness. Use all of this, God, for your honor and glory. And so we commit this time to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so someone asked why I chose the title of our breakout session to be So What Now? And I chose that because of Martha's book. Precious truth in practice, the subtitle being holding fast to God when you're overwhelmed I'm gonna refer to that. So she would have been speaking on God's holiness, or actually God's mercy, God's wisdom, and um I think last night our small groups, we just had a great time at our table, remembering God's mercy and talking about those things. The last three chapters of her book are justification, sanctification, and glorification. So we're going to talk about all of those today. So let me begin by saying, first of all, we would all have to agree that 2020 has been an extremely difficult year. We've been surrounded by sickness and loss, certainly in ways that I have never experienced before. Separation from loved ones, not being able to gather for worship, questions about COVID-19, the vaccination, can all really leaving us feeling very overwhelmed, right? Overwhelmed How do we hold fast to God when we're feeling overwhelmed? Well Webster's dictionary defines overwhelm like this. To cover over completely or submerge. So maybe in this last year you've been overwhelmed by grief or fear, separation, loneliness, depression, and or death There's been a lot of disappointment, a lot of very difficult circumstances. Maybe you felt engulfed by the daily struggles that you're experiencing And all of us would have to agree that so many things that we took for granted have become so very difficult. Right? Like looking forward to the future, having goals, even moving forward. Maybe you felt like you are in the wilderness, feeling very overwhelmed. Maybe you're asking questions like, how could a good God have let these happen, these things happen to me Or to someone in my family. I was actually counseling a woman this week before I left. That was the very question that she asked me. How could God allow this to happen to me? And I think sometimes in response, and please listen to me ladies, sometimes in response, we offer very pat, easy answers to very difficult questions. For instance, my friend is struggling, and I say to her, just preach the gospel to yourself every day. And when circumstances remain difficult, we conclude, and I want to say wrongly, oh the gospel is not working. So I'm not saying don't preach the gospel to yourself, right? But we conclude wrongly, oh, the gospel doesn't work. Or maybe prayer doesn't work. So our real real, real challenge is how to turn a biblical principle into practical everyday living. And it's not really just a problem of getting more practical. I think the problem often is subtle unbelief, or maybe even a poor understanding of a Christian life. Martha shared in her chapter on God's goodness that you're all going to read when you go home, she said that halfway through her daughter's chemo, the Lord supernaturally gave her his peace. We just heard about that, right, in our session before this. She said his goodness was this precious truth. she clung to even while almost overwhelmed with fear. So let me say and challenge you that really It's not really just about getting more practical. The knowledge of God comes first. The knowledge of God must come first. Listen to what Ed Welsh, one of my favorite writers, says in running scared. He said fear and anxiety are strong emotions that want to be the boss. They claim to tell us how fe how life really is. And he goes on to say one of the first steps in combating these strong emotions is to slow down. Be still. Wait, where does it say that? Psalm 4610, right? Be still. He says, peace and rest. can only reside in someone rather than something. And we know who that someone is, right? That someone is Jesus. He says, let fear point us to the knowledge of God, and let the Spirit of God, by the way of Scripture, teach us the knowledge of God. When fear or lack of peace is the problem, our typical approach as women is to follow action steps, right? Just pray Philippians 4. 6. We just had a great lesson on that. Or 1 Peter 5, 7. Here's what he says. These are good things. Right? These are things that, yes, we should be doing, but they are responses. to our growing knowledge of God. We have to know who God is first. The knowledge of God must come first. He goes on to say, God is close. He speaks to the details of our troubles. He is indeed good and wise. and holy and full of mercy, and he cares much more than you and I know. God cares much more than you or I acknowledge. So something to think about. Our journey in the wilderness through quarantine, worldwide pandemic through cancer and actually living every day in this fallen world is actually intended to reveal what's going on in my heart and mind. Just like hammer minded us, heart mind, the inner person. And ultimately, ladies, to teach us to trust God. To trust Jesus in the best of times and during the hardest of times, and to have hope. To have hope. And hope is not a wishful desire. Let me give you a biblical definition of hope First, let me tell you what John Piper says about hope. He says, hoping in God does not come naturally for sinners like us Hoping in God does not come naturally for sinners like us. And you know what I agree because I think We are prone to trust in other things or ourselves or some system or the culture or medicine rather than God alone. So here's a biblical definition of hope. Biblical hope can be defined As a confident expectation. I really like those words, right? Confident expectation of what God has promised And its strength is in his faithfulness. That confident expectation of what God has promised and its strength is in his faithfulness. So we are going to look today at the book of Romans and we are getting to justification, sanctification, and glorification. At our church this year, we our latest Bible study, we went through the whole book of Romans. So I'm going to give you a very brief overview and then we're going to look at Romans specifically when we look at those. through doctrines. But really the theme of Romans is the gospel and the glory of God John MacArthur says this in his commentary. He says the overarching theme of Romans is the righteousness that comes from God. The glorious truth that God justifies, we're going to talk about that word, justifies guilty, condemned sinners. By grace alone, through faith alone in Christ. Unlike some of Paul's other epistles, his purpose in writing was not to correct aberrant theology or to rebuke ungodly living. The Roman Church was doctrinally sound But like our churches, it was in need of rich doctrinal and practical instruction that Romans provide So throughout Romans, Paul is, often he'll say, you know what, I know you already know this. But I don't know about you ladies Uh and maybe it's just I'm getting older, but I need to be reminded a lot. I need to be reminded. You know what we attend churches that are doctrinally strong, right? They believe in the expositional preaching of the word, week in and week out. But you know, we haven't been together for a year and a half There are a lot of people that are still have a lot of fear about coming back to church and how can we carry out the one another's if we're not together Right? So I think this is a good time to be reminded how important the body of Christ is And what a blessing it is. I love how passionate Laura is in saying, I love the church. We should love the church. We should love the church. So, who wrote Romans? I'm sure you all know this. I'm just gonna remind you quickly, Paul wrote Romans. He was a Roman citizen, he was a Pharisee, miraculously right, converted on his way to Damascus. And what was he on his way to Damascus to do? Right, to arrest And persecute Christians. And immediately after his conversion, he began to proclaim the gospel. And then listen to some of his experiences. He was imprisoned in Philippi, chased out of Thessalonica, smuggled out of Berea, laughed out in Athens, regarded as a fool in Corinth. Stoned in Galatia, beaten, shipwrecked, and imprisoned. And as I read through that list I said, wow, you know what? I guess wearing a mask is not really such a big thing. It's really not a big deal. I have not experienced being imprisoned, although some pastors have, right, during this time. Or I haven't been beaten or shipwrecked. So you know what? If they tell me to do that, I'll just wear it. Yeah, and I won't complain, right? Alright, Paul wrote Romans to share rich doctrine in chapters 1 through 11. We're going to be looking mainly in chapter 8. And then in chapters 12 through 16 for practical instruction. So quickly, and you have this in your notes, And I'm not going to go through all this you can and I hope that this challenges you to go and do an in-depth study of the Book of Romans Because Romans, again, is a book filled with hope. In chapters 1 through 4, we have hope because we're in a right relationship with God by faith. In Romans chapter 5, which we already heard from Pam, we have hope because we have been justified by faith as a gift, and we have peace. In Romans 6, we have hope because we have now power to say no to our sin. In Romans 8, we have hope. Because the Holy Spirit's work on our behalf is working on our behalf. And that at the end of that chapter it says nothing, nothing, nothing can separate us from the love of God that we experience in Christ. In Romans chapter 12, we learn about the new life that we have, right? That we're to be a living sacrifice. We're to love one another, obey the government, and it's all motivated by God's mercy. And then in chapter 16 at the very end. So interesting. Romans ends the way it begins with the gospel of Jesus Christ to the glory of God. Okay, so ladies, I know we're moving fast here. I'm going to read part of Romans 8 to you. And if you want to stand, open your Bibles if you would like to stand just because you feel like getting up. That's okay. So let me read for us. Romans chapter 8. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law, the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh God did, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, as and as an offering for sin. He condemns sin in the flesh. So that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. And then I want to read verse 18. It says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed. And then a very familiar passage, which we've heard already referenced a number of times this weekend, Romans 8. 28. And we know that God causes all things. To work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his Son. that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. And these whom he predestined he also called. And these whom he called, he also justified. And these whom he justified, he also glorified. And again, I would encourage you, challenge you some of the ladies in our church are working on memorizing chapter 8, which It's taking me a while, but it's okay if it takes a long time. But Romans 8. 1 should encourage your heart and give you hope, it says, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. When I think about that, that encourages me to hold fast to God. To hold fast. The Spirit is mentioned one time in chapters 1 through 7 and more than 20 times in Romans 8. Isn't that interesting? And here's some of the things that the Spirit is accomplishing in us. In verses 2 and 3 of Romans 8, the Spirit frees us from sin and death. In verse 4, it enables us to fulfill God's law in that now we can obey. I can put off sin and put on Christ's righteousness. In verses 5 through 13, the Spirit changes our nature and gives us strength to battle our unredeemed flesh. In verses 14 through 16, it confirms our adoption as God's children In verses 17 through 30, it guarantees our ultimate glory. And in your notes you have a chart that I've borrowed, and you see it says salvation, man's greatest possession. And so now we're going to look at justification. Notice it is past tense, sanctification, present tense. We are saved progressively from sin's power, glorification, future tense, saved ultimately from sin's presence. So as I was studying, justification is such an amazing truth. Um it just really has encouraged me to think I I think sometimes we just think about oh sanctification but justification is this amazing truth it says In Romans 5. 1, and I was thankful that Pam mentioned that for us already, we have been past tense justified by faith. You say, well, okay, I know that. What's the big deal about that way? But really to look back and consider your justification is to remember, ladies, that you and I are fully accepted by God because of what Jesus did on the cross for us. Here's Martha's definition of justification. She says justification is a legal, eternally binding work of God. At the moment of salvation, whereby he, God, declares you and I forgiven of our sin and imputes or credits His own righteousness to you. So the righteousness of Christ is imputed to our accounts. Justification means our record before God is just as if I never sinned, just as if I always obeyed. I like that, maybe because it's simple. But you know it's so interesting in Romans 3. 23, we could probably all quote that, right? We're reminded that we're sinners, right? And then in Romans 3. 24, it reminds us, wait, you have been justified by faith as a gift. Justification is a gift that we don't serve, right? Salvation is a gift. We do not deserve. We cannot earn it. We do not deserve it. So we've been given this record of complete righteousness by God as a gift. Again, Romans 5. 1, we've been justified by faith and we have peace with God. We have peace with God objectively because that's what Scripture says, right? Um whether we feel it or not subjectively. And we stand before God as his beloved no longer guilty. No longer guilty. So again in Romans chapter 8, actually Paul asks Five rhetorical questions. We're going to look at four of them quickly. The first one is in verse 31. Where it says, What then shall we say to these things, all the things that I read? If God is for us, who is against us? Well, hmm. Lots of things can be against us. Yeah. People can be against us? Satan is against us. Our enemies, our trials, our difficulties, the governing authorities can be against us. Wow, but Paul means who can successfully be against us God is for us, ladies, and therefore guess what? No one can be successfully against us. Doesn't that encourage your heart and give you hope? Doesn't that encourage you to hold fast to God when you're discouraged and you're in the midst of People coming against you. One way God shows us that He is for us is that He justifies sinners like you and me God is for you. Remember that. Take that home today. God is for you. That should again fill your heart, mind with comfort encouragement and hope and help you to hold fast. Okay, the second question is in verse 32. Where it says, I'm going to read that whole verse, he who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all How will he not also with him freely give us all things? Well, God has given us the greatest of all gifts His son. He's given us salvation that we don't deserve. He has given us Jesus that we can now spend the rest of our lives having this relationship with And if he has given us this the greatest gifts, then we know that he will give us every good gift that we need. Even our suffering is a gift, even if I don't believe that or I feel that. That's hard, right? Even our suffering is a gift. All right, look at verse thirty-three, the next question And it says, who will bring a charge against God beless? Well, possibly Satan the accuser, right? Our enemies or even our own conscience are hard. But I think we have to remember this, ladies There is one judge and one juror, and that is God alone. Whatever charges are brought against us, we can rest in knowing that it is God who judges And that the elect, right, those that God has chosen and that Jesus died for, are justified before the Lord. Just as if I never sinned, just as if I always obeyed, the verdict is not guilty. Well, have you ever been weighed down by guilt? Of course. But you know, genuine Holy Spirit conviction leading to guilt is very healthy. Guilt alerts a healthy conscience to wrongdoing and what should it do? Right? It should lead us to repentance That's exactly what a healthy conscience should do. So that's a good thing. That's a good thing. Well have you ever been weighed down by false guilt? False guilt really grows out of the assumption that we must perform for the approval of God or others That failure is unacceptable, that sin is unforgivable. Well, ladies, hold fast Hold fast today to the judge's verdict. Not guilty. And ladies, don't forget that 1 John 1. 9 is in the Bible for us. Right? If we confess our sins, he is faithful, right, and just to forgive us. And then the last question, verse 34, it says, Who is the one who condemns? Hmm. Well the question, this question reminds us really that no one, no one can condemn us if we are in Christ. I think we need to think about that and take that very seriously. Listen to what Milton Vincent says in a gospel primer. And actually that's a really great little read, a little book. Um listen to what he says He says the gospel encourages me to rest in my righteous standing with God. A standing which Christ Himself has accomplished and always maintains for me. Alright, listen to this next. statement. He says, I never have to do a moment's labor to gain or maintain my justified status before God. I'm going to read that again. Because I don't think we always live there, right? I never, never have to do a moment's labor to gain or maintain my justified status before God. Free from the burden burden of such a task, I now can put my energy into what Enjoying God, pursuing holiness, and ministering God's amazing grace to others. I looked at a little more practical and I borrowed these terms from uh David Powellton And they are the anxious sinner and the obsessive striver. So a moment of confession. I probably, I am, yes, the anxious sinner. So listen to what he says about being the anxious sinner in regards to your justification. He says justification by faith is truly a comfort To those of us who doubt and struggle that we can ever be accepted by God, who struggle believing that God could ever love us. We always feel like we're falling short. We're filled with guilt and shame. And I run to Ephesians chapter 1. I call that my identity crisis chapter. Because listen to what it says. It says that he chose us in him. In love. He predestined us to adoption. He wanted us. He wanted me as sons or daughters through Jesus Christ to himself, to whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace which he lavished on us. I love that word. Like put a little little bit of like glitter, right? No, it says that he lavished his grace on us So that should encourage me not to be an anxious sinner because I'm remembering what justification means So maybe that's not you today, right? But maybe you are the obsessive striver. Okay. The obsessive striver Are those who believe that they have to oh no wait, we're saved by grace, right? Because we have good doctrine. But you know, I just need to work very hard to maintain my justified status before God. So I can prove myself to God and to others by your goodness. You know, I try to save the world by my efforts Maybe there's some perfectionistic tendencies going on, and they're very greatly disturbed by any type of failure. Right? They are self-confident, proud, self-righteous. There's that self-self, I have to do this. I don't think they heard what Milton Vinson said about I never have to do a moment's labor to maintain my justified status. When I counsel women that struggle being an obsessive striver, I do remind them that there was only one perfect person that ever lived, who ever walked on this earth, and that was Jesus And that doesn't mean that we can continue in sin, right? Romans 6 1. May it never be. We'll get there. Yeah. David Powellson says this He raises up those that are crushed by failure, self-condemnation and guilt and shame. His mercies touch our knees. And that's why I think it's so important where we started, right? The knowledge of God, who He is, must come first. He said, God humbles those who are proud, self-confident and self-righteous. He teaches us that we need his mercies, right? We know, oh, God's mercies are new every day. But I need those mercies in my life every day to live in this crazy fallen world, right? So ladies, don't lose heart because every blessing, including your justification, works into your sanctification, your obedience, and your hope. So sanctification, and we've heard a lot about this already this weekend, which is awesome. One biblical counselor said this. Whenever a person makes a turn for the better, sanctification is happening. I like that. Right? Whenever, because sometimes, you know, as parents were like, oh What's going on? When are my kids gonna be at this point or that point? But you know what? God is faithful. God is faithful, right? To work on all of us. We're all still being sanctified, right? Day by day. That's really A wonderful gift. And again, I already mentioned Romans 6. 1. Well I'm saved by grace, so maybe the question is, oh well what should we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be? I think the King James says God forbid. I like that. That's strong, right? So we have to remember in Romans 6, 4, it talks about us walking in this newness of life. That's sanctification. In Romans 6. 22 it says that we have been freed from sin. and enslaved to God and it says you derive your benefit resulting in sanctification and what's the outcome eventually eternal life I like what the NIV says. It says, the benefit you reap leads to holiness. So it's not like, okay, now I'm saved, great, I'm justified, I know that, and I don't do anything, right? No. The one of the benefits is holiness. And we're going to talk about that a little bit too Same biblical counselor said, wow, if there was only one thing, one thing, to make Christian growth certain, right? We would all Love that, right? But there is no single key. There's no just do X, Y, and Z solution to the puzzles of sanctification. One theologian said this and I really liked it. And and again it's Pam has already mentioned some of these things He says the truth is there is an inseparable link between justification and sanctification. And he said, this link is not legalism, right? We've heard a lot about that this weekend. It is not legalism, but it is truth and it is transformation. The divine invasion into our lives must change us, right? If we really have been saved by grace, then our lives will change. And I know sometimes we'd like that quicker than, right? Sooner than later. In Romans 8. 28, Paul doesn't say all things are good Because we know all things are not good. He says instead that all things what? Work together for good. Actually to grow us to make us more like Jesus. Excuse me. That is progressive sanctification. And there are multiple factors that actually influence our sanctification. God changes us. Truth changes us. People change us, and suffering changes us. And I gave you that, I like that little house, that chart. And that is from a book by David Powelson. It's called How Does Sanctification Work? And if you're not familiar with him as a writer, he is a biblical counselor. I think last year went to be with the Lord. So thankful that we have his resources. But God changes us. Philippians 2. 13, it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. God raised us in Christ when we were dead in our trespasses and sins. God did that. We were dead. God delivers us from darkness and brings us into his marvelous place. God gives us eyes to see and a heart to believe. Also, Scripture changes us. We are women that love the Word. That's why we're here this weekend. And Romans, again, a reference from Romans 12. What does it say? Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed, changed, right, by the renewing of your mind. David Pallison says, Scripture speaks with a true voice into a world churning with false voices. Isn't that true? Scripture speaks with a true voice into a world churning, I feel it screaming, right? Screaming with false voices. Yeah People change us. People change us. God uses people to sanctify us. Proverbs 13, 20 says, whoever walks with the wise becomes wise. And so as I was preparing to come, uh my fourteen year old granddaughter, Gabriella is visiting from Minnesota, and we were talking about she was like, oh Nana, what are you what are you gonna talk on? And I was on the point of sanctification and she has been saved and baptized and I just see such a sensitivity to spiritual things and So I wrote talking about how do you think people change us? And she said, Oh, I know Jocelyn changed me. And I was like, Oh, well tell me a little bit about it. So Jocelyn, 30, I think mid-30s She's the babysit for Gabriela and her other two siblings, was diagnosed with cancer. I think she lived less than a year. And uh I said, Gabriella, well how did How did God use that in your life? She said, well, mom and dad would take us to the hospital, and her dad was a worship pastor, and we would sing with her. And we would pray with her. And she said that, you know what, I watched Jocelyn and her trust of Jesus. And she said Now I'm not so afraid of death. Here's this 14-year-old my granddaughter saying this to me. I'm like, wow, that's pretty amazing. And then In March when you know quarantine came, actually Gabrielle and my daughter Rebecca had COVID pretty bad And Gabriella, you know, had high fever for two weeks. And you can imagine what are you hearing on the news? Well if you get COVID, you're gonna die, right And she said to me that she said, you know, every night I would go to bed and I would be a little depressed and sometimes cry because, you know, I wasn't sure if I was going to wake up in the morning, but then I would think about Jocelyn. And I was like, wow, okay, yes. People change us. People change us. Romans eight 18 says believers have hope in the midst of suffer suffering because the glory that will be ours doesn't compare with a lifetime of suffering. Ladies, we have to believe that by faith. We have to believe that by faith. In 1 Corinthians 4, which we've heard already again, 16 and 17, it talks about This momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. Well you know what when I say that it doesn't feel like momentary light affliction. Right? It's heavy. It's hard. I have to believe that by faith that God is producing this eternal way of glory that I do not understand Our family has went through a number of very difficult things this past year, like many in this room, and you know we're going through Romans in our ladies' Bible study and I'm like Oh, this momentary light affliction, I I just I have to believe this by faith. I have to believe it by faith Pastor Tom Lee told us that suffering is the speedway to sanctification. When we were going through Romans 8, I shared his two-part video. If you haven't watched that, you need to watch it. Because he shared that suffering is hard and real, and that he had to learn to depend on God for everything He also said that God uses our suffering to refine or grow us in our faith. He said that that we have to trust the Lord to work things out. And I was like, wow, that sounds like Romans 8. 28. Right? And in the midst of suffering he said that God was giving him a greater desire for heaven He gave some practical advice. He said, pray that God will get the glory. Have compassion on hurting people. And give thanks in all circumstances. Some thoughts from John Piper from Don't Waste Your Cancer, actually a book in the book stored today. He says, you'll waste your suffering or cancer, whatever it is. I'm just going to use the word suffering, if you believe that it's a curse and not a gift The aim of God in our suffering is to knock the props out from under our hearts so that we rely utterly on Him. He says you'll waste your suffering if you spend too much time reading about it and not enough time reading about God. And then he went on to say, you know what, ignorance is not a virtue, right? But he said the lure to know more and more and the lack of zeal to know God more and more is symptomatic of unbelief. Suffering is meant to awaken us to the reality of God. And you know what, I don't even know how many people shared those two that two video that two part video series of Tom's um suffering the speedway that sanctification That's a great title. Wow. And it's still, God is still getting the glory, right, for that Lastly, they said you'll waste your suffering if you fail to use it as a means of witness to the truth and the glory of God. Suffering shows us what's in our heart, right? Do we trust God or is our hope in the good things that He's given us? Martha in her book talks about sanctification and says, you know, sanctification is not a let go and let God philosophy. Believers are one hundred percent responsible. Okay, ladies, so when it's when I say be still Rest in God. That doesn't mean you sit and do nothing and think you're going to grow in holiness, right? So you are 100% responsible, but you are also 100% dependent on outside help. And that outside help comes from the Spirit of God using the Word to transform my heart and mind. Christians now we have the strength to obey. Um the Puritans describes man's responsibility as holy sweat. Actually Martha used that in her book. I like that. Puritan theologian and pastor Jonathan Edwards said, holy affections are not heat without light, but evermore arise from the information of the understanding. Some spiritual instruction that the mind receives, some lighter actual knowledge. And then he says this: the child of God is graciously affected. Because he sees and understands something more of the of the divine things that he did not before. He sees and he understands something more. Ed Welsh says this, instead of viewing our growth in Christ as progressive sanctification. Which then he clarifies, he says, which is a fine expression, right? Identifying that growth in holiness does not come all at once He said, think of it as progressive nearness. Progressive nearness. What do we do? We begin to see and understand something more of God. Something more of divine things. So moving quickly, sanctification begins at the moment God saves us. and continues until we finally see him face to face. So now we have this hope of glorification in Romans 8. Verses 28, I'll just read verse 30, for whom he predestined, he called Those he called, he justified. Those he justified, he also glorified. So look at this This beautiful chain link that God has created for us. He foreknew, he predestined. He called, he justified He is sanctifying and ultimately he will glorify us. And we have hope, ladies. Because God is and has been in control of our life from eternity past till eternity future. I think we need to remember that. Believers can be confident, right? That that God will work all things for good. And you know what, if I'm really honest, I prayed, okay God, I'm reading Romans 8. 28, and I know you say you're going to work all things together for good. I'm really having a hard time believing that So God help my unbelief. Help my unbelief. So He knew us in eternity past. He called us to himself, and it's that effectual calling that actually creates faith. He justified us, remember, just as if I never sinned, just as if I always obeyed. And then he is sanctifying us. He is conforming us to the image of Jesus day by day. And we will be glorified. It's interesting that the word glorified, Paul uses the past tense as though it's already occurred for a future event to emphasize its So one day, you know what, ladies, we're not gonna we're not gonna be here, right, in this fallen world experiencing sickness and death and murder and discouragement and depression, but we are going to see Jesus face to face One author who wrote on Romans 8 said this, one day we will be glorified, completely free of sin. completely made holy. But today, right now, right? Right now we have work yet to do. There's a lot to do, right? But one day all the work for our growth in godliness will be done. This knowledge of our future glory should motivate us to do what? to love and serve the Savior more every day, right? To love God and then love others. So we've looked at what it means to be justified as a free guest And remember that comes with peace with God. We are being sanctified. John 17, 17 says Sanctify them in the truth. What? Your word is truth. And we will be glorified. So these are really, and I love the title of Martha's book. These are Precious truths. She calls this precious truths in practice. These are precious truths. that we need to rest in and meditate on and what hold fast to. So let me close with this question. Are you holding fast to God when you're overwhelmed with life's circumstances? Philippians chapter 2, very quickly. It's interesting what it says. It says in verse 14, prove yourselves. To be blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. among whom you appear as light in the world. Verse 16, holding fast the word of life. So are you shining as lights in the world? Are you shining as light in this crooked and perverse cancel culture world, right? Are you more shaped by the culture? By the world or by God's word, are you holding fast to the words of life? Romans 14, 17. It says this, for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, right? It's not these non-essential and external observances. Well then what is it? Well it tells us right here. But righteousness And I righteousness, holy heart-driven, joy-filled obedience, righteousness, and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. So holding fast, having this abiding attitude of thankfulness and hope. I hope you remember, if you remember anything, remember that biblical definition of hope, this confident expectation in what? In what? In God's goodness. In God's mercy, in God's wisdom. And remember what Dr. Edwell called progressive sanctification. He called it progressive nearness. So ladies, let's draw near and let's hold fast to this good, wise, loving sovereign and merciful God. All right, let's uh let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for Lord, this day, thank you, Father, for Martha Keys and Lord allowing her just to write another book that can instruct us in the truth. Lord, I know that there there are probably many here today that have heavy hearts who, Lord, have struggled through this last year of quarantine have experienced loss and discouragements and have even lost a loved one maybe even to COVID. I pray, Father, that they would hold fast Even if we feel like we're holding fast by just a string, that we would hold fast to the truth of the gospel. Hold fast to the the truth of Scripture because Lord, we know that Lord, that's where real peace and joy and ultimately righteousness comes from. So we give you thanks and praise for this day. In Jesus' name. Amen.