Well uh as we get started, let me go ahead and pray, and then uh I'll just First start to see if there's any particular questions that maybe you've had in the back of your mind as Danny and Elias have been teaching. Um I have the privilege of of being the teacher for the next four weeks, Lord willing, or today in the next three weeks. Um and we'll be talking about uh uh biblical justice and social justice. There will be some overlap, some repetition, which is good for the sake of learning, but um uh we'll continue to add more more content, more dimensions to all of this. Uh so uh the you know the notes that we have for today uh we'll see how far we get. Um and then we got plenty of time. Uh I don't I don't think it'll be difficult to uh to get through everything over the next four weeks. So let me go ahead and pray. Father, thank you for uh this morning and another beautiful day. that you have made. We rejoice and are glad in it because we can come together as your people to sit under the teaching of your word, to hear from you. Being ahead, Lord, we know that um well I'm certainly aware of my own frail excuse me frailties and inadequacies, and uh so I pray that through the weaknesses and frailties of the The speaker that you would minister truth to each one of us. Anything that I say that is not true and unhelpful, I pray that it would be forgotten. But anything that is consistent with your character, anything that is true, Lord, may it lodge itself deep into our souls. Father, we want to transform our minds by the Holy Spirit. We want to adopt the mind of Christ And these are challenging issues in various ways because of how significantly the world has shaped our thoughts. So Lord just give us discern discernment. And help us to grow in our understanding so that we might walk worthy of you. In Christ's name. Amen. Hey, good morning. All right. So any uh any particular questions before we get started this morning that have risen up for the last few weeks? Danny answered everything. Uh there's Danny trying to turn the light on. Good to see you, brother. All right. Well let me start by uh sharing my screen. I want to go through a table that compares what what's called ideological social justice, which uh is more or less the same as critical race theory, but um don't worry about those two termin those terminologies just the basically the worldly perspective on these issues compared to the biblical perspective. This is this is not exhaustive by any stretch or cover everything. Uh uh Danny told me that he's working on basically a glossary of what are terms that uh that we all use, um, you know, us and the world and and what are the different definitions So that that's forthcoming. This is not going to replace that, but this is helpful just to remind ourselves of some of the fundamental worldviews that are at work here. So I'm just trying to zoom in a little bit. So when we think about kind of the fundamental questions of life, uh by the way, this this comes from a book called Why Social Justice Is not biblical justice by Scott David Allen. I copied it exactly. There are some of the rows on the at the end I would I would prefer to put up closer to the top, but this is copied from that book. Uh I highly recommend that book. It was very helpful for me along with other books that I've read. Um and uh anyway So when we ask the question, what is ultimately real, we know from Scripture that what is ultimately real is whatever God defines. Is real. Genesis 1. 1, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And from there, God defines reality. God reveals to us not only the The truths of the physical realm. He reveals history. He reveals his providence. And he reveals himself and ourselves and our character and nature. And his character and nature, his works. What he plans to do in the future, all of those things, he defines reality. And so whenever we think about reality, we ought to adopt whatever God says. That's the biblical worldview at least. Ideological social justice or critical race theory, just like most other uh worldly viewpoints would define reality uh as that which the human di uh uh human mind defines reality. Uh whatever we ourselves perceive, whatever we think, whatever ideas we come up with, that is what is real. And therefore that can change, right? Because different people in different parts of the world, different times in history, they can perceive reality in different ways. So that's where you get relativism. You know, what's true for you may not be true for me, and what's true for somebody in Asia may not be true for somebody in Africa. All of those kinds of things are kind of the result of sourcing reality in the human mind as opposed to God. The second question is: who are we? Biblically speaking, we are creations and image-bearers of a good and holy and loving God with inherent dignity and immeasurable worth. Now we have to acknowledge that Christians throughout the ages have not always lived and acted on that basis, but that is what Scripture reveals. To the degree that Christians adopt a biblical worldview, they have been the the uh uh movers and shakers of promoting uh justice and fairness and equity and goodness in the world. Uh Christianity has been the religion that has started hospitals and cared for the poor and cared for the needy because we believe in the fact that we are image bearers of God and we have inherent dignity and immeasurable worth. Where Christians have gone wrong, where they've Done wickedly where they've uh murdered and pillaged and taken over places, it's because they fundamentally rejected uh God's worldview as revealed in Scripture. It's hard to even call them Christians at that point, but we're all sinners, and so we we need to be careful with that. But any true believer should adopt a biblical worldview in that regard And then social justice answers the question. We are creatures whose identity is wholly, completely socially determined. We are products of our race, sex. and gender identity. So uh the w the world tells us who we are, our community tells us who we are, our our nation, our people, our family tells us who we are. And that includes I tell myself who I am and who wherever we want to source our identity in those around us or ourselves. That becomes our identity. We can all fall into this if somebody tells you over and over again that you're worthless, you're you're not going to amount to anything. uh y you're not like other people, you're an um outcast, you're gonna adopt that kind of mentality. Um people suffer because they they think that way because of what they've been told. Um but ultimately our source of who we are, our identity, needs to come from God. And that's that's how we grow, that's how we uh endure difficulty, that's how we change. Who are we? Third question: what is our fundamental problem as human beings? Of course, from scripture, we know that our fundamental problem is rebellion. We have rebelled against God. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, or rebellion against God has resulted in broken relationships between God and man, and between Man and his fellow man and between man and creation. All of that is the result of the fundamental rebellion of human beings against God. On the other hand Our fundamental problem, according to social justice, critical race theory, or critical theory is oppression. Specifically, white heteronormative males have established and maintained hegemonic power structures to oppress and subjugate women, people of color, and sexual minorities, and others. Now that now we don't want to deny that there can be truth in that, that there are those who have developed structures and uh established Organizations and laws and whatnot that do end up oppressing others. But what we are saying here is: what is our fundamental problem as human beings? Uh not what our issues in the world, but what is our fundamental problem universally. And we have to adopt that biblical worldview, that it is fundamentally we have sinned against God. What is the solution to our problem? Well, if Our fundamental problem is that we have sinned against God. The only solution to that is that on the cross, God incarnate bore the punishment we deserve for sinful rebellion in order to show us mercy we could never deserve. His death on the cross and his resurrection opened the way for reconciliation of all of our broken relationships. Ultimately, we cannot find the source or the solutions to our problem in ourselves. uh in humanity. Uh we can't do enough good in this world to overcome our true fundamental problem according to God's word. We needed him to uh to give us a savior, to work uh on our behalf, and to give us mercy and grace that we did not deserve. We were hopeless apart from God. And yet he gave his son so that we might be forgiven and have our relationships restored. And it's really only the result of that restoration of our relationship between us and God that we can have true. reconciliation between man and man and even man and creation. It's not to say that you can't have a measure of peace, you know, between man and man apart from Christ. Obviously the world does. You know, billions of people go to work every day and they are at odds with God, but they're able to get along with their co-workers for the most part. And you know, kids are able to go to school and they're able to learn and be productive because uh because there's uh some level of um uh of peace between mankind, uh but that's a very precarious uh peace. Uh we can't have full reconciliation apart from our reconciliation with God. On the other hand, because of their view of oppression, the solution, according to social justice and critical theory, is revolution. Oppressed victims and their allies must unite to unmass, deconstruct, and overthrow these oppressive power structures, systems, and institutions. Whatever one perceives. As an oppressive institution, system, or power structure, we have to overthrow that. We have to deconstruct it, show it for what it is. So there is revolution. Uh I've heard it said, you know, various sources. The system which You know, it's usually said without reference to anything, though often that the assumption is government. The system cannot be reformed or repaired. It needs to be replaced. That's a very, very dangerous way of thinking because the question then becomes, what are you going to replace it with? And again, biblically speaking, the only way it's going to be repl or the only thing that can replace it in terms of the world is another equally oppressive and destructive system. How can we be saved? So if if there is the problem and the solution is is presented before us, how do we go about uh accomplishing or achieving that salvation. Well, according to Scripture, if you declare with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. This nothing you can do, it's not about your works, you know you can't do enough good, you can't feed enough poor, you can't uh release enough prisoners, you can't do enough to uh remove oppression. The only thing you can do to be saved, to be reconciled with God and ultimately reconciled with man, is to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ To give your life to him, believe in him and who he is and what he's done, and as it says in 1 Peter 315, sanctify, set him apart as Lord. You don't we don't make him Lord, he is Lord, but we can submit to him as Lord. uh of our lives. On the other hand, if the problem is oppression, the solution is revolution, then we individually can potentially be saved in this sense. Victims are morally innocent and do not need salvation. If you're part of the oppressed group If you're a woman, if you're L B G T Q individual, if uh if you're a person of color, you don't need to be saved because you're an oppressed group. You're a victim. On the other hand, oppressors can never fully be pardoned Because by definition they are oppressors, that's their inherent nature. But partial salvation is available if they confess their complicity in oppression and support the revolution. become allies, if you will, of the oppressed. Now, what is our primary moral duty? You know, day to day, in the details of life, when you go to work, when you're in your community, when you're when you're living uh Um in this world, what what are we supposed to be doing? What's our moral imperative? Well, biblically we are to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Which involves living in obedience to all that Christ commanded, and we are to love our neighbor as ourselves. We know those, of course, as the two great commandments, as Jesus identified them. That is what it means to live in this world uh as servants of Christ. On the other hand, according to social justice and critical theory, we are to stand in solidarity with, protect, and defend the oppressed women, people of color, sexual minorities, and so on. Our lives should be about um uh seeking to uh defend and protect those who we deem to be oppressed. And if you're not doing those things, then you're part of the problem. If you're not in some way making efforts in that area, you are an ally of the oppressors. It's not enough to just agree or think that way. You have to be active Um everyone must be, to one degree or another at least, an activist. That is the moral duty according to that viewpoint. This question is one that I would have put higher up on the On the list here, but how do we know what is true? You know, we asked earlier how do we define ultimate reality? This is a similar question, but with a slightly different answer. How do we know what is true? What is a proper epistemology? You know, the study of of what is true, the study of knowledge. Well, biblically speaking, of course, divine revelation is how we know what's true. God Himself not only defines reality, but He has communicated that revelation to us And therefore we understand what is true, we know what is true based on what God's Word says. And not only that, but God Himself has written His law on our heart. He's given us a conscience. That's why we understand universally without needing to be taught that murder is wrong, that there is such a thing as good and evil. God has embedded that in us. And he's also revealed himself in creation, right? The heavens declare the glory of God, and we see Romans 1 saying how God's power and glory is revealed in creation. So, with those sources of revelation, God's Word, our conscience, and what's around us in creation, we are to apply the God-given capacities that we have because we're in His image. Well, our God-given capacity for reason, for logic, discussion and debate to assemble and weigh evidence in the pursuit of truth. We all understand we all have biases, we all have perspectives, we all have unique backgrounds. And that's fine. That's not inherently wrong, but because of who we are, who we've m who got whom God has made us to be We can take the truth, we can take what is out there objectively in Scripture, in the heart, in creation, and we can come together And look at all of the evidence and determine, okay, what is true. We can look at the evidence for the resurrection of Christ, for example, and determine, yes, Jesus did in fact rise from the dead because of all the evidence that we have. We can know for certain that God's word is inerrant, that there actually is no legitimate error found in Scripture We can know even as we look at um you know things that are going on in the world, we can gather the evidence, as of course they do in legal processes and investigations. The whole judicial system is based on the fact that it's possible to gather evidence and come up with what is true. That's a possibility. There can be objectivity. That's the point here On the other hand, according to critical theory and social justice, the notions of objective truth, reason, logic, evidence, and arguments are discredited tools that oppressors employ to maintain their hegemony. We gain knowledge of truth through victims who, based on their lived experience of oppression, have greater insight than oppressors. This is referred to as standpoint epistemology. In other words, from their standpoint, a victim has a greater grasp on truth than anybody else, and especially better than their oppressors This week there was a interaction that I had uh where uh uh uh I was indicating that um You know, Joe Biden mentioned um uh white supremacy in his speech, uh in in his inauguration speech. And you know, we can all affirm if we define white supremacy the way it's been defined for years and years and years, uh the idea that white people have uh have somehow a greater uh importance, that they're better, that they're superior, you know, supremacy, uh, than other uh ethnicities, if we define it that way, we can all agree that's wrong, that's sinful, that's wicked thinking. And so if that's what President Biden meant by that, Then we can say, yes, we want to affirm the fact that that's wrong and that should be something that should be done away with and eradicated to the to the degree that's possible. But the problem is that's not how critical theory and social justice define white supremacy. Now we're going to get into this later, so I'm just bringing it up now to tease what's coming in the next few weeks. I'll show you a quote in the next few weeks where a professing Christian, academic, defines the doctrines like inerrancy of scripture exclusivity of Christ, uh you know, these kinds of things, objective truth, as tools of white people to oppress people of color and you know LBGTQ commun community and whatnot. And so this concept of whiteness includes things like reason and logic and evidence. And so white supremacy now becomes that which, you know, if you're if you're trying to make an argument, a reasoned, reasonable, rational argument. You're now white supremacist because you're using the tools of white supremacy to oppress others. Now if that's what Joe Biden meant, I'm not going to say what I'm thinking. Uh if that's what he meant, then we would stand against that, because that's not true. That's based on a demonic lie. So we'll talk more about that in the future. Next question. Who has ultimate authority? Obviously God has ultimate authority. He is the Lord of the universe. He is creator and therefore he has final authority over all things. What he says goes What he says is true is true. What he tells us to do and what he uh identifies as good and right is what's good and right. We submit to him in all things. On the other hand, according to critical theory and social justice, victims are the final authority. The claims of victims, based on their subjective lived experience, must be believed without question So if uh if somebody claims that they were oppressed, that they were uh uh sinned against, or uh you know somebody was uh motivated by racism uh uh in how they treated them, then you just have to believe them because as a victim, they uh they know what's true, they know what's right. Now they might be right. I'm not you know I'm not den I'm not saying we should not believe victims. I'm just saying this is according to these theories. They are the final authority. So if you try and bring in evidence, you know I think you might be misperceiving that. Nope, nope I'm the final authority because I'm the victim. What I think, my subjective perspective, is the authority. And we kind of see that in our culture. um where people can make claims, accused uh you know, leaders or potential Supreme Court nominees or presidents. Uh and this this goes both ways. People can make accusations and in many cases there's just an assumption of truth. You know, we've lost that principle of innocent until proven guilty. We'll talk more about that next week. And then finally, is there a future final judgment according to Scripture? Yes, absolutely there is. Jesus will return and accomplish perfect justice. He will preserve all that is good and rid the world of all that is evil. Until then, he extends mercy and forgiveness to sinful people. Talk about that a little bit more today. There is a final judgment, but grace and mercy and forgiveness can be found. According to critical race theory and social justice, no, there is no God. So he's not going to return and punish the wicked and reward the upright. Rather, injustice must be rooted out here and now by those with the power to do so. This life is all there is, so we have to give everything we can to ridding the world of injustice as we define it. Because this is our only chance. Future generations are depending on us. Current generations are depending on us. Because this life is all there is. Last thing we would want is someone to suffer and then die, and that's it. Because there is no future, there is no final judgment. Those who are wicked, if they're not punished now, they'll never be punished. They'll get away with their wickedness. And so that's why we have to devote ourselves to to those things. Alright. Well that's the end of that table. Any particular thoughts or comments or questions? Before we move on to the handout. That was just a really good summary. Um if you guys have noticed of the past six weeks, what week are we in? Six weeks, something like that. Um And uh so everything literally everything that's been talked about these past six weeks have all been summarized and contained in a very good brief format. So really appreciate that, Pastor Gabe. Um there are a few things uh of note, um kind of kind of the happenings in the world. Um some things I I would recommend taking a look at Um just in general, just to kind of get your feet wet. I'm I'm I'm sure you have I'm you know, I don't want to make any presumptions, but uh There have been a lot of things that have happened, of course, um, specifically with like some of the executive orders that uh President Biden has uh put in place and you signing and whatnot. And some of those specifically refer to like um Funding uh uh worldwide abortion again. Um Uh and one of those is the pursuits of racial equity in federal agencies. So you remember there was that whole debacle where President Trump uh for a moment was talking about how there is this issue of critical race theory and these things being taught in government facilities and and in classes and whatnot and they're pushing to pursue like a curriculum for uh government employees to to undergo. Um there's talk of deep programming um now and whatnot because of these executive orders. So he's signing essentially um critical the the ability to reinstate critical race theory courses and classes into like government curriculums and whatnot. Pretty interesting. And there are some examples you can find online of what those classes look like. You just have to do a little digging. Um but it's it's pretty much like take take the ideological social uh ranking right there and then put that into like class format to be taught as true and this is essentially what what the class is teaching. That's pretty fascinating. But just some stuff just to maybe get your mind thinking a little bit of consequences and what does this mean for us. and whatnot. So anyway, um other than that, no this is a really, really good um summary. Alright, thanks Danny. So anybody else? Yeah. So what does that mean for us as Christians? Uh what what does what Danny was saying mean for us or what we've been talking about here? Uh yes, that. I'll go with the second one. Um So here's what that means. The more these ideas, ideological social justice as it's termed here, the more these ideas get uh into not just the culture at large, but into the uh the the governmental uh legal system uh of laws and policies That means rather directly that Christians will be persecuted. Because what what we believe specifically about morality, homosexuality, transgenderism marriage. I mean forget obviously we don't believe anything about women s necessarily that the world would disagree with. I mean maybe the complementarium, but that that's not something that they would be angry about necessarily Uh obviously we don't believe anything about ethnicity that the world would be angry about. Um I mean we we would disagree like uh uh Elias was talking about a couple weeks ago. uh in with the concept of racialism, but but when we communicate that we're all made in the image of God, we have equal value and worth, you know, the world's not going to persecute us for that. uh reality because we we want to recognize everybody uh as being uh God's creation equally. Where it comes into to uh to play for us is our moral views And the reason that's significant is because according to this theory, and again we'll talk about this more after we get through the biblical justice portion of things. From the world's perspective, women, ethnic minorities, and LBGTQ are all one and the same. They are all the oppressed. They are all the victims And so you cannot, you cannot say one of those groups is sinful, and at the same time say That we're all made in the image of God and, in a sense, be an anti-racist. Let me put it this way: if you believe that homosexuality is sinful and wrong, You are, according to this system of thinking, you are a racist. Because all of that is one and the same. It's all the same circle. They don't make a distinction. Okay? That's where it comes into play for us. What will that actually look like? Obviously, who knows? It can take a lot of forms. But that's that's the significance where the oppressed is not necessarily a bunch of different groups that you can splice out and say, well, you know, yes, we see this and we see that and we distinguish this and that. No, according to the world, they're all the same. And therefore, if you are an oppressor of one group, from their perspective, you're an oppressor of all groups. I mean it's a twisted version of the biblical truth in James 3. 10. You know, if you've broken one of the laws, commands of God, you've broken all of them in terms of God's perspective. But that's basically what the world's saying. If you say that sexu homosexuality, transgenderism is wrong, then you're a racist. And therefore what we believe becomes hate speech and discrimination. And uh and then that will have ramifications uh in terms of um you know taxes and policies I mean it's it's already been in discussion for for a number of years now that churches may lose tax exempt status because we discriminate uh against certain people because of our doctrines. Uh or you may lose your job because of your views, not because of how you treat people, but because you view people a certain way. Um and we already see that happening all over the place So that's where it comes into play. Pastor Gabe. Yeah. This is Michelle. Yeah. Um also I think that it's important to recognize how this affects pluralism Um within the church I was listening to a podcast on Veritas Press yesterday where a professing believer was kind of establishing herself in pluralism and if you listen carefully, like the basis of her decision to do that was critical theory. And so it like it could creep into the church in a pluralistic way as well. Since truth isn't truth. Hmm, sure. Yeah. So you're speaking of religious pluralism that you know Christianity isn't the only way. Is that what you're meaning by pluralism? Yeah, yeah. Just to want to clarify that. Yeah, no, it's Uh that's that's a danger. Because again, uh what we believe about doctrine here at Hope Bible Church is um the result of using tools of oppression. uh we're we're using reason, logic, uh depending on God's inerrant word. Those are considered by some now you know I'm sure you know there are many who are ignorant because they haven't thought about the religious side of things in in in terms of doctrinal issues, but By some. And again, we'll we'll talk more, I'll give more quotes, more evidence when we get to the talking about social justice in in a couple weeks. But what we believe is oppressive according to that worldview. Okay. Well uh let's move over to the handout. Uh if you've joined us uh s since Well, since sometime earlier Naomi had posted the handout notes as well as that chart on the chat. And uh and if you don't see that, then you can always go to the Hopebook group and download them from there. By the way, Sarah said in the quote, Sarah Irvine, that um Those with disability are are also in the oppressed. Yes, that's true. Okay, so moving over to the notes, I want to start today uh well with this section of it. By just defining a couple terms, what we're basically going to do today and next week is establish the foundation of biblical justice. Throughout the class so far, we've mostly been trying to explain what does the world say. And I know there's been some measure of uh kind of longing for, okay, when are we going to get to the truth? When are we going to get to scripture? Well, here we are. We're going to do that in spades today and next week. So my method is we're going to, today next week, we're going to lay down the biblical foundation of true justice. What is justice? What is righteousness? And therefore, what should we as believers be seeking to promote and encourage in the world? And then we're going to compare that with, okay, what does what is the social justice movement actually striving for? What are their goals as compared to what Scripture would say? And I think what will happen, I'm pretty confident, is that once we lay down the foundation and we explain what social what the social justice movement holds to, you're just going to see these are two different worlds. And it's going to be very difficult for us then in in recognizing these realities to join hands and say, yeah, we want to be on board and support what they're supporting. All right. Throughout the process we'll talk about what might be some ways in which we as believers can be Ambassadors for Christ in promoting justice in this world. That's not going to be the major focus. You know, we're not going to give you a hundred ways that you can do that, but uh just as we talk about God's standard for justice even his commands of what justice looks like next week uh we'll we'll talk about that. Because our world is a really unjust place. Our legal system is a very unjust legal system. That needs to be nuanced a lot, and I'm going to try my best to nuance that next week because relative to many places in the world we have a very just system. Uh I mean you would not want to be a criminal in Singapore or North Korea. I mean I don't think anybody here wants to uh violate any of their laws because You know, Singapore you could get cane for some minor offense. You know, throwing your gum on the Sidewalk? In North Korea, you know, you s some superminor offense you could get put in a terrible prison for a long time. So We want to balance our thinking, but still, this is where the Lord has us. He's brought us to this country or he's he's allowed us to be born in this country. And yet we need to recognize that there are a lot of flaws in our system. And I don't, you know, we're not going to talk about specific, hey, next week here's what we're going to do to address this issue. But we're just going to talk about what are the ways in which our system is unjust. And if a person, you know, any of you have uh resources, opportunities, ability, influence in any of those areas, then those are going to be the kinds of things that No, we'll point out point out. Anyway, so defining some terms here as we get started in looking at the biblical uh worldview of of justice. The term righteousness and justice go together in Scripture. They are hand in hand, and we'll see a ton of passages about that. But righteousness is defined as the standard of what is true. Good and right. What is true, good and right? You have that in your handout. True, you know, that which conforms to reality, that which is good, that which is beneficial. That which is beautiful, which is helpful, which promotes prosperity and flourishing, and right, that which is morally right as opposed to morally wrong. So righteousness is the standard of what is true, good, and right. These are not overly technical, these are very general, but I think helpful definitions. Okay, so that's the standard, that's the rule, that's the measuring rod of what is true, good, and right. Justice is impartially upholding the standard of righteousness. Okay? Impartially upholding the standard of righteousness. So they they go hand in glove, as they say, or or they go together. You can't separate the two. If you're gonna have a standard You have to uphold that standard. Otherwise, what's the point of having a standard if you're not going to follow it, right? As parents, we have rules in the house, and what's the point of having rules if you're not going to discipline your kids when they break the rules? That's justice. Justice is upholding that standard of righteousness. Now, righteousness and justice are not abstract concepts. They're not these ideas floating up in the sky that we can say, oh yeah, that's what that is. Righteousness and justice are based on the character and the work of God. God is righteous And God does justice. That's how we know what they are. God is righteous and he does justice. So God does not believe in righteousness. God does not adhere to a standard of righteousness. He is righteous. So anything that he does is righteous and good, right and true. And he himself upholds that standard. So what we're going to do today, in in uh just a couple minutes, is look at what does scripture say about God himself in in these terms. Before we do that, let me just, for the sake of contrasting it with a definition of social justice If righteousness is the standard of what is right, good, and true, and justice is uh upholding impartially the standard Righteousness, what's social justice? Well, one definition, this comes out of that same book, why social justice is not biblical justice. It's defined as deconstructing traditional systems and structures deemed to be oppressive and redistributing power and resources from oppressors to their victims in the pursuit of equality of outcome. Okay, that's that's a nutshell definition. We're gonna talk about uh those things in the coming weeks. But you can see that that's just a completely it's gonna it's a categorically different concept than righteousness and justice. We're we're just not even talking about the same thing. Now, why is it important to study God's character? I mean Everything that we're going to say today about God, you're going to be like, yeah, I've heard that. I've heard that a ton. I've read that in scripture. I know that. Why do we need to spend time doing this? Well, number one, we constantly need to be reminded of the truth, but also we need to remember that the world hates God. The world hates God. And they hate everything God stands for. They hate who God is. They hate what He does And so if we are going to seek to promote justice, and we should, and we should uh encourage others to follow God's standard of righteousness. And we should, we have to understand that our goals uh completely contradict the world's goals. That's not to say that there's perhaps some overlap at various points. But in terms of the current social justice movement, there is no overlap. Again, because of some of these really fundamental ideas that we were just talking about with that with that table. The pursuit of biblical, true, right, good justice is not what the world is about So we want to be people of justice. We want to promote justice. We do want to be those who are against wickedness and evil and oppression properly defined. But we have to understand that how Scripture reveals those truths as being rooted in God's character is something that the world hates. So let's start with the fact that God is true. Oh In my notes, it says God is true and God. I don't know if that title carried over into the handout, but God is true and good. So just kind of following the order of righteousness. God is true and good. So we're just going to walk through these passages. You don't have to turn there. I'm just going to read them and make comments at various points. Exodus 33, Moses is up on the mountain. God has given by this point the Ten Commandments, and Moses has been experiencing God's presence. Up there on the mountain. And he has the audacity to say, God, I want more. I want to see your glory And here's what God says, Exodus 33, 19. I myself will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of the Lord before you, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show compassion on whom I will show compassion. So God is here identifying Himself as being good. That's the simple point I'm drawing from this text. God is good. Psalm nineteen, verse nine, the second half of the verse says, The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. So here we get Two concepts put together, or really three, the judgments, the determinations, the decisions that God makes. They're true. They're accurate. They conform to reality. They conform to that which is righteous, what is true, good, and right. That is the Word of God, as Psalm 19 is all about the Word of God. It's true and righteous. Psalm 31, verse 19: How great is your goodness which you have stored up for those who fear you which you have wrought for those who take refuge in you before the sons of men. Again, God is good, and he says, How great is your goodness. Psalm 119, verse 142. Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is truth. So there's never an end to the righteousness of God. It's infinite, it's eternal. And his law, his standard is truth. Verse 151 of Psalm 119. By the way, if you don't have the handout, all of these passages are listed, the references are listed in the handout. Psalm one nineteen verse one fifty one, you are near, O Lord, and all your commandments are truth. All your commandments And then verse 160, the sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous ordinances is everlasting. So you put all of God's ordinances, all of his commands, all together in a bucket, and the sum of them is truth. It's accurate. It's consistent with reality. Psalm 145, verse 7, they shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness and will shout joyfully of your righteousness. So here his goodness is abundant. It's overflowing. And it produces joy because of his righteousness. Then moving to the New Testament, Mark chapter 10, remember the rich, uh not the rich younger ruler, but uh I see it is the rich younger ruler who said this. A ruler questioned him saying, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. So again, according to Scripture, if you want to know what good is, what defines goodness, can't look to anyone, can't look to your very friendly neighbor You can't look to those who present themselves as saviors of various kinds in the world. You have to look to God alone because he is good John chapter 1, verse 14, talking about Christ. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glories of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So of course we know that Jesus is God, and therefore he shares the character of God, which is full of grace and truth. In John 14, verse 6, Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. And then finally, for this section, Romans chapter 3, verses 3 and 4, what then, if some did not believe, their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? See he's talking about the Jews here, uh, because God had chosen the Jews and therefore God had rejected those who did not believe. And so the question is, is God going to stop being faithful because some did not believe And the answer is, may it never be. Rather, let God be found true, and every man be found a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. So whatever God says is true even if every human being on the planet says it's wrong or questions his judgment. Trina, did you have a question? That was Romans chapter 3, verses 3 and 4. Oh, okay. Sorry, that's not on the uh on the handout. Romans 3, 3 to 4. Alright, so God is true and good. And by the way, this is just a sampling. There are so many passages that refer to God as being true, as speaking truth. and and being good and all of those things. This is just a sampling. I wanted to walk through the various parts of Scripture Okay, so we know that our God is good and true. He is the standard of all that is true and good. Next, we highlight the fact that God is a God of justice and righteousness. Justice and righteousness. These two terms in Scripture go together often. Virtually every passage in this list includes both terms Like I said, justice and righteousness just they naturally go together. You can't have a standard and not uphold it. If you have the standard of what is true, good and right, you're gonna have to uphold it, and that's exactly what God does because It is who he is. It is his character, and he always works consistent with his character. So starting in Deuteronomy chapter ten, verses seventeen and eighteen, it says, For the Lord your God is the God of gods and the Lord of Lords The great, the mighty, the awesome God, who does not show partiality or nor take a bribe. He executes justice for the orphan and widow, and shows his love for the alien by giving him food So early on here, this is the second giving of the law before Israel goes into the land. And he says, I'm not a God who shows partiality. And partiality and equity are significant parts of justice, as we'll look at in more detail next week. God does not take a bribe, he executes justice. Deuteronomy chapter 34 verse 2 says, the rock. Before there was Dwayne Johnson, there was God. The rock, his work is perfect. For all his ways are just, a God of faithfulness and without injustice. Righteous and upright is he. You can stand on his works and his word, because he is without injustice and righteous he is righteous. Psalm chapter 33, verse 5. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving kindness of the Lord. So this aspect of his character, the fact that he is righteous, that he is true, good, and right, is something that he loves, he delights in. Psalm 89, verse 14. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth go before you. So when God sits on his throne of judgment, he has those pillars of righteousness. and justice that define what his rule is like. You know, presidents always have their platforms or You know, they're promises of what they're going to accomplish. And there's measured success in what they do. God says, righteousness and justice, that is my platform. That is what I will do, and he is always faithful to accomplish it. Jeremiah chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom. Let not the mighty man boast of his might, let not the rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boasts boast of this That he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on the earth. For I delight in these things, declares the Lord. So what can we boast in? Certainly nothing of ourselves. We can boast in the fact that we know a God who is just and righteous, and who exercises loving kindness, you might say, grace and mercy. That is our God. Ezekiel eighteen Ezekle 18 is actually a significant chapter in Scripture with regard to all of this, but we're just going to highlight a couple of the verses here. In the first four verses the Lord says this Then the Lord, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, What do you mean by using this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers eat the sour grapes, but the children's teeth are set on edge? In other words, what that proverb means is the fathers do some wicked act and the children shudder at the fact that they're going to experience the consequences of that. Of course, Ezekiel, who's Ezekiel? He's one of the prophets. When was he prophesying? Well, when Israel was uh deported. And there is this sense among them that Hey, we're being punished for the sins of our fathers. That's not fair. And basically the whole point of this chapter is God saying No, if you're being punished, it's because of your sin. But what the Lord says here is as I live, declares the Lord, in response to people who were m who were saying that proverb, you are surely not going to use this proverb in Israel anymore. Behold, all souls are mine. The soul of the Father as well as the soul of the Son is mine, then the soul whose sins will die. The soul who sins will die. And then he walks through the rest of the chapter uh or m uh uh about half the chapter talking about Okay, if there's a wicked man and he has a righteous son, the wicked man is going to pay for his own sin, but the righteous son won't pay for his own sin. Or if there's a righteous man and a wicked son, then the the wicked son is not going to receive the benefit. He's not going to be saved just because he had a righteous father. He's going to pay for his own sins. He also talks about how if there is a person who is wicked And yet they turn and repent, they won't pay for their wickedness because of the mercy and grace that God provides. And it's interesting how As you walk through the chapter, and we'll we'll get a little bit deeper in this uh a little bit later here, uh when God is talking about how he is willing and ready and eager to save and to rescue those who Who repent and turn. So you could have lived 20 years in utter wickedness. But if you turn and repent, God says you will not be judged. And then Israel responds in verse 25, yet you say, the Lord talking to Israel, yet you say the way of the Lord is not right. Hear now, O house of Israel, is my way not right? It is Is not it is sorry, is it not your ways that are not right? So as God is laying out his standard of justice and his willingness to be gracious and forgiving, the response of Israel is, well, that's not fair. And God says, if I can translate it, who cares what you think? You're wrong, I'm right. God standard is just and righteous The soul who sins will die, and those who repent will be saved. Romans chapter 7, verse 12 Says, so then the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. The law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. That's Paul referring to the Mosaic Law primarily, but of course we know that applies to all of God's law. And then finally, Romans chapter 9, verse 14. The question is asked with regard to the doctrine of election. What shall we say then? There is no injustice with God, is there? You know, people are often uh struggling with this idea that God would choose someone to be saved and choose others not to be saved, and specifically in the context, Jacob and Esau How could God choose one over the other on his own basis without respect to anything that they've done, good or bad? And so the the thought is, is there injustice with God? Is he being unjust to treat people without Reference to their actual behavior? And the clear answer is no, there's never injustice with God because God is righteous and just. Now just to kind of view it from the negative perspective, we can acknowledge that God hates injustice, right? So not only is God righteous in his character and and God acts consistent with his character by upholding that righteous standard by being just, but God hates when righteousness and justice are not accomplished. He hates injustice. Proverbs chapter 6, verses 16 to 19. There are six things which the Lord hates. Yes, seven things which are an abomination to him. Haughty eyes. Now, as I read this, ask yourself which of these relate to righteousness and justice. Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies, and one who spreads strife among brothers. All of these, of course, are a violation of a righteous standard that which is true, right, and good. But if you even if you limit it to the question of kind of legal issues, Well, a lying tongue, which he kind of says two different ways, uh lying in general or even lying in a courtroom, a false witness. Hands that shed innocent blood. And that could be either just a criminal on the street or a false condemnation of an innocent man. Uh feet that run rapidly to evil, heart that devises wickedness. All all of those things relate to righteousness and justice, and God hates those things. They are an abomination to him. That'll come up with the last verse we mentioned in this section. Psalm fifty three, verse one, the fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt and have committed abominable injustice. There is no one who does good. Those who reject the existence of God, are bound to commit abominable injustice. Isaiah chapter 61, verse 8 says, For I, the Lord, love justice And I hate robbery in the burnt offering. And I will faithfully give them their recompense and make an everlasting covenant with them. So here he contrasts his love of justice with his hate for, you could say, injustice. Now, you want to know how much. God hates injustice. . You know, so far he's just been saying in these passages, I hate it, I hate it, I hate it, and it's abominable, it's an abomination to me. How much does God hate injustice? Revelation chapter twenty one verse eight. But for the cowardly and unbeliever and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars Their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. God hates injustice so much. That those who do not repent from their injustice and unrighteousness, from their abominable deeds, as God considers them, They will spend eternity experiencing his wrath. You think people are mad in this world because of injustice? They don't know what it means to be mad at injustice. God will execute those who are unjust forever. God hates it. All right. Last section for today. This is gonna th this is really, really important. Because so much of the focus today is on justice, right? And I don't mean today on this day of the calendar, but in our day-to-day. In our culture, so much focus is on the issue of justice and injustice. But we know that God is not merely a just God. There's other aspects of his character. And here's Where it gets really relevant for us in terms of what our attitude should be in this world. Okay? So God's the point here, as you see in the handout, God's justice is measured, but his grace is abounding. When God judges sinners, he measures their punishment and their condemnation precisely. We'll talk about this more next week, but in the law in Leviticus, there's what's in Latin called lex telionis, eye for an eye. According to God, the punishment must fit the crime. Well God abides by that law himself. He doesn't take someone who does something what we would consider minor and just smash them uh in some uh um you know oh oh um extraordinary way that where we would say, well, come on, did he really deserve that? No, God is measured. He gives people exactly what they deserve and nothing more. Which, by the way, tells you how serious sin is. If it deserves eternal punishment in hell. But when it comes to his grace, he does not measure his grace. He doesn't measure it. He doesn't count it. He doesn't say, oh, see, I've given you uh five pounds of grace today. That's that's enough for you. He is rich. and abundant in his grace. He is overflowing with his goodness and his kindness and his love. That's his character. Let's look at these passages that say this. Exodus chapter 34 We read this passage often, at least I feel like I do, when teaching in various contexts, which is where God proclaims his name. Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7. Then the Lord passes in front of him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in loving-kindness and truth, who keeps loving-kindness for thousands. who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin, yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the grandchildren to the third and fourth generations It's not a contradiction to Ezekiel 18, but that's an explanation for another time. Psalm 86, verse 15, but you, O Lord, are God, merciful and gracious. Slow to anger and abounding in loving kindness and truth. Abundant in loving kindness and truth. Isaiah fifty-five, verse seven, let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord And he will have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. Abundantly Or in the New Testament, Ephesians chapter 1, verses 7 and 8, in him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. Which he, by the way, lavished on us. He lavished it. When someone lavishes something on you, They're not counting it. They're not saying, hmm, how much do I have? How much do they deserve? Let me give them this much. No, they're pouring it over and over. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4. But God being rich in mercy Because of his great love with which he loved us, made us alive, so on. Romans chapter 2, verse 4 to 6, this kind of contains both elements uh of justice being measured and r and uh kindness being unmeasured? Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience Not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath. and revelation of the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God, who will render to each portion, each person according to his deed. When people are judged in hell, they are judged according, consistent with, to the measure of their deeds. But those who repent of their sin Those who turn to Christ receive the riches, the abundant flowing, the never-ending river of God's loving kindness and grace and mercy. Back to Ezekiel chapter 18. Kind of give you the layout of that chapter. The Lord says in verses 23 and 32, Do I have any pleasure in the death of the wicked? declares the Lord. Rather than that he should rather than that he should turn from his ways and live. For I have no pleasure in the death of any one who dies, declares the Lord. God uh declares the Lord God, therefore repent and live. Now scripture does say that God delights in justice. Sorry, that let me separate that. He delights in justice. God loves it, but that doesn't mean he's happy and giddy when he's sending people to hell. He would much rather pour out his grace and mercy on them. And so he says Turn to me. Repent of your sin. Come to me, and I will forgive you. That is the character of God. Now, why does this matter? Think about it this way. The reason that we, you and I, can cry out for justice in this world. Listen, just think about this. The reason we can cry out for justice in this world is because you and I will not receive it. We will not experience justice. What I mean is we will not be spending eternity in hell. We won't receive it because we've been on the receiving end of the overflowing and abundant kindness and love and grace of God. We're not getting His justice. All of us, I mean there's I don't know what the youngest age among all of us is, but we're all adults as far as I can tell. Um except for Mr. Moody there. His picture is pretty young. But we have all sinned millions, if not billions, of times in our life. I referred to James 3, maybe it's 210 earlier. You know, whoever commits one, whoever violates one of these laws of God's law, it's as though He has committed the whole law. So when you and I sinned for the first time, whenever that was, you know, the so-called age of accountability, that very first sin, God would have been just To send us to hell forever. But he didn't. He kept us alive. And in his perfect time, he brought us to salvation in Christ for those of you who are saved. And so now we can stand here, we can live in this world, we can identify injustice, we can hopefully work for justice and promoting goodness and righteousness in the world, because we will not receive the justice of God. No one wants justice for them, for themselves. We want justice for others, but not for ourselves. Now again, we who have become in Christ, we who have been saved. Because we will not experience the justice of God, and because we know what real justice is, with the fullness of those who do not repent in Christ, repent of their sin and turn to Christ, what they will receive That should temper our attitudes and our emotions toward the evil in our world. Because had God not saved you and me, we would be in the same position. as everybody else. As much as we would despise them whoever you would conceive of to be the most wicked in this world Those who hate you on the basis of your skin color or gender or ethnicity, those individuals will receive the wrath of God if they do not repent. Now God hates their sin. And God will delight in executing justice. But you know what he would want even more? He would want their repentance He would delight in showing grace and kindness to them. And so you and I, as much as we should seek to uphold justice and promote it, We should be like our God, wanting to see the repentance of those who sin in this world. So that should have an impact on how we go about promoting justice. Right? Okay, well we're past the time. We're going to continue. There's a section there in your notes that I didn't get to. That's okay. We'll just pick it up there next week. But let me pray and And then if uh you have any comments or questions, we can uh hang out a little bit more. Father, we thank you for who you are, that you are a God of justice and righteousness and goodness and truth. Or we acknowledge that if you chose, you could exert your justice toward us. You could uphold your standard of righteousness. You could rightly condemn us because of our sin and rebellion against you. But out of your kindness and goodness and grace you have saved us. And Lord, it is a joy to have a God who delights in showing grace, who is rich and abundant, in desiring to see sinners. Saved. Or we live in a wicked world. You you are aware of that in infinite degrees beyond what we are. But if you would desire men to repent, no matter how evil their deeds, Lord, give us that heart as well. Help us to develop the right framework for how we can both uphold righteousness and justice. but also seek repentance from others. And Lord, keep us repenting for our ongoing acts of unrighteousness. Help us to grow in being more righteous. And just even in our own hearts. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. One quick comment I wanted to add there, Pastor Gabe. Because I I think what what would be very helpful to understand in this context of of biblical justice versus social justice is that this this last part of the conversation is antithetical to the world's view of what they're actually wanting from somebody that they perceive to be um acting in an aggressive manner or being racist to some degree or something like that. What the world wants is not actually repentance from people. They don't actually want justice. What they want is vengeance. And that, I think, is the biggest delineation between um what we see as we and what we will see as we continue to talk about biblical justice and social justice. is that you see that when the world finds um something uh like a wrongdoing or something like that, they want punishments and then they want to turn it up to an nth degree and then make it a public spectacle. They want constant shaming, a never uh a never ending uh you know, uh retreading of of history and things like that. And what they're really seeking for is they're seeking for vengeance, not not justice. And I think um there's a there's a pretty big distinction between those those two. Yeah, it's good. Good point. So a question was asked in the chat about white privilege that uh Danny answered. We'll we will talk a little bit about that as well. Uh in the coming weeks. Um, Pastor Dame, is is there any like room or thought of reconciliation at all or just vengeance Well, uh, you know, that's where you you we can make distinctions between a worldview and individuals. Um I'm fairly confident that there are a lot of people who genuinely want peace among mankind. But when it comes to the worldview itself, uh there there's not because what the world worldview calls for is uh replacing the oppressed with the victims and what ends up happening is roles are just reversed. There's just a new oppressor in town. in new victims. But because of how victims are defined, they never, according to the worldview, they never become the oppressors. even if they oppress, you know, because Christian persecution, you know, here and around the world, people will think we're doing the right thing by persecuting Christians. They're not going to think of us as victims ever. They're just not. Because of what we believe, we are inherent and forever oppressors. even though in reality the roles become reversed. And not to say that Christianity is oppressive, but you know, just using that terminology. So again, I think there are some, uh perhaps many who genuinely want uh peace, you know, uh an appropriate and correct equality. Um the problem is that the world view as it's stated as it's promoted in academic circles, it it just doesn't allow for it. Pastor Gabe, that kind of goes to what you said at the beginning really. And That's part of what I found with a lot of this social justice stuff is the shifting sands or goalposts of what truth is You know, tr truth is objective and when we set it on God, as you mentioned before, that is an unchangeable truth But when there's the shifting goalposts of truth, almost anybody, anytime, anywhere to their convenience can identify as the victim and therefore justify whatever oppressive response that they take or vengeance or revenge, uh as Danny said, um, you know, to the other side. It it can just be anybody, anywhere, anytime and and that That justification is dangerous. Yep. That's why. So Pastor Dave, are we ever going to uh discuss what our roles as Christians are in terms of how we are to react to all this. Because I feel like we're we're going through some definitions and understanding but um You know, I've seen two different sides of the church trying to deal with this same situation. So are we going to eventually get to that on what are our roles as Christians and how we should be acting and how we shouldn't be acting because, you know, we can combat this in ch in a lot of different ways as a church Yeah, so next week we're going to talk about what are standards of justice that God has revealed in Scripture. What does it actually mean to impartially uphold a standard of righteousness with some specific uh uh commands? You know, things like don't bear false witness, um, don't be partial to the poor, to the rich, uh, don't kill the innocent, don't take a bribe, those kinds of things. I have uh they're lettered, so I don't know the number of them, but I have a bunch of them that we'll walk through uh the biblical principles of of how justice is carried out. And what I'm planning to do, and this is this will be next week, is uh identify examples of ways in which the world and even the social justice movement violates these the principles of justice that you and I would be like, well yeah, of course that's a just standard, but the social justice movement violates them and our culture violates them. And therefore, how we as Christians can promote justice in how we respond, contrary to how the world responds to situations that show up in the media and that are around us. You know, it it's not going to be extensive and exhaustive, but I do hope that that it'll be helpful and give us you know some really good uh start to that. So will we will we talk about how the church has grappled with these issues uh not just today but historically, at least to where we came to to where we are now. You know, that's uh that's certainly a worthy study. I don't know that we'll go back historically. That's at least not as a major point of of what each week's uh re remaining in the class is about. I mean that's not to deny the ways in which the church at large has uh sadly uh sinned against God and man. uh in these things, you know, like churches who um were segregated and uh felt you know, who were racist You know, in i in the in the fullest sense. Uh it's not that we're denying that those things have taken place in the church But the main goal of this class is just to think about worldviews and how we can move forward in a more biblical way. I'm not sure if it'll come up, but uh that's not to say that we're just ignoring the reality and denying it. Okay. Thanks. Well I gotta uh shut things down here uh for the elder prayer time in a few minutes. So thank you all for participating. Look forward to seeing you next week.