Heavenly Father, we thank you for this beautiful morning. As we just see the snow outside, however much or little uh it's It's just uh just another reflection of your creative power and your creativity in how you design this world. Uh so we're just thank you for that reminder of of who you are and your goodness to us. And even how the gentleness of the snow is in some ways a reflection of your gentleness toward us. That when you came into this world, you did not come in power and glory the first time. You came as a baby, um, and you lived and moved among us with gentleness and grace, and even how you treat us now is you continue to Pour out your love on us to bless us. Even in your most difficult work of conviction, you are gentle and kind so that we would be moved to repentance. Lord, we uh want to devote this time to you. We want to think well. Um these are not easy things to uh to work through. There's so many factors and and complicated aspects to it. But I pray that you would help us to sharpen our minds and to think according to the truth. Help us to be discerning. And to grow in the wisdom and knowledge of Christ. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So today we're going to focus more on the social justice side of things. The last couple weeks we focused on biblical justice and uh gosh there's so much more that we could say and work through In that area, looking at what scripture has to say. And well actually we'll we'll start off with a little bit of that today as we uh do the community justice part, which we didn't cover uh last week. But um With these last two weeks today and next week that I'm leading the class, we're going to be focusing on social justice itself. the social justice movement and um and really I'm seeking to understand the the tenets. Now uh a couple weeks ago I posted a table that that I briefly worked through of social justice versus biblical justice. So we're gonna work through parts of that today in much more detail. So you might want to have that handy. That's also posted at the Hope Book Group, so you can get that there. But just a reminder, on what we've covered so far. Last week we defined biblical justice, and I got these definitions from the book Why Social Justice is not biblical justice by Scott David Allen. He defines biblical justice as conformity to God's moral standard as revealed in the Ten Commandments and the Royal Law, love your neighbor as yourself. So remember, kind of our simple definition of righteousness is the standard of what is true, right, and good, and our simple definition of justice is upholding that standard of righteousness. So that definition of biblical justice that you have there in the handout is a little bit more technical, if you will. But then we broke that down into two aspects of justice. And last week we spent our time looking at distributive justice which is impartially rendering judgment, righting wrongs, and meeting out punishment for lawbreaking. This is reserved for God and God ordained authorities, including parents in the home, elders in the church, teachers in the school. and civil authorities in the states in the state. So the idea of distributive justice is really how do you deal with a situation where somebody does something that is wrong and whether it's against the law the legal system or whether it's against the uh the the rules of a social structure like in the home where children are disobedient. or in the church where someone sins, uh is uh is living in unrepentant sin, uh, or you know, in the school, uh, those kinds of social spheres. And you could even include uh employers uh in the workplace. So distributive justice is just a way of thinking how do you deal with the wrongs of society. Now we want to talk about for a little bit what's what you could call commutative justice. And I think as I said before last week, the scripture itself doesn't define these two categories in these ways, in terms of distributive and commutative justice. But just as we look at scripture, you can kind of create a systematic theology of justice and and come up with these two categories. And so community justice is defined as living in right relationship with God and others. giving people their due as image bearers of God. So in this context, we're not talking about how do you deal with the wrongs of society, how do you deal necessarily with those who break the law. But just what does it mean to live in this world in a just way? How do we interact with one another? uh in in a way that is just, that is upholding a standard of righteousness. Um that's upholding the the royal law, you know, the the second table of the Ten Commandments. And then of course the second greatest commandment, loving your neighbor as yourself. So this we're not going to spend too much time on this, but you can go to Leviticus chapter 19 if you have your Bible. And right after the first few verses, which we looked at last week with regard to distributive justice, we have a section that you could categorize under commutative justice. Uh the first few verses there of oh no, sorry. I I'm in my mind I'm switching chapters. Uh we looked at um a different chapter in Leviticus, or maybe it was Exodus 23. Sorry, my mind uh was mixing things up. In Leviticus chapter 19, starting in verse 9, we have uh kind of principles for how do we deal with those in society. Or how do we not deal with, but how do we interact. And so let me just read verses 9 and 10 of Leviticus 19 to start with. It says, Now when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap to the very corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest. Nor shall you glean your vineyard, nor shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the needy and for the stranger. I am the Lord your God This is a very interesting principle that God lays out for his people. Of course, they were a society where much of their food was grown from the land. And so there were farmers. And God instituted this principle that as a farmer, when you reap the product of your field, Whether it's pulling up what's in the ground or pulling down what's from the trees Instead of trying to get every last piece or every last bit of product that you can, leave some for those who are needy. When you're rounding the corner of your field, don't try and get all the way to the corner, but just you know go around the corner and let the corner be uh food to provide for the needy. Or as you're going around picking the the fruit off of the tree If there is a bunch of fruit that has already fallen onto the ground, don't try and get every last piece for yourself. Leave some for those who are passerbys, for those who are strangers, for those who are needy. And so there's a kind of a fundamental principle here that one of our responsibilities as human beings is to consider uh caring for those who don't have uh the abundance that we have. You know it would be somewhat challenging to take this specific command and try and find, okay, what does this mean for me? uh in my workplace. Uh and I don't think we need to do that. But what we can draw from this is the principle that, excuse me, God is saying We need to be mindful of those who are who are needy, those excuse me, those who who don't have uh their own ability to to plant a field and and reap the harvest. And so uh a as we are uh Receiving the the abundance of our work, there should be some left over that we can give to others This is the concept of loving your neighbor as yourself, being kind to those who have less than you do And then he goes on in the subsequent verses, in verse 11, he says, you shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another. So clearly this is just how should we interact in our personal dealings with others. Don't take what belongs to others. Don't lie to each other in your personal dealings. Don't be manipulative and subversive in your interactions He goes on to say, you shall not swear falsely by my name so as to pro profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him. The wages of a hired man are not to remain with you all night until morning. In that day, if you hired day laborers, you had to pay them on that day. Verse 14, you shall not curse a deaf man, nor place a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall revere your God, I am the Lord. You shall do no injustice in judgment. You shall not be partial to the poor, nor defer to the great. We talked about that last week. But you are to judge your neighbor fairly. Verse 16, you shall not go out as a slanderer among your people, and you are not to act against the life of your neighbor. I am the Lord. Just a couple more. Verse 17, you shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. You may surely reprove your neighbor, but shall not incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord Now, just to highlight how several of these verses end with the statement, I am the Lord. So he's grounding the motivation and the reason for these commands in who he is, that he is the authority, he is God who demands these things, and he is creating a standard for his people Now it's interesting when you look at those last two verses, verses 17 and 18. I I dare say that if you look at our society and the way that our society deals with injustices today, uh there's a violation right there You shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. You can reprove them, it says. You know, you you can show the error of their ways. You can seek to correct them and bring them into alignment with God's will and purposes, but you shall not incur sin. because of him. In other words, as you're going about helping your neighbor to see his wrongs, make sure that you yourself are not sinning in the process. And then the last verse 18 there, you shall not take vengeance nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Again, as we see how our society, by and large, at least in the way that it's portrayed in the media and and not just like on news stations, but online social media The way that we deal with those who are doing wrong is presented as, well, we hate them We show vitriol, we we show repulsiveness, we uh we demean them, we tear them down. Uh in fact, uh we we sin in our responses by going out and rioting and destroying other people's businesses who have no part in in the injustice that took place. So the this passage and this is just one I chose this one because you got a collection of verses all here together, but it's just showing that as we interact with our neighbors, with the people around us with those in the world, with those in our workplace. God expects us to treat one another with kindness, to treat one another for the sake of each other's benefit uh even the poor and those who are needy, uh to uh to not always take everything for ourselves, but to leave some left over uh for those who aren't able to So that would be one aspect of community justice, that we are seeking the good of others, we're not seeking to hate others, we're not making enemies of those who who wrong us or for those or or making enemies of those who do wrong. But we are loving our enemies as ourself. Now it's hard to get a better example of this concept of community justice than the Good Samaritan In Luke chapter 20, you know, I think we're all familiar with, or excuse me, chapter 10, we're all familiar with uh this parable, which even though it's a parable, it teaches a great lesson. Because Jesus, of course, tells these Pharisees that the two great commandments, you know, you shall love the Lord your God. With all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, verse 27, and your neighbor as yourself, he says, do this and live. But in order to justify themselves, one of the Pharisees responded, and who is my neighbor? Who exactly am I supposed to love as myself? And uh she had the same mentality that the world has today. You know, I am to love those who love me. You know, I'm to love my family. I'm to love those in my ethnic group. I'm to love those uh who who I identify with the same uh uh uh social group, uh those kinds of things. Yeah, I I I am I love my neighbor. I love those who love me. And Jesus tells this story, this parable of the Good Samaritan to point out, no, that's that's not the point at all. You're not to love those who love you only, of course you are to do that. But you are to love those who the world would consider your enemy. So I'm not going to go through the story, but uh again, you know what the the there was a a Samaritan who was robbed and beat, uh left half dead, uh and then a uh sorry, not a Samaritan, there were a a Jewish man. And a Samaritan came along and uh and bound his wounds, took him to an inn, provided for his needs, cared for him. And Jesus' whole point is, it doesn't matter what someone's relationship to you is, whether you they are your personal enemy. whether they are your national enemy. God's standard is that we as human beings ought to have a fundamental care for one another. Now that's God's standard for everybody, and everybody, believer or unbeliever, will be judged according to that standard because that's the righteous standard. But that ought to especially be true of us as believers. No matter what wrongs we receive from others, No matter how other people treat us or people in our ethnic group or people in our cultural group or in our family. God calls us to love others, to care for them, so that if we meet an enemy who is in need, We are to provide for that need. You know, Paul talks about this in Romans chapter 12 when he says, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing, you will heap burning coals on his head. Don't be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. There's just this clear principle from God's standard of righteousness. That we are to treat one another with fundamental kindness, goodness, and love, no matter how people treat us. We could go to Exodus 23, verses 4 and 5 to see the same thing. In fact, a significant passage would also be Matthew 25. uh 31 to 46, where Jesus is separating the sheep from the goats, you know, and he says uh to the sheep, hey, you know, when I was in prison you you you visited me when I was sick, you cared for me when I was hungry, you you fed me and all of those things And they're like, well when did we do that? And he says, well when you did it to the least of these, you did it to me. And then to the other group, you know, you didn't do all these things. Well, Jesus, we never saw you. When did we not do those things? He says, Well, you didn't do it to the least of these. And again, the repeated point is God expects us to treat one another with love and care and kindness. Regardless of how people are treating us, such that we are to love our enemies, we're to do good to those who hate us, we're to pray for our persecutors. You know, there's such a powerful scene in uh kind of a docudrama uh called Tortured for Christ. You can watch it on Amazon Prime if you have that. where uh these believers are imprisoned uh for their faith. Uh they're tortured uh because the the torturers want them to give up names of other Christians and especially Christian leaders And so by refusing to give up names, they they are on the receiving end of torture. And one of the things they're not allowed to do in prison is pray. uh these these persecutors want these Christians to do is practice their religion, is to worship God. And so whenever they are caught praying, whenever they're caught, you know, kind of in a little circle uh sharing the word of God together, encouraging each other, uh th they are beaten and tortured. And uh there's a scene where uh a guard walks by the cell of Well, a believer and the believers he can see through the slat on the door that the believers praying. And so, you know, he instantly is enraged. He opens the door and he's screaming at this young man, you know, you've lost your family, you've lost your life, you've you're gonna die here. No, you've lost all these things. What on earth do you have to pray for? And the man says, I was praying for you And the guard is, you know, as it's dramatized, you know, shocked and doesn't know how to respond and Still in a huff, he walks away. By God's grace, he doesn't beat the man that time. There is a power in loving our enemies. That doesn't mean it always disarms them. It doesn't mean it converts them. But there is a power, a unique power that comes when we love our enemies. And that's what God calls us to. That's how we are to live in this world. And can I say that that is fundamentally opposed to how our world thinks about justice? Our world is all about getting your enemies. About giving your enemies what you think is due to them. Um retribution, revenge. And that is fundamentally opposed to God's standard of justice. So that would be communitive justice, that we are to live in right relationship with God and others, giving people their due as image bearers. of God. Any any thoughts about any of that? Uh any comments or or questions? Okay. So now we're gonna w walk into uh social justice here, the next section. And uh you know I I I need to confess to you that this is just really really challenging. There's so many different aspects of social justice. You know, uh uh Danny has walked us through a lot in in the area of uh critical race theory. Um and uh it's it's complicated. You know, there's things that's it's hard to kind of piece together and what are they really trying to say? Uh and of course when we think about social justice there's uh legitimate aspects to it. You know, i if you define social justice as community justice as we just talked about, then hey, you know, we're We're in full agreement if that's how you define the term social justice. The problem is that's not how the world defines social justice. You have a definition there, which we've uh talked about before, deconstruction, deconstructing traditional symptoms uh systems and structures deemed to be oppressive and re-redistributing power and resources from oppressors to their victims in the pursuit of equality of outcome So that would be a technical definition. Now does that mean that every person that you talk to who's you know at a protest or in the middle of a riot or an academic Uh, you know, that they're gonna be able that they're gonna give you that definition of of social justice, you know, I don't know. Um probably not, especially probably not those who are on the street. But when you pull together, okay, what is what is the movement, what are the influential people, what are the writers, what are the speakers, what are they all saying about social justice? It it's one thing for the person on the street to, you know, to be fighting for a cause and and having certain desires and certain goals. But to evaluate a movement, you don't evaluate the person on the street, you evaluate the leaders, again the authors, the speakers. uh those who are taking in the funding, the the the money, the millions of dollars, and you hear what they have to say, what are they promoting? And this is what they're promoting. Again, deconstructing traditional systems and structures deemed to be oppressive and redistributing power and resources from oppressors to their victims in the pursuit of equality of outcome. Now if you just take that first half of the sentence, deconstructing traditional systems and structures deemed to be oppressive. That has the potential to be a good thing, right? If there is actual injustice, if people are being mistreated, if there is a system that has been structured. . uh that has been set up, you know, whether it's Jim Crow laws or segregation or things like that that are actually oppressive, hey, I think we would all be in favor of deconstructing or doing whatever it would take . to make those systems just, whether it's you know removing them completely and establishing a new system or whether it's changing the law or whatever it might be Again, the problem is definitions. What are the things that are deemed to be oppressive? Who defines what oppressive is? That's where we get into the problem with social justice. And as we mentioned last week, when you are in a society where truth is relative, And as we'll talk a little bit more about today, in the area of standpoint epistemology, that truth is based on my own perception That's where we have a really hard time working together as believers who believe in objective truth, who believe in God's uh objective revelation uh and the authority of God's word. It's really hard for us to work together with those who have no standard of truth and and no standard of actually what is right and wrong So again, it can sound good, it has the potential to be good, but in the milieu of our society, it actually results in disastrous consequences. And then when you take the second half of this definition, redistributing power and resources from oppressors to their victims in the pursuit of equality of outcome. Then again, you have to really question what does all this mean? I mean, as we look at Scripture, one thing that is absolutely clear is that equality of outcome is a fundamentally unjust goal. Okay. Equality equality of outcome is an unjust goal In the same way that the world sees what is good and calls it evil and sees evil and calls it good, they see equality of outcome and they say, hey, that's good, that's right, that's what's best, that's just And God's word says, no, equality of outcome is actually unjust. In Proverbs chapter 10, verse 4, it says, Poor is he who works with a negligent hand. But the hand of the diligent makes rich. There is an acknowledgement there that if you work with diligence, you will be able to accumulate wealth for yourself, you know, relatively speaking. But if you uh r reject or or are are neglectful in your work You know, if you're not showing up to work or uh you're you're not doing your work with excellence, the likelihood of poverty comes uh much more uh uh raises i the likelihood of poverty raises uh in your life. Proverbs chapter 21, verse 17 says, He who loves pleasure will become a poor man. He who loves wine and oil will not become rich. The idea there is if you're spending all of your income for the pleasures of this world, for enjoyment. Uh whatever that that enjoyment is. Uh it could be, you know, sinful things, or it could be innocuous things, but just things of your pleasure, things to enjoy. sports or whatever. Uh if you're spending all of your income to enjoy this life, you're not going to become wealthy Uh and it would be it it's not an unjust reality for that to take place, right? It's it's just it is what it is. That's kind of the the laws of life that if you're throwing all your money away for pleasure, the natural result is you're you're gonna be poor. And and that's not unjust. It would be unjust for a person to be uh lazy, to not be working Or for a person to be spending all their money wasting all their money and then to say, no, they should have the same lifestyle as a person who is diligent and who saves. In Proverbs chapter 22, verse 7. It says, do not rob the poor because he is poor, or crush the afflicted. Sorry, that's not the right verse I'm reading verse 22. Verse 7 of chapter 22 says, the rich rules over the poor, and the borrower becomes the lender's slave. The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower becomes the lender's slave. Now, as with all the Proverbs, these are these are kind of truisms, these are slices of truth. But what this is communicating to us is kind of this natural law of life, a rule of thumb, if you will. that those who control capital, money, uh, resources, they naturally make the rules of economic engagement And that's not an unjust thing. You know, those who have by whatever means, you know, by whatever effort they have uh worked and and studied and uh collected the knowledge of of how resources should be used, you know, investment uh how to invest our m your your money well, how to how to grow crops most effectively, you know, how to raise animals uh to produce the the best uh kind of meat. You know, all of the th those who who are able to kind of rise in their socioeconomic standard especially by hard work. It's just natural, it's a natural rule of life that they're gonna kind of set the rules for economic engagement. The the one who's hiring for jobs gets to set the standards of who he's going to hire. That's just how it works. And that's not an unjust thing. Those who've proven and demonstrated ability and skill naturally tend to be the ones who set the standards And again, that is just that's not an unjust reality. It's just the way life works. And then finally the last section that I want to point out from Proverbs, which You know, we've all heard before, Proverbs chapter 24, verses 30 to 34. So that I passed by the field of a sluggard, and by the vineyard of a man lacking sense, and behold, it was completely overgrown with thistles. Its surface was uncovered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down. When I saw I reflected upon it, I looked and received instruction a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest. then your poverty will come as a robber in your want, your lacking of things, like an armed man. Again, this is just a truism If you have a field, you're growing wheat or whatever, and you're doing nothing to cultivate that field, you're doing nothing to plant uh to weed and all of the things that are necessary for uh for things to grow, uh then you're going to become poor. You're you're not gonna uh be able to to get the product you need to sell and and whatnot. That that is not unjust but rather it is unjust to say that everybody should have the same outcome no matter what. Now, clearly we know that there are those who have, if you want to call it this way, better outcomes, those who are rich. uh who didn't necessarily gain their wealth because of their hard work. You know, there are those who were born into wealth, born with a golden spoon, as as is said. That's yes, that's true. That's obvious. There is that reality of accumulated generational wealth where inheritance is passed down from one generation to another. Those things do exist. But again, there's nothing inherently unjust about that. Even if a person didn't work for their own wealth, but they gained it through a natural means, which inheritance is a biblical concept. That's not unjust. That's okay. And it's up to them to be wise or foolish with what they've been entrusted with. But equality of outcome is a fundamentally unjust goal. Now one New Testament passage, just to highlight this one more time, I don't want to sound like I'm beating a dead horse here, but I think this is a helpful thing to consider. Especially for those who would be believers and who would give some credence to biblical authority and yet would be calling for equality of outcome. Jesus tells a parable in Matthew chapter 20. Matthew chapter 20. In my Bible it's titled Laborers in the Vineyard, and I'm not going to read the whole account, it's 16 verses, but basically Uh this man he has a vineyard and he goes out in the early morning and he hires some day laborers to come and work in the field. And then he goes out like three hours later. And there's uh to, you know, wherever uh there there's day laborers looking for work and he sees there's some people still looking for work and he hires them and they go out and work. Several hours later he goes back, hires some more people, and at the very end of the day, with one hour left in the working day, he goes out. There's still more people looking for work, so he hires them and they come and work So you got people who've been working for one hour, for three hours, for six hours, for nine hours, and at the end of the day, they all line up to collect their wages. Well, it's important to say at the beginning of the day, he agreed with those first workers to pay them a denarius, which was a day laborer's daily wage. So it was a fair wage that they had agreed to receive. And with the others, he didn't agree to a specific wage with them. He just said, whatever is fair is what I'm going to pay you at the end of the day. So he comes to the end of the day, they're lining up to receive their wages, and those who had worked the least, basically an hour, Uh he gives them a denarius. He pays them a full day's wage for one hour work. And then the next group, you know, they've only worked, I don't know, three hours He gives them a full day's wage for just three hours work and so on down the line. So he gets to the end of these workers who've been actually slaving all day, working hard in the heat of the day. And they're thinking, man, if these folks got a denarius, a full day's wage because of the limited amount of work, he's probably gonna pay us a whole lot more for our our work Well, they get up to him and what does he do? He gives them a denarius. He gives them the agreed-upon amount. And of course they cry out, injustice! You know, this isn't fair, this isn't right. We worked all day, they hardly worked, and how can you pay us the same? And he says in verse 14. Take what is yours and go, but I wish to give to the last man the same as to you Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous? So the last shall be first, and the first last. Now, at first blush, this kind of seems like a parable that would promote the idea of equality of outcome As if Jesus is saying this is how things should work. You know, it doesn't matter if you hire a guy for an hour, still pay him a full day's wage because that's what's just But that that is the exact well it's not the opposite, but that's not at all what Jesus is communicating here. Of course, Jesus is not talking about economics at all. He's talking about salvation. But the core principle that he's highlighting is not the justness or fairness of differing wages versus the same wage. What he's highlighting is the generosity of God. In this case, the generosity of of the landowner And that it's fine, it's legal, uh, and it no one can complain that the the landowner does whatever he wants to do with his own wages or with his own resources. If he wants to pay everyone the same, he is free to do that. If he wants to pay everyone different wages, he is free to do that. He is not free to do unjust things like not pay his workers. But in terms of how he distributes, how generous he is, maybe that's the best way to say it, he is free to be as generous as he wants to be. There is nothing that is binding him to the same, to a certain standard of outcome. Therefore, this does not promote equality of outcome as the standard of how life should work. This is simply acknowledging that those who have resources, and again Jesus is talking about salvation, this is a a parable about the kingdom of heaven. Those who have resources, God Himself is free to be as generous as He wants to be. So we can't use a passage like this to say You know, the government should mandate that employers pay everybody the same wage. Everybody should have the same income, no matter their amount of work or level of work, or whatever, the job they do. There is nothing in Scripture that would even come close to communicating that concept. Instead, what we have in Scripture is work hard, be a good steward of the resources that God has entrusted to you, and The the outcome will largely be based on your effort, at least in this life. Again, in a fallen world there there there will be variances, there will be differences, there will be things that that uh you know kind of break the rules as it were the rules of life but by and large God's standard is uh we ought to work for for what we own. So much so that it even says in First Timothy, he who doesn't work shouldn't eat. And he who doesn't provide for his family is worse than an unbeliever. So God commands us to work and he says it is right for the laborer to be paid their wages. But there is no standard in Scripture that would say everybody must have the same outcome. That is a fundamentally unjust goal. Again, if someone wants to be generous and pay everyone the same, With their own resources, that's fine. But biblically speaking, that is not something that should be a rule and a mandate in society. Any particular thoughts or comments uh on that point I passed the guy really. I have one question. Um going back to um the the the with the first example that you you you've quoted uh are cited in uh for example the a person who has money and how he has control over you know how he produces money. Um But you know, there are certain laws that, you know, that we have in the United States where, for example, someone who has money if he wants to if someone wants to borrow that money, there are restrictions on how much interest he should receive. Is a law pr like that unjust according to the the the example that's just cite. Yeah, and that's that's an interesting question. Um I I don't know that I can give a definitive answer to that. Um A lot of those kinds of laws are uh at least as I understand them, and somebody can correct me if I'm wrong here, but they're intended to promote a measure of fairness, uh, you know, to prevent people from um abusing the poor. You know, it's never made sense to me from a well Let me qualify that. We we understand that if you're seeking credit, if you're wanting to get a loan, if you have a higher credit score, if you have a better history with credit, if you have uh more um resources, you can get a lower interest rate on a loan. If you're poor, if if you don't have as much of a credit history, you're likely going to have a higher interest rate From an economic or or from a risk factor, which is what I understand is driving that, uh, it makes sense because the the lender is wanting to say this is a riskier investment for me to lend you money and so I'm going to make sure that uh that I'm going to get more uh from uh from this deal. But there's also a sense in which it doesn't make sense because of course those who have less resources, those who are in more desperate need of a loan in this example. uh it's harder for them to you know to pay more. And so uh what the government seeks to do, and I I can't judge whether they're successful or or whether they fail in this, But they seek to at least try and create some balance of of fairness where lenders aren't you know charging 70% interest. uh and uh really abusing uh the poor and whatnot. So um you know we know that in in our day and age the government has got its fingers in everything uh and there's laws about everything. And uh you know every law, I'll you know, to assume the best, I I'll say that every law is based off of some attempt to to have some kind of justice uh in in various aspects of society. Uh and so There there is that kind of thing, but um but at the same time it it does seem to overstep potentially um a a an owner's or a lender's freedom to to do what they want. You know, this is where the the effects of the fall really kinda twist things and things life just gets really complicated. So um all all that to say I don't have a definitive answer, but um but where the government is is seeking to prevent people from being unjust in how they m you know abuse uh the poor and and price gouge and in that kind of thing. Uh I think that that could be a good thing. It's a way of reining in the the sinful tendencies uh of of those who have resources. Um So yeah, that's my thought. Do you have any thoughts about that, Willie? No, I be b no b well, because you know, I kinda think a um I've I've thought a little bit about that. when it comes to a lot of things um for example like uh how how the government you know tries to help the poor with you know various programs and some conservatives and and I am one uh believe that some of that is is a little bit overstepping, but at the same time it's necessary because even even in scripture there there are certain laws when it comes to helping the poor and making sure that the poor those who those who have less or h have have some type of way of feeding themselves. Um, in I I'm you know, in in old scripture is kind of an agrarian society, so you kinda get out there into the parts of the field that the the landowner didn't reap to to to to get your own, but there was no law that said, Okay, we're going to gather this up and bring it to you. Kind of w putting the responsibility on you to go and get it. Yeah. Opposed to the the government bringing it to you. Um Uh so but it and that kind of goes into a lot of but no, I I I just just something that I I think about from time to time and how how far we should go when it comes to being just in helping out the poor in what where the government oversteps um in that way because in our society is a little different. We're we're not a an agrarian society so it makes things a little bit more different difficult. Right. Challenging to be to be help how we help the poor and all those kind of things. But it's just neither here nor there. Thank you for your your comment. Yeah. No, you you're right about that. You know, we live in a very complicated world. Um You know, because we're not an agrarian society, you know, very few of us uh grow our own food. Uh I know some of you do. You have gardens that uh that uh you eat out of in the in the summertime or whenever it is that things grow. But you know, you think about something like the minimum wage discussion debate that's going on right now. Uh those who are in favor of raising the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour, the motivation, at least the stated motivation, is to make sure that people who are working who have a full-time job are living above the poverty line. Well, you know, uh just as a um simple motivation, that's that's not a bad thing, right? Um I mean I don't know what objective standard that's based on uh but uh emotionally that sounds like a reasonable argument um but it's just complicated right because poverty line here in Colombia It's very different than the poverty line in somewhere in the Midwest, you know, in in some town, small town where you can buy a house for $75,000. So by by raising the federal minimum wage, uh you're not factoring in uh all of the variables that can come into play uh all across our nation. Uh in fact if you're interested, Albert Muller in his podcast, The Briefing, had an episode uh this week, I don't remember if it was Thursday or Friday where he talked about the minimum wage. And he brought out some really helpful uh aspects of that debate um that are worth talking about and and worth thinking about uh before one comes to a a conclusion about you know what's right and what's fair and and whatnot So, you know, often the government uh as as we know is not very efficient. And one of the challenges with government, especially federal government, is they're looking at 50 states uh with thousands of cities, uh really thousands of economies, uh and they're they're making laws that apply across the board to everyone. And often what might be fair and just for some would be unfair and just for others, unjust for others. So You know, I I can't imagine being in the position of a lawmaker and trying to factor all of those different things. And then when you have special interests contributing, you know, to all of that as well. So they have really an impossible job in in some respects. To know what's what is just and what becomes unjust. But for us, you know For our daily lives, we need to live out these principles. You know, we have a care ministry in our church because we recognize that sometimes people fall into hard times. You know, you lose your job and you need money to pay the rent and not the government's not always going to be there to rescue you, nor should we necessarily depend on that. There is this principle that again we we looked at or mentioned in Matthew 25 that we care for one another. That is how we live out community justice in our local community of the local church. When you and I hire each other, you know, when I hire you to do something in my home that I don't have the skills to do, it's right for me to pay you a fair wage. Um because that's that's what I should do. It it would be wrong for me to in fact you know I've I've heard of uh uh contractors who don't like to work or do work for their pastors because their pastors and I'm not talking about people in our church. I'm I've heard this years ago. Um because the the pastor expects that you know this person in in their church is gonna do the work for free. Remember one guy talking about he did thousands of work, thousands of dollars worth of work uh which is his job. He had a company uh for his pastor and there's kind of like this afterward looking at each other like are you are you gonna pay me? And you know, thanks for doing the work. And the pastor just expected that this guy was doing it all for free, even though there was not just labor, but also material cost. And that's awful. I mean that that's unjust. I have no right as a pastor to expect that you're going to serve me and do things for free. As brothers and sisters in Christ, we need to love one another, care for each other in our needs. And if we want to be generous, if we want to give of our time and resources to bless another person, we'll praise the Lord for that. But that's not a mandate. We ought to seek to compensate each other for our love and care. So in our own relationships, you know, we need to think about these principles of how can we care for one another. That's why one of the principles with regard to interest, since Willie brought that up, one of the principles in the Old Testament is that as the Jews, the Israelites, they were not to charge interest to each other. uh when they gave a loan. Um they were to land and s you know, of course there was to be a repayment, but that they weren't supposed to charge each other interest in their personal personal loans. So, you know, uh if if you lend money to um a brother or sister who's in need and and they're asking you for a loan, they're they're not just asking you for, you know, a a handout, but to say, hey, can you lend me $100. You know, I need to pay this bill. You say, yeah, I'd be glad to lend you the money. But don't charge them interest for it, you know, no matter how long it takes them to repay you. Uh that's just part of living in the community uh of God's people. We're to be just toward one another. Well, one of the glaring problems with social justice, the social justice movement, is really the complete absence. of a clear solution. Right? When you think about again that definition of deconstructing traditional systems and structures deemed to be oppressive and redistributing power and resources from oppressors to victims. Okay, how do I do that? What does that look like? What systems and structures need to be dismantled? And what's going to replace them? You know, in this whole uh last year discussion about defunding the police, dismantling police. Okay, what's going to replace that? There are some who who propose solutions, you know, hiring more counselors, psychologists, social workers to do some of the things that that police are often asked to do. Uh there's probably some legitimacy to that. I mean I I'm not here to to talk about specific proposals. But sometimes there are such proposals. You know, if you want to talk about criminal justice reform. uh prison reform, though those are good conversations to have and people are having those conversations. But by and large, when you just look at the big picture, uh of dismantling systems and structures, there's no clear solution that's put forth. Hey, here is our alternative. Here, here's the the government structure that we're going to use. that that we propose, here's uh this full system that we want to replace things with. Um it's it's a lot of emotional fervor towards systemic change. but no clear presentation of what that change should look like. You know, with regard to the the power and resources being redistributed. Well, how should that happen? Who should be the ones to get the power and the resources? And how much should they get? You know, with regard to the question of reparations, how do you determine who should get reparations? You know, obviously the the concept of reparations today is based on the uh the the idea that uh those who are descendants of slaves uh have suffered because they haven't had that generational wealth uh that those who weren't um descendants of slaves have and therefore they should receive reparations. Well how do you determine who those people are? Is it just everyone with more melanin in their skin than I have? Or how do you make that determination? And then how much should they get? And there are some who say reparations need to happen, but they acknowledge the reality that there's no amount of reparations that can ever repay the debt that is owed to these folks. So again, what what is the solution? What what what are the proposals? If if we're going to work toward social change, if we're going to work toward greater justice, You know, give us solutions that we can that we can talk about. Instead, instead of actionable solutions The social justice movement is more an ideology that demands adherence than it is an organization working for specific change. Right. So, you know, that's why we spent so much time with Danny working through critical race theory, because there's an ideology that is being promoted. that is being lifted up and really it's a theology, it's a it's a way of thinking about life, it's a worldview that is being promoted, that they want everyone to adopt. That's the focus. That's the emphasis Yes, there are people working for change, but uh I think it can be said that the best organizations that are working for change are not the ones that are on the news channels, you know, whose spokespeople are on the news channels. They're not the ones who are are making commercials for TV They're not the ones who are being funded to the tune of millions and millions of dollars by various organizations. If you're curious, in the book Why Social Justice is not biblical justice, the author identifies three particular organizations that he believes uh he didn't specifically say these are Christian organizations, but these are organizations that are actually seeking to bring about real change uh in the lives of real people. One of them is the Woodson Center, and I I don't know a lot about these, or really hardly anything, but the Woodson Center, W-O-O-D-S-O-N, WoodsonCenter. org. If you're interested, you can look that up. The Woodson Center. There's the Radiance Foundation. The Radiance Foundation. There's the American Federation for Children, which is seeking to work for school choice for those in lower income areas who don't tend to have options for better education. American Federation for Children. So again, these are just three that I pulled out of the book. But there are organizations who are working for good change, really working to get into communities and help lift up those who are struggling. uh in in their life for whatever variety of reasons they might be struggling. There we want to acknowledge there are good organizations and to the degree that you and I have the ability to either give or to participate in those efforts, whether it's with these organizations or any others, we should be in favor of that. You know, that's part of loving our neighbor as ourself. And organizations like like these pool resources together. They have expertise that can really bring about beneficial change. And those are good things. We ought to be grateful for those folks, even if they're unbelievers, by if if by God's common grace they're working for good change. But again, by and large, the social justice movement, the the well-funded movement that is the face of the movement, is not working in these areas. They're not really seeking to bring about change. Now with all of that in mind, let me keep check the time here. With uh With the time that we have left, I want to start working through some of the specific aspects of that chart of social justice versus biblical justice that we quickly went through a couple weeks ago. And between today and next week, I just want to work through some of the key points. We're not going to work through everything in on that chart But I thought there'd be some things that would be really helpful just to make sure we have clear in our minds, because the clear we have it in our minds As you listen to the news, to the media, as as you hear people's stories and read articles and books. By having a clear understanding of these things, you'll have a better discernment of what is it that people are saying And discernment is critical because of the, again, the challenging aspects of the different definitions and the different viewpoints. So we're just going to start, we'll probably just cover this first point that I have here, and then we'll leave the rest for next week. But Remember that from that chart, one of the questions that distinguishes social justice from biblical justice is how do we know what is true? How do we know what is true? Social justice defines how we know what is true this way. The notions of objective truth, reason, logic, evidence, and arguments are discredited tools that oppressors employ to maintain their hegemony. We gain knowledge of truth through victims who, based on their lived experience of oppression, have greater insight than their oppressors. This is referred to as standpoint epistemology. Okay, so that I pulled that right out of the table. So you you can see that there if you uh if you want to look at it again. So standpoint epistemology, just to uh explain this a little bit more. It's the idea that knowledge is socially situated. That is to say, that what is true depends on your social context Again, this is the relativity of truth. Now, if you think about it, there's overlap between this, what this is saying, and what is actually true in the sense that Each one of us has different perspectives, right? You wherever you grew up, whatever home you grew up in, you had a certain experience. Which is different than where I grew up, you know, because I grew up on the east or sorry, on the west coast, uh northwest uh corner of our nation. So we had different contexts. There's probably a pretty significant amount of overlap uh in in in meaningful ways. But there's still d distinct aspects of personal experience and knowledge that we have. But because I grew up where I grew up I don't know what it's like to live, let's say, in uh in Baltimore or in Atlanta or in Flor somewhere in Florida I mean, just by the virtue of where we grew up, our knowledge, our capacity of what we know is just limited because of our experience. I mean, that's that's just true. But that's that doesn't necessarily mean that objective truth is based on my experience. What this uh teaching of standpoint epistemology is saying is that marginalized groups have an advantage in being able to spot biases that the dominant groups cannot see Okay? Now this is different than saying that marginalized people have true perspectives that are valid and worth knowing. I think that's something that we can say. Again, their life experience produces experience or perspectives that are helpful, that are valuable. But what standpoint epistemology is saying is that marginalized groups are able to know things about their oppressors that their oppressors are unable to know. Okay? So for me as a white male Christian, what this is saying is there's just things I don't even have the capacity to know. And therefore, other people know things about me that I can't know. I can't know on my own that I'm an oppressor. You know, that I have uh biases, that I that that I uh am I'm a racist. I can't know that. But oppressors can know that about me. Uh and and you know, part of their job is to tell me that and to try and help me see that. Again, standpoint of epistemology is saying that knowledge should be built on the marginalized perspective. How I think about myself should be built upon how marginalized people think about white male Christians. So the foundation of truth, again, standpoint epistemology, the foundation of truth is not what is objectively true, but what marginalized people see as true. That's the pillar for understanding reality from from this perspective. Last year in tw in 2019, there was a conference called Liberating Evangelicalism. And uh today next week I'll mention some quotes that came out of that conference. Uh but basically the idea was these professing Christians who want to liberate evangelicalism from you know the entrapments of white supremacy and whatnot. And here's one quote with regard to this that I thought would be helpful to to hear, how some people are thinking these would be people who identify as Christians. Evangelical churches must admit their epistemology epistemological limits. Our knowledge, okay, so speaking As an evangelical church, which all of you are part of, our knowledge is limited and distorted. We live in echo chambers. We must listen to those on the edges, margins, cracks of society. So at this supposedly Christian conference, and you know, based on everything I've seen, that there's very little Christian anything about it. What they're saying is even what we know as Christians based on God's Word is limited And it's also distorted. So we we have a limit to what we can know, and the things that we can know are distorted. And the only way we're going to come to a fuller knowledge of the truth is not by growing in our understanding of Scripture, but by listening to those who are on the margins of society. Now again, I want to say that there are perspectives, there are life experiences that are worth listening to and understanding. I mean, one of the things that I've really enjoyed in coming out here to Maryland is getting to know many of you who have just very different life experiences than I do. Because again, I lived in a very different place. And so it's just been encouraging and helpful and insightful. It adds to my understanding of life and how things have worked in this world just to hear other people's life experiences. That's good, that's helpful. But what is objectively true about reality is not defined by our various experiences. Really, standpoint epistemology is the old heresy of Gnosticism. It's the idea that there's a hidden truth that only some people have access to. And those who don't have access to it, those who are on the outside in the world of standpoint epistemology, the so-called oppressors, uh the only way for them to gr gain understanding is through the the vehicle of those who do have access to it. It's not through objective means. So this is really just Gnosticism. And the end result of this is that complex situations, you know, as you think about the injustices in our world, the complex situations are reduced to simple narratives. that may have overlapping of the truth, but ultimately distort it to the point of promoting lies. So for example, uh because of standpoint epistemology, because of this this idea that those who are on the margins are are the ones who define truth. Today in our world, whenever there is a situation, as tragic as it is, and thankfully as rare as it is, When a white officer shoots an unarmed black man, the assumption that the world makes is racism is to blame. Right? We we we just know that intuitively. We've seen that so many times in the last few years. Uh and this is so significant in their mind that th they say if the if the black man was white He would never have been shot. You know, maybe you've seen that, maybe you thought that, or maybe you've seen others say that. You know, if this guy was white, he never would have been shot. That is reducing a complex situation into a simple narrative. And frankly, it distorts the the reality and it it it assumes things about the man and about the officer that at least at first glance can't be known Right? So we have to be very, very careful that we don't just assume based on the simple narratives that The certain sectors of society claim we don't make assumptions about situations because again life is complex Motives are complex and then difficult situations are incredibly complex. So many different factors involved. I don't know if you know this, but in 2019 um there were twice as many unarmed white people shot uh as unarmed black people. I think it was uh Uh 14 uh black people unarmed black people were shot by law enforcement. And um uh it was twenty-four to thirty, I don't really remember the exact number, uh unarmed white people. But of course none of the stories of the unarmed white people made the news because that's that doesn't fit the narrative Now one could say proportionally, you know, based on you know uh uh population numbers, it's disproportionate. You know, you can make that argument. But again, that's not uh that's not a perspective that people are willing to share. In fact, from 2015 to 2020. the number of unarmed black people shot has been reduced by 63%. That's progress, right? That that's good. To the degree that any of those shootings were unjustified, then again, there's still more work to be done. There's still improvements that can be made, but a 63% reduction in the last five years is progress. But that's not progress that the media will promote until even though I did get those numbers from a uh article on USA Today that was published last summer. But so much of what we hear from the social justice movement is simplifying narratives and ignoring the complicated factors that are involved. Now, just to wrap this point up, of course, we know from Scripture that truth is defined by objective reality, not subjective experience And objective reality is defined by God, right? God is the standard of truth. Every word he says is truth, and his standards of justice are true. And God's word rejects the notion that a person has special access to truth on the basis of their social, economic, and ethnic standard background. So, standpoint epistemology is a false doctrine that must be rejected. It's a violation of the principle that we are not to be partial to the poor. But that's exactly what social justice, the social justice movement promotes and teaches All right, we're we're uh at at the end of our time, so we'll pick up there uh next time. But any particular uh thoughts or comments before we wrap up? Hey, Pastor Davis Brannett. I had a question or comment about the the earlier topic on fairness. Uh it it's a little bit of a nuance. I wonder if what your thoughts were about it. Um it has to do with voluntary versus uh mandated giving to the poor. And just looking at the um the instructions in Leviticus that you talked about, It was pretty clear that God was requiring this of the people. And yet he was requiring individuals to to take these steps. And I know over the years there's been a lot of debate about should the government be um should the government be uh giving to the poor or giving out, you know, extensively like the whole redistribution of wealth concept of you're taking my tax dollars and you're giving it and you're eliminating my ability to choose to do that out of, you know, voluntary, charitable I don't know. Um and and it it has to do with the whole concept of fairness, I think But it gets kind of tricky, uh, just because that was a theocracy, we are not a theocracy. Right. Um so I don't know if you had any thoughts about that particularly how the com how the the directives or the instructions in Leviticus would apply to today. Yeah, so uh I I appreciate that the uh that's why I was saying that you know it's hard to know uh how do those particular instructions, how do they apply today? uh because it's such a unique thing. Uh you know, one could say one of the examples I was thinking of was, you know, sometimes when you go to the store They'll say, hey, do you want to round up your total to give to you know some charity? You know, you buy some for f for $14. 50 and you want to give 50 cents and just round up to the nearest dollar. That almost seems like that kind of a thing. Obviously it's a very very different, but almost seems like it. But of course that's voluntary today. You know what's interesting about how God makes that rule is he doesn't say, he doesn't define what is What is the proper amount of uh the corner that you should leave, right? Um if you have a square field, w you know how many feet of a corner should you leave So even within his instruction, there's a measure of freedom uh to to choose how how much of uh my field am I going to plow. So like you noted, that's a th uh Israel was a theocracy, and so God uh chose to make that a rule as a way of caring for the poor. And I also like the Willy the point that Willie made that uh the poor had to be the ones to go out and get it. Uh it wasn't to be collected and then handed out to the poor. So there was measure of personal responsibility involved in their provision. Um yeah, again, I I I don't know exactly how to how to bring that into today, other than to say that uh even within the mandate, God allowed a measure of freedom. um and also included the aspect of uh the poor had to work. Uh they had to go out and reap, if you will, uh in order to prov provide for themselves, which of course is very different uh than how tend to things work today with with uh government handouts. Now that that's I'm not saying by the way, just to be clear, I'm not saying that uh social programs are you know all wrong and the government's not doing I'm I'm not saying any of that. Um I'm I'm just saying I don't necessarily know what's what's the precise clear way to bring those principles over other than just that in our personal lives we are to be generous you know to those in need around us Pastor Gabe, this is this is uh Sean Lynch. Um hey um At the risk of reducing something to be so simple, um just one observation, been thinking about the social justice thing for a while, is that it seems that In our society here in general, there seems to be the drive, and we've seen this for decades now, to drive faith from the public marketplace. Mm-hmm. But also it seems like with social justice to drive this home and to guilt people into being compliant, they try and use that faith or the misapplication or misunderstanding of scripture and faith to compel or force people into the narrative. In other words, it's like you don't tell us about your faith, but we're going to tell you how to exercise yours. Right. And that and that kind of that kind of for us should help us discern motive and and uh you know some of the background as to what uh is driving that to help us discern what is a good thing to participate in and what we should question. Mm-hmm. Yep. Yeah, that's a good point. You know, I I said uh at the in the first session of this whole class that if you're going to participate in a protest, you know Of course, make sure it's a peaceful protest, which we would all assume, uh have that standard. But if you're gonna be doing that, just make sure you don't tell them that you're a Christian that believes in the Bible and believes in biblical morality and What not? Because if you do, they're probably not gonna want you participating. Um because they w they want you to adopt their their point of view. They're not interested in in hearing yours. And in fact Our point of view on life is in opposition. We'll continue to see that uh next week All right folks, well thanks for uh joining us this morning. Stay safe out there. Uh looks like it's basically raining here, so if you're able to come, if the roads aren't too bad where you are, I'd love to see you this morning for worship. Uh otherwise have a blessed rest of the day. Hello, Peter Cowell. It's By It Wellman. Hey, Wyatt, I'm gonna pray real quick, all right? Okay. Heavenly Father, thank you for um Uh this morning, uh again I I understand and I I I know for myself these are difficult issues to wrestle with, uh so many different facets and Lord, increase our understanding of the truth. Help us to see things from your perspective. Help us to develop discernment so that as we take in what the world is saying is as we engage with with those around us, give us just a sense of how to discern what's true and good and right, and help us to be ambassadors for the truth, for your truth. In Christ's name, amen