This past week, President Bush admitted to making some mistakes in the very difficult war in Iraq. One mistake he mentioned was not putting enough troops on the ground to deal effectively with the Muslim insurgency. It's been raging now for years. I translate that to mean that he and many others underestimated the enemy. They underestimated their numbers, their tactics, their resolve, their brutality. And if the President of the United States, who has been vilified by many just for going to war, underestimated the enemy I am afraid most Americans, even more so, are underestimating America's new threat, Islamic fundamentalism. I know this is a very controversial subject, but I do believe that their words are much more than hyped up rhetoric. They have proven that they back up their words with sustained violence against anyone who will not conform to their beliefs. And Islamic fundamentalism is not going to go away anytime soon. The intensity and growth and spread of Islamic fundamentalism proves, I think, once again in human history that some enemies are not to be taken lightly, for they will end up doing much damage. God willing Our leaders will come together and figure out a way to deal with this growing menace and problem in our world. Underestimating our spiritual enemy is also a mistake church leaders make. We don't realize often who we are against and what their resolve is to bring down the work of God. Like the insurgency in Iraq, the forces against the church are relentless in their attacks. They never stop. However, spiritual warfare is different than ground warfare, so it requires different tactics. Church leaders in particular have to learn to combat other kinds of things, unseen things. Clever lies spread against the faith that at first may even look like it's a good teaching. Worldliness that infiltrates the church. discouragement from the volunteer army that the church has, and even desertion from Christ's army. It is ironic that many believe soldiers out in the field need to be thoroughly trained in order to protect our nation, but in the greater spiritual war with eternal consequences Churches often do not require much preparation or much testing on the part of its leaders The truth is that self-taught leaders, self-promoted leaders don't do all that well in spiritual battle. Attendance at church on Sundays or at Sunday school is not sufficient for their training There is much more for leaders to learn. We are now 2,000 years into church history. Think about that. 2,000 years where men and women have gone before us and shed their blood. They've recorded their lessons in writing for us to read and learn and understand. Ought we not to be learning from them as well, so that we can be the best we can be for the army of Christ. Just like the motto of the master's seminary, we train men as if lives depend on it. That is so true. It is in the spirit of the need for excellence in spiritual leadership that we now come to our third lesson. Our third time in approaching this text in 1 Corinthians 3, verses 5 through 15, to glean from it as much as we can that we would be strong spiritual leaders in this crucial time in the Church's history. Turn your eyes again, starting at verse 5 in chapter 3. Paul writes, What then is Apollos and what is Paul? Servants through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave opportunity to each one. I planted, Apollos watered, but God was causing the growth. So then neither the one who plants, nor the one who waters, is anything, but God who causes the growth. Now, he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field, God's building. According to the grace of God which was given to me, like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it For no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man builds on the foundation of gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident For the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire. And the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved yet so as through fire. Last time we were only in verse 8, and we covered only one lesson. Lesson number five: a spiritual leader is a team worker. A team worker. To show how this works at Hope Bible Church, last time we did a theological expansion of local church leadership and what it is about. We showed from Scripture that the primary leaders of the local church are pastors who are also called elders and overseers. And though diverse in their talents and in their calling and gifting, like the planter and the waterer in the field, they work together as a team with the same goals. They lead God's church in unity under the chief shepherd who is Jesus Christ. They care for God's flock, they set an example, they pray and intercede, they counsel, rebuke, exhort, and minister the Word of God. And so elders who are also pastors must be then spiritually mature men who understand the faith, have strong families and moral qualifications. and theological understanding. Not necessarily older men, since the scriptures emphasize their spiritual maturity and progress more than their age, but certainly godly men able to teach the word effectively. Their diversity and gifting allows for different functions and different titles within the church, allowing different men to do different things within the local church. Some pastors will work full-time. Others will labor in the workforce and volunteer their time and thus set an example for those of you that are working in the workforce and must volunteer time for ministry. Some by necessity will bear more of the burden of ministry because they're supported financially. Some will have many more years of experience. They might be called senior pastors or an elder who leads the board of elders because of his experience Some might be starting out in ministry. They might serve as associate pastors. Some might gravitate towards the ministry of evangelism and be leaders or elders of evangelism. Some might be called to proclaim and preach the word of God. They might be called the preacher. Some are called to disciple others or counsel, maybe the title pastor of discipleship or lead in worship. the elder of music or classroom teaching and overseer of Christian education. And so the diversity of gifts and the diversity of roles continues. But they all listen to one another and they all work as a team because they all have one goal win the loss to Christ and build the church up in the faith so that as a healthy body of believers it may give glory to the head of the church, Jesus Christ. And of course the deacons, the women leaders, small group leaders, ministry leaders, and all the others work under them to assist them with ministry, creating one large Ministry team that is working in a dynamic and an orderly way to minister Christ's love and Christ's power to his people and to the world. They are the ones in particular. who need to learn these spiritual leadership lessons. But don't count yourself out, as I've said before, from these lessons as well. Whatever you do to influence others for Christ, these lessons apply in some way. So today we will learn, Lord willing, three new lessons. Lesson number six, you can write this down. A spiritual leader is a paid worker. A spiritual leader Is a paid worker. You probably ought to be paying attention to this because if you're working for the Lord, you're going to be paid, and you ought to know about this. Look at the latter part, if you would, of verse 8. The last part of verse 8. After writing, now he who plants and he who waters are one, he then says, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. Now the happiest day of the week for employees is which day? Payday. Y'all got that right away. We like payday so much we named the candy bar after payday Payday's fun day. It's the day to anticipate, a day to look forward to. And the workers who work the hardest and the longest, they're the ones who look forward to payday the most. They enjoy the fruit of their labors. Well, the Lord Jesus says that he has a payday for his workers also. That's right. A day when he plans to distribute rewards, wages for work that was well done. Would you one day like to stand in the presence of Jesus Christ and have him pay you for your service to him? Would you like that? I would, that would be fantastic. To stand in the presence of Christ and he actually would pay me a reward for having served him. That blows my mind. Of course, though some pastors are paid, Paul is not talking about pay with green paper money or anything like that. Whether paid here on earth or not, all faithful workers will have a great payday in the kingdom to come, so says the Scriptures. And notice that it is a future day, a day when he will, future temps, receive his reward. Now I have to stop here and say that admittedly the idea of being paid by Jesus Christ for serving him seems very strange to a lot of us, does it not? For we understand and perceive that we were saved completely and absolutely by the mercy and grace of God and had nothing whatsoever to do with our work or anything that we earn. We don't deserve salvation at all. And so how can we who deserve nothing from God be paid by God for work that we do for him? Doesn't seem to compute, does it? But the inspired text right here, the word used is the word reward in verse 8. Do you see it? It is the word mythos in Greek. It is the common and ordinary word for wages or salary or pay for workers in the normal commercial sense It is the exact same word used for wages, for example, in 1 Timothy 5 and verse 18, where it says the laborer is worthy of his wages, reward wages, same word. In James 5, 4, it's used for the pay of the laborers who mowed your fields, as he talks to the rich there in James 5, verse 4. Now it is true that the very giving of the gift of salvation puts the recipient of God's grace at debt to God. Yes? Really, we owe all of our service to God. He saved us out of the pit. He saved us from hell. And even though we all needed grace from God, just to be able to be working for the Lord today, these are indeed wages that are earned by those who work for the Lord. Now you ask, how on earth can that fit with the concept of grace? Well grace is so marvelous And God's grace is so rich, it raises the Christian worker, grace that is, raises the Christian worker up to a platform Where he has received so much grace, he's now in that platform of grace in which he labors, allowed to earn reward. And that is not just grace, that is amazing grace This reward, rather than contradicting grace, speaks of the great generosity of God to give the undeserving not just forgiveness for their sins. and the removal of their punishment and penalty, but as incredible as it seems, a reward from God for serving Him God is magnificently open-handed and generous in his care for his own and his people. He pays them. And he pays them notice according to each person's own labor. Do you see that? It's not just that he's going to pay workers generally, oh I'm glad that you know you threw me down there. But he takes note of what we're doing and he pays us for what we have done. He pays us directly for the work we've done. That's what it says, using the illustration of the first century servant again, which is the context If the servant's task, let's say, was go out there into the field and clear the field, he would be paid well. If he cleared the field well and he did it well, he did it with the right attitude, he did it in the time he was supposed to, he would be paid for that If he was a servant that was sent into town, he was supposed to go purchase seed or some other products that were needed for the planting, and he went and he did it, he got a good price, and he came back, he did it in time, the master would see the work that was well done, and he would reward him accordingly The master's purpose was not to compare one worker with the other, but to award them based upon their effort and diligence and faithfulness with the specific assignment that was given to them. Just like the parable of the talents. Remember that? The one who was given the ten talents was expected to earn something with that. And when the master came back, he gave him ten more talents. And what did the master say to him? Well done, thou good and faithful servant. But the fellow that only got five talents was not expected to earn ten talents more. He was only expected to do what he could with his own five, right? And he earned five more. He also was given the exact same commendation. Servants are to be faithful to what has been given to them, to what has been allotted to them by God. And if they are faithful, God will reward them and not just reward them, but reward them according to what they have done to their labor. You see, God wants his servants actively seeking reward from him. I'll bet some of you think that doesn't sound so spiritual. We should just love God for saving us from hell, and that's the end of our motivation We should never even think about getting anything else. We should never think about getting a reward from God. In your mind, that might not fit. Well, let me take you through a very quick tour of God's promise of future reward. And there's a lot more than this, but I want you to see. Would you turn back with me to the Gospel of Matthew and to chapter 6? In the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 6, the very first verse, verse 1, Jesus is warning about practicing righteousness to be noticed by men. And he assumes something here. He says in verse 1 of Matthew 6, Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them. Otherwise, you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. You see what he's saying? Now if you want a reward from men, go ahead and try to be noticed by men and they'll give you praise and they'll think you're wonderful and oh such a godly person. Look at that But if you just do it in secret before God, you will have a reward with God. And the implication is having a reward with God is a good thing, and it is a good thing to seek that reward. You don't want to forfeit that reward, in other words, you say. Now I want you to flip to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 9, and verse 41. Christ tells his disciples in Mark nine, forty-one, for whoever gives you A cup of water to drink because of your name as followers of Christ, truly I say to you, he will not lose his reward. Wow. Even the smallest thing, like a cup of water, to a man who's traveling in the name of Christ, one of the disciples who went out into the world to proclaim the Word of God Someone sees them, knows that they're serving Christ, and because of that, takes them a glass of water to refresh them. Jesus notices even a small act like that, and he says, They will not lose their reward for that act. Isn't that wonderful? He knows everything. How about the Gospel of Luke? It says something similar. Chapter 14. Luke chapter 14 and verses 13 and 14. Again, Christ's teaching. He challenges all of us, and we like to throw parties for each other. He says this in Luke 14:13. But when you give a reception, invite the poor. The crippled, the lame, and the blind. And you will be blessed, since they do not have the means to repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous. Unbelievable. Go ahead and invite people to your party in the reception who cannot invite you back, and don't worry about whether or not you'll be repaid, because you will be At the resurrection of the righteous, implying the physical existence through the resurrection of the planet, you will be paid then. You'll be repaid then. There's no prosperity necessarily in this life, but you definitely will be repaid by the master. Well it goes on. There are many many of these kinds of statements throughout the New Testament. I want you to see that this continues all the way to Revelation. Turn to the very last chapter in the Bible, Revelation 22. Revelation chapter 22 and verse 12. Here's one of the last things that Jesus said to all of his disciples. He wanted this ringing in their ears and thinking about it. Revelation 22 and verse 12. And these are Jesus' words. Behold, I am coming quickly. And yes, it is possible he'll come in our lifetime. Behold, I am coming quickly, and my what? My reward is with me, listen, to render to every man according to what he has done. It's very specific. He wants to reward and award a man according to his specific deeds. He knows about them. And he's going to reward them. And so on and on the New Testament teaches. Now flip back to First Corinthians Obviously, if the Lord has taken time to tell us repeatedly not only about the existence of these rewards that He's going to pass out, but also the goodness of working hard for these rewards Then listen, seeking reward from God cannot be unspiritual. I don't care what you've heard before That's the word of God. By seeking reward from God, you are showing that the rewards of men are not all that important to you. Who really cares about trophies and accolades? You ambitiously pursue God's everlasting and satisfying rewards. Even John Calvin understood this. He wrote, here Paul shows what is the end that all ministers should have in view, not to catch the applause of the multitude, but to please the Lord. For the reason why ambitious men recommend themselves to the esteem of the world is that they have not learned to devote themselves to God, and that they do not set before their eyes Christ's heavenly kingdom. Really, the only way to seek a reward from God is to believe in God. To have faith in Him. That's what Hebrews 11:6 says, right? Without faith, it is impossible to what? Please God. For the one who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. To seek reward from God is an expression of faith which pleases the heart of God. He wants us doing that. Anyone not seeking a reward from God does not please God because he's not exercising faith in God's amazing generosity and he's not prioritizing God's eternal kingdom. To not look for the Lord's wages, to count Christ's payday as little or inconsequential or nothing to even think about To not be thinking about that time when you'll stand in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ and what will happen and what will be said to you at that time is not pleasing to the Lord. He wants all of us to be seeking reward from him for our service. Paul did. Paul knew this. He says in his very last letter, right before Nero's about to chop his head off in 2 Timothy 4, verses 7 and 8, you know it, I have fought the good fight, I finished the course, I kept the faith In the future, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearance. Now that was a general award, but it shows his attitude towards it. Now if you're like me, you're going to get a bit curious. So what are these rewards exactly? Yeah, it's okay to wax eloquent about all the rewards we might get, but I'm scratching my head this past week and think, so what is that going to be exactly? This is a little harder to determine. It's got to be something good. You know how the Lord is. It's got to be something very pleasing. I want to just give you a couple of thoughts on this, and this is really exciting. First of all, please understand that these rewards are not N-O-T. They are not salvation. He's not talking about the forgiveness of sins or your eternal salvation here. Not at all. How do we know? Because salvation is offered apart from any human works at all, right? Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, by grace you have been saved through faith that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one should boast. There's no works, no effort that is given to our salvation at all. Christ did it all for us. This is not talking about salvation. Secondly, these rewards are not our heavenly inheritance. How do we know that? Because every single believer gets an eternal inheritance. In fact, in 1 Peter chapter 1, Peter says we have this amazing Inheritance that's reserved in the heavens. It's invisible to us, but it's there for us. It's for all believers. We all get an inheritance I want you to notice, again, the context in which this is said, and look forward to verses twelve through fifteen, where Paul says, Now if any man builds on the foundation with Gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work If any man's work which he has built on it remains, he will receive, and there it is, a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss. But he himself will be saved so as to fight. So the reward is something that only some workers for the gospel are going to get, because only some are building and constructing in a way that will last or pass the test of the fire. Now we'll get to all of that next week. There are some saved believers who won't get this reward. They're going to lose it. It's going to be burned up. And so this is not our eternal inheritance either. So what is it? Well this is such a blessing. These rewards are some other kind of blessing that Jesus has reserved to pile on top of all the other grace blessings that He has given to us. Some kind of payment, some rich payment, some godly privilege maybe, some commendation that He will make to us, some responsibility in God's kingdom. Here are a couple of verses that give insight into that Look forward to chapter 4 in 1 Corinthians, verse 5. Look at verse 5 of 1 Corinthians 4. There the Apostle Paul writes this. Therefore, and he's telling us not to judge each other's servants, therefore do not go on passing judgment before the time, but wait until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the things hidden in the darkness and disclose the motives of men's hearts. And then each man's praise will come to him from God. In other words, there's going to be some kind of verbal statement, some kind of commendation the Lord Jesus will make to each man, each servant, for what they have done. And it'll be based upon what they did and even their hidden motives, the reason they did it. And we don't even know motives. We can't tell motives. We don't know what's going on inside. of others. He does. And so we can't judge each other. But he knows. And that's exciting. He knows what you're doing. And he's gonna he's gonna commend you for what you're doing if you do that for him with zeal and a good heart and with love. Doesn't that get you excited? Every little thing that you do for him, he notices. It's a reward from God. There's another verse that adds to this. You don't need to turn there. Write it down. 1 Thessalonians 2, verses 19 and 20. Paul says, for who is our hope or joy or crown of exaltation? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus at his coming? For you He's talking to the Thessalonians. For you, you Thessalonian church, are our glory and joy. What's Paul talking about? He's saying that when I stand in the presence of Christ, my joy and my glory and honor is going to be to take this Thessalonian church and present it to Jesus Christ. And there it is. He doesn't want to go into the kingdom empty-handed. He's going to present this church that he labored for and which he was persecuted for. He's going to present it to Christ, and that's going to be his glory. That's going to be his joy. Christ's going to take note of it. That Thessalonian church. You have something you're laboring for. That's what you're going to present to God. You're going to present it to God. I think it would have been a shameful entrance into glory for the Apostle Paul in a sense if he had brought nothing from his labors. for the Lord. He just wouldn't think of not laboring. Well I'm saved. That's it. No, he worked. Also, just to again to remember the words of the parable of the The talents by Jesus in Luke 19, where he says, Well done, good slave. Because you've been faithful in a very little thing, you are to be in authority over ten cities. And the second came, your Minas master has made five Minas, and he said to him also, and you are to be over five cities. In the millennial kingdom on earth, there's going to be some privileges that God gives to those who served well. Here, you you you did this with what I gave you. Here are the cities that you will be ruling over in the kingdom. And here are the cities that you will be ruling over in the kingdom, or whatever other assignment that is given in the kingdom, which is a real physical, tangible kingdom on earth after we've been raised from the dead. No wonder the Apostle Paul warned all Christians in 2 Corinthians 5:10. For we, talking about Christians, must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done. whether good or bad. Now the bad part doesn't refer to condemnation. Romans 8. 1 says, there is therefore now no Condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There's no judgment. All of our sins have been forgiven. There's no purgatory to go through. There's no pain. There's no judgment. There's no condemnation But there will be commendation for the things we've done. And we're going to walk up that platform like this, and we're going to stand on that raised Bama seat before Christ, and He's going to evaluate what we did for Him. And where we've worked hard for him, where we've expended ourselves and done what he did, done what he said faithfully, he will reward us on that day. That's exciting. That is truly, truly exciting. Something to look forward to. Well let's talk a little bit about application for us as we've been doing throughout this series. I think the first thing to say is that we must not, in our Christianity, say, well, I'm saved. I'm forgiven. I'm okay, I'm getting in. I don't have to worry about anything else. And if I'm a if I'm a gatekeeper at the door, I don't care as long as I get in. No, we're supposed to say thank God for that, that we're going into the kingdom of God. We don't deserve it. But but I want to do something. I I want to say thank you to Christ in some way, and I want to labor hard for him. I want my life to count for Christ. I want to bring something along. I want there to be some fruit that's trailing. And I don't want to just be doing what everyone else is doing. I want to excel in that. So when I stand up there, there's going to be a smile on the face of the Lord, Jesus in particular. Maybe he smiles at all believers because he loves all of them. Maybe a little bit bigger of a grin. You know? And there I am there serving Christ. And he knew it and he saw it And he took note of that. I wonder if we Americans are really going to get much of a commendation, you know. As easy as we have it in the church here with all the persecutions and sufferings of of churches around the world today in different places, other times of church history. I wonder if we have any chance. You know, just because we have it so easy and we we act like, oh life is so hard. I mean they would have traded places with us anyhow. We have it so easy And yet we make excuses for a lack of obedience and commitment. In 2 John verse 8, there's only one chapter in 2 John, John wrote, Watch yourselves that you do not lose what we have accomplished. But that you may receive a full reward. Watch yourself. Be hardworking. Another application here I think is we need to put quality into our work, don't you think? Does Christ's kingdom deserve the crumbs of our work and our excellence, or does his kingdom deserve our very best? Well, we know the right answer to that. But what are we giving? What truly are we giving? Men, you need to lead your families with excellence for Christ. Don't do your family devotions last minute. Put time and thought and prayer into them. All of you keep an excellent reputation at work. Do your work well. Serve Christ hard. But all of you remember too, you have a gift to serve here in church as well. And so use it for building up the church. Now don't attempt this with your own energy, carnal zeal. That lasts only a while and then it fizzles out and then the ministry and service starts to be just this heavy weight of obligation. There's no joy in it at all. You have to first tune your heart to God each day, beloved. You have to be absorbing God's word into your soul, learning to give thanks to God more deeply, learning to set apart yourself to Him more thoroughly, as we sang already, I surrender all. Give your heart fully to Christ and to God. Let Him fill you with His Spirit and fill you with His joy. And from all of that energy that you get from God, then your service will be an act of worship. And it'll come out with energy. And people won't be able to hold you back. You'll be volunteering for things and ministering and helping people and forgetting about yourself because God has so gripped your thinking and your heart. You love serving in his kingdom. You can taste the rewards to come. You can see the kingdom coming, and you can't even be held back. You serve him with divine power Please don't do your ministry in church last minute with poor planning from an apathetic heart. And don't hide behind the excuse, my life is just too busy, Pastor. I can't serve. Beloved, do I need to remind you that Christ is your life? You can't be too busy for his work. His work is our business. Some of you will work yourself to the bone at some other endeavor, but when it comes to church ministry, well, if it's convenient is your answer. I want to challenge you, don't be a Sunday warrior only. Someone who comes ready to work on Sundays, but where are you Monday to Saturday? Work hard for Christ. Be spent in all venues of your life for the Lord. Another application, I think, is just be motivated by a generous God. Wayne Grudem in his systematic theology writes this. It would be morally and spiritually beneficial for us to have a greater consciousness of this clear New Testament teaching on degrees of heavenly reward. Rather than making us competitive with one another, it would cause us to help and encourage one another that we all may increase our heavenly reward. For God has an infinite capacity to bring blessing to us all. He's not going to run out of rewards. We can't work that hard for him. In other words, live for what really matters and keep that focused in your life. Don't let yourself be distracted by lesser things and put the more important things second and third. Don't let that happen to you. My mom in her old kitchen back in Bethesda had a little plaque. She she barely remembers it, but I remember it. It said, Work for the Lord. The pay isn't much, but the benefits are out of this world. Have you read that before? You're not going to necessarily get any recognition down here, but the heavenly pay or benefits, it's going to be indescribable. And fourth application here is don't get discouraged if you don't see earthly results for your ministry. If you're serving hard and you're ministering faithfully, the Lord Jesus Christ, whose eyes search throughout all the world, has already seen what you've done. He doesn't measure success the way we do, how large a church is, how many people get converted, how many people ooh and awe over our Bible lesson or whatever. He is going to reward us according to our faithfulness to do what he said. That's it. The effect of that within the world is really up to his sovereign grace, not to us. We just do what we're supposed to do, just keep checking what we're doing by the scripture, do it with a good heart, and he will reward us. And that's exciting too You don't have to be a missionary to India in order to have reward with God. You don't have to plant 20 churches in order to have reward with God. Just be faithful to do what you can with the gifts that He's put in your hands. Okay? Now on to lesson number seven. Spiritual leader is a hard worker. Verse nine. A spiritual leader is a hard worker. He says, For we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field, God's Building. I think this lesson just piggybacks on the previous lesson. If you're properly motivated for divine reward, then don't you think that's going to make you work hard? I do. That's what the explanatory word for there at the beginning of verse 9 means. Paul and Apollos are team workers. They are also paid workers by God. For the truth is that they are fellow workers in God's field and building. And the Corinthians themselves were the field in which Paul and Apollos and others labored, and they are the building that they we're constructing. Now when I think of field work and I think of construction work, I think of hard work. I think, yes, it gives us a picture of work, but it also gives us a picture of something that's not going to be easy. Maybe the task is simple, but the labor is difficult and it's hard. And so I think that we as spiritual leaders should expect there to be hard work, labor, In the church, it's labor like we're laboring in a field. Just like the Georgion, the farmer, the tiller of the field, the one who cultivates the land. What does he do? He has to endure hardship. He has to endure the elements outside, the sun, the cold, the wind, the rain, the heat Even those bothersome insects flying in his face. And he often has to do his work trudging through the mud outside and there's backbreaking work. He bends over to pick up things and to dig and he gets blisters on his hands and So if you think about field work in which these spiritual leaders were working, that should bring to your mind that it's hard work. It's hard labor. It's not always going to be easy. Indeed, it's joyful, but it is not easy. And the construction site would only bring more of the same image. Hard work. Verse 9 says that the church is an oika dome, a building. And that image is also in Ephesians 2, verses 21 and 22, where it talks about the church as a grow a temple, a building that is growing into a holy temple in the Lord. Notice down in verse 17 of this chapter, 1 Corinthians 3, Paul writes: If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are. We are the temple of God, a holy temple. Believers make up a spiritual building. Peter calls us spiritual stones, and we're being constructed, and we're growing into this temple, and God Himself houses us and he lives within us. And so those that come to work on that site, that building site, are to expect there to be hard work. Now the image of temples and grand buildings. And the work that would have been needed to construct them is something these Corinthians would readily have understood. Because Corinth was known for some pretty impressive buildings A little background here. Corinth as a city was destroyed by the Romans in 146 B. C. And then it was left desolate for about a hundred years until Julius Caesar rebuilt Corinth in 46 B. C. And the buildings from the time of the Apostle Paul in the first century A. D. have been excavated in Corinth. They show that at the very center of the city there was a large rectangular agora, a marketplace with long porticos lining it on either side. It really looked like a large outdoor rectangular mall with many shops. The main roads into the city led to this agora from the north and from the south Inside the agora itself was a Bema seat, a seat for judgment, the raised platform that I referred to before, where there would be announcements that were made and even justice would be rendered there. To the north side of the agora was the famous Temple of Apollo, a grand structure. Its columns still remain to this day. And then around it to the north and to the east was the great basilicas, the Julian Basilica and other basilicas. next to the Agora. On the west side was a fan-shaped kind of theater and it was an impressive theater for that day Also, most impressive probably was the Acropolis built on top of the Acro Corinth, which was a mountain-like structure on the south side of the city that had a plateau at the top, and there were structures built on top of that that overlooked the city. Up there, for example, was the Temple of Aphrodite, and we're going to get to that in 1 Corinthians 6, because that had an impact on the immorality of the city. She was the goddess of love. But it was a magnificent and marvelous structure. Not to mention nearby also a stadium for Olympic sports. On the isthmus near Corinth. All of that to say the Corinthians had before their eyes this image. They knew buildings, and probably some of them had worked at some of these construction sites, and so they knew how hard the work was The building materials were very heavy. They didn't have use of our modern machines, obviously. So they had to work and they had to work hard and they had to work as a team in order to build up and construct those buildings. And that's what he's saying about us We have hard work and we have to work together to do this if the church is going to be built up. It doesn't just naturally happen because we throw up a sign and because we exist and um then there the church Grows. We have to labor in the hearts of people. We have to be patient with them. We have to teach over and over again. We have to put up with each other and with the the things that we do to each other that are not so great. And there's a lot of hard work involved in that. Nowadays there's a lot of administration to take care of detail. Again, just a couple of applications for us. First of all, as we construct this building and as we're working in God's field, we need to remember, as he says here, that it is God's field, and it is God's building, it is not ours, right? I'll read Gordon Fee's commentary here. He says this: all too often those in charge pay lip service to its being Christ's church. Then proceed to operate on the basis of very pagan secular structures and regularly speak of my or our church Nor does the church belong to the people, especially those who have attended all their lives, or who have supported it with great sums of money, as though that gave them special privileges. The church belongs to Christ, he writes, and all other things, structures, attitudes, decisions, nature of ministry, everything should flow out of that singular realization. Moreover, those in charge must be ever mindful of who is really in charge. That's a lesson for us all. Second application here is that we should expect hard work in God's field. We really should. Let me put it to you this way the local church Is the right place for you to expend time and effort. It is where God wants you to pour energy and effort into. He wants you to expend yourself in the local church. That's what he wants us doing, building up his church to the glory of Christ. It is the right place for you to look at and say, I'm going to labor and I'm going to put my energies into the local church to have To expend yourself, to go home tired some days because of the work you've done for church. That is expected. missing church, not volunteering only when it's convenient, not putting 20 things ahead of that, but to spend and be spent for Christ's church. Some of you get some neat ideas about some ministries you'd like to see in the church. And I like to hear that because I like to see that you're thinking about ministry, and that excites me. And you come up and say, Pastor, we should be doing such and such. And I'm listening to that. But you want to know what's going through my mind? What always is going through my mind is that's a wonderful idea. Usually I already know about it. I'm thankful this person wants to minister, but I'm thinking, brother or sister, we need more workers to do the more basic things we already have. We don't want to talk about doing this ministry here until we've done more foundational ministries here If we're not working hard to do all of the regular and normal ministries very well, if we can't get people to give their time for that, then why are we talking about these other ministries yet? We haven't been faithful in the little things to be faithful with what? With much. So when you look around and you see chairs that need to be put away or you see uh the basic outreaches that we have that need to be done very well, or whatever it is, the care ministries that we should be caring for one another You know, I would love to have all kinds of poor ministries, but we need to make sure we're taking care of each other very well in this congregation first. If we're not loving each other, then what are we talking about going out and loving others? We need to be showing that actively here We need to be showing our commitment to our visitors, our commitment to inviting people to church. We need to do the basics and do them well. Take care of our facility, our finances, and all of that. When we have people that are dedicated to those things and they're laboring hard in those things I'll be the first one to jump out ahead and say, all right, now, what are we going to do next? But we need people that are laboring on all of those normal ministries. Well, there are other things that we could apply here, but from time let's let's move ahead here to the next lesson. Eighth, a spiritual leader is a wise builder. A wise builder. He's not only a hard worker, but he is a wise builder. And that's in verses 10 and 11. Let's read those. He says, according to the grace of God which was given to me, like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation. And another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it, for no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid which is Jesus Christ. Now do you get the picture in your mind of what Paul is describing here? Picture it here, this structure The foundation of the building that is laid first, that solid rock foundation, is Jesus Christ, Paul says The building that is growing on top of that foundation in this context is the Corinthian local church. It's talking about the local church there at Corinth. It's being built up. It's growing. It's not completed. There's still a work under construction. They ought not to get too proud. They have a lot more they need to be done to be completed, but they're being constructed. They're being built up. The master builder who's there supervising everything is the Apostle Paul. He's standing there among the church, outside the church. looking at it and he's the master builder. The workers on this building, and they're the ones he challenges here, are other spiritual leaders who will be actively working in that Corinthian assembly. And so that's the picture. Now, from that, I want to take a look first at the Apostle Paul's role as the master builder. He speaks of himself as laying a foundation, and that's what the apostles were supposed to do. They were called to plant churches, to lay the foundation indeed for the universal church. A master builder here, this word, architectone, was the supervisor of the day-to-day operations of the building project. He was the one who would manage all the other subcontractors. The linguistic and exegetical key points this out. It says this: the master builder has the responsibility of the planning and construction of the building. Therefore, Paul is within his rights to require of preachers who come to labor on the builder's work site and add to his construction that they be strictly faithful to the canon that he has determined once for all. Go by the blueprint, in other words. This is the way it's supposed to be. You're gonna come in after me. I laid the foundation. You've got to do this construction by the book, by the blueprint. You can't come along and just do it any way you want to. I'm the master builder, Paul said. So when he calls himself a wise master builder, he's not boasting in himself here. He's saying, I'm wise because I laid a wise foundation. No other foundation can be laid than that which is Jesus Christ, right? That's the wisdom we have from God, he talked about in chapter one and chapter two that this wisdom, the wisdom of the cross, is from God, and I'm a wise master builder. I haven't been foolish in what I've done. I preached Christ, I preached him crucified, I laid down the doctrine of Christ for you in the local church. And that was wise, so the next guy who comes along better be very careful how he build on it. And that's what he's saying In another building analogy in the New Testament, by the way, Christ is not only called the foundation, but he's also called the cornerstone. What was the cornerstone? It was the very first stone that was laid down that would give the dimensions and the angles for all the rest of the construction. Whether he is in one illustration called the cornerstone or in another illustration he's called the foundation, the point is that Christ and the doctrine about Christ for a local church has to be laid down first. And everything else that happens is built off of that solid foundation of doctrine about Christ. If the doctrine about Christ and who he is is not taught properly Then all of the other ministries that are built on top of that, no matter how excited people are, it's not going to be constructed properly. You can see the connection immediately between Proper doctrine, that's why we stress this in this church, and our philosophy of ministry and what we do that is constructed on top of that doctrine. It's so very important. This is necessary, he says. Christ must be laid down first. It's not an option. There's no other foundation that can be laid other than Christ. You lay something else, you build on it, it's not going to be a Christian church. It has to be Christ, you see. So only when Christ is rightly preached and the gospel is truly embraced and accepted as people come to Saving Faith do you have a local church to build off of that foundation. And by the way, Paul did not believe that Peter was the rock on which the church was built, did he? Do you see that here? Who did he say was the foundation of this church? It's Christ. Christ is the rock of the church. In a collective sense, you might say all of the apostles were the foundation of the church only in the sense that they proclaimed Christ. Christ is really the rock on which the entire church is built. Paul knew nothing of a pope that he had to build the church upon. And so Paul, as a master builder, wisely laid down Christ first. But he gives the challenge Everybody else who's going to come along. Everybody else who walks into the building site. Everybody else who comes and says, I'm going to do some building. Got your tool bag? You're all ready to go? He says to them. Here's the warning I give to you. Verse 10 again. Another is building on it, but each man must be careful how he builds on it. See, Paul fully expected other workers to join him in the work. Yes. He knew he wasn't going to do the whole thing. He was just laying the foundation. He knew other guys were going to come along and were going to teach and were going to preach. But he warns them, be careful. That each man, by the way, is general enough to refer to pastors or evangelists or teachers or spiritual leaders of any kind. They're going to come along. He says they must be careful. Do your work wisely Build carefully. Think about what you're doing as a leader. Don't get caught up in emotion. Don't get caught up with fads that might blow through. You need to build, but don't just do it anyway. Don't just do what pops into your mind, that neat thought that you had. Test what you're doing carefully by the word of God. Do it the right way. What is the right way to construct on a church. Oh, people are discussing and debating this all over America now, aren't they? They're talking about what is the best way to do church and everyone has their own ideas and all these new ideas. What do you do in the 21st century in a postmodern society? Listen, the right way in this context is the way that will result in a building that lasts the test of God's fiery evaluation. If it doesn't last through the fire, oops, you built the wrong way. And it's going to be God who tests it. The next two verses indicate that, I think. The right way is when the builder uses the right quality materials which will stand the test of the fire. And when he sticks to the master's blueprint about how it ought to be built, he builds off the proper foundation For the church and for spiritual ministry, today I submit to you the blueprint is still the Bible, the Word of the Living God. That is the blueprint for constructing a local church. And the right materials to use are holy and godly lives that obey the Word of God. What does the Word of God tell spiritual leaders to do in their construction? How are they to do it wisely? Well, it's not too complicated. A sampling again, 2 Timothy 2. 15. Be diligent to present yourself, approve to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, accurately handling the word of truth. You have to handle the Word of God carefully. You need to study it well. You need to know its its different kind of literature and you need to be able to study it in its context and teach the people properly from the Word of God. You need skill and you need knowledge and you need understanding. So you'll handle the word accurately. First Timothy four sixteen from our scripture reading, Paul tells Timothy, Pay close attention to yourself and to your teaching. Persevere in these things. In other words, it's important that you look to your personal example, that you're evaluating your motives, that you're looking at your conduct, and you're listening to your words and you're growing in godliness all the time. And also to your teaching, you're evaluating what you're saying. Does it really reflect the doctrine of Scripture? And you're persevering in these things. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 2, we already covered it. Paul said, I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. and him crucified. What is a spiritual leader in the church to do? Focus his people on the cross, the crucifixion of Christ Make sure they understand the cross, what it did for them, and how they are to live today in response to that very, very powerful event in human history. Acts twenty and twenty-seven, the Apostle Paul's own words, he tells the church in Ephesus, I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God. I didn't tell you parts of Scripture. I didn't tell you parts of the New Covenant. I gave you the whole purpose of God. When I taught you, you knew you were going to get everything that God said. You were going to hear it all, not just the parts you wanted to, not just the parts that were easy, not just the parts you had already mastered, but I told you the whole purpose of the living God. And so that's how a church is to be constructed. They're to hear all of God's word. They're God's people. We're not to filter it to them. We're to give it all to Him. Oh, there's so many ways we can make application with this. I'm already out of time. I have more to tell you next week. Let me just say a couple of quick things. If a church calls itself Christian and even evangelical today and the Jesus they worship is a psychologized Jesus who is more concerned with our good feelings and our happiness than he is with holiness and obedience. They have the wrong kind of Jesus, the wrong foundation And it doesn't matter how many people they have in their church, and it doesn't matter how excited they are about the church. There's a lot of stuff there. But it would be wood, hay, stubble, and straw, and it will be consumed. If their Jesus isn't the right Jesus, if the foundation isn't right, nothing else is going to be right. Do you understand that? The Christian life is not meant to be easy. Following the Lord Jesus Christ was not meant to be easy. He is the one who said, Not your best life now, but said, pick up your cross and follow me. It's going to be painful. You're going to be scorned. You're going to be spit upon. You're going to be ridiculed. Obeying the commands is going to cause you even to be at war with yourself where part of you wants to do one thing, but the Spirit of the Living God inside of you wants to do another thing, and now there's a war inside of you. It's going to be hard But that's the real Jesus Christ. And the only kind of obedience is the obedience that follows that doctrine. A positive thinking Jesus, a health and wealth Jesus is not the real Jesus. It's ludicrous also for us on the 20th story of the church, after twenty centuries of constructing, to stand away at the top and say, maybe we ought to start constructing the building differently now. We're on the 20th floor. We're gonna mess it up if we change it. Just just do what they did before you. There's there's Wycliffe and Luther and Calvin just built off of that. They use the word of God. Don't change things now. For God's sake, we may fall and crumble. We have a blueprint for ministry here at Hope Bible Church. It is a biblical philosophy of ministry. We call it the dynamic body model from Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 through 16. I've preached on that so many times. Please get that message if you missed it. One other quick application here, it is so important that our candidates for leadership are qualified, that they are humbly evaluating themselves because we are going to be turning over more and more of the building and construction work to different men And when they step into the pulpit in the classroom in the small group in any seminars that they teach, wherever it is, it is important that they know how to handle the Word of God well and they have good solid doctrine and that we are praying earnestly for them. Are you Are you praying for our up-and-coming leaders that they will continue to build properly? Please do. Look past the weaknesses. Pray that God will do great construction work through them as His grace is multiplied. in their lives. Well more on this next week as we conclude our series next Sunday. Would you close in prayer with me? We come to you, Lord. Oh God in the heavens, we come to you. You're a God that is amazing. We feel that your presence is close with us, and we know indeed you've promised that it is. We thank you for the blessing of constructing and building in our lives individually, but also corporately as a body. We pray for our newcomers and visitors that they will really touch out, reach out and touch and know that you are the true Savior. That you were raised from the dead, that you're real, that you're building your church today, and you're building it through spiritual leaders that are coming along and just Following instructions that were given to them before. We have nothing new to add, Lord. We just want to work harder. Be more faithful Not be hypocritical, not be Sunday warriors alone. Spend ourselves for the eternal kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ at work We're out shopping at home, wherever we are, to count what we do as building up your kingdom, witnessing for your kingdom, serving your people. And we pray that you would just multiply that here and deepen our heart and our thoughts. In Christ's blessed and holy name, we offer all of this to you as our act of obedience and worship. And all God's people said. Amen.