What is your spiritual gift? Have you started using it yet? Have you been baptized in the Holy Spirit and received the power of God? Have you spoken in tongues to prove you have received the Holy Spirit? Well, those were some of the questions that I was confronted with as a new believer on the college campus over 25 years ago now Early on in my Christian life, I learned that whatever spiritual gifts were, many Christians considered them to be pretty important. And I was supposed to know more about them. Well, I had the Holy Spirit inside of me. My life was radically changed by Jesus. Those who were my party buddies before could see that. I did feel God's mighty presence with me, I had it experienced at least at times what it had meant to be full of the Holy Spirit Yeah, I learned that there were many Christians who loved Jesus Christ and disagreed a lot about these things called spiritual gifts. And that was a little bit confusing to me back in those days In fact, as I learned more, I learned there were whole Christian denominations that had recently been started, largely because of their different views about spiritual gifts from other more historic Christian denominations. Some were wanting, as they said, to express the fullness of God's Spirit and not put God inside a box. There were others who neglected teaching on the Holy Spirit altogether. And there were still others that agreed with the need for the full power of the Holy Spirit, but were weary of counterfeit manifestations of the Spirit. Well, I was very zealous for the Lord as a new believer, and I understood that the Bible was the very word of the Holy Spirit. When we read Scripture, we were reading the words of the Holy Spirit. So I knew I had to study spiritual words To gain spiritual understanding about spiritual gifts. The only book in the entire world that was written by the Holy Spirit is the Bible. So there were many questions that I brought to the Bible. Some of the questions that I had then may be questions that you have now, or someone whom you know has these questions. For example, what exactly is a spiritual gift? What is the difference between a spiritual gift and a natural talent that we might use for the Lord in service in some way? What exactly is this controversial gift of tongues? And why has it become so controversial? Why has it risen to such prominence? Is it an unintelligible utterance that many might speak at the same time? It doesn't matter what they're saying, they're just saying it. Is it a kind of private prayer language to be uttered at home and not in a worship service? Or is it a supernatural ability to speak in a foreign language never learned before by the speaker? A true miracle. And what about the gift of prophecy? Are there still prophets in the church like in the days of old When someone stood up in a church I was going to and said, Thus says the Lord, was that really the Lord speaking? Or were they sincerely mistaken? Or even worse, were they deceivers themselves I really need it to know. That's an important question. If God is talking, I want to listen, don't you? I want to know where he's talking and I want to get that right Well I realized this was not a small question. It involved many other things. It had lots of consequences. As I learned more about spiritual words from the Bible. And sought God's guidance and prayer, I found out that there were even more questions associated with these basic ones. Questions like, when do Christians receive spiritual gifts exactly? What's the purpose of having a spiritual gift? How important are they? So we really spend a lot of time even talking about them. How many different gifts of the Spirit are there? Are the New Testament lists of the gifts exhaustive? How do I determine which gift I have? But if I have one that I don't like too much and don't want to use? Can you take a formulated test to find out which one you have? People have written up tests. Are those accurate? Do some churches have more gifts of the Spirit than other churches? If they do, why didn't the Holy Spirit give gifts to those other churches? If they don't, then what actually is going on in those churches? Do you have only one gift of the Spirit, or can you have more than one? Can you ask for more? Should you ask for more? Is that presumptuous? Can gifts of the Spirit be lost due to lack of use or due to sin? Can pastors lose their gift? Did the church lose certain gifts after the first century? Did some cease on their own? And why would they cease? Or why would they continue? If to be an apostle of Jesus you had to see the resurrected Christ in the first century, why do some people insist that the gift of apostleship continues today when it's obvious that no one has seen? Jesus Christ risen from the dead. And if that gift, the first gift and the most prominent gift, ceased after the first century, why are there so many that say that gifts cannot cease today? Maybe there are other gifts that cease for a reason the Bible gives. And there are many, many other questions, probably some you have now that I didn't even mention. So studying spiritual gifts is no short undertaking. But I do think it will be fruitful for us as a church and for you individually. I think it will be useful to you If you are a Christian, God says you have been given spiritual ability. You need to use those abilities for Him. Better learn more about them. There's really no need to be confused. Let's just go back to the original source. Let's learn from the Holy Spirit Himself what He says about the gifts that he distributes. No one can truly be a spiritual person who does not conform his beliefs and his practices to the teachings of the Holy Spirit. Do you agree with that? If you don't agree with that, you'll have a hard time with this message. But you can't truly be a spiritual person unless you're listening to the Spirit of God. And he speaks infallibly through his word. There's no more rich teaching from the Holy Spirit on spiritual gifts than the passage we come to today. 1 Corinthians Chapter 12, and really it goes all the way through chapter 14. We're obviously not going to gulp down that much in one message. We'll just get started with chapter 12 today. But chapter 12 through 14 forms a major section in this letter of Paul to the Corinthians. So open, I hear you're doing it now, open your spiritual book, for that is what it is. to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. I'm going to read verses 1 through 13 to give us some of the context, but today we're only going to tackle the first three verses. 1 Corinthians 12, 1-13. Now, concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware. You know that when you were pagans, you were led astray to the mute idols, however, you were led. Therefore, I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus is a curse. And no one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit, and there are varieties of ministries, and the same Lord. There are varieties of effects, but the same God who works all things in all persons. But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good For to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit And to another the effecting of miracles, and to another prophecy, and to another the distinguishing of spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, and to another the interpretation of tongues But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually just as He wills. For even as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks were the slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one Spirit Yeah, maybe some of your questions are already being answered just as you heard that being read, or maybe some new questions popped into your mind. We're going to be asking and answering questions in this series. These beloved are spiritual words. They are meant for spiritual people who can appraise spiritual things. So spiritual people listen and learn. These are the opening words from Paul to a lengthy section of this letter devoted to the topic of spiritual gifts. The Corinthian Christians were much like we are. They had many questions. about many different things related to worship, including spiritual gifts. And as I said, there are three whole chapters Dedicated to answering their questions. Today we're going to get to the first three verses only, and we're going to focus on those. And what is it that we find in those first three verses? Well, some basic things. Some basic things. Look back at verse one if you would. Paul here in verse one tells why it is important to learn about spiritual gifts. He doesn't give all the reasons, but he gives a beginning reason. In verses 2 and 3, he tells one important way to discern the true work of the Holy Spirit in a worship service from counterfeit manifestations. It's not the only way, but it's an important way. So that's going to be our outline for this opening message. First, why learn about spiritual gifts? We're going to give a series of questions and answers. The first one is why even learn about spiritual gifts? That's where we have to start. That's answered in verse 1. The second question is how do we discern the true from the counterfeit? And Paul is getting at that in verses two through three. Well, I learn about spiritual gifts. And then how do we discern the truth from the counterfeit? Those are basic and foundational questions we need to answer even before we get into questions as what are spiritual gifts and how do we use them and how do I know which ones I have and all the rest of that. We're going to get to that in weeks to come First, let's look at why learn about spiritual gifts. Look again at verse 1. Concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be Literally ignorant, unaware, ignorant. Well the best thing for us to do in the face of differences of opinion that churches and Christians have is not to throw up our hands and quit and say, gee Everyone's got their own interpretation of the Bible. We can't really know what it says. No, it's to learn what God says, not what man is saying. I hope to stay as close as I can to the Bible text so you can see this for yourself And I want you to notice that Paul didn't want the Corinthians to be unaware of this topic. That phrase, by the way, is very similar to the phrase that he had already used. In chapter ten, verse one, when he said, I don't want you to be ignorant about spiritual lessons from the Old Testament. But there are things Christians should know about, and this is one of those things. It's a formula that speaks of the need to teach and to fill in knowledge wherever it is lacking among God's people. The teaching about spiritual gifts, therefore, is important. How do I know? God says so. We're not to be ignorant of it Now, some are ignorant about spiritual gifts because their churches hardly ever teach about them. They hear about the controversy, they want nothing to do with it, it sounds weird and strange, and they avoid it. But that's not God's will Others are ignorant because they come from churches where spiritual gifts are talked about and emphasized all the time. But they're not paying attention to what the Bible says about spiritual gifts, and so they don't really understand them either. But I say again, as the apostle said, it is not good to be ignorant about spiritual gifts. So if you're honest, you know you fit into one of those categories of ignorance. Let's change that this morning. Let's learn more about it. I know that many people these days are just sick of the divisiveness among so many people. Why bring up even all of these topics if it just divides believers? Just so much controversy, tongue speaking and healings and things like that But for the purpose of the teaching is not to cause divisions, but to bring about unity. We can't have unity based upon what we interpret our experience to be. We have to have unity based upon what God says God's word brings about unity if we pay attention to it. I don't think that God speaks out of two sides of his mouth. He spoke and then it's going to be clear. So let's have a unity around God and His purposes and His Word. That's a good kind of thing We must be able to distinguish what is true, what is good, what is noble, from what is counterfeit, what is harmful, and yes, what is divisive. The Holy Spirit's work in the midst of the church is vital. It's vital to this church. It's vital to all that we do in worship, evangelism, discipleship, everything. We must not quench the work of the Spirit of God But we must not twist the work of the Spirit of God or misunderstand the work of the Spirit of God either. So let's dig in here. The Corinthians wanted to understand spiritual things better. I ask you, do you want to understand spiritual gifts better? One other thing to notice there in verse 1 before we move on is that the word gifts is not actually in the original Greek text. If you have a good study Bible, it'll point that out to you. Verse 1 could have been translated this way. Concerning spiritual things, I do not want you to be unaware. Or concerning spiritual matters, I don't want you to be aware. Or even concerning spiritual people. That Greek form there, tone, pneumaticone, would allow for any of those translations. So how is it that we know that Paul has in mind spiritual gifts? in particular. Well, because of the context. And that's why I read down through verse 13. The following context, particularly in verses 4 through 11, tells us he's writing about spiritual gifts. He even lists some of them The context of words in Scripture always yields the proper meaning, and so here is a section about spiritual gifts. Now next Sunday we're going to give a careful definition of spiritual gifts But I want you to notice for now that the word spiritual itself gives us a strong hint as to what is meant by these gifts, spiritual gifts. Interestingly, the emphasis of that word spiritual is not on the makeup of the gift. We might think, oh, it's a spiritual gift. That means it's not a physical or tangible gift that we can touch. That's not what is meant. That's actually included, but that's not the emphasis of the word. The emphasis of the word spiritual is on the source of the gift and the empowerment of the gift. They are spiritual gifts because they come from the Spirit. The Holy Spirit gives these gifts, and so they're spirit gifts or spiritual gifts. Spiritual gifts are not simply non-physical in nature. They are gifts that are energized by the Holy Spirit in your life to bring about effects and to do ministry. They are the Holy Spirit gifts. And again, we see why we must learn about spiritual gifts. Why? Because the Holy Spirit has taken time to decide to give you, believer, in particular, a gift or more And he from his own well will distributed that to you. And so I would say that if you knew that uh you went home today and there at your home was a gift from the Queen of England just to you. It had been sent to America just for you. And you got a gift from the Queen of England. When she say, Wow, I'm going to pay close attention to this gift, write a thank you card. Oh my, will I be on TV? What's going to happen? This is this is pretty important But God, the Holy Spirit, has given a gift to you to use. Don't you want to learn how to use it? You see, we ought to cherish it. God himself has given it to us and he intends us to use it. You know, this past week just to give a quick testimony. It was neat to see how the evangelism team worked together. Here we had a group of people working together trying to do various kinds of outreaches. All of us were not gifted in evangelism. Some were gifted in administration or just in serving and helping, leading, giving, encouraging, whatever it was, administration. And all of that worked. I was hoping to see this and I was so blessed by it Everyone was using their gift without complaint and we had great times and we had bad times. We had exciting times and we had discouraging times. But everyone was important, even the children who were saved and were there serving as well. It was just exciting to see 1 Peter 4 and verse 10, you might want to jot that reference down. As each one has received a special gift, here's the exhortation: employ it in serving one another as good stewards. Of the manifold grace of God. So God's put something into your hand. You're a steward of what He's given to you. He's saying now employ it in serving one another. Again, you might say, Oh, I don't know what my gift is. Well hang in there. We're gonna we're gonna help you with that If you don't use your gift, you are disobeying God. You're not a good steward of what God has entrusted to you. I find it a little bit contradictory, and here's where I'll challenge some of you all That some of you would take great pains, and indeed do take great pains, to figure out what you're good at out in the business world You know, you study yourself, your talents, your knowledge, and all of that, and you kind of fine-tune it, and you want to pick the job where you're just really good at it. But when it comes to something that's even more important than that, and spiritual service in God's kingdom You're like, well, I'm I guess I have a gift somewhat out there. I'm not really sure what it is. I'm not sure it's all that important. Does that make sense to you? If God has equipped you and given you abilities, shouldn't you be meditating, thinking How God works through you and uses you and how important it is to fit into the right spot, slot within the body that so you can help that body and be edified and grow and be unified. I think that's so important. Listen, whether you know it or not, you and I are post-Pentecost believers. There were believers before the day of Pentecost came. God bless them. We're not one of them We are post-Pentecost believers. The Spirit of God has come, and as He has come, He has brought power. He has brought His indwelling presence. We are the temple of the Holy Spirit now. That's a change from Old Testament times. You also have a gift. So know who you are and use what you have. Okay? That's so important. God wants you to know that. Now, the second question we move on to quickly. How can we discern the true from the counterfeit? How can we discern or figure out the true spiritual gift from those that are counterfeit? Now you might be saying, are there really counterfeit Spiritual gifts. Well Satan is a master counterfeiter. We're told in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 in the book of Revelation that there are going to be true miracles that are done by evil spirits in the end times. I'm not saying that's what's going on in people's churches. I'm just saying there is that capability that is there. And so we need to know that there are counterfeit signs. We need to know what is from God. Someone might see something that's very impressive or even supernatural and they immediately conclude that's from God. Now we need to use more spiritual tests. to figure out what really is from God and what is not. Now this is a foundational question. It's so foundational we're going to take a little bit more time with it. Right here, Paul gives us two ways to distinguish the false from the true. It's sort of uh two sides of the same coin. It's really one test, but there's two ways here. First, you want to beware of non-Christian influences, and second, be guided by Scripture and not experience. Way to know what is of God is to beware of non-Christian influences. We'll get into that. And secondly, be guided by scripture. Not by personal experience. Let's look at the warning about non-Christian influences. Look back at verse 2, if you would, because this is where he brings it up. He says, you know, writing to the Corinthians, you know that when you were pagans, now they're saved and in the church, so he's getting them to reflect backwards. When you were pagans, you were led astray To the mute idols, however you were led. That's so interesting. Paul picks up on the theme of ignorance that he left off at the end of verse 1, you may notice. And now, in verse 2, he reminds the Corinthians of this dark and ignorant past they had as pagans, their BC days before Christ. You know, in verse 1 he makes the point there's no virtue in being ignorant of spiritual gifts, and in verse 2 he writes, ignorant of spiritual things is what you used to be when you were pagans. That's the connection between the two verses. When you were following after these false gods, these dumb idols, you lacked understanding of true spirituality. Now keep in mind who he's writing to. The Corinthian church was composed largely of Gentiles, not Jews. They had come from a pagan past. They were religious people. They worshipped many false gods The gods of the Greeks and the Romans, we still know much about them, what they worship, what they did, even how their worship services were to their false gods. A pagan is an unbelieving Gentile, does not worship the true God, but worships idols. And these false gods whom they worshipped are described as dumb idols or mute idols. If you have dumb, it doesn't mean in the sense that they're stupid. It just means the Greek word it means they can't speak. They can't get a word out. They're a god, they're an idol. They can't talk. A little bit of a problem there. The idols, some were made of wood, metal stone. They couldn't tell their worshippers anything. They were mute, they were dumb. And Paul reminds them of this dismal past that they had in their pagan days. But I want to ask here, and this is important, this might be a hard part for you, so hang in there. Why is Paul giving This reminder right here. Why did Paul include verse 2 in his train of thought? Right here at the beginning of a discussion about spiritual gifts. Why? It seems kind of strange. What's the flow of thought? What is the point of reminding the Corinthians that they came from a past of idol worshipers What connection does their past pagan worship have to do with Paul's present instruction about spiritual gifts? This will be a bit technical, but I want you, I think you can get it. Look at verse 3 In verse 3, Paul starts with the word therefore. In Greek, it's just a little word, transition word, dia. And then after that, therefore, in verse 3, he then gives them a test for knowing if the Holy Spirit is working in a worship service or not. So that means then that verses 1 and 2 together are foundational to the test that he wants to give in verse 3. You see that? He gives some instruction in verses 1 and 2, and then he says, Therefore, here's how you know. So, Paul must have a reason for including a warning about past pagan worship right here, just before he gives a test for knowing the true from the false about spiritual gifts. That is why most students of this letter believe that the Corinthians' understanding about spiritual manifestations in their worship service And thus the use of spiritual gifts, even some of the more prominent spiritual gifts, and you'll see that Paul gives a lot of attention to tongues and to prophecy, and these were issues that they had in their church as well. was unfortunately influenced by their past experiences in pagan worship They sort of carried a pre Christian understanding of their expectation of what is spiritual and powerful and impressive And they brought it right into their Christian worship services, and then were impressed by those same kind of things that they had seen before in pagan worship. That false influence, that wrong idea of what it means to be spiritual. Paul had to get to that. Paul had to correct that right before he could rightly help them to understand true spirituality and spiritual gifts. I guess it's kind of hard for us in the modern world to understand how dumb idols could hold such power over intelligent human beings, right? There's a stone, and here are all these people with brains, and they're following this carved stone or wood. And we scratch our heads on that. I think sometimes people just put that into an evolutionary framework and say, ah, they were just, you know, stupid back then and we're smart now and we've evolved and we have a better brain. But that just doesn't hold up. The ancients were very intelligent Very intelligent. Listen to the irony in Psalm 115, verses 3 through 8. Don't turn there, just listen. It starts by talking about the true God. Our God is in the heavens. It says, He does whatever he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of man's hands. They have mouths, but they cannot speak. They have eyes, but they cannot see. They have ears but they cannot hear. They have noses but they cannot smell. They have hands but they cannot feel. They have feet but they cannot walk. They cannot make a sound with their throat. Those who make them will become like them, everyone who trusts in them. Though the idols could do nothing for the pagans, they still trusted in them and it led them to their own destruction. Please notice back in our passage, Paul writes in verse 2 that they were led astray. To the dumb idols. Led astray. That's a passive verb. You say, so what? Well, that means that someone else was doing the leading and leading them into something. The verb gives the idea that there was some influence or control by someone else that led these worshippers into something. You say it wasn't the piece of wood, was it? It wasn't the gold. The gold couldn't know it wasn't that It had to be something else. What were they led by? Where was the power coming from? Well, by using this verb, Paul is saying that when they were unbelievers, they were controlled by a power, a spiritual power, that led them into false spiritual worship. What was the power? I think it's a subtle reference to the power and work of unclean, intelligent spirits who are behind the crafting the organization, the teaching, and the doctrine of every false religion in the world. You say, do demons Really do that? Are demons interested in religion? Do they actually do that? Oh yes. The Bible warns about the doctrines and teachings of demons. Demons are really fallen angels, very intelligent spirit beings. The Bible makes it clear that they're real. They don't come with some of the baggage in our cartoons and all the rest of that that people think about, but they are true, they're intelligent, they know how to manipulate the human mind and human religion, and so yes they do that. Just some samples. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 2. Teaches that the evil spirit called the Prince of the Power of the Air is now working, that's a present tense, is now working in unbelieving Gentiles. who were called sons of disobedience in that passage. Even if you just would keep your finger in chapter twelve and go back to chapter ten in 1 Corinthians, we covered that a while ago, but turn to chapter 10 and verse 20, and Paul clarifies what's going on here. Even verse 19 he says, What do I mean then? This is chapter 10. What do I mean then? That a thing sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No, idol's not anything Verse 20, no, but I say that the things which the Gentiles, the pagans, the unbelieving Gentiles, sacrifice, this is in their worship services, they sacrifice to, and there it is, what Demons and not to God. I do not want you to become sharers in demons. Paul understood there's a spiritual warfare going on in this world. It's unseen, but it's true. Sometimes people misrepresent it, misunderstand it, but it is still true. And they are the power and the force working behind false religion, even that Darm idle. It would take more than just a piece of wood or stone. or gold to convince intelligent people there was some power at work there. You must understand that. There is spiritual power working in false religion. And therefore, discernment about what's from God and what is not from God becomes crucial. It just can't be something exciting. It just can't be something that looks supernatural. We have to have a better way of telling Mark it down, intelligent spiritual beings are working in false religion. Well, how powerful was this influence over the Gentiles? Well, if you know the story of Elijah and the prophets of Baal in the Old Testament, you remember those prophets were dancing around calling on Baal the God there of the Canaanites to uh send down fire from heaven. They were worked up into a frenzy. I mean they were cutting themselves and bleeding and dancing and there was just this incredible amount of enthusiasm and energy that was poured into the worship of Balaam. If we were sitting around watching it, we might be impressed with their devotion and all the energy. And you say, this isn't just a bunch of people making this up. There's something going on there. They're worked up into a frenzy. What is going on? Of course Elijah had the right perspective. He sat there and mocked them and said, Maybe your God can't hear. Maybe he's on vacation. Shout a little louder. Because he had the truth, but the others were drawn into it, into that power Well the Corinthians were quite aware of what Paul was warning them about. Many of them right there in the city of Corinth had been involved in their past and What was called the mystery religions, the mystery religions. These mystery religions had grown in popularity among the Greeks. They sought a salvation, a kind of a salvation from the present life through these religions. They would get all heightened and emotional and in certain ecstatic state they would believe they became one with the gods and they would therefore receive a salvation. And their forms of worship were often sinful and gross by our standards and by the Bible standards. But they were also very enthusiastic, I guess we could call it. Dr. Wayne House wrote an extensive journal article on the influence of these mystery religions on the church at Corinth doctor House writes about the excessive religious practices of the Dionysian mystery religion in particular. Here is his description of some of their worship. Now this is just one of those religions Following the torches as they dipped and swayed in the darkness, they climbed the mountain paths with their head thrown back and eyes glazed, dancing to the beat of the drum which stirred their blood in the state of ecstasy or enthusiasmos as they called it. They abandoned themselves, dancing wildly and calling, I think this is Uwe, Uroy. At that moment of intense rapture, they became identified with the God Himself. They became filled with His Spirit and acquired divine powers. End quote. Man, that sounds like uh something that a lot of people would want to be involved in today. People get bored. People want to be involved in something exciting. If religion could produce that, then they're gonna have a lot of followers or something like that. That's a party. That's really moving. It's also very dangerous, isn't it? A state of ecstasy and enthusiasm, wild, uncontrolled behavior. They followed secret initiation rites. They gained contact with their God. Understand that God was a demon. Now, there was also another religious cult that influenced the Corinthians in their pre-Christian life. It was the religion of Apollo. There were several temples that have been found in or near Corinth dedicated to Apollo's worship. Did you know that someone associated with the worship of The god Apollo is even mentioned in the book of Acts in the Bible. Paul himself had an encounter a slave girl in the city of Philippi who was said to have a spirit of divination, literally the word is a spirit of Python. Python was the mythological serpent who guarded the temple of Apollo and whom later Apollo slayed. This servant girl was demon possessed, in other words. And she was able to make pronouncements of the future in a supernatural way. It can sound like prophecy, by the way. She was a prophetic mouthpiece for this false God. Paul didn't say she was a charlatan. Paul knew there was a true power within her. And in Acts 16, 16. It mentions that she was able to do fortune telling and bring her masters much money. But Paul cast out the demon spirit with the power of God. Interestingly, the religion of Apollo emphasized ecstatic utterances, just like many who call what goes on in their church today tongues, exactly the same manifestation. Now we're going to study tongues in depth more, so I don't want you to to think that this is all we're going to say about it. We're going to get into chapter 14. We're going to go through it much in detail. This cult also emphasized oracles spoken through prophets and prophetesses, such as that slave girl mentioned in Acts. Of course, Paul knew all about this. And the Corinthians knew all about this. They were aware. He knew that was the kind of pagan past that had shaped the Corinthian thinking. Now, if you've been reading with us throughout The letter of Corinth, you know that a a lot about their past and their culture influenced this church. Pride and all kinds of divisiveness and things like that. And all of this came out of their background. So it's not surprising in their worship service. that they are influenced by their past as well. I want you to turn back to 1 Corinthians 12 if you're not there already. With such a wild and unruly spiritual experience in their past, And the presence of various sayings going on right there in their church worship meetings. Paul is telling them in verse 2 That their former experience of spiritual things ought never to be their guide now in understanding true spiritual things. The things of the Spirit of God are not the same as the spiritual things associated with false gods. Paul's warning them. Beware of your past. Beware of culture's influence. Beware of non-Christian influence You may have had exciting things happen, manifestations that were weird and strange. Never let that guide you Just because there's something impressive that happens in a worship service, even in a Christian worship service, does not mean it is from God. It does not mean it is from the Holy Spirit. Well, brothers and sisters, we need to learn this warning for the church today because there are many things going on in thousands of Christian churches. And I'm not saying they're not saved. The Corinthians were saved. Most of them we hope. They're being done in the name of the Holy Spirit, and if you compare them with other false pagan religions and their worship, you will see that the exact same manifestations go on in those pagan worship services. And they worship false gods by the power of demons. We must have discernment What truly is of the Holy Spirit? Mere intense emotion, strange occurrences, dramatic happenings. Ah, our church has the Spirit of God. Did you see that happen? It doesn't mean that's from the Holy Spirit. It's never the barometer of where the Spirit of God is working. No. The Spirit will tell us where the barometer is. That leads us to the second way to distinguish the false from the true. The second way is be guided by Scripture, not experience. Write it down, pass it on to others. Be guided by Scripture, not experience. Verse three. Therefore, I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed. And no one can say, Jesus is Lord. Except by the Holy Spirit. Now keep in mind he's giving two samples of things that are said in a worship service. Anybody could read that, of course. He means that they would say it and mean it. Say it in a presence of a worship service, speak it out and really mean that. This is one way to tell where the Spirit of God is working, and Christians need to use this for discernment. They're able to use this to tell the truth from the false. That's what he's saying. In verse 3, he starts with that word, therefore, I mentioned before. Based upon what I've written in verses 1 and 2, here's a basic rule for discernment you are to use in your church. Was this the only rule? No. It was a test. They needed this test in that context. He has a negative side, he has a positive side, right? The negative simply states, no one, he's emphatic about that, no one at all can say Jesus is a curse, and mean that, obviously, and be making that statement By the Holy Spirit. They're not a mouthpiece for the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit doesn't speak that way. It's not a gift of the Holy Spirit that is working to move somebody to say, Jesus is a curse. You know that word accursed means, right? Anathema. Something to be regarded as utterly contemptible, utterly to be rejected. Anathema. Be away with it. Cursed. That message that Jesus is accursed cannot come from the Holy Spirit. Jesus told the disciples in the upper room in John chapter 16 and verse 14. That when he sent the Holy Spirit into the world, the Holy Spirit would glorify Jesus Christ. So there is no chance that the Spirit who sent into this world to glorify Christ would inspire a prophet or anybody else to say, right in the midst of the Christian assembly, Jesus is a curse. Now you have to admit it is absolutely shocking that Paul had to write this to the Corinthians to tell them that, right? I mean if one of you stood up and said Jesus is accursed, how many of you would think that guy was speaking by the Holy Spirit? A couple of the ushers would grab them, drag them down the aisle, haul them out there, give them a theology lesson out there. Because our ushers listen to theology too, amen? But I don't think the Corinthians were stupid. Let's never underestimate how Satan, in his craftiness, can craft words to make them sound Right in certain situations. Bear with me a little bit. I'd like to probe this for you. Maybe there was something else happening along with the pronouncement. I don't know. This is a guess. Maybe there was some impressive manifestation that happened followed by this pronouncement. And folks were impressed with the power display. Maybe there was a false prophet who spoke these words in their assembly. They didn't know he was a false prophet, and he had a way of convincing them the words were actually true. Commentators pouring over this section have made their suggestions. Maybe there was someone in the church of Jewish descent. There were some there. Knowing that the Old Testament law had said, anyone who hangs on a tree is accursed, said Jesus hung on a tree, and so he was accursed. And they were like, yeah, he hung on a tree, he was crucified, that's what the law says. In fact, the Apostle Paul makes this very point in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 13. It says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. Of course, Paul was using that to show that Jesus died not for his sins, but for our sins, and so after taking the curse, of course he is blessed now Ah, but an evil spirit working in the mouthpiece of a false prophet could just turn the words enough to make them think, hmm, maybe there's some truth to that. Where others have suggested it wasn't a Jewish person at all. It was someone influenced by Greek thought. They had dualistic thought. Material things are evil, spiritual things are good. So how is it that the divine Son of God, the eternal Christ, whose spirit and pure and perfect, could ever come down here in this rotten world and take on flesh which is evil and wicked? And so they divided that two and said the Son of God is not the same one as Jesus. And they divided the person of Christ, which has tremendous implications for all of Christian teaching. Later that would be known as the Gnostic heresy. Maybe that was going on there as well. And so the statement isn't that the Son of God is cursed, but that who is cursed? Jesus is cursed. And they're actually saying the human Jesus was cursed, but the divine Son of God is blessed. And he's saying, that's not from the Holy Spirit. It can't be. Now keep in mind too, these believers have no completed New Testament like we have. They couldn't check every utterance by the word of God as we have now. So Paul gave rules for regulating prophetic utterances in these early churches. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 20. It says, Do not despise prophetic utterances, but examine everything carefully. So don't plug your ears when someone starts to prophesy, he said, in that church. But listen and examine it. How are you going to examine it? By the word of God, it's got to conform to what the other prophets of God we know have said. If God's speaking through this person, it will conform with what God spoke through others before him. Well, we are to have tests. The tests are not mere external kinds of tests. You don't look at a false teacher outwardly and say, well, he he looks like a nice young man. Gee, he has a wonderful way of praying. He seems to be smiling all the time Some people go on to TV nowadays and their way of discerning who's speaking from God comes down to just about that. Look at that smile. And that wonderful Bible he's holding in his hands, that southern accent, all of that has to be from God. That's the Bible belt down there What is really from God is what the Word of God says. Who's speaking from God? Satan is the father of lies, he's the master counterfeiter, he's extremely intelligent. He's convinced every single one of us to sin at some point in time in our lives. So Paul gives him this basic test. Don't look externally, look inwardly and essentially, turn to the Word of God that exposes everything for us. There are false spirits that promote false religion with false religious experiences sometimes inside Christian churches. You know, in paganism, when you had that kind of an experience, that gave you a bit of a status, right? You're in there and and woo, the spirit gets a hold of you. And something starts pouring out of you or happening to you or you're shaking harder than someone else, the others are looking over at you and saying, Well, that guy's got more of it. That guy, that guy. I want to be like that guy Joe Pagan. He he's the one that I want to be like. Look at him. He's clipped. I need to be more devoted to the God, just like him or her. Yeah, the same kind of stuff happens in Christian churches. Whoa, man, when the music started in the worship service, I saw this person doing this and that. Externally impressive. What about the Word of God? What does it say about that experience, about that particular behavior? Is that allowed in a worship service? Is that something the Spirit of God does in someone who's interesting because the The fruit of the Holy Spirit we're already told in Galatians chapter 5 says is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control, self-control. Self-control. Interesting. Those who had not been initiated into these great experiences, they would be looked down upon It was almost like the the spiritual experience because it happened to them right there in the worship service. They had the experience. They were Authenticated. It was self-authenticating. Hey, I had the experience. You didn't. Don't tell me what's of God and what is not. Oh, so if you have the experience, then you're the authority. It's not what the Bible says. The Bible doesn't say that. The Bible says any experience that you have or I have has to be judged and evaluated and tested. By spiritual words, by scripture. Anybody could say anything that they have is from the Holy Spirit. It's not necessary. But the music was loud, it got exciting in the worship service. You could tell the spirit was moving. Well, there was a spirit moving in there, all right We need to discern which spirit. And I'm not against loud or exciting music. I love that. What truly makes it spiritual? It's not our ideas. It's not our experiences that are the authority. It is the word of God that is infallible If it were our experiences that were the authority, everyone would follow their own rules. Well, hey, I had this experience. And I'm telling you that God is saying this. And you have to believe me because I had this experience. In fact, not just me, but a lot of guys had the same experience. It is shocking that that statement, Jesus is accursed, could be said in a Corinthian worship service, but there are shocking things going on in worship services today. Tens of thousands years ago were convinced that the there was an outpouring of the Holy Spirit in the city of Toronto, the Toronto Blessing. It seems like there were some good things that happened there, but it produced wild and strange manifestations. They called it themselves barking in the spirit. Weird, uncontrolled outbursts. Where does the Holy Spirit say that's a mark of his? What chapter and verse? Because I didn't read that. Barking in the Spirit Does the experience authenticate itself, or will they subject their experience and humility to the Word of God? See, when I meet a brother who's into worshiping God and they will not subject to their experiences either in themselves or their church to the Word of God, I know they have a problem with rebellion to the authority of the Holy Spirit. None of the disciples in the Bible are ever described pre-or post-Pentecost as barking in the Spirit. I guarantee that. Jesus never did that. In fact, there are teachings against that sort of thing in a worship service that can dishonor God. There are many, many Christians in Pentecostal churches who have long defended their practice of being slain in the Spirit, their words, not ours. Being knocked down by the power of the Holy Spirit. Dozens falling right in the middle of a worship service That might be exciting, that might be impressive. They may feel that God is at work in that, but the scriptures say absolutely nothing about looking for that kind of an experience In fact, when we get there in 1 Corinthians 14, we are told the Holy Spirit is not a spirit of confusion, but of peace and order. Some of you have come from a church where the preacher yells at the top of his lungs week after week. He gets a shaking and stomping and all that. You think right at that moment he's got the Holy Spirit. Well, he might, but it's not because of the shaking or the stomping or the yelling. 1 John 4. 1 commands Christians do not believe every spirit. Or not to be gullible. That's not strong in faith to believe every spirit. That's ignorance. The Christian faith is based on godly knowledge we are to know, we were told at the beginning of this passage. We cannot scroll down the path of life trusting every self-proclaimed prophet. Or every so-called spiritually gifted person. In John 4, in first John 4 he goes on to write the reason for that. Many false prophets have gone out into the world. Test the spirits, John says, to see whether they are from God. In Revelation chapter 2 and verse 2, Jesus was speaking to the church at Ephesus, and he said, I know your deeds and your toil and perseverance, and that you cannot endure evil men, and you put to the test those who call themselves apostles. And they are not. And you found them to be false. Jesus is commending that church for doing that. Briefly look at the positive side with me, if you would. The last part of verse 3. No one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Jesus is Lord and mean it. That's a foundational confession to the Christian faith. Brother Quincy reminded us of that last week Romans ten, nine and ten, if you will confess Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, confess Jesus to be your King, your Master, your Lord, the one you want to follow, the one you receive mercy from. And you will be saved. That's a promise. That's a guarantee from the Bible. That is a foundational confession. God, the Holy Spirit, moves people to confess Jesus as Lord and God. You see, to the Jews, Jesus was not Lord. He was an imposter. To the Muslims today, Jesus is not Lord. He is a mere prophet. To the Hindus, he may be one Lord among many thousands, but never the Lord. To the Jehovah's Witnesses, he is a Lord less than God. To a liberal Protestant, Jesus is a good moral teacher. The Holy Spirit is not working there. When the Holy Spirit works in a man or a church and his words are really from the Holy Spirit, what comes out of his mouth and what he believes is Jesus' Lord. He's my Lord. And I love him and I want to follow him. Paul wrote in 2 Corinthians 4:5, we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord. 1 Timothy 6:15, he was the blessed and only sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of Lords. And again, Quincy said from Matthew 7. 21, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven. You confess him to be Lord, you follow and obey him. Jesus asked in Luke 6. 46, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do the things that I say? This is simply the affirmation that results when a true prophet speaks. And we know that God is working in his life. Satan is a master counterfeiter, I say again. You have to understand that about the devil. Even in the Old Testament, the Israelites were warned in Deuteronomy 13: if a prophet or dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, and the sign or the wonder comes true. comes true concerning which he spoke to you, saying, Let us go after other gods and let us serve them. You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams For the Lord your God is testing you to find out if you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and he goes on to talk about the procedure for killing that man. Just because a person in church is able to do signs doesn't mean it's from God. Brothers and sisters, use the test. of Scripture and know what truly is of God. Understand your personal experiences in worship. According to what the Bible defines as your experience, you will not be led astray. You'll be able to express your spiritual gifts and understand the other spiritual gifts in the church. in the way in which God attends. We're going to be covering more and more of this in the weeks to come. Right now let's get our hearts ready for the Lord's Supper together.