You have to love those hymns. We made a decision as a church years ago that we wanted to make sure along with some good contemporary worship songs that we learned and maintained, particularly for our younger people, knowledge of these great hymns that have the story of salvation laid out so well, such rich, rich theology. But it also puts us in touch with the Christians before us, before they sung these very hymns as well. And it's good to have a sense of the heritage with which we Christians have had. I have been very encouraged by many of you, I don't know how many, coming up to me. uh I'm sure to the other elders, other leaders, uh time to time and telling about an exciting witnessing opportunity that you got. And Maybe you didn't get to give all of the gospel, but you got to share something, leave a track, you got to talk to some relatives, finally that conversation you were hoping for at work happened, or you were able to invite someone to church and then pick up from what they heard at church. And I hear I know you're a witnessing church because I hear your stories and I know that you're doing that. I also know it's hard. I know there are a lot of folks that uh won't listen But I know for the most of you you you talk about what's on your heart and what's on your heart is Christ and you share that gospel and it's it is a joy to be a part of a church that's not keeping the good news, the amazing grace, you know, to ourselves I know for some of you witnessing does not come easily, and it might depend on what setting that you're placed into to talk about Jesus with an unbeliever. I know probably with some of you you're not sharing your your faith actively at all. And you may need to question why that's not happening, and hopefully today this message will help you. Pastor Mark Dever, if you guys are familiar with him, he has a great ministry in D. C. One of his books is called The Gospel and Personal Evangelism. And he asks in his first chapter, why don't we, meaning Christians, evangelize more? Some of the reasons that he puts in the book are that You want to start up talking the gospel with somebody, but you find out that uh they don't really speak the same language as you all that well, and so that can be a barrier with some uh internationals in the area. Um For others of you, you're you feel like if you were to witness at the workplace it might cause some problems, and so you keep your mouth quiet. Um He also says that Other items in the week just seem to be more urgent, and taking time to witness is uh not something that you can really think that you can find time to do. And then another reason he puts in here is that uh some would say, I just don't know any non-Christians in order to witness to them And uh of course you do know non-Christians. We could add other reasons why people hold back witnessing, and maybe some of these apply to you. Some just feel that they they don't have a problem with getting started. They're not shy, but um they don't really know the message well enough to explain it. For someone like you you need to Just get some training. You need to memorize some verses and have a track and have a plan and uh know what to say. Um others would say um People ask questions when I witness and I don't know how to answer them and I feel stumped. You know, there's been a few times I've been called when someone's witnessing and saying, Pastor, what's the answer to this question? I'm like, I'm not gonna bail you out at that moment, you know, you're on your own there, you know. Uh you should should have studied, you know. You should have studied. It's someone's not always going to be there for you, but uh it's good that you get into a mess, I guess, because it makes you go back and study more and like I didn't know the answer to that question, and so I think that's actually good. You can always get back to people, right? And then probably the one that is the one I hear the most and would be the one that discourages me the most in personal evangelism would be you've tried and tried and people just don't want to listen. Where they listen politely but they don't repent. And that is certainly the case in the dozens and dozens of opportunities that I have had So you're not alone if it's hard and discouraging, but I do want to remind us that we have help in witnessing. I think the Word of God is going to help us with that today. That we are not alone in our witnessing. When you go out and you minister, you might feel that you're all alone. You're not, and I hope today is you uh hear the message of our Lord that this will in encourage you. The text is John fifteen, just two verses, twenty-six and twenty-seven. Please follow along and read. You get more out of it when you're looking carefully at it. You can remember what was taught. John fifteen verses twenty six and twenty seven. When the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, that is, the Spirit of Truth. who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. And you will testify also, because you have been with me from the beginning. No, this is short, but it really says an awful lot about witnessing, and uh we're going to get some some background before we get to application for ourselves. But the main goal of this message, my main purpose is to be applicational. So we're going to work through some of this and then we're going to come to some challenges and some instruction and exhortation at the end. You know the Lord Jesus has spoken of the coming of the Holy Spirit already in this upper room discourse. This is not the first time he's done it. In fact, uh I think this is the third time, and he's going to speak of the Holy Spirit again And so as he's about to depart from them, obviously the Spirit's presence with the disciples, the Spirit's comfort, the Spirit's teaching, the Spirit's guidance, the Spirit's empowerment. is a very important theme on the heart of the Lord Jesus as He's departing and He wants us to know, He wants the disciples to know we're not being left alone We will have power. The ministry will continue. It's not going to get worse when Jesus leaves. It's going to get better because the Spirit is going to come. And that is a theme that he keeps bringing up in this upper room discourse. This time Jesus is relating the coming ministry of the Spirit to times of persecution. You may notice forward in chapter 16 when we get there Verses 1 through 4, he's talking about persecution, and they're going to need the Holy Spirit to help them, particularly when folks are angry with what they say and want to persecute them for it. So we relates that to bearing testimony and to evangelism. Really, this short section strikes a bit of a forensic tone here. Almost like the Holy Spirit and the disciples are being called into a courtroom that Jesus is being accused of or Jesus is being defended, depending on how you would look at it. And uh the Spirit comes into the world, and now in this courtroom, he's going to bear witness in the courtroom. And the apostles are going to do the same. The irony here, and if you've been tracking in the Gospel of John, you know there's a lot of irony in the Gospel of John Is that Jesus is about to go through a trial, which is really a sham of a trial, a series of actually six little mini trials, none of which really properly evaluated who he was But the true witnesses and the true court would speak after this trial was over, after he's killed, crucified, they would be called to testify, and millions in the world would come to agree that not only was Jesus innocent, but this was God the Son in human flesh. And so testimony here should also be viewed witnessing in that sense. You should be thinking somewhat of the courtroom and the legal sense, because that's the idea behind testimony. In these two verses, we learn that the Spirit's witness for Christ and that of the church are really one. The mission of the Holy Spirit into the world and the mission of the apostles were not separate, but would be together. In fact, the Spirit works through the witness of the church and uh witnesses for Christ in that way. Really we'll break this down into three parts. We'll look first at the Spirit's witness, and then at the apostle's witness, and then lastly Though it's not in the text, it is by way of application, and so we will do that. We'll look at our own witness as well, starting with the Holy Spirit and his witness. Look back at verse 26. I'll read it again. When the helper comes, whom I will send to you. From the Father, that is the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. Just a few words, a lot of truth. Christ, of course, mentions again the coming of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit is labeled the Helper. We've seen that title before also. Parakletos, one called alongside another in order to give help or assistance in some way. Christ already identified the Paraclete as the Spirit of Truth back in chapter 14 and verse 17 The coming of the Spirit to these disciples at that moment was still future, and so he speaks of it in the future. When was it fulfilled? The coming of the Spirit was on the day of what? Pentecost, right, some fifty, fifty-one days after these words were spoken. We know that the Spirit of God could not be given in that way until certain things happened Earlier in this gospel in John 7. 39, it taught that the Spirit was not yet given, Jesus said, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Couldn't have the giving of the Spirit until Jesus was glorified, so we had to see Christ raised and ascended into heaven before the Holy Spirit would be sent into the world for this ministry. In fact When we go to Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, which was in our scripture reading this morning, it says, again, the Spirit was not yet given. The Spirit was going to be given in just a few more days. And then we read on into chapter 2, verses 1 and following, and we see The very clear account of the pouring out of the Spirit of God on believers, and there's no question that the Spirit came on the day of Pentecost. The scriptures make that very clear. In fact, the Spirits coming on the day of Pentecost mark the transition between the old covenant and the new covenant. Acts chapter 2 is many, many chapters into the New Testament, but in a sense the New Covenant, the New Testament begins right there in Acts chapter 2. Why Because that's when the provisions of the New Covenant, that is the indwelling Holy Spirit, came to be with believers. That is when the Old Testament believers became New Testament believers and stepped into the age that we are now in and have been for two thousand years. the age of the Spirit or the age of the church. You know, nowadays, and it's pretty common, people want to have their own Pentecostal experience with the Holy Spirit. But there's no question that all of this is history. These are one-time non-repeatable, unrepeatable events. We're not to have private Pentecostal experiences. The church had a collective Pentecostal experience. They were collected, they were together, the Spirit was poured out on all of them, and so when the Spirit was poured out on them, it also entered into them. That is the baptism of the Spirit, and the effect of that was to put the disciples in who were really under the old covenant and were disciples of Jesus. Now they were put into the new covenant and they were put into Christ who is now in heaven. They now became part of the body of Christ That wasn't possible until Christ ascended into heaven and poured out the Spirit. In fact, you can write down 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 13. It says that very thing that the baptism of the Spirit places us into the body of Christ. The other baptisms that you see in the book of Acts are adding those that were non-Jews into the body of Christ, and those are non-repeatable events as well. You see the Gentiles put in and John the Baptist's disciples who are estranged all put in one body. That's not repeatable. That doesn't go on. We don't have our private Pentecostal experiences. That's misreading history and making it your own private truth. So we don't want to do that. All Christians, by virtue of being in Christ, are already baptized with the Spirit of God. If you are in Christ, you can only get into Christ by being immersed in the Spirit. There is no other way. And please notice who sent the Spirit. There are two that are mentioned here. Christ is the sender. He says, I will send the Spirit. That's future tense. The verb is a very simple verb, tempo, and it's In the future, meaning to send. He would be the one to commission and send so so to say the Spirit into the world. So Jesus would be in charge in a sense and would be sending the Spirit to do a mission. In fact, in way back in John 3. 34, Jesus was described as one who gives the Holy Spirit without measure. And so the fullness of the Spirit would come, and Jesus is the one who would send the Holy Spirit And he would be in charge. The Spirit would be sent out by Jesus in order to do what Jesus would want done in the world. So the Spirit comes at the initiative of Jesus Christ. It's very important to remember. The Spirit also proceeds from the Father, notice. The verb there is a little different. It's ek parutai. Literally, the spirit goes out of the Father. It's in the present tense here In John 14, verses 16 and 17, we're told that the Father would give the Spirit in answer to the prayer of the Son. And so the Spirit would come into the world and be sent by the Father and by the Son. That means the Holy Spirit would come into the world. Listen. in order to do the will of the Father and to do the will of the Son. The Holy Spirit did not come to do his own third work, just as Jesus came into the world to do the will of the Father, the Holy Spirit came into the world to do the will of the Son and of the Father, for they sent him. By the way, this verse here, verse 26, is at the heart of a long standing church debate and The greatest divide in Christendom that has ever happened between the Western Church and the Eastern Church over the issue of eternal pro the eternal procession of the Holy Spirit. The Eastern Church held that the Holy Spirit only proceeded. Now keep in mind that's not talking about his work and at his activity, but his eternal relationship to the Father. That the Holy Spirit only proceeded from the Father, just as the Son of God was eternally generated by the Father, and we don't even know what that means, but there are words we use to try to understand it. The Holy Spirit eternally proceeds from the Father. And these are eternal relationships. And they see the Eastern Church sees the Father as the fountain. of those two, the Son and the Spirit. This is not a denial of the Trinity, it's just the way they describe the Trinity. The Western Church came to disagree and felt it was important to also stress and to add to the uh Nicene and Constantinople statements that the Spirit not only proceeded from the Father, but also from the Son. That was debated and it resulted in a great divide. But that's some of the importance of this verse in church history. It's doubtful in most modern commentators really doubt that it the eternal procession of the Holy Spirit is even being talked about in this context. The context is about the mission of the Holy Spirit being sent into the world And so it's very clear that the Son is involved in sending the Holy Spirit into the world and also the Father is as well. In fact, that may be synonymous parallelism that just simply saying the Father is sending them and the Son is sending him, and so he sent from both. And that there's no statement being made about the eternal relationship of Father, Son, and Spirit here at all, more just the activity. The Spirit is sent by the Son. There's no question about that And there's no question that the Spirit came into the world to replace the Son of God. Jesus was exit in a very brief period of time after that The Spirit came. And the Spirit came as the Spirit of Christ to replace Jesus Christ. That's clear as well. In fact, did you know when the Spirit comes, he's not just called the s the Holy Spirit or the Spirit of God or the Spirit of Truth or the Spirit of the Father. He then takes on The title, and you read this in Romans 8:9 and Galatians 4. 6, the Spirit of Christ. So, because Christ sent him. So he now is the Holy Spirit. He now is also called the Spirit of Messiah, the Spirit of Christ Or as it says in Galatians 4 6, the Spirit of His Son. So he has all these titles to show again his close connection to Christ And notice that the Spirit was sent to the disciples. Jesus sends the Spirit into the world, but not just any place, right to the gathering of the disciples where they were in prayer there. The eleven apostles are being addressed here in the upper room by Jesus, but all the disciples, some of the women, and a larger group was there on the day of Pentecost. And they are all the ones who receive this baptism and indwelling and outpouring of the Holy Spirit. All new covenant believers receive the Spirit of God. That's just The fact of Scripture. Romans 8. 9. If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. See, you have to have the Spirit of Christ to belong to Christ. So that comes to every true believer. If you, by the way, if you are not aware the Holy Spirit is inside of you, you're not sure that the Holy Spirit is inside of you, lives inside of you that you have a vital relationship with Christ, that you have an experience with Christ from the inside. If you're not sure of that, then the chances are that you aren't saved yet that you're not really a a Christian and and the fact that you don't have the Spirit bears testimony against you. And what you need to do is you need to make sure you turn from your sins, put your faith in Christ, and Christ will put his Spirit in your heart as He did for all of us as well. He does not play favors, he'll do that for you. He testifies, in fact, in your heart to the truth. Now, as we're going on, notice that next we're told of the character of the Spirit. He could testify of the truth in our hearts because he is the Spirit of what? The spirit of truth, right? The spirit, by the way, is the word pneuma, and it means that the spirit has no physical existence. This is not a corporal being of some kind. He is incorporable, he is invisible He uh can't be touched. He is spirit. He is pneuma. And he is the spirit of truth. What does truth mean here? Well it's left wide open. It means obviously that he's truthful. He doesn't lie, but it means more than that. It means that he brings truth into the world. He teaches truth. He testifies to truth. In fact, if you just glance ahead into chapter 16 and verse 13, you'll see a little bit of the definition of that. What does it mean by the Spirit of Truth? And um There Christ said, But when he, the Spirit of Truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth, you see. So he's the Spirit of Truth, because he teaches truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and will disclose to you what is to come. And back in chapter 14, verse 17, Jesus said, the Spirit of truth cannot be received by the world, because it does not see him or know him. And so this spirit of truth, they've rejected truth, they can't receive the spirit of truth. And he must be the Spirit of truth to make sure a proper, truthful testimony is going to be given about Jesus Christ. In this world. Remember, I said this has a forensic court kind of flavor to it. The Spirit of God is coming in. Spirit of God knows that Jesus was falsely accused, falsely testified against And that's why he was crucified. The Spirit comes in basically to set the record straight. That was not the truth. What the truth is, is Jesus is the Son of God. The Spirit comes to testify to that. He comes to bring that witness. How does the Spirit know that? Because the Spirit is God and the Son of God is God and the three are three persons in one God. And the Spirit can, from his own knowledge and personal experience, come and bear testimony to the fact that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he comes to do that. He comes to bear a witness. He comes to give a witness. By the way, another little side note The Spirit's bearing witness proves that he's not some mindless uh impersonal force, right? I mean, has electricity ever taught you? You say, yeah, I got shocked once and it taught me not to put No, not like that. I mean, has has uh gravity or any force ever really taught you anything? No So the Spirit comes talking. The Spirit comes with knowledge and wisdom. And so the Spirit is not an it, but a he. In fact, Christ Himself even uses the masculine pronoun he here to show that he will testify concerning me. That's what the Holy Spirit is doing. In large part in his ministry in the world today. A lot of people talk about the doctrine of the Holy Spirit and they get all mystical and they get lost, but this is so simple and it's so clear. What is the Holy Spirit doing in our world today? He is testifying for Christ. We use the word witness. Take the word witness out, put the word testify. He's testifying for what he sees, hears, and knows. He comes to testify about Christ. He will testify. Testify is the verb martureo. We get our word martyr from that. To testify as to testify as if you were sitting in a courtroom. The Spirit testifies of Christ. First John chapter 5, verse 6. Listen to this verse This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. Not with the water only, but with the water and the blood, probably referring to both his baptism and to his death, blood. It is the Spirit who testifies because the Spirit is the truth. And then he goes on to say there are three that testify, those signs that were associated with Christ at his baptism and at his death, and also the Spirit of God also comes to testify. And of course, not only the Spirit testifies about Jesus. We've already read this in John, but this is a good review. The Father also testified about Christ. In fact, in John 6. 27, it says the Father set his seal on the Son of God. What does that mean? The Father approved him that he really was the Son of God. What happened to Jesus' baptism when he was coming up out of the water? The heavens were what? They were open, right? And a voice came from heaven. We know it was God the Father talking directly to God the Son because he said, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased, right? Same thing happens in the Mount of Transfiguration where Peter, James, and John are up there with them. This is my beloved son. Listen to him. Same thing happens, or very similar thing happens when Jesus enters into Jerusalem on what we call Palm Sunday and the voice comes out of the heaven. Three times God the Father testified directly from heaven without any mediation at all, with a supernatural voice. This is my son. And the Spirit also comes to testify about that as well. Not only that But the scriptures, the Old Testament scriptures, bore testimony to Christ as well. Jesus summed all of that up after the resurrection when he was trying to put some uh sense into the disciples. They were just dumbfounded by the resurrection, couldn't figure it all out, and uh remember they had a hard time believing it And Luke 24, 44, Jesus said, All things which are written about me. Jesus talking In the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. What does that mean? That every segment of the Old Testament bore witness to the Messiah. Piling up all the witnesses in favor of Jesus Christ here, are we not? And also Jesus Christ's works, his miracles also bore testimony to them. This is review, because you've heard this before. John 5. 36, Jesus said, the testimony which I have is greater than the testimony of John. He's talking about John the Baptist. For the works which the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do testify about me that the Father has sent me. You can't do the works that Jesus did without God the Father being with him. And there are a lot of people at that time that figured that out. They realized that no one can do these These uh class A supernatural miracles that you are doing unless God is with him. Nicodemus said that. You know, the blind man said, well here's a here's a interesting thing He opened my eyes, and you don't know where he's from, he debated with the Pharisees, remember? They testify of Christ In John 10, the Jews gathered around Jesus and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? They're kind of thick-headed here. If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Do you remember how Jesus answered that? He said, I told you. And you do not believe. The works that I do in my father's name, these testify of me. So all of this is testimony. As if in a courtroom to the world to know and understand he is who he said he is. Jesus Christ. He is the Son of God. By the way, another theological side note, we can have a few of these this morning. The Holy Spirit was sent into the world to testify to who? Christ, good you're tracking with me. Not to testify to himself. There are churches, there are movements, there are people that act like they've got a monopoly on the Holy Spirit. I remember as a young believer, it's like I wanted to go to one of those churches because I didn't want to miss out on anything until I figured out something wasn't right here. The Holy Spirit, where the Holy Spirit is working, when He's working most powerfully, when He's active and doing great things, the people are not talking about the Holy Spirit. They're talking about who? Christ. That's what makes the Holy Spirit happy. When Jesus was in the world, he was constantly directing attention to the Father. Pray then in this way, our Father who art in heaven. He taught them to obey the Father. He said, I always do the will of the Father. He came into the world to bring glory to the Father. He offered himself up on the cross for the Father's glory. The Spirit came into the world to glorify Christ. How do we know where the Holy Spirit is working? Listen to where people love Christ, serve Christ, give themselves for Christ. I'm not saying we don't mention the Holy Spirit, that's not the point. The point is the emphasis is on Christ. When the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ, is working in someone, It's not all about the Holy Spirit and the experiences and the feelings someone has with the Holy Spirit and the gifts that someone has with the Holy Spirit. That misses the whole point. That doesn't even make the Holy Spirit happy It comes to draw attention, worship, obedience towards Christ. And so that's how you can discern where the Spirit of Christ is really working. In fact, I'll just give you some proof of that. In Acts chapter 2, Peter is Filled with the Holy Spirit. They all are. I mean, here it is. Peter is he's like you know the spokesman apostle. There he is. And and and it's it's on Pentecost Day, and he's got all the Jews in front of him. He's full of the Holy Spirit. And what does he spend the whole time talking about? Jesus Christ as Lord exalted to the right hand of God the Father, raised from the dead. That's what the Spirit wanted them talking about. Fulfilling prophecy. If you look at Acts 3 and Acts 4, you see they're talking about Christ. Talking about Christ. They're not saying, hey, come on to our church and get baptized in the Holy Spirit. What's that? Where does that come from? You don't find that. You flip through and it's like it's not there. That's aberrant doctrine. Proper evidence of the Spirit today is not flopping over somewhere in a worship service that's got a lot of high motivational music in it. It's not calling the Holy Spirit down from heaven. Do you know he already came? We're trying to get people baptized in the Spirit. When you bring them to Christ, they are. It is devotion to Christ, focus on Christ. The rest is phony. It's ignorant enthusiasm. But the product is not from the Spirit of Christ. Okay? Second witness is that of the apostles. Verse 27. Look at that. Verse 27. And, remember, he's talking to the eleven, Judas is gone, and you will testify also. Because, what qualifies them? Because You have been with me from the beginning. These are important words, and they help to clarify how our witness fits with their witness. So we'll take a little bit of time looking at the history here. Here we see that the Spirit of God, when he comes in, is not going to do some separate testimony apart from the work of the disciples. Jesus tells them, You also will testify. Or we could actually be translated, you must testify as an imperative. And so the Spirit bears testimony of Christ through who? The apostles. The eleven apostles, later we see the 12th added. These are not independent projects. Jesus wasn't sending the Spirit, you know Go do this, and you apostles, go do that. This was a joint venture. Come together, and the Spirit's going to come upon you. That's why he told them, wait in Jerusalem. Until you get the Spirit, then you're going to go out and you're going to go witness, because the Spirit's not going to go over here and over here. He's going to come right to Jerusalem, and he's going to land right on you, and he's going to indwell you, and then your witness is his witness. You see, this is a joint venture. This is going together. Remember Acts 1. 8. You will receive power when what? The Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you shall be my witnesses. See? Holy Spirit empowered what? Witness. Their witness of what they had seen, but power empowered by the Holy Spirit. And so really all evangelism, all Whether it's local or foreign, whether we're talking about missionary work or whatever, it is to be led and empowered and driven by the Holy Spirit They would have to rely on God's Holy Spirit. That's what He's telling them. I'm not leaving you alone. It's going to be very hard, but I'm going to give you the Spirit. You should take cheer with that. I want you to take a journey through the book of Acts with me and just look at the witness of these apostles. And I want you to see that when it talks about witnessing If in your mind you have something else that comes to mind in witnessing, use the word testimony and think of a courtroom. Think of someone who's seen and heard something, and now they're going to testify about that. And you know how it is in a courtroom, when someone starts wanting to talk about something that someone else said, the judge says, Oh no, oh no, no, no, you can't talk about that. Just stick with what you saw, what you heard, what you know, and how do you know it, and explain yourself, right? Well that's what these men were called to do with the power of the Holy Spirit. We'll start in Acts 1. We already read Acts 1. 8. You will be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem. That's where it had to start because that's where the events happen that in in the closing of Christ's life, right? Let's go to Acts 2. 32. I just want to walk you through selectively some of these verses. Jesus is uh preaching uh in Acts. This is Acts two thirty-two and it's and um uh this is in uh Peter's sermon on Pentecost, and he says, This Jesus, this specific Jesus, there were other people named Jesus that day, this Jesus, God raised up again To which we are witnesses. So if you want proof, if you want to evaluate this You men of Jerusalem, you need to understand that standing behind me are the witnesses of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We are those that can tell you what we saw. You can ask us. We're witnesses, you see. Now keep going. Chapter 3, verse 15. Again, another sermon, Peter's second sermon. Starting in verse 14, he says, You disown the holy and righteous one and asked for a murderer. That was Barabbas, remember? to be granted to you, but put to death the Prince of Life, the one whom God raised from the dead, a fact to which we are, there it is again, witnesses. You see it All right, let's keep going. Chapter four, verse thirty three. Well start verse 32. And the congregation of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and not one of them claimed that anything belonging to him was his own, but all things were common property to them Verse thirty three, and with great power the apostles were giving what? Testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all There were miracles that were happening right around the apostles to also bear testimony to their testimony so the people would know that it was true. In a passage that's strikingly similar to what we read in John 15, look in Acts 5, verse 32 Because here you see the ministry of the Spirit and the ministry of the Apostles joined together. This shows that Luke's recordings here and Acts of Peter's speeches show that Peter listened to Jesus. in uh the upper room discourse because what he says here in Acts 5. 32 really echoes what Jesus is saying in our passage in John 15. 532 says, and we are witnesses of these things Talking about the events in Christ's life. And so is though, there it is, the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. And we could talk about a real believer obeys God too from that passage, but we'll leave that alone for right now, okay? What I want you to see is that they're witnessing and the Spirit is witnessing, and they go together. And Peter said that. Alright, jump ahead to chapter ten in Acts and verse forty one Again, let's start a little bit sooner. Let's start with uh verse thirty-eight. You know of Jesus of Nazareth. How God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. We are witnesses of all the things he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They also put him to death by hanging him on a cross. God raised him on the third day and granted that he become visible. Now look at verse 41. Not to all the people. In other words, God didn't want all the people to see the resurrected Jesus But to who? But to witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God. That is, to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. Then that's something. What was God's design? That they would have an eyewitness experienced testimony Not everyone would have that. Not even all the believers. Only certain men would be chosen to give this testimony, and they were the apostles. Chapter 13 And verse 31. Chapter 13 and verse 31. Again, backing up a little bit. But God raised him from the dead. And for many days he appeared to those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, the very ones who are now his witnesses to the people. There it is again. And we could go on. There's more in there. But I wanted you to see that throughout the book of Acts there is the testimony that the Holy Spirit has come. And the Holy Spirit is bearing his testimony, but he's doing it through the apostles. And now we have the record of the apostles' witness and testimony. And you see those working together. The Acts of the Holy Spirit, the Acts of the Apostles, both titles are true. They are the acts of the Spirit of Jesus working through the apostles. Now let's go back to John 15. Jesus says that what qualified these eleven men These eleven men to be his witnesses is that they had been with him from the beginning. Obviously he's not talking about the ultimate beginning as in the beginning was the word and the word was with God. Not that beginning, but the beginning of what? The beginning of what this context would talk about, the beginning of his ministry. If we would roll it back to John chapter one, I don't know how many years ago we started that. But John chapter one, you see the first disciples starting to come along and follow Jesus, and he calls them to be with them so that they can See him and be a witness. He says, just as they were handed down to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the Word. Luke's saying we got our information to write our gospel from those who were eyewitnesses. They were chosen and they had it handed down to us. And that's where our information comes from What qualifies, I gotta ask this question, what qualifies in this sense, somebody to be a witness for Jesus Christ? They had to have been with Jesus Christ from the beginning. They had to have seen his baptism, they had to have seen his miracles, they had to have heard the Sermon on the Mount, the other teachings, and to be there. The arrest, all that happened, the crucifixion probably from a distance because they were cowardly, and then the resurrection over forty days, having that fact confirmed to them Because it was even so hard for them to believe it, it had to be repeated for them over and over and over again with many convincing proofs to where they were totally convinced of it and had no doubts and were ready to go out not only preach but to die for that message. They are the true witnesses with a capital W. Beloved, I say all of this because Christianity is not a way of life Christianity is not a nice thing that we want to throw in the hat in postmodern society with everything else. Christianity is history. It's things that happened in human history. And there's a testimony that has been born from ancient times. That testimony is greater than any testimony that comes out of ancient times by far. from uh the writings we have in Scripture and even several references outside of Scripture. But the Scriptures are abundant in what they say from the first century, from the eyewitnesses, from the earliest of times With copies and translations, this religion is an historic religion. It is truthful. It is something that people can analyze, they can look at it, they can read the evidence. They can judge for themselves were these witnesses reliable and believable. And it's one of the reasons why we keep defending All the other aspects of the Bible we show that in Luke and his gospel and the book of Acts that much of what he has said can be confirmed now as if it needed confirming, but for those who are skeptics by archaeology to show that, yes, the names that he uses and the places that he describes shows that someone was very familiar with that first century Roman Greek world. And so they defended this witness and they spoke it as sober fact. It was not a legend. And this is indeed what qualified them to be an apostle. In fact, when they wanted to choose a replacement for Judas, you saw it in our scripture reading in Acts 1 22, they said it's got to we've got to begin with the baptism of John all the way up until the day Jesus was taken up from us. In other words, we want someone also to be a witness not only of his resurrection but his ascension as well. And we want him to stand with us. They put forward two men, threw the lots, trusted in God's sovereignty, and Matthias took the place of Judas As the scripture had said. By the way, Paul was not the twelfth apostle. He was an apostle to the Gentiles. He said so himself. It's interesting. In Peter's letter, what he's writing, he humbles himself rather than calling himself a great apostle, he just calls himself an elder But he says that he is a witness of the sufferings of Christ. So he was somewhere there watching that crucifixion. He was a witness of the sufferings of Christ. Okay, so by the end of the first century, what happened to all these witnesses? They died. This is what happens in life: you grow old and you die. They died. By the turn into the second century, the last apostle to live was John. He died natural causes, probably, and all of the other apostles, as far as we can understand from uh church uh tradition and history, they suffered martyrdom. They died for their belief in the resurrection. But there are none of those witnesses left starting in the year 101 and later, or even a little bit earlier than that. No one today, no one the last century, the century before that, the century before that, a millennia before us. None of us are witnesses in that sense. And that also shows what the role of those spiritual gifts were. People ask: did any of the spiritual gifts cease? Of course they did. They had to. People say, well, where's the verse that says that? Right there. You can't be an apostle. You can't have the gift of apostleship. That is a gift of the Holy Spirit, unless you were in the first century. Nobody today I know there are people that call themselves apostles. Don't believe it. They're not. There are people that call themselves apostles. When the apostles died out in the first century, that's it There is no continuation of being an apostle because there's no continuation of witnessing. There's no continuation of the testimony. It's all over with. And the miracles that happened happened around the apostles. Why? To give testimony to them as the people bearing the testimony. I'll say it again: Christianity is an historic religion. So when someone says, I don't believe any of the gifts of the Spirit ceased, they're wrong because we know the gift of apostleship had to cease. And beloved, if one gift we know for certain ceased, then nobody can say that all the gifts are operative today. They're just wrong. It's that simple. The gift of apostleship has ceased by definition. And then when you look at the purpose of the gift of miracles, and you look at the purpose of the gift of tongues, and you look at the purpose of the gift of interpretation of tongues and casting out demons, you can see that those gifts were given to accompany the historic Testimony of the apostles, and when the apostles died out, those gifts ceased. The counterfeits started, but the true gift ceased. Now you say that's just a theological opinion from a 21st century pastor. No, that's what the second century and third century Christians said. They didn't have those gifts in their churches. They ceased They can't produce them. They didn't drum them up. They didn't give a little list of six ways in which you can speak in tongues or do this or that. It's either given by God or it wasn't given by God. And they knew it had ceased. And they knew why it had ceased. They understood the testimony In fact, in Hebrews chapter 2, I think it gives pretty clear connection between those gifts and the testimony of the apostles. In Hebrews 2 Verses 3 and 4, it says, after the gospel was at the first spoken through the Lord, that's referring to Jesus' preaching ministry, it was confirmed to us by those who heard. You see? Testimony, eyewitness. God also testifying with them. That is the ones who heard, the apostles Both by signs and wonders, and by various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to His own will. What's that saying? The spiritual gifts in that category, those miracles, were given to testify to them as they gave testimony to Christ. It's historic, it's over. If it were here today, that would mean there's a new history that is being added to the Christian faith that needs additional testimony, and that just can't be. The attesting signs to the apostles had to cease, for their purpose ceased when the apostles died and served their purpose and moved on. Now, you might say, well what's left for us to do if we're not witnesses in that sense, if we can't bear a testimony like that, what really is our rule? Well here's where we get to application, and I want to just talk to you and just challenge your heart and my heart as well at this time because there still is a role for the church today. Of course there is. We the church continue Giving, providing to the world the witness and testimony of the apostles When we go out to witness, we're not going and talking about the fact that we've died, gone to heaven, and seen something, or that we're two thousand years old and we saw the crucifixion and we saw the resurrection. That's not what it's about What we're saying is that there's a testimony of the apostles sealed in blood. And it's here. And it's accurate. So we need to learn how to defend our the accuracy of our New Testament scriptures, at least, right? When we go out, we're taking their testimony and we're bearing that to others and saying, this is the testimony of those who saw and heard. Of what Jesus Christ said, of what Jesus Christ did, of how he was crucified, of how he was raised from the dead. And we call on people today to believe. We call this witnessing And that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But we didn't actually witness it. They witnessed it. What we're doing is we're passing on that testimony. We could certainly talk about our own testimony. We could talk about how God has worked in our life. We could pass on that testimony. That's something that we have uh private knowledge of because we've lived it and people love to listen to a testimony. But if we just talk about our testimony, beloved, we're not evangelizing because we have to give their testimony because theirs is the true testimony, you see We have to make sure we understand the history, we understand the gospel, we understand what happened, and we can defend that, and then we pass that on to others and we give that witness. That's what evangelizing is And I would say thus by way of encouragement, and I'll just give you a few exhortations here. First, we need to know the Holy Spirit is also with us as a witness. He's not going to do the miracles around us, he doesn't need to. He already did that and established Christianity historically. But he will provide us his guidance. He will provide us his encouragement He will provide us uh understanding of what to say, recall of Bible verses that we've memorized, uh insight about how to speak to a certain person to get the gospel across So when you're out there and you're feeling alone and you're like, I know I should witness, but I'm so afraid, pray to God and thank him. The Spirit of God is with you. And ask him to use the Spirit of God to help you to witness in that situation, right? We learn later it says the Spirit comes to convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. And you may be sitting there and looking at this person and thinking, how am I ever going to convince them they're a sinner? You have the Spirit of God with you. Pray. It may not happen in that first conversation, but you speak the word anyways. You live right in front of them. Don't nullify your testimony by living sinfully in front of them. Live right in front of them. Give your testimony and pray that God will bring conviction. I think that gives us courage because we know we're never alone. Secondly, this is for everyone to witness for Christ, new believers and old believers. You know, sometimes new believers feel, uh, I don't know enough to witness. Get busy. Saying what you know. You know more than other people know, so get busy talking about what you do know. And older older believers have a harder time. They maybe started out uh really zealous and witnessed to a lot of people and they got turned down a lot and they got discouraged. And now they just don't feel like trying all that much at it anymore. And you need to get encouraged. You need to realize it's for the new and for the old. We all need to be witnessing and knowing and knowing uh our scriptures better We're not exempt, not one of us is exempt from witnessing from what the scriptures teach to others. You have to, by the way, not only identify yourself as a Christian to others, you need to make it clear what it is that you believe. There's no such thing as a silent witness. You need to speak up, and if you just call yourself Christian in some general way, that doesn't really identify you with the gospel that is here. You've got to make it clear what that gospel is that you believe It's difficult to have a conversation with anyone in the world, really, without you being able to highlight some of the differences. When we ask and pray for opportunities, I would think just about every conversation that we have Or even every potential conversation is an opportunity. I think the problem isn't that we don't have opportunities. I think the problem has more to do with our heart not taking advantage of the opportunities that are there every single day for us I can't think of any subject that we can begin talking about to any depth that I don't immediately find some disagreement I have with an unbeliever. And the same should be true for you. You look at all of life differently. As it says in 2 Corinthians, what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever? Really nothing of import. And so there's much to talk about. They talk about the weather, you start praising God for the weather. It brings up differences and that can either lead to them running, that can lead to you talking. I know you have to use wisdom in this. But I'm just saying that in just any kind of a conversation, whatever the topic is, works, sports, it doesn't matter, God fits into your life, you fit into the conversation, and lead right into the testimony about Christ if they're willing to listen. If they're not, you prayed and you tried By the way, I heard one of the local Christian radio stations give a so-called gospel this past week. I was kind of curious listening in. And it was all about how if you're lonely out there and your life isn't what you wish it had been and your dreams haven't been fulfilled, just come to Jesus and He'll give you peace and make you happy and all of that. And I'm thinking is is Jesus some kind of a cosmic counselor? I thought he was the Savior who was crucified on a cross. Give the people the gospel. Mention the cross. Mention the resurrection. Don't talk about it. Jesus makes your life feel better. That's not the gospel. Make sure you talk to them about if they won't listen, they won't listen, but don't change the gospel so they'll listen to you and like your message And that leads to the third point. It must always be about Jesus. We're not there to talk about politics and win people to our side of the aisle. We're not there to talk about our good deeds and all the nice charitable events that we happen to go to. When you talk about the fact that you went to church on Sunday, that's not a witness. You've got to bring up the gospel. It's not about counseling. It's not getting people psychologically adjusted. It's not about meeting people's felt needs. It's about the cross. It's about the gospel. These things only get false professions of faith and give false security Also, it must be done with Christian character. In 1 Peter 3. 15, it says we need to do it with gentleness and with respect. Fifth, we must make an appeal. And an invitation, invite them, urge them to respond. In Revelation 22, 17, it brings together the church and the Holy Spirit, the witness of the apostles and the Spirit again. In Revelation 22, 17 it says, the Spirit and the Bride, that's the church. Say, come. And let the one who hears say, Come. And let the one who is thirsty come. Let the one who wishes take the water of life without cost. That's an invitation. We can give that. When sinners repent in heaven, what do they do up there? They rejoice, right? Luke 15. Don't feel that the way in which you do evangelism has to be exactly the same way that someone else does it. Some are gonna knock on doors, some are gonna work their way into people's hearts by helping the poor. Some are going to bring it up more casually in a conversation at work. You can find in your personality and your giftedness there's 101 ways to bring the good news to the heart of an unbeliever. You find that way. You don't need to be discouraged if you don't like that way or that doesn't fit or this isn't in your schedule Find a way. And by the way, if I could just make this appeal, we need folks in the area of evangelism to become leaders. You saw Brother Rod up here and he's appealing for these evangelism weeks that we're going to have and he's taking leadership. He's already doing leadership and missions Now he's doing leadership in local evangelism, which I know they're the same, but still it's a lot of extra work. We could use other people that are willing to organize strategic ministries to help us in our local evangelism. There are ministries that target the poor that we can get to, that can use counseling to reach the lost. There are many, many that we can do. Bible studies, literature tables, we just don't have the leaders to make it happen And we're waiting for God to touch some of you to uh to stand up and come forward and begin to help us organize those things because they take a lot of time and a lot of prayer. And then of course we need to learn to have global vision in our evangelism, and we'll be getting into that next Lord's day. And then the last point is when we witness, we need to expect that there's going to be division and there's going to be uh folks that Just like us and we'll get into that the next time we're back in John. Let me pray now and get our hearts ready for uh the Lord's Supper and then uh Doug will come and lead us in a hymn. Father, thank you just for this word of exhortation, this reminder of our witness, passing on the witness of the apostles. And empowered by your Spirit, we do pray that you'd speak to our hearts and not give us opportunities, Lord, but help us to open our eyes and see the opportunities you've already laid before us. Give us a heart to get out of our shell, to get out there and to uh bring the testimony from the New Testament to their hearts. And we pray, Lord, you would encourage the hearts of our church and of BBC as we do evangelism this next year that you would Help us to see some who are converted, Lord, and just rejoice our hearts as the angels are rejoicing in heaven as well. Amen.