As we stand at the threshold of the year 2007, year in which, by the way, we will celebrate, Lord willing, our tenth anniversary as a church. There are two issues looming quite large for us. The first is continuing to grow our leadership. And the second is to obtain a useful facility. Both strong spiritual leadership supported by a seven-day-a-week facility will do a lot for the future of our church. It will improve the depth and breadth Of our ability to teach the Word of God to the people in our community. It will strengthen the very community church life, having a facility, coming together various times during the week. It will improve the quality of our ministries and those trying to improve those ministries. Give them encouragement, I think. And likely it will even impact the size of our church as well as we minister and have a greater impact to more people. So it is certainly by design, I think you all know That as we enter here into the new year, I am choosing to launch two sets of messages here for us. The first set of messages on the topic of spiritual leadership in And from 1 Corinthians, the second following it will be on stewardship from 2 Corinthians as we just take a little break from 1 Corinthians and go there. And I'm trying to start this last Sunday of 2006 just to give us a little bit of a running head start because it's so important for us. Many of you may not realize this, but this May marks our seven-year anniversary for our leadership training program here at Hope Bible Church. From before really the start of the church, the Lord laid on my heart the importance of not just preaching and teaching, but singling out some for leadership and training them. See, from my past, both positive examples and negative church models, I knew that the future health and maturity and ministry of any church depends on hardworking godly leaders who have godly homes and are dedicated to their homes, who not only know sound doctrine and have affirmed that they believe in that sound doctrine, but understand the meaning of that doctrine and how it fleshes itself out into the philosophy of ministry in the strategy of a church Over the years, I've worked to make some improvements in our training program. We've also expanded our training as well. We now have a basic leadership training class, as I mentioned in our prayers Following the completion of that class, we have now a new track system to specialize the greater amount of training that all leaders need, I believe. We try to avail ourselves of materials and conferences outside of the church as well, the Shepherd's Conference this year. This year we have 15 men who have signed up to go to the Shepherd's Conference in Los Angeles. That's just amazing for the size of congregation we have. Men who understand the importance of being trained We use the Shepherd's website that has many resources on it. The Master's Seminary puts out DVDs of some of their courses, and we've got a couple started on that Biblical counseling certification through the Nank people. That's the National Association of Nuphetic Counselors, which is really the solid biblical counseling. Various books that you get for free when you join up to leadership training, CDs to listen to all kinds of homework we dish out. We try to Use the materials of like-minded organizations as well, like the IFCA of which we belong. I know that the future of our church depends on our leadership. Our leadership has to be well taught Well trained, and yes, well tested. I believe also that there is value for all of you sitting in here, probably wondering why and what this would have to do with you at all, but I believe there is value in every single person in our congregation being taught about spiritual leadership Not that leadership is for everyone. Alan and I certainly don't want everyone to become a leader. Indeed, the Spirit of God doesn't want it that way, for He hasn't gifted everyone in that way There is obviously much supportive and helpful and I would say even crucial ministry that is needed in the body of Christ that is not done in the realm of leadership. And we thank God for every person wherever they're serving in their faithfulness. Paul says later in this letter, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 17, if the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? And he gets his point across. We can't all be doing the same things, and God hasn't designed us to do the same thing. There are different gifts and different callings for different people in God's church. But still, there is value for all of you in one way or another to learn about spiritual leadership. Why do I say that? Well, some of you I think by listening to Scripture's teaching about leadership will be able to make up your own minds about what God is preparing you for and is doing in your life. And I'm saying this to everybody because I don't know how the Spirit of God is going to work in your life. God is building his kingdom and he's growing his church and he calls up leaders. He raises them up. And some of you who are not yet leaders, I am convinced God will raise up. The New Year is not such a bad time to be thinking about such things, also, don't you think? Does God want you in leadership? If he does, then what kind of leadership would he want you? And to what end? Do I dare say that there are some of you who are asleep to your calling, sitting on your gifts, so to say? You need to be awakened by this series on leadership. Others of you I think will just glean principles about leading people spiritually in a general way, in the variety of ways in which you influence other people. Do you ever try to lead someone to Christ? Well then you are a spiritual leader in that sense. Do you have any young ones in the church that you have decided to teach in your class? You need to know more about spiritual leadership. You men certainly are commanded of God to lead in your homes, and so there are principles you need to understand and put into practice within your home in spiritual leadership. And as you try to disciple any young believers at all who come in here, whether you're leading a small group or just informally getting to know them, putting some time and energy into them, you also are a spiritual leader. So in an informal sense, anybody who's helping anyone else along in their faith is a spiritual leader. And so all of us, I think, at one time or another will fall into that category. And these lessons will also benefit you. Also, I think all of us by studying spiritual leadership come to understand our leaders better. Since you've come here from various backgrounds, I know many of you have come from a wide variety of church backgrounds with different kinds of leadership and leaders good things that they did, maybe bad things they did in some cases, then you have different expectations about what you expect from the leaders of Hope Bible Church. And I think a fresh vision of leadership seen through the lens of Holy Scripture will sharpen and clarify for you what leadership in the local church is really all about. So I intend not to be exhaustive. I don't know how I could be exhaustive. There's far too much in Scripture about leadership, and there's much that we must leave out of this series, but I do intend to be fairly in-depth about it over a three-part series. So if you would go ahead now and open your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. We're starting up again with verse 5 and we'll go. Down through verse 15. Verses 5 through 15. We'll use this to extract lessons about spiritual leadership. If you are already in leadership or in training in leadership, Consider this required listening, this whole three-part series. The text, again, 1 Corinthians 3, verses 5 through 15. Whether it's getting drier, it's getting in my voice a little, excuse me. Let's read this, interpret it, and apply it. Paul writes, What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Servants through whom you believe, even as the Lord gave opportunity to each. I planted, Apollos watered, but God was causing the growth So then neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but God who causes the growth. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building. According to the grace of God, which was given to me like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it. For no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident For the day will show it because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built on it remains He will receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire. Now, this whole passage has one basic aim, and that is to exalt the importance of God in spiritual ministry and to lower the importance of human workers in the realm of spiritual work. That really is the thrust of this portion of God's word. God and the Lord Jesus Christ are the real leaders of the church. They are vital to spiritual ministry. They are the power in spiritual ministry. Human workers are used by God for sure. They are also accountable to God for the work that they do, so they must do work God's way, but in comparison to God, they're really of much less importance. So we ought never to exaggerate the importance or value of human leaders, but rather within the church learn to rely wholeheartedly on God and His work and His power. So there it is. That's the basic message from the beginning. If you understand that overarching point right here and you're thinking about being a leader, or you are a leader, there should be a sense within you of relief. It really doesn't have too much to do with me. The pressure and the load as a leader, a spiritual leader, is not ultimately on me, but it is on God. We really are nothing And God is everything, so let's not get too enamored with ourselves and let's not get too discouraged when we don't do all that well either. God is the main attraction God is God, He is in the heavens. We do have a part to play, but it is His show. Please remember the situation with the Corinthian church that calls forth this teaching from the Apostle Paul. Remember how they had misunderstood God's wisdom and the message of the cross of Christ back from chapters one and two. If you weren't with us during that time, you may want to reread those chapters and see how much they had misunderstood and had been worldly in their thinking. And because of that, they had unduly exalted their human leaders, and then they boasted in them. Matthew Henry, in his commentary, puts it this way. Some of the factious people in Corinth seem to have made more of them as if they were lords of their faith, authors of their religion. So, this overvaluing of human leaders had really been the source of strife and envy and contention within that church at Corinth. Look back to verses three and four just to remind us again. Picking up with that sectarian spirit there that they had. I am of Paul, and another saying, I am of Apollos, and where you see Paul calling them fleshly and walking like mere men. So Paul here corrects that misunderstanding of leadership. And he does so by borrowing from some not so special images of leadership from the realm of hard work in agriculture and construction work, not necessarily prestigious areas of work in the first century, but hard work indeed. Leaders, Paul writes, are workers, and they are workers who are accountable to God And God will reward faithful service from his leaders, but God is the one who is growing and building his own church So when our attention then is placed upon God and upon his word and upon his power and the working of his spirit among his people then we're not going to be at each other's throats. We're not going to be divisive because we're focused on God. That is really Paul's aim, I believe, in this passage, particularly the first few verses of the passage to get all of his readers, all of the Christians there focused on God-centered and God-driven and God-focused and God-accountable kind of ministry, spiritual ministry. Now to accomplish that, the passage really unfolds, I think, several lessons about spiritual leadership, and that will be our focus as we work through this week by week. Several lessons. I'm not even sure how many I'm going to pull out of here. We have four for today. Lesson number one. A spiritual leader is, that's how we'll start each one. A spiritual leader is, and look at the beginning of verse 5 there. Where he asks, what then is Apollos and what is Paul? What's the next word there? Servants. And that's our first point. A spiritual leader is a servant. A spiritual leader is a servant. You Corinthians are getting all excited about human leaders and pinning your identity on their greatness, and then competing with each other as to which prestigious preacher you were going to follow And then you pin that metal to your chest and walk around and parade it. But I want to ask you, Corinthians, what are those preachers anyway? What are they? By the way, if you have the King James or New King James, the question is not who are they, but actually it is what? And the order is first Apollos and then Paul What is Apollos then is what Paul says. What is Paul? Apollos with his zeal for Christ and his eloquence of speech, being mighty in the scriptures, what is he? And what is Paul with all the churches he's planting throughout? the Roman world, the sermons he has preached, the persecution he has endured. Are we kings? Are we gods who came down from the heavens that you would bow before us and worship us? Are we the source of life and spiritual blessing? I don't think so. Think about that, Corinthians. What are our leaders in God's church anyway? Really? Not that much. Just servants. You know what that word is? It's diakinoid. We get our word deacon from it, but it really was not a prestigious word. It just means a medial worker, a servant, someone who was waiting on tables was the origin of it. It's used in John chapter 2 verse 5 when Mary was talking to the servants at the wedding of Cana, where she turns to the servants and says, Whatever Jesus says to do, do it. That's what servants did. They just stood by and when it's time to do something, tell them to do it and they'll do it. That's what they are. They're servants of the house or out in the field They wait on tables. They're bus boys. And that's it. Servants are just workers. We're supposed to do what they are told. Nothing fancy there. What did servants do in the first century Greek culture? Well many servants were slaves. Probably most of the servants were slaves. It's estimated, by the way, that about a third of the Corinthian population were slaved. But even if some of them were free, it wasn't exactly what you would call high society to be a servant. Servants in the world had numerous kinds of responsibilities. They'd work around the house, they'd work out in the fields, they might help in the family business with their labor. The term clearly indicated someone who was subservient in position to someone else and took orders from them Servants were not the masters. Servants just did what tasks were allotted to them by their master. The servant had no authority in themselves, only the word of the master that they passed on to other servants had had any weight at all Jesus, by the way, explained all of this. He said, servants, when they work hard for their masters, the master is not indebted to them, are they? Listen to Luke 17, 17 Which of you, having a slave ploughing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, Come immediately and sit down to eat? But will he not say to him, Prepare something for me to eat? And properly clothe yourself and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you may eat and drink. He does not thank the slave because he did the things which were commanded, does he? So you too, when you do all the things which are commanded you, simply say, We are unworthy slaves We have done only that which we ought to have done. That's what Jesus said. That's the picture of a slave and a servant. That's our obligation. That is honor. This is what a church leader is, Paul says. And that is how a spiritual leader should view his or her own self. I want you to turn forward to chapter 4, 1 Corinthians, verses 1 and 2. You'll see this again. He says in chapter 4 at the beginning there, let a man regard us in this manner as, here it is, servants of Christ. That's what other people think of us. Just as servants of Christ, that's all he wants, and stewards of the mysteries of God. In this case, moreover, it is required of stewards that one be found trustworthy See, that's all it is about. I'm a servant. I want to be known as a servant of Jesus Christ, Paul says. And what's required of me? Well, there's a stewardship put into my hands, and I'm supposed to be faithful with that Isn't that what Jesus taught about leadership when he said in Matthew 20, verse 26, Whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your what? Servant, right? You want to be great in God's kingdom? Be the servant of all, our song said. Paul writes to Timothy even, who was an important teacher at the church at Ephesus, a pastor. In 1 Timothy 4 and verse 6, he says, in pointing out these things, the things he was writing in the letter to the brethren, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, constantly nourished on the words of the faith and of the sound doctrine which you have been following. So here was Timothy a pastor, and he was nourishing himself on the words of faith, and then he was supposed to point out all of those truths and doctrines to the people, and if he did that, Paul said, You'll be a good servant of Christ Jesus. In the book Biblical Eldership by Stroud, he writes this. As a humble servant, Paul avoided self-promotion and self-exaltation He always promoted Christ, never himself, quote, for we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord and ourselves as your bondservants for Jesus' sake. End quote 2 Corinthians 4. 5 Over and over again, the scriptures speak of leaders, godly leaders, spiritual leaders, church leaders, as laboring servants. The Corinthians were boasting in their associations with leaders. They were rallying around them. But Paul takes their elevation of these leaders and brings all of that down to the status of servant. And frankly, to the proud in the Corinthian church, this would have been a little embarrassing for them. This would have hurt their pride, maybe even offensive to some of them. Because you see the Greek ideal of a leader was said by Christ back in Mark 1042 where he said the Gentile leaders lorded over them. That's what they did. This was my position This is my power, this is my area, you do this and you do that. And that's how leadership was in the unbelieving world, and frankly still is MacArthur, I think, summarizes this passage well. Paul was saying, in effect, no one builds a movement around a waiter or busboy or erects monuments to them. Apollos and I are just waiters or busboys whom the Lord used as servants to bring you food. You do not please us by trying to honor us. Your honor, your glory is misplaced. You're acting like the world, like mere men. Build your monuments. Give your praise to the one who prepared the spiritual food we delivered We just deliver it. Praise the cook. The cook is the one who put it all in scripture and the words of life there. Praise him. Now with each one of these lessons I want to take time to apply. So let's apply this important lesson to our situation. You know the Puritans when they did their sermons always had uses at the end of their sermons or often did that. We're going to kind of follow that model for this series. Just some uses for us, some applications. First of all, the test of whether someone is going to be a good leader in the church of God is whether or not he is willing to what? To serve, and that takes a lot of humility. It takes humility. God is not looking for the naturally gifted person in the world whom other people in the world said, look how well he did in his business. Whoa, that guy's a natural athlete. They come on in here and we think, oh, he should be a leader in the church. No, probably not. Probably got too much or she's got too much in herself to be any kind of a leader in the church of God. God is looking for the opposite of what people look for. You know, we're looking for the tallest, God's looking for the shortest, you know. We're looking for the smartest. God doesn't need the smartest. He's He's got his own brilliant mind to work with, right? So God is just looking for people that are humble. He's searching for them, and church leaders who are trying to build a church as Alan and I are also searching in the same way. Who's humble? Who's a servant? Who's willing to stoop over and serve other people? Who's the first to show up without complaint to do the work for someone else? Look around, find those people. Those are servants They make good leaders. They get their hands dirty. They're not the kind of people, by the way, that sit around in church, you know, and they notice this isn't getting done. You know, that wasn't done real well. And you can see they're just starting to complain because of course they could do it better, but what are they doing? Right? They're just complaining and criticizing and sitting around and letting other people serve them rather than getting up and serving first. No, real servants give up their own interests for their brothers. They count them as their brothers and they serve. Really the motto should be this no service, no leadership. Just that simple The second application or use of this, I think, is that a humble servant-like attitude means that a leader is going to be a teachable person. A teachable person. Good leaders want to learn. Why? So they'll be good leaders, right? If they're not learning, if they're not growing, if they're not gaining more understanding about things, even as they get older, it doesn't matter, still learning, still bringing things into their mind and heart, practicing new things, then they're not going to be a very effective leader in God's church I think a good leader actually looks forward to training, doesn't complain about training when assignments are given to them. They want to grow and they want to learn They're willing to be held accountable for their service for others as well. They don't want to squander their opportunity, so they don't mind the accountability You know, we have had a couple of men in this church and at least one woman who frankly thought it was a rite of passage to become a leader in this church. And when they were not granted that opportunity, they left rather upset. That's okay with me. It really doesn't bother me. Because see if someone has that kind of an attitude, God not going to use them much anyways. God's not going to bear a lot of fruit through that. In contrast, we've had a number of people come and some of them are sitting right here. They've been elders in other churches, youth pastors, deacons, other kinds of leaders helping out with women's ministries, and when they came here They weren't put in leadership right away. They were put into training and they received that training. They accepted that. They were humble and they learned and they grew from that. And I thank God for them. It's neat to see that Also here at our church they're learning a a bit of a different philosophy of ministry probably for most of their churches, something that they didn't experience when they were a leader before, and they're they're understanding more and more about that. I think Alan would agree with me that previous experience experience is much less important to us than personal character. Well, third Another use is that pride and leadership is harmful to the sheep. Pride and leadership is harmful to the church Pastors who do lord their position over others hurt the sheep. They don't help the sheep. And that is inexcusable. Pride results in leaders mouthing things like, hey, I've done enough for that church. Or hey, let someone else do that. Or, hey, that's good enough. They want a better job done, they should recognize me more. Humble servants just serve well in whatever they do. They're looking to their Lord for reward. A fourth use I would add is just that from an emotional point of view as a leader, isn't it far better, leaders, to think of yourselves this way? If you start thinking of yourself as too important Well, you're gonna find out eventually you're not all that important. I think it's best as a spiritual leader to maintain a servant and low view of yourself Frankly, if you would like to have some status, if you're interested in gaining acclaim, if you want privileges and you would desire the spotlight, let me tell you church leadership and caring for souls is not for you It just isn't. Keep your resume to yourself. Your ego will not be satisfied in this line of work. Paul probably knew that better than anyone. You're probably not going to get interviewed on television. I know you won't get your face on a Wheaties box. You will not be ooed and awed over entertainment tonight. You will not receive a Congressional Medal of Honor Because the world and even many church people simply do not understand nor value spiritual leadership. So if your self-concept is that of a servant, as Paul's clearly was, emotionally you'll be just fine Everything will go just the way it's supposed to go. You have a service to do, there's a service to do. That's one thought that keeps me humble as I continue to minister in this church. Well next Paul gives a general responsibility for how the master uses all of his servants. And it's still in verse 5. The second lesson then for us leaving past the uses. The second lesson is that a spiritual leader is, and look in the middle of verse 5 there, servants through whom you believed. Now I know we're not going very fast through this passage today, but there are a lot of principles in here I want to take our time with. Through whom shows agency. So a spiritual leader is a servant furthering faith. A servant who is furthering the faith of others. That preposition dia used in the genitive case there in the Greek, it means through, the agency of. They were servants of God through whom the Corinthians came to faith, that is faith in Christ, saving faith. These leaders were not the source or even the base or the ground of the faith. No, rather Christ and his work is the foundation of faith. Notice that down in verse 11, if you just glance ahead it says Christ is the foundation and no other can be laid in spiritual work. Nor were these leaders the object of the faith. That's why earlier Paul said, You were not baptized in my name, were you? Christ, Paul was not crucified for you, was he? As he said back in chapter 1, verse 13. Nevertheless, God is sovereign and God chooses to use human instruments. He chooses to work through normal and ordinary people to do great things. Spiritual leaders then are used by God to lead people to put their full trust in Jesus Christ Spiritual leaders lead other people to understand and come to the blessedness of repentance. To many people in the world, repentance seems like a bad word, but it's through repentance that someone receives all the blessings of heaven And spiritual leaders try to help them to understand that. Spiritual leaders are interested in discipling others to grow in faith. Spiritual leaders nourish others on the words of faith Spiritual leaders pray for others to develop greater faith. Spiritual leaders guard the church from poor influences to their faith. The Puritan Thomas Watson wrote in the Godly Man's Picture these words. Where there is the fire of grace in the heart, it will endeavor to inflame others. Yes it will. That's what will happen in your heart as you have a fervency for Christ and He becomes important and the things of this world do fade away as the song says And you burn with a flame, then you will become an influence to other people. That's what spiritual leaders are. They further faith and obedience in Christ. And if leaders are not furthering faith in Christ and the scriptures, they're not leaders. They're not spiritual leaders. I remember once sitting on an elder selection committee at another church and someone was brought up for consideration to become an elder. I remember asking, well, who has he been discipling the past couple of years? Who's he been bringing to church? Who's he been witnessing to? What ministry has he been putting his time into? What course or Bible study is he teaching? And no one could think of any. And they all knew him well. But they still wanted them to be an elder. Why? Well, I've been an elder before When people come into spiritual leadership, and they're not really spiritual leaders, but they have the position of that in the church, that just harms the church Spiritual leaders have to be spiritual leaders. That's why they're called spiritual leaders. They're leading spiritually. They're helping other people to grow in faith. God is using them to further the faith of other people. Do you see that? Such processes that churches go through place tons of people, I'm afraid, in leadership that are not God's men nor God's choice for furthering faith Well, a couple of applications here, I think three maybe come to mind. First, spiritual leaders must be involved in discipling others, disciple building. If you're a spiritual leader, you want to be a spiritual leader, you're thinking about it, you should always be putting someone something in someone's hands. Put a book in their hands, say, read this, this will bless you. Put a CD in their hands, say, listen to this. This will help your faith out. You know, you're inviting people to come, listen to sermons. You want them to get a class. You're taking them back to class, convincing them they need to be in a Bible study. You're talking to them of the things that you've been learning in your own quiet times before the Lord You're discipling others. I think second also another use is that a spiritual leader should be involved in evangelism. In evangelism In 2 Timothy 4. 5, Paul said to a pastor, but you be sober in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. Everyone involved in spiritual leadership should be involved in evangelism. Every spiritual leader. Doesn't matter if you're a deacon or an elder. It doesn't matter if you're a women leader, it doesn't matter a small group leader, you should have your heart on evangelizing and witnessing to other people. You shouldn't say, Well, I'm not an evangelist, I'll leave that up to the evangelists in the church. No Evangelism should be part of your ministry. Think about becoming a VP and using that situation to that ministry position to meet new people in the church and to share your faith with them. You should be thinking about the opportunities that are given to you. to lead others to Christ. A third use I think is that spiritual leadership must begin in the home. Spiritual leadership must begin in the home, men. How diligent are you in thoroughly instructing your children in the Christian faith? Do you open the Word of God? Do you review the sermons? Are you furthering faith among your own children? Be gentle, yes, but persistent in evangelism in your own home. Lead the little ones to Christ. He who does not have The love and respect of his own wife and children should never be a leader in God's church. Why not? We'll listen to the words of 1 Timothy 3. 5. If a man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the church of God? A man has an area of leadership. It is his home. What is he doing in that area of leadership? Until he's leading spiritually there, he can't lead anything in the church, frankly. And sometimes men just want to skip that. Well, there's a third principle here, a third lesson. I think it's more subtle. Most of the commentaries missed it, but it's there at the very end of verse 5. Third lesson, a spiritual leader is a minister appointed by God. A minister appointed by God By God. Notice he says, we are servants through whom you believe, even as the Lord gave opportunity to each one. Now a couple of notes for you here. The word opportunity is not actually in the Greek, but the verb gave didomi is. It's an heiress verb. It shows that God gave something to them in the past, and in the context, this giving is a task or assignment or a ministry that God is giving to those who are his servants. Notice just quickly again down in verse 10, where Paul says, according to the grace of God which was given to me, and then he goes on to talk about what he did in ministry. This is their area of service. He's not talking about giving the Corinthians faith, but giving an area of service, an area of ministry that is given by God. Paul here, for example, is acknowledging that God gave Apollos a ministry, even though Apollos at this time was not traveling around with Paul. He wasn't part of Paul's team. Nevertheless, Paul was there, he was working. I mean Apollos was there and working. He didn't have anything to do with Paul. Paul didn't win him to the faith, but there Apollos was working, and Paul recognized that and said, Look at all the fruit that God is doing through him. God must have given this man a ministry. See And Paul knew that. I mean, he even writes in 1 Corinthians 9:17, for if I do this voluntarily, he's talking about his ministry I have a reward, but if against my will I have a stewardship entrusted to me. And he wasn't saying he didn't want to do it, he's just saying that this was something he was commanded to do. It was a stewardship entrusted to him It's something that God gave to Paul, and he didn't give it to anyone else. Paul was the apostle to the Gentiles. God selected Paul and said, This is going to be your ministry. I'm giving that to you. And you are to be doing that. That is your area of responsibility. And this is how he viewed his ministry. It was assigned. He was obligated. In Ephesians 3:2, he says, If indeed you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace which was given to me for you, talking to the Gentiles. This was given to me for your benefit, he said. But still he knew it was given. Concerning Jesus and John the Baptist in the Gospel of John, chapter 3, verses 26 and 27. It says this. They came to John, that's his disciples. They came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan, that refers to Jesus To whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing, and all are coming to him. John, you're losing all your disciples. There's a problem, they're all going over there over to that other guy, to Jesus. And then John the Baptist answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given him from heaven. Do you hear that? It was given to Christ. This was his time, it was his ministry, and it was given by God. Ministry and all of the fruit that comes from it is really a work of God that He is going to do through a select-choice person that He has chosen for His own glory. It is granted and it is given by God. And I believe this is true for everyone, not just the Pauls and the Apollosis and Jesus and John the Baptist. Listen to Romans 12 and verse 3 Paul writes, For through the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to have sound judgment as listen as God Has allotted to each a measure of faith. Now, that measure of faith in that context is gifting, spiritual gifts, and the faith with which to use it. Again, 1 Corinthians 12 says the same, verses 4 through 6. Now there are a variety of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are a variety of ministries and the same Lord. There are varieties of effects, but the same God who works all things in all persons, you see. God chooses you and he gives you a ministry and he hands that over to you. Sometimes that's in the area of leadership, and sometimes it's not Ephesians 2. 12. We are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Listen, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. What we're doing is not by coincidence And that is why churches in the area of leadership try hard to identify who has God gifted And matured and raised up and brought to us at this time that we would recognize who they are and then appoint them into leadership because they are God's man, you see? God's men. Titus 1. 5, Paul says to Titus, I left you in Crete, that was an island in the Mediterranean, that you would set in order what remains and a point Elders in every city as I directed you. Every city, every church was to have a plurality of elders. And he was to pick them and appoint them. Acts 14, 23, they had appointed elders for them in every church. That's in the Galatian region The elders, the church leaders, had to be identified and appointed. Now let's go to some uses again, some application. First. Each leader ought to be diligently asking God to make clearer their role in helping The church, the kingdom of God. Every leader ought to be asking God to continue to refine and define what it is that God is doing in his life. I think one must seek to know what one is called to, and then yield one's heart to that, and receive the joy of ministry in the area that God has given. I remember when we tried to bring another master's graduate into this church in the second year of our church plant, he and I both thought it would be a good idea. We even lobbied for it, but it came Very clear to me shortly after we brought him on here that he was not called to this particular ministry. And it only delayed where the Lord was wanting to take him and the ministry that God was wanting to give him. And it kind of also got in the way of the ministry here in this church. Everyone should try to understand from God how they've been gifted, where God could use them, what God has laid before them to understand. in what capacity they are to be in leadership and where. I think that's very important. And that leads to a second use, and that is that I believe there is a call to the full-time preaching ministry of the Word of God. There is a call by God on some to become full-time preachers of His Word. That shouldn't be surprising since God is providentially in control of all things. I think that there is a necessary gifting by God to proclaim his word that God imparts only to some men. And along with the gifting that God gives to them, God also adds an inner sense of desire, of compulsion, really, that one must preach, that he has no choice but to preach. Deep within him, he senses the need to be teaching the Word of God full time. And I think also along with that sense of on the inside of a desire to preach, a necessary gifting, there also is growing faith. and necessary Christian character that makes a man qualified for full-time pastoral ministry. Those qualifications are given in the qualifications for elders. in 1 Timothy chapter 3 at the beginning of that chapter and Titus chapter 1 makes it very clear. Also along with that I believe that God gives confirmation by giving fruit in ministry. Many through the years have doubted that the scriptures teach that there is a definite call to the preaching ministry. To many it seems to be too subjective or too exclusive or both. But to those of us who have received that call to the preaching ministry, and when we speak to each other about it, we never doubt it. The scripture gives multiple principles, including his providential hand at work, which when you put those principles together make it very clear that God grants ministries to some. And one of those kinds of ministries that he grants is the proclamation of God's were Jim George in his chapter on the call to the ministry in rediscovering the pastoral ministry, that part of the trilogy of the Master's Seminary, gives this acronym, which I think is as good as any that I've read concerning the call. If you just want a quick rundown of it C-A-L-L call. The C is for confirmation. One receives confirmation from God and from others. Also, A ability. He has ability to instruct and to teach and to refute. uh false doctrine and to build up in solid doctrine as Titus one demands. He has El longing, a longing, that inner drive that won't go away, the aspiring to the work of the overseer, 1 Timothy 3. 1 talks about That compulsion inside the Apostle Paul speaks about. And the second L lifestyle. All of those family and personal character qualities in abundance that Paul stresses in that passage. Many a man has ascended into the pulpit for a lifetime of service to God, but God had not called them to the pulpit to preach, and it was evident to quite a number of people, other than themselves. I don't believe anyone should be involved in the ongoing ministry of preaching and proclaiming the Word of God who is not called by God to that ministry. Many may want it, many may feel they're qualified, God calls only some. It can do more damage and has done more damage to the body of Christ rather than good. At the Master's Seminary they constantly drilled within our minds We were told over and over, if you believe that you can have a career doing anything else in this world besides preaching the Word of God, go find it and go do it. And give this up right now They were constantly trying to empty their chapel out. Go do something else. If you feel you can, go do it. If this is the only thing that God has you focused on, you have no release in your spirit, then you know that God has a hold of your heart and He's called you. If you have the character and the skills. A third use here. When we and you're going to see this both with our our deacon meetings and our elder meetings here, when we have and we appoint them, when we come and we take our Hands and we lay our hands on someone and we're appointing them into leadership. I don't want anyone to misunderstand and think that there's some kind of spiritual zap that comes out of our hands Just look carefully, there's nothing there. Nothing special. We're not really appointing anyone to leadership. What we're trying the best that we can do in a prayerful attitude is to identify whom God has appointed. Do you see? And then when we put our hands on them, we're recognizing, yes, we all together putting our hands on this man recognize God's work and God's gifting in his life, and so God has chosen this man to this office in the church. And it is God's choice. We are appointing them only in the secondary sense so that before God's people all will know. We do not bestow grace. It is symbolic. Alright, we come to a fourth lesson today in our last one. A fourth, a spiritual leader is a worker. Relying on God's power. A spiritual leader is a worker relying on God's power. Look at verses 6 and 7. Yeah, we're getting to two new verses here. We're moving faster. Paul says, I planted. Well, Paul, it's watered. But God was causing the growth. So then neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but God who causes the growth. Do you hear it? Who's the more important one there? It's God. God's doing it. Yeah, we were there. Yeah, we had our part, but God is at work. God's power is at work. Paul was the one who planted. That's an aorist verb also. It was done one time. What does that refer to? Well it doesn't refer to planting a seed in the hearts of people that later they might come to Christ. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about planting the church, beginning the church Paul came to Corinth, preached the gospel, folks got saved, and the church started, and in that sense, Paul planted the church there. He got it started. And then, since he had a broader calling, he was an apostle, he left, continued on to do his work, he planted that, and then along came Apollos sometime afterward. And Paul says he was like a water, like an irrigator. Watering the crops, irrigating them. And we can read about Apollos' ministry in Acts chapter 18, verse 24, all the way to Acts 19 and verse 1. He didn't plant the church. He just irrigated the seeds that were already planted. The church was there. The church was in existence. By the way, that doesn't mean that Apollos did not evangelize. He certainly did. Clearly some came to faith through him as well, but his ministry was largely a deepening in the word there at the Corinthian church, building off the foundation the apostle Paul had laid. But the important point in all of this is not Paul and it's not Apollos, it's not the planting or the watering, but what God was doing in the meantime. Yes, the farmer goes and he plants the seed and it's in the ground and then it is watered, but really the farmer didn't give life to the seed. The farmer didn't cause anything to grow. It is all of God, even in the natural realm, is it not? In the spiritual realm, it is the same. We may be talking, we may be giving an example, we may be praying, but anything that happens in your life is happening because God is doing it and he's causing the increase. What does increase mean? It means increase not only in your faith, but also the spreading of the Word of God increasing throughout Corinth. You see, the size and growth of the church was not a bad thing It is a good thing to grow. It shows the effect of a healthy congregation witnessing, receiving the Word of God in their hearts, and then spreading that out to others. There was an increase Yes, we need to do our job. We have to get the soil right to the best of our ability, plant it in the right spot, water it, cultivate it. But the life and the growth and the fruit and the vitality all belong to God. He was causing the increase. That's an imperfect tense verb showing the continuous blessing of God in the past. He was working through Paul and he was working through Apollos. They were just servants. And there was continuous blessing on their ministry. So Paul draws a conclusion from all of this, and he uses a little special word there, the word hosta. So then. What do we conclude from the evidence already given, since this is true? Not the one planting, not the one watering. There are three participles in here. The main one is this. The one causing the increase, he's the important one That doesn't mean that we don't have an important job to do. Don't misunderstand me. Just compared to what God is doing, what we're doing is so unimportant. Every worker is equally insignificant in comparison to God, is one way to put it. We didn't invent the truth. We don't grant people faith to believe. We don't help them to grow. We don't change their hearts. Can't do any of those things. Now how do you like that? Paul is recruiting and aspiring leaders by telling them they're not all that important. Takes the pressure off again, doesn't it? But you know the scriptures constantly reinforce this point that God is the substantial worker in his kingdom. When we get to 2 Corinthians, we're going to read this. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food. will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. God gives seed and God increases harvest. When Paul was talking about all of his labors, he said, by the grace of God, I am what I am. God is work, not me. It's all of his grace. In Acts 11, verse 18, it says, When they heard this, they quieted down and glorified God, saying, Well then, God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance that leads to light. Peter had gone out and preached, but they didn't say Peter did any of it. They said God has granted repentance to the Gentile. Romans 15 and verse 8, Paul wrote, For I will not presume to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me, resulting in the obedience of the Gentiles by word indeed. All those verses and many others like us say God is the one who does it. Now again let's turn to some applications as we close. First, understand that the human element in ministry, that is the skill, the business experience, the market savvy, am I communicating to you? Well all of those things have to be played down. Isn't it interesting? So many books these days talk about how important those things are doing, and leaders are rushing off to seminars to learn about all of that And here Paul is saying all that stuff, even if God was going to use some of it, it's really not all that important. And the divine element, that is spiritual power, the work of God is to be accentuated in our ministry. Really, Paul here is writing throughout this whole passage about God-energized and God-powered ministry. And so leaders, human leaders, must learn to tap into that power and rely on that power. Yes? Otherwise, the power of God is not at work. Are you with me? God has to be the one that is working in the lives of other people. A spiritual leader must know that. We're so enamored with man in our culture, are we not? You know, we put a man on the moon. We're healing this disease and finding the cure for that one. So what? I mean God flung a billion galaxies out there just by talking. Jesus spoke and touched people with a finger and they were instantly healed. Oh, and by the way, God's going to raise everyone from the dead. That's pretty good too. Man is not that great of a thing. Those involved in Christian ministry who do not believe in the power and the sovereignty of God, they have to rely on something else. They start relying on themselves. Their human persuasion, their techniques, their psychologies. Because they doubt God and they doubt His Word. And even when they say they believe in God and His Word, I can tell they're not They don't understand the power of God. I don't believe I understand the power of God yet. I look at them, they're barely even using God's word. I'm like, I know they don't know the power of God. God is still able, don't you believe? Don't you believe that God is still able to do all he said he would do? To the simple preaching of the word of God and hearing it in the heart of people, through the prayers of God's people, is God still not able? Yes, he is. Nothing has changed. God hasn't changed. God gave power to his church because he gave himself to his church. That power is not released through a technique or some cutting-edge knowledge of the culture It's released through the Holy Spirit. When the Holy Spirit works in holy vessels and through his word, church is all caught up in the latest fad coming through the bookstores and back on out again. through the church seminars and back on out again. They just communicate they don't know their God very well. They're looking around for something to help them. They already have God. I don't care how big their buildings and churches are, they don't know what they're doing in ministry. Because they don't know God and His power The human element is not eliminated here. It's just downplayed. It just again takes the pressure off of us. We can rest in God's power. Watch God work. When and if there's a revival somewhere in our land, it won't be us who drummed it up. It'll be God who brought it down The second application here, again, is that numerical growth is not a bad thing. God causes the increase. We ought to be working towards the growth of Hope Bible Church. If you wanted a small, nice church that wouldn't grow any larger, I think you've come to the wrong church. It ought to be our desire to extend ministry, to see people saved, to see people, not just our church grow, but to multiply churches and work in harmony with other churches to help them do the same. This is God's kingdom we serve. It's not about us. It's not about us keeping it the way we like it with all just our friends. To increase the size of the church is God's will, I believe. Third, good leaders do not make themselves the show. They try to stay out of the way, let God's word speak, and God be glorified. I was on vacation earlier part of December and I was watching TBN. I don't know why I was doing that. I just thought that I would do it. And I was listening to this young man, this preacher. I guess in his thirties. And he was good. I mean he uh he was saying a lot of good things. I have to say on this one program, everything he was saying I was amening. But he just was So much in the middle of it, so much humor, so much drama, constantly, all these weird looks on his face and everything. It just seemed like he wanted everyone out there to like him and never stop listening to me because I'm so interesting. And I just kind of lost Christ in the middle of that, even though what he was saying was was really solid, it was really good We're not meant to win people to ourselves, but to Christ. By the way, we put this pulpit here Right in the center of our worship room and we elevate it up here, not because the person standing here has any importance, because there's a book on this pulpit This is the authority of Hope Bible Church right here. It is in authority over every single person in here. If you're not under the authority of this book, you're not even a believer in Christ. This is the authority, and we put it right here, and we expound it because we want to give honor to God and let God-centered ministry be at the focus. Take and put it off on the side somewhere and forget about it. That's not what it's about in church. Well, the fourth application is this. For people Who are already in leadership, I know that often you have a sense of inadequacy in yourself. And I just want to tell you uh today that that's very, very good. I'm glad you have a sense of inadequacy if you feel that way. I think you're learning. I think God's going to use you. Because you and I are very, very, very inadequate in ourselves. In fact, we we really can't do anything What did Jesus say, apart from me you can do nothing? The needs of the people here in this congregation and who will come go way beyond anything the present elders or future elders of this church will ever be able to meet A leader must constantly deal with the realization of his own weaknesses, his lack of wisdom, his lack of power, his inability to control events, to change lives and hearts of people. I stand here and I'm going to preach my heart out when it comes to giving. You know, in nine and a half years in this church, I have never done a sermon series on giving, never. Well, I'm going to do one. But it is God is going to have to talk to your soul about the importance of a facility to give so that we can have one, so we can multiply the ministry. I'm going to probably be blue in my face up here and I'll be sweating drops up here, but God has to do it. I can't do it. God has to talk to you Matthew Henry wrote: The best qualified and most faithful ministers have a just sense of their own insufficiency and are very desirous that God should have all the glory of their success. I think that sense of inadequacy on the shoulders of any spiritual leader, even you women leading in the spiritual realm with the ladies. should just put a a weight on your shoulders until you drop to your knees and you can let that weight fall at the cross of Christ and say, Lord, I can't do it. God help me. Please, please work, Almighty God, work in the lives of these people. And you just learn to pray more and more diligently and see how God will work. A leader who does not pray diligently is a leader who does not understand how to lead. Roger and Robin Zender gave me a plaque years ago, and yes I still have it, with these words on it. I am not alone. Each day as a pastor I give advice with the counselor Solve conflicts with the Prince of Peace. Watch over the sheep with the shepherd. Guide and instruct with the teacher. Ease pain and grief with the comforter. And bow before the King of Kings. I am not alone. And when I believe that, and when you believe that, and no matter what realm of spiritual ministry you are in, God is going to work. He's going to use you. Amazing as it seems, he's going to use you. Because God doesn't need much in his hands to do a great work. Amen?