Last week we were reminded from Ephesians six that we are in a spiritual war. And that our adversary is not human, but rather Satan and his evil demons We also studied Satan's objectives, his offense and defense. And specifically, we saw that the devil's objectives Are to have total control of the world and to be like God. His offense includes strategies and schemes Like keeping unbelievers in darkness and leading Christians astray from fruitful maturity and ministry. By promoting spiritual counterfeits and even divisions within the church. Likewise, we saw that his weapons, referred to here as flaming arrows, Include lies, deception, and accusations. Lastly, we observe that Satan's only defense is to flee But he does that only when he encounters godly resistance. That, fortunately, is what our passage Addresses. What is our role, our duty as soldiers in this warfare Open again in your copy of the scriptures to Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 20, which I'll read again so that we see the full message. Ephesians 6, starting in verse 10. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places Therefore, take up the full armor of God, so that you will be able to resist in the evil day, and having done everything, to stand firm. Stand firm, therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace In addition to all, taking up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit. And with this in view, be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints, and pray on my behalf that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth. To make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel for which I am an ambassador in chains, that in proclaiming it I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. So, our duty in this spiritual war can be summed up by two exhortations. First, to be strong in Christ. Which Paul covers in verses 10 through 17. And secondly, to pray alertly in the Spirit, from verses 18 through 20. First, we are to be strong in Christ. Paul begins this whole section in verse 10 by saying, finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. That verb be strong is a present passive imperative. And it's the same kind of structure that Paul uses in verse 18 of the previous chapter where he says, be filled with the Spirit. We're commanded to passively cooperate with God's work. So a better translation might be be made strong or be empowered. God does the strengthening. Notice that it's to be in the Lord and in the strength of his might. But we are commanded to cooperate with that. The text then answers two logical questions for us. How and why is this going to happen? First, how can we be strong in Christ? Well, we're told in verse 11: put on the full armor of God. And in verse 13, take up the full armor of God. This term full armor is a compound word in the Greek meaning a complete set of armor. And besides these two verses, it appears only once in the New Testament, Luke 11, 22. The verb put on in verse 11 is a command to put it on yourself. And there's a very real sense then in which we are not automatically armored. Even as redeemed children of God, we need to put on the armor of God. The verb take up, moreover, in verse 13, means to pick it up so as to use it. This is not just for show. The second question addressed here is, why are we to do this? Well, we're told again in verse 11, so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. And in verse 13, so that you will be able to resist in the evil day. And having done everything to stand firm. This phrase to stand firm in verses 11 and 13 is in the active voice. We're not commanded to be passive in this. That's true also of the verb to resist, which is a compound word meaning to stand against. The phrase you will be able is from the verb dunamai, meaning to have power or enablement. And it's related to the primary verb here, be strong. They come from the same root. As we saw last week, Satan's only defense is to flee, which he does only in the face of such godly Resistance. Remember from James 4, verse 7, submit therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Finally, the phrase having done everything in verse thirteen means having accomplished all the preparations that are necessary for this battle. Like any soldier, we are to be fully prepared, fully armed, and actively ready for battle when on duty, which for us is all the time. With that introduction, I'd like to make four initial observations before we look at the components of our armor. First, notice that if we don't put on the full armor of God, we won't be able to resist Satan. He will be able to take advantage of our vulnerability, leading us astray into spiritual impotence and fruitlessness. It's the full armor that's needed. Secondly, the stakes are high. Not in terms of our eternal destiny, but our fruitfulness and victory now. Undoubtedly affecting those around us as well. Third, it's very clear that we are not to flee from Satan. We are not to run. As we're told in 1 Corinthians 6. 18 and 2 Timothy 2. 22, what we're to flee from is immorality. Sins of the flesh. But we are told four times in this passage alone, as well as in James 4 and 1 Peter 5, to stand firm and resist Satan. We tend to get those backwards. We think we can resist sexual immorality, and we flee from Satan. Both of those are unbiblical and defeating for us. If we do stand firm, Satan will flee from us. Fourth, it's often observed that the armor that God provides for us includes just one offensive component, the sword, and all the rest are defensive in nature. Well, as we'll see, judging by their spiritual function, all of these components are offensive. When they're used together in the strength of Christ. They're offensive since they cause Satan to be on the defensive. Now let us look in depth at the six components and characteristics of the armor of God. which I believe were possibly listed by Paul in roughly the order in which a soldier would put them on as he prepares for battle. First, he says in verse 14, having girded your loins with the truth In the first century, girding your loins involved fastening your flowing robe around your private parts and holding it together with a belt or a girdle of some sort. And this gave you greater mobility and was necessary before putting on the rest of the armor As Christians, Paul says that we must begin our preparations for this spiritual battle by putting on truth. He draws on the imagery of Isaiah 11, 5, which refers to Christ being girded with righteousness and faithfulness. But it's not surprising that Paul says in in um in this context that the first thing that we need to put on and to be strengthened by is the truth. As we saw last week, Satan's primary weapons are lies and deception. So it's critical that we're armed with the truth. But what truth should undergird us? This is speaking generally of sound doctrine. What is true about God, what is true about man, about our adversary, and so on. Being girded up in truth means we are absolutely committed to sound doctrine Not susceptible to the doctrinal errors with which Satan will try to deceive us. And you see this exhortation repeatedly in the New Testament. For example, in Acts 20, verses 29 through 31, Paul, in speaking to the elders of the Ephesian church, says I know that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock, and from among your own selves men will arise, speaking perverse things to draw the disciples away after them. Therefore, he says, be on the alert. Last week we read from 2 Peter 2, 1 through 3. Where Peter said, the false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you, who will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the master who bought them Bringing swift destruction upon themselves. Many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of the truth will be maligned And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. 2 Timothy 4, 3 through 4 says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires, and will turn away their ears from the truth, and will turn aside to myths. Earlier in Ephesians, in chapter 4, verses 11 through 16, Paul said, We are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. By the trickery of men, by the craftiness in deceitful scheming, but speaking the truth in love. We are to grow up in all aspects to him who is the head, even Christ. Well, the application should be obvious. Are you committed to sound doctrine? Are you growing in your knowledge and application of the truth? Or are you easy prey for the lies of Satan and false teachers? One of our responsibilities as pastors is to build you up in sound doctrine and spiritual discernment. But many of you are not taking advantage of the simple opportunities we provide to build you up, such as our Sunday Bible classes, training classes, conferences. I fear that many of you have not girded your loins with the truth. So you're subject right now to the deceptions of Satan Paving the way for some kind of for the kind of impotence and apostasy we now see in Europe, the birthplace of the Reformation. I plead with you to take very seriously your ongoing need for grounding in the truth. Don't fool yourself into thinking that simply sitting passively to strong expository preaching will gird your tr in all the truth that you need right now. You certainly need that, but you need much more as well. That leads us to the second piece of armor Paul refers to in the second part of verse 14. Saying, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. The Greek word for breastplate here is thorax. Which came in two pieces, one for the front and one for the back. It obviously covered the vital organs like the heart, And Paul says, though, that our breastplate is righteousness. He alludes here to Isaiah 59, 17, which refers actually to God. putting on righteousness as a breastplate in order to deal with the unrighteousness of the nation of Israel. But a key question for us is Does our breastplate refer to the pure righteousness of Christ, which God imputes to us as He transfers our sins to Christ? Not directly. Notice that we are to put on this righteousness. Whereas the righteousness of Christ is something that God puts on us. Also, remember the context, our spiritual battle with Satan. This armor of righteousness defends against Satan's attacks, whereas the righteousness of Christ with which God clothes us. Relates more directly to our right standing before God, our judge. But what is righteousness? Well, it means good works. Doing the right thing. This piece of armor refers to the good works that we do in Christ the natural byproduct of saving faith and adhering to sound doctrine. Not good works done in vain efforts to earn salvation. Those are filthy rags, according to Isaiah 64, 6, but rather the good works that God produces in us after we are saved. But we need to obey Him in doing them. Consider, for example, earlier in Ephesians 2, verse 10, Paul writes, We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for what? Good works. Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Matthew 5. 16, Jesus said, Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works. And glorify your Father who is in heaven. Titus 2, 6-8, likewise urged the young men to be sensible in all things. In all things, show yourself to be an example of good deeds, with purity and doctrine, dignified sound and speech, which is beyond reproach. Why? So that the opponent will be put to shame, having nothing bad to say about us. 1 Peter 2. 12, keep your behavior excellent among the Gentiles. Why? So that in the thing in which they slander you as evildoers, they may, because of your good deeds, as they observe them Glorify God in the day of visitation. And 1 John 2, 29, if you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone also who practices, that is, as a as a defining ongoing characteristic, practices righteousness is born of him, born of God. Do you see how our good works silence our adversary and accuser, the devil? Our breastplate is an offensive weapon. In the spiritual battle. Indirectly, these good works are possible only because of the righteousness of Christ that God imputes to each True believer. But in a more direct sense, this is speaking of how we conduct ourselves in the world in obedience to God's commands and principles. That is, these first two pieces of armor that we're to put on emphasize not only that we must be committed to sound doctrine, but also must be characterized by the obedient application of that truth. In everyday life. That's the righteousness that Paul commands us to put on. The breastplate of righteousness is not a protective force field. around us, consisting of the righteousness of Christ that God surrounds us with and that we take advantage of passively. Rather, it is our good works which we actively do in obedience to the truth. In the power of the Holy Spirit. Well, that too has immediate application for it, does it not? Are you faithful in applying the truth and commands of Scripture? Are you living a life of righteousness? Can those around you see godliness in your life? Do you give off the light of Christ? Or are you basically like the world around you? Indistinguishable from darkness and driven by fleshly desires. Perhaps you're inconsistent. Either an obvious hypocrite or one who harbors secret sin. Either way, you're leaving Satan the basis for an accusation against you If that's you, put on the breastplate of righteousness by obeying our Lord's commands and the truth of his word. Or maybe you don't exhibit the righteousness of God in your life because you're not really saved at all. God's children Ultimately and progressively reflect God's character and will by his power. So if that's not true of you You actually don't need to worry about being attacked by Satan. You're on his team. Instead, you need to be concerned about facing the wrath of God. So if that's you, I urge you to repent from your attachment to sin and submit to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith, even today. Our third component of armor is in verse 15, where he says, having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace The word for gospel here is evangelion, the normal word meaning good news, and referring to the message of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone. Paul here alludes to Isaiah 52, 7, which says, How lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, referring to the watchman of the city. Who announces peace and brings good news of happiness? Who announces salvation and says to Zion, Your God reigns. This verse is quoted again in Romans 10, 15 in the context of evangelism as well. But notice in our context here, in the context of spiritual armor, that verse 15 indicates that our combat boots are not the gospel itself. But rather the preparation of the gospel. This word means to be fully ready. And is used only here in the New Testament. We are to be prepared to proclaim the gospel at a moment's notice, being ready to take the initiative. To proclaim the gospel. Also notice that it's called the Gospel of Peace. So a key component of our armor for spiritual war is something that brings about peace. Makes sense, right? The gospel certainly brings peace between us and God since the death of Christ on our behalf. satisfies God's wrath against our sin. And so it's also true for others who respond to the gospel that we proclaim. And when they do, our adversary, the devil, loses potential allies. So that's speaking of offense in the spiritual battle. Wouldn't you agree? So how do we apply that? Well, first of all, notice that these combat boots need to be worn by all of Christ's soldiers. All of us, not just those with the spiritual gift of evangelism. You don't want to be barefoot in this battle, let me assure you. So are you ready to share the good news of salvation in Christ with whatever, whenever, and wherever God would lead? Have you prepared yourself by being trained to use the scriptures to help someone see their need for surrendering to the Lordship of Christ? Have you taken the initiative to accompany someone who is more experienced than you as he shares the gospel message with someone else? Well, if you don't have a basic outline of the gospel in your head, I'd recommend the following five points. First, God's character, second, man's character, third, our dilemma Fourth, God's response, God's solution, and fifth, our response. First, God's character. He's perfectly holy, perfectly just. He's um Perfectly loving. And he's far above our ability to perceive the full depth of any of those qualities. Secondly, man's character. Each of us has disobeyed God, and in our very nature, we rebel against him. Well, those two points bring us to our dilemma: that our character, sin, disqualifies us from ever being in God's presence since He is completely separate from sin. And his own character, holiness, and justice require that he punish all sin by his fierce wrath. That is a dilemma. We have no solution. But God does. God's solution is that He sent Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, to become a human being. Live a perfect life, die a sacrificial death to pay for our sin by the shedding of his blood, satisfying the wrath of the Father against our sin. Then rising from the dead in triumphant victory over both sin and death. But the fifth point is our response to those truths We must respond to God's gracious solution by repenting from our sin, placing our faith in Christ alone for salvation, and surrendering to Jesus as our Lord and Master. If you're going to be strong in your battle against Satan's efforts to neutralize you, then you need to be fully prepared. Experienced, bold, and alert for opportunities to give the gospel of peace to those around you. The fourth component of our armor in verse sixteen says, in addition to all taking up the shield of faith. With which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Taking up is the same term as in verse 13, but it's in participle form here. The word for shield is used only here in the New Testament, and it comes from the word for door. So you can picture it as something that's large that keeps unwanted things out, right? Faith is the usual word pisteos, meaning a conviction of the truth, a certain belief. The term will be able is the same as the term used in verse 13, but here it's used in the future tense and the indicative mood rather than the aeoris past tense and subjective subjunctive mood. All of which means that this extinguishing is a certainty rather than a possibility Finally, to extinguish naturally means to quench or to put out. But notice that we will be able to extinguish all of Satan's flaming arrows. So, in what sense does faith shield us from the attacks of Satan? Well, what's the alternative to faith Doubt or self-sufficiency? Consider the connection to the first three items of our armor. If Satan perceives that we don't really believe the truth, He'll attempt to sway us with lies. If he perceives that we do good works in our own strength, our self-sufficiency, Rather than by faith in Christ, then he'll attempt to deceive us into thinking that our righteousness is pleasing to God. And if he sees that we don't have a faith that we're prepared to share with others, he will attempt to fill us with doubts that we're even useful to God. As Romans 14, 23 says, whatever is not of faith is what? Sin. We can't stand firm against Satan with a shield of sin. Doubt and self-sufficiency create cowards in the spiritual battle, not victors. So, how should you apply this? Are you living by faith? Sure, you may place your faith in Christ for salvation, but does it show in your daily life? Do your priorities reveal faith in God's wisdom and promises? Do you step out in faith in the use of your time, your talents, and your treasures? As we're taught in James 2, faith without works is dead. If we truly lived by faith in God, it would be evident by our actions. Evaluate where you generally place your faith in the context of everyday affairs. In your own wisdom and strength, or in God and His Word? When Satan whispers in your ear, has God really said, rebuke him by genuine faith in God and his word. Our fifth component of armor is in verse seventeen. Take up the helmet of salvation. Now the word for helmet here is an interesting compound word in the Greek meaning, obviously, that which is around the head. It's used only here and in 1 Thessalonians 5. 8, which says, But since we are of the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation. Both of these references appear to be allusions to Isaiah 59, 17, which we saw earlier refers to God. saying, he, that is God, put on righteousness like a breastplate, and a helmet of salvation on his head. A soldier's helmet, of course, protects his head, which is both crucial to his survival and is also very vulnerable. And our helmet is salvation. Salvation from the wrath of God. The certainty of our salvation enables us to stand firm against Satan. We have no fear of death because we're saved. We don't fear defeat because we are saved. This world is not our home, and the spiritual battle is temporary. Our future is secure in Christ, and that certainty dispels the doubts that would otherwise creep into our heads. Paul says, take this helmet, which means to receive it. Obviously, we didn't make it. We were merely receiving that salvation. But we do need to wear it. And stand firm knowing that we're wearing it. So, do you know for sure that you are saved? 1 John 5, 11 through 13 says, the testimony is this: that God has given us eternal life. And this life is in his son. He who has the son has the life. But he who does not have the son of God does not have the life. These things I've written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life. If you have the Son, if you have repented from your sin and received Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, then you have eternal life right now. Permanent salvation from the penalty of sin, growing salvation from the power of sin over you, and the promise of salvation one day from the very presence of sin. Armed with that certainty, Satan won't succeed in his attempts to plant doubts in your head. But if you're not saved, you're already under Satan's influence and on his side. If that's you, I again urge you to surrender to Christ today. Our last component of armor is in the second half of verse 17. Where it says, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Interestingly, the word for sword here is Makira. a short sword or or dagger or even a large knife that's used for hand to hand fighting. It is identified as being of the Holy Spirit and is given another name, the Word of God. We read of this in Hebrews 4. 12, where it says, the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, Makira. And piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. There's a similar metaphor in Revelation, but using a word other than Makira, it uses the word Ramphaya, a long sword. Revelation 1. 16 says In his right hand, he, that is Jesus, held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp, two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in its strength. In the next chapter of Revelation, chapter 2, verses 12 through 16, we read, And to the angel of the church in Pergamum, write, the one who has the sharp two-edged sword says this. I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, and you hold fast my name, and do not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you where Satan dwells. And verse 16, therefore repent, or else I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of my mouth. This metaphor is repeated later in Revelation in chapter 19, verses 15 and 21. So, in what sense is God's word, the words from his mouth, like a sword? Well, it it penetrates deep into the soul. It is sharp in that it is effective and decisive. And it's a deterrent against wrong behavior, prompting a holy fear of God, and a stimulator of right behavior. The Word of God is here rightly called the sword of the Spirit, since the Holy Spirit is the agent through whom Scripture was revealed and inspired. In 2 Timothy 3. 16, it says, all scripture is inspired, that is, in breathed, breathed in by God. 2 Peter 1, 20 through 21. But know this first of all that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke. from God. That theme is is echoed as well in Mark 12, 36, Acts 1. 16, and Acts 28. 25. So, what role does Scripture have as part of our armor in the spiritual battle? Well, it makes possible all of the other components of the armor. Is the source of truth with which we have girded ourselves, so it defines what is sound doctrine, exposing Satan's lies and deceptions for what they really are. It also defines the breastplate of righteousness we are to exhibit as we apply that sound doctrine. Likewise, it is the authoritative source of the gospel of peace Which we use our feet to take to others, and which the Holy Spirit uses to draw people to God. And of course, the shield of faith comes by hearing from the Word of God, according to Romans 10, 17. And that results in our helmet of salvation. However, the Word of God is inherently an offensive weapon in our battle against Satan. We see that from when Satan tempted Jesus. In the wilderness, Jesus always responded with Scripture saying, It is written, it is written, it is written. Usually, Satan, the deceiver, will twist God's word to try to lead us astray. That strategy worked with Eve, but it failed against Christ. Who wielded the sword of the Spirit expertly, exposing how Satan was misusing Scripture. And he'll attempt to do that with you. That's the example for us. We need to use Scripture correctly, both in defending against the deceptions of the evil one and in offense against him. As Paul commanded the young pastor Timothy in 2 Timothy 2. 15, be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed. Accurately handling the word of truth. So, what do we need to do to ensure that we handle Scripture accurately? Let me give you six suggestions. First of all, read the entire Word of God regularly. When is the last time you read Ezekiel? Or Habakkuk? Or even 3 John? Bathe yourself in Scripture. The only way to identify a counterfeit is to be very familiar with the real thing. Secondly, commit to receiving the regular exposition of the Word through preaching and teaching. Do you come to church with a heart that is eager and ready to learn? Take full advantage of the Sunday Bible classes, training classes, and conferences offered here. Thirdly, study Scripture in depth This goes beyond your daily quiet time with the Lord. Develop your ability to interpret Scripture by the literal, historical, grammatical method. Don't force God's word to mean what you want it to mean, perhaps so that it fits nicely into some man-made interpretive framework. Rather, let Scripture speak for itself. We are not to judge Scripture, but rather Scripture is to judge us. Treat the Scriptures for what they really are. The revelation of the God of the universe who desires to accomplish his purposes, not ours. Fourth, meditate on the scriptures. Think through the implications of every word. Fifth, memorize it. Even the repetition required for memorizing aids in meditating on the meaning. And six, teach it to others. You learn something best when you teach it. So, now that we know how to be strong in Christ by putting on the full armor of God, our second duty in the spiritual war is to pray alertly in the Spirit. Which we find in verses 18 through 20. In verse 18, Paul gives three characteristics of victorious prayer. With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. The first characteristic there is that it's comprehensive. You notice the four alls. It's comprehensive first in scope with all prayer and petition. It's comprehensive in frequency. Pray at all times. It's comprehensive in tenacity. Pray with all perseverance. And fourth, it's comprehensive in application, petition for all the saints. The second characteristic of Victorious Prayer is that it's spiritual. You see where it says here, pray in the Spirit. The prayer that wins spiritual battle is not human or fleshly. We pray by faith in the power of the Holy Spirit. And thirdly, victorious prayer is vigilant. He says, be on the alert. Literally, this word means to catch sleep. And you see the image here, because you're not going to catch much sleep if you're being vigilant, right? This brings to mind when Jesus scolded Peter and some others in the Garden of Gethsemane before his arrest. But later Peter would write, Be of sober spirit, be on the alert. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour You realize that most battle strategies use or try to use the element of surprise and deception, and Satan's tactics are no different. Let's not be caught sleeping spiritually. With those three characteristics of Victorious Prayer in mind, Paul then addresses the role of prayer in spiritual battle. From the end of verse 18 through verse 20. And he makes two basic points. First, praying for the spiritual strength of believers. With petition for all the saints. That term saints here means holy ones, all true Christians. We're certainly encouraged to pray for our own needs, but this emphasizes our needs to pray for one another as well. And because of the context here, it's clear that we especially need to pray for one another's readiness in the spiritual battle. And we see examples of this in Scripture. In Luke 22, 31 through 32, we see an example of Christ praying for Peter's protection. Praying for protection and faith. He says, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you. Why? That your faith may not fail. Secondly, we can pray that our brothers and sisters would avoid temptation. As Luke 22, 46 Where Jesus said to them, Why are you sleeping? Get up and pray lest you enter into temptation. Thirdly, we can be praying for others' sanctification and obedience to God's will. It's a great example in Colossians 4. 12. Epacros, who is one of your number, a bond slave of Jesus Christ, sends you his greetings, always laboring earnestly for you in his prayers. Why? That you may stand perfectly and fully assured in all the will of God. Great example. Fourthly, we see an example of praying that um our colleagues would not have to battle with humans in this spiritual battle. 1 Timothy 2, 1 through 2. First of all, I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions and thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men. For kings and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. So the second role of prayer and spiritual battle is praying for evangelism Paul says to pray on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in change, that in proclaiming it I may speak boldly as I ought. Let me suggest some examples here of the role of prayer in evangelism. He says, first of all, that utterance may be given to me, we need to be praying for The ability to speak the gospel clearly. Secondly, he asks for God's help to speak the gospel boldly. Paul understood that it's not about us. We're merely ambassadors of God to the lost. And our confidence is because we represent him. Not ourselves. In fact, he says it's our duty to speak boldly. He says, as I ought to speak, even under persecution Secondly, pray that God would open doors for the proclamation of the gospel. You can look up Colossians 4, 2 through 4. We can pray that God would open doors by working through circumstances, certainly, to provide opportunities for the gospel message, but also pray that God would open doors by working on people's hearts Causing them to be open to the gospel. Fourthly, you can pray that God would raise up workers for the harvest. Luke 10, 2. Our prayer is needed to send out evangelists and missionaries. Pray, fifthly, that the gospel would flourish. Look up 2 Thessalonians 3:1. And pray for those who persecute us. Matthew five, forty-four. Pray that they that God would change their hearts. Well, think about how this applies to us. Satan is a deceiver. One of his greatest deceptions in this battle is that we don't need God. Which deceives us into thinking that we don't need to pray. But consider Jesus. If there were anyone who could succeed in the spiritual battle on his own, it would have been him. From eternity past, he has always had the closest of relationships with the Father. And he has always lived in the power of the Holy Spirit. And think about his armor. He was completely girded by the truth. In fact, he completely embodied that truth and had perfect discernment of error. He always lived by perfect righteousness. He faithfully proclaimed the good news as a way of life. And he lived by perfect faith. He purchased for us the salvation that we enjoy, and he relied on and perfectly obeyed God's written word, the sword of the Spirit. But what was his view of prayer? What was his need of prayer? Well, if you just surveyed the Gospel of Luke. Luke 3. 21. Now when all the people were baptized, Jesus was also baptized, and while he was praying, heaven was opened. Luke 5, 15, 16. But the news about him was spreading even farther, and large crowds were gathering to hear him, and to be healed of their sicknesses, but Jesus himself would often slip away to the wilderness. to pray. Luke 6, 12-13. It was at this time that he went off to the mountain to pray. And he spent the whole night in prayer to God. And when day came, he called his disciples to him and chose twelve of them whom he also named apostles. Luke 9, 18. And it happened that while he was praying alone, The disciples were with him. I guess they kind of showed up. Later in Luke 9, verses 28-29, some eight days after these things, he took along Peter and John and James and went up on the mountain to pray. Luke 11, 1. And it happened that while Jesus was praying in a certain place after he had finished, one of his disciples, who was pretty perceptive, said to him, Lord, teach us to pray. Luke 22, 21 through 31. I mentioned earlier, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. Later in Luke 22, verses 44 and 45, and being in agony, he was praying very fervently, and his sweat became like drops of blood. falling down upon the ground, when he rose from prayer, he came to his disciples and found them sleeping. If Jesus needed to pray that much, how much more must we mean need to pray? We all have lots of excuses and weaknesses, but none of those really excuse us from praying It's both our duty in the spiritual battle and our privilege to come before our gracious, merciful, loving Lord. Let me give you, in closing, just two simple applications. First, we have set aside this Wednesday evening. For our quarterly congregational prayer meeting right here. When? This Wednesday evening. We have these once a quarter to multiply our prayers and petition on behalf of the Lord's work. That he would do that in us and through us, by his power, not ours. That takes prayer. In fact, it's won or lost by prayer. I urge you to come out. Make that a priority. Secondly, we have a weekly prayer meeting before the Sunday worship service. From nine ten to nine twenty-five. It meets right there in the Calvin room. Um be f um but Uh recently, in fact even today, I gather there were only there there were less than twenty people there. We meet there every week. Um It ought to be crowded. We ought to be overflowing into other rooms because people are coming before the Lord in faith and in prayer. The elders, the deacons, other leaders meet at that same time praying for you. Make it a priority to get here by 9 o'clock so that you're ready to pray by 9:10. Let's all be praying together. The um It's true that God moves according to his own sovereign will, his own sovereign timing, but for some mysterious reason he responds to our prayers. Pray that that would spark and fan a flame of revival here and worldwide, that Satan's deceptions and tactics would be themselves impotent and not having any effect on us. With that, I would like to close our time in prayer um bringing us before our Heavenly Father. Let's pray. Our Lord and Creator, Master of the Universe. We are humbled by your goodness to us, your sacrifice for us, your love for us, and our complete unworthiness. And yet you desire to work in and through us for your glory. May we not quench your spirit. May we not grieve your spirit Teach us to be faithful in prayer, faithful in applying your word, strong in faith, resisting Satan till he flees. Not for our benefit, not for our joy, although that will clearly come, but Lord, because we want to see your glory manifested here on earth, even as it will be in heaven. We pray these things in the matchless name of Christ our Savior. Amen.