Thank you, worship team, for leading us in that rich time of praise and worship to our Lord. Less than seven miles from here, on the edge of the NSA, is the National Cryptologic Museum. A fascinating place dedicated to telling the stories of the people and gadgets from years gone by that were involved in the critical task of sending, receiving, and interpreting secret government messages written in codes intended to deceive the enemy. They also tried to break the codes of the enemy and therefore read their secret messages This sort of thing has always been crucial in times of war, including the Cold War, and it's an example of the broader principle of battle that you need to know your adversary. His strengths, his weaknesses, tactics, weapons, and so on. The same is true for us Scripture makes it clear that we are involved in spiritual battle. So today I'd like to focus on our adversary in that battle. Then next week we'll look at our duty in the battle as we face that adversary. Please turn in your copy of the scriptures to Ephesians chapter 6. Now the Apostle Paul's letter to the church in Ephesus is typic typical of his letters in that The first half focuses on sound doctrine, and the second half addresses obedient application. Specifically in chapters 1 through 3, Paul points to God's sovereign grace displayed in the salvation He gives us, that He saves us out of hopelessness. And that he gave us his righteousness and brought Jews and Gentiles alike into his kingdom through Christ. And that he gave Paul the ministry of proclaiming that gospel to the Gentiles. Then, by way of application, in chapters four through six. Paul explains the need for us to exhibit unity in the body through a diversity of gifts, to put off old sinful practices. And put on God's righteousness. And that the way to do this is to be filled with the Holy Spirit, which has direct application in worship, in marriage. in parent-child and servant-master relationships. And that brings the apostle to a crucial application of all those things, starting in chapter 6, verse 10. Follow with me if you would, as I read. Finally, be strong in the Lord and then in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, But against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the full armor of God so that you will be able to resist in the evil day. And having done everything to stand firm. Stand firm, therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace In addition to all, taking up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And with all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert. With all perseverance and petition for all the saints, and pray on my behalf that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth. to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that in proclaiming it I may speak boldly as I ought to speak So today, let's consider what this passage teaches us about our adversary. First, notice that we're told who our enemy is not. Verse 12 says, our struggle is not against flesh and blood. That is, our battle is not against human beings. Paul makes a similar point in 2 Corinthians 10, verses 3 through 4, where he says, For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh. That means that our battle is not against non-Christians, it's not against atheists, it's not against false teachers or those caught up in false religions or cults. It's not against idolaters, materialists, or those espousing an unbiblical political, social, or economic agenda. That doesn't mean that we support these people's sin or philosophy, but we need to recognize who our enemy really is. That's the second point in our outline, if you're taking notes, who the enemy is. Verse 11 makes it clear that our enemy is the devil. Otherwise known as Satan, our adversary. In the original Greek manuscripts of the New Testament, this word translated as devil here is the word diabolos. Which is actually an adjective rather than a noun. It means slanderous one. And is almost always translated devil. A survey of the New Testament reveals that the devil is described by a number of names. For example, he's called the ruler of this world in John 12, 31 and John 16:11. He's called the God, small g of this world in 2 Corinthians 4, 3 through 4. And he's called the ruler of the demons in Matthew 12, 24. Earlier in Ephesians, in chapter 2, verses 1 and 2, he is called the Prince of the Power of the Air. And like the lower atmosphere, Satan is unseen but very active. He's called the tempter in 1 Thessalonians 3. 5. And he's also called the great dragon, the serpent of old, in Revelation 12, 9. But notice that verse twelve gives four more descriptions of multiple enemies. It refers first to rulers. which is the Greek word arke, meaning chiefs or those who have first place. It refers also to powers, the Greek word exosia, those with power, authority, rule, and jurisdiction. It also refers to world forces of this darkness. World forces here is the compound Greek word cosmo quotoris. Which is used only here in the New Testament. It's similar in construction to our word democratic, rule by the people. autocratic, rule by one person, and theocratic, rule by God. So cosmocratorus refers to those who rule this present world system. When he says this darkness, he's referring to the contemporary earthly affairs here on earth, contrasted with the things of God. And Paul uses the same terminology elsewhere. in Ephesians in chapter 5, verses 6 through 16, where he says, Let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not be partakers with them, for you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth, trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, he writes, but instead even expose them. For it is disgraceful even to speak of the things which are done by them in secret. But all things become visible when they are exposed by the light. For everything that becomes visible is light. For this reason it says, Awake, sleeper, arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Therefore be careful how you walk, not as unwise men, but as wise, making the most of your time. Why? Because the days are evil. We see reference to the spiritual darkness elsewhere in Scripture, for example, Colossians 1. 13. For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. You might also look up John 3. 19 and Acts 26. 18. The last description we have of our enemy is in verse 12, which speaks of Spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Spiritual forces of wickedness refers to active spiritual depravity, evil desires and actions, and demonic activity. Actually the the word forces is not really in the Greek, it's implied. Heavenly places refers to the spirit realm, celestial places beyond human recognition. It's used, this term is used four other times in the New Testament, all of which are here in Ephesians. First, it refers to where Christ is in heaven in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3, where Paul writes, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Later in chapter 1, verses 20 through 21. He writes, he, the Father, raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Far above all rule, this word arche again, and authority, this word exosia again, and power And dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. Then in Ephesians 2. 6, he writes that he raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. However, this term is also used in reference to other rulers, whether good or bad, in Ephesians 3, 8 through 10. Paul writes, To me, the very least of all saints, this grace was given to preach the gospel, preach to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ And to bring to light what is the administration of the mystery which for ages has been hidden in God, who created all things, so that the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known through the church To the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly places. So, in addition to these direct references to our adversary Paul gives us two more general references in our text. He uses the term evil day in verse 13. Which seems to be a reference to the evil at work around us every day, which Paul referred to earlier in chapter 5, verse 16, where he said, Making the most of your time, because the days are evil. Notice too that the context here in chapter 6 is the spiritual battle we're in now, not a battle that we'll fight someday in the future. Lastly, Paul refers to the evil one in verse 16. Literally, the text says, all the flaming arrows of the evil, which is the same word for evil as he used in verse 13. By way of summary, then, our adversary is Satan, but he has a lot of evil subordinates. in his army, who are also powerful spiritual forces. So we've looked at who our enemy is not. Who he is. Thirdly, we need to understand Satan's offenses. This passage speaks both of his strategy and his weapons, and so let's look first of all at his strategy. Verse 11 refers to the schemes of the devil. This word is methodia, from which we get the word method It is from the verb meaning to employ craft or deceit. 1 Peter 5. 8 warns of this scheming when it says Be a sober spirit. Be on the alert. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Scripture reveals that there are at least five elements to Satan's scheming strategy. First, he shrouds non-Christians in spiritual darkness This doesn't affect us personally as believers, but it does affect our outreach to the world. In 2 Corinthians 4 3 through 4, which I referred to earlier, Paul says, and even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, in the case, in whose case the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving. so that they might not see the light of the gospel, of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Likewise, 2 Timothy 2, 24 through 26 says, the Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach, patient when wrong. wronged with gentleness, correcting those who are in opposition. And if if perhaps God might grant repentance leading to the knowledge of truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. Secondly, Satan sometimes uses demon possession to control unbelievers, which can also affect our outreach. For example, in Mark 9, verses 17 through 27, one of the crowd answered Jesus, saying, Teacher, I brought you my son. Possessed with a spirit which makes him mute. And whenever it seizes him, it slams him to the ground, and he foams at the mouth and grinds his teeth and stiffens out. I told your disciples to cast it out, and they could not do it. In verse 25, when Jesus saw that the crowd was rapidly gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You deaf and mute spirit, I command you, come out of him and do not enter into him again. And after crying out and throwing him on into terrible convulsions, it came out. Let's not be deceived in thinking that Satan does not um Possess unbelievers in similar ways today as well. Third, Satan leads Christians astray Not away from eternal life, but away from spiritual maturity and effectiveness. In Mark 13, 22, Jesus said, for false Christs And false prophets will arise and will show signs and wonders in order to lead astray, if possible, the elect. Fourth, in a related way, he promotes spiritual counterfeits, counterfeit people, counterfeit teaching and worship, and so on. In 2 Corinthians 11, 13 through 15, Paul writes, For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. No wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. Therefore, it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness Whose end will be according to their deeds. Fifth, the devil promotes division within the church. 2 Corinthians 2, ten through eleven says, But one whom you are forgiving anything, I forgive also. For indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, I did it for your sakes in the presence of Christ. Why? So that no advantage would be taken of us by Satan. For we are not ignorant of his schemes. So, do you see a pattern? A common thread in Satan's strategy? He tries to get people to believe that what is false and harmful is really true and helpful. And that leads us to the second element of Satan's offense, his weapons. Verse 16 indicates that he shoots flaming arrows at us. I'm sure you've you've seen movies of flaming arrows being used in battle. They were typically aimed at things like buildings or covered wagons that were uh that would easily ignite So one arrow could put many people in immediate danger. It turns out that the word for arrows here is used only here in the New Testament, and it can refer to anything ranging from darts to javelins to missiles. I guess a good translation would be projectile So, what are Satan's flaming arrows? Well, first and foremost, they are lies. In particular, twisting God's word You remember how he did that right back in the beginning in the Garden of Eden. Genesis 3:1 through 5. Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field, in which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Indeed, has God said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat. But from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat from it or touch it, or you will die. And the serpent said to the woman, You surely will not die. For God knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened. And you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Do you see his direct denial of God's word? And how he makes his interpretation seem right by making assertions about God's motive and character that appeal to our logic? Satan's use of lies as his chief weapon is a common theme in Scripture. For example, in John 8:44, Jesus said. You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies. In 2 Peter 2, verses 1 through 3, Peter writes, But false prophets also arose among the people, just as they There will be many false teachers among you who will secretly introduce destructive heresies. Heresies, of course, are destructive- are doctrinal lies Even denying the master who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves. Many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of the truth will be maligned. And in their greed, they will exploit you with false words. Their judgment from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. Satan's second weapon is a form of lying, deception. We see this explicitly in the end times in Revelation 12, 9. And the great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old who was called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. Later in Revelation 20, verses 2 through 3. It says, and he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. And he threw him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him so that he would not deceive the nations any longer. Until the thousand years were completed. To deceive someone, of course, means to intentionally lead them astray. From the truth. It's a form of lying. A third weapon of Satan's related to lies and deceptions is accusations. In First Timothy three, six through seven, where Paul is laying out the qualification for elders, he says An elder must not be a new convert so that he will not become conceited and fall into the condemnation incurred by the devil. And he must have good reputation with those outside the church so that he will not fall into the reproach and the snare of the devil. These are accusations. In Revelation 12, 10, it says, Then, that is after Satan is thrown down, I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ have come, for the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down. He who accuses them before our God day and night. Satan's accusations are often based on facts. But they intentionally do not take into account all of the facts, such as the benefits of salvation So, we see that Satan uses several related weapons, but why does he use them? What are his objectives Every soldier needs to understand the adversary's objectives, and that's our fourth point this morning: Satan's objective. In a nutshell, it has two related parts. First, to be worshipped as sovereign ruler of the entire world, and secondly, to be like God. To be worshipped as sovereign ruler of the entire world and to be like God First, he seeks absolute control of this world. He does this, first of all, by seeking supremacy over Christ and his followers. Notice that he tried to do that at the very beginning of Christ's earthly ministry. Matthew four, eight through nine says, Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms in the world and their glory, and he said to him, All these things I will give you if you fall down and worship me. Of course, Jesus didn't fall for that ploy. But Satan tried to gain supremacy again at the end of Christ's Ministry. In John 13, 2, we read that the devil put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray Jesus. And then later in that chapter, verses 26 and 27, when Jesus was asked by Peter who would betray him Jesus said, That is the one for whom I shall dip the morsel and give it to him. So when he had dipped the morsel, he took and gave it to Tudas, the son of Simon Iscariot, and after the morsel Satan then entered into him. Notice how Jesus had sovereign knowledge of and control over Satan's plan. Satan thought, I think, that by getting Jesus crucified, he would be defeating Jesus Little did he know that that death and Christ's victory over it was the reason why Jesus came to earth. And that as God hinted in Genesis 3. 15 in his curse of the serpent in the Garden of Eden, God had long ago ordained. Christ's sacrificial death and resurrection as the solution to the sin problem that Satan introduced That is, instead of Satan defeating Christ on the cross, Christ defeated Satan on the cross. The lesson for us is that Satan may be cunning, but he is neither omniscient nor particularly smart. His pride overshadows everything. And that's why we see that Satan will try it again at the end of Christ's millennial reign on earth. In Revelation twenty, verses seven through ten, when the thousand years of the millennial kingdom, when Satan is bound At the end of that period, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war. The number of them is like the sand of the seashore, and they came up on the broad plain of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, that is Jerusalem, where Christ will be reigning at that time during his millennial kingdom on earth. And then it continues, and the fire came down from heaven and devoured them. And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are also. And they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Notice that even after being bound by God for a thousand years Satan still will attempt one last-ditch effort to take worldwide control from Christ by force. He'll recruit people from all over the world, by you guessed it, deception, to converge on Jerusalem to wage a war against Christ. This, of course, is no match for God, who will destroy them all with fire from heaven, and he'll throw Satan into the lake of fire to burn forever. Satan must know that his quest for world domination will eventually fail, but he wants to take as many with him as he can. Secondly, in addition to seeking supremacy over Christ and his followers, Satan seeks world dominion by backing movements that are focused on world domination. Backing movements that are focused on world domination. The clearest examples of that today might be the Catholic Church, which is a corruption of Christianity. Islam, which is a counterfeit of Judeo-Christianity, and communism and its more public-face socialism, which is atheistic religion. These three may seem to us to be in opposition to each other, but Satan uses all three of them to effectively motivate billions of people to seek world dominion for their cause. In opposition to biblical Christianity. Third, Satan seeks world dominion by backing movements that promote the supremacy of man and human institutions instead of the supremacy of God. Backing movements that promote the supremacy of man and human institutions instead of the supremacy of God Examples might include secular and religious humanism, psychology, philosophies such as postmodernism and evolution, even the United Nations as a precursor to a one-world government. The second part of Satan's objective is wanting to be like God He's been infatuated with this from the beginning. Recall this temptation of Eve. You surely will not die. For God knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God. The irony here is that God desires for us to be like Him. At least in his attributes of goodness, which are the fruit of the Spirit's work in us as believers But Satan desires to share in God's attributes of greatness, particularly God's sovereignty, since he knows he's not omnipotent or omnipresent or omniscient. And he tempts us to want to be sovereign too. So when we understand Satan's objective, it's not surprising that all of his current efforts are paving the way. for installing the world ruler of his choice during the seven-year period of tribulation at the end of the world. In Revelation 13, 1 through 4, we read that the dragon, Satan, who we read of in the previous chapter, stood on the sand of the seashore. Then I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns were ten diadems, which are crowns, and on his heads were blasphemous names. And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon, that is Satan, gave him his power and his throne and great authority. I saw one of his heads as if it had been slain, and his fatal wound was healed, and the whole earth was amazed and followed after the beast And they worshiped the dragon, that is Satan, because he gave his authority to the beast. And they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who is able to wage war with him? Make no mistakes, Satan has always wanted to put himself in God's place. And he will try to get you to follow him, even if you belong to Christ. Lastly, like any good soldier, we need to understand our adversary's defenses. And that's the fifth point of our outline: Satan's defenses. Did you realize that scripture reveals that Satan has only one defense? He flees. He flees from godly opposition. That's his only defense. James 4. 7 says, Submit therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. That was certainly the result of Satan's temptations of Christ. In Luke 4. 13, we read that when the devil had finished every temptation of Christ, he left until an opportune time. That's why here in Ephesians 6, we're commanded in verses eleven, thirteen, and fourteen. to stand firm against the devil. That has enormous implications for us as soldiers in this spiritual battle which Paul addresses in our text and which I plan to draw out in part two next Sunday. But before doing that I'd like us to put this spiritual battle in historical perspective. We see in the New Testament and from early records that the church began well. Adhering to the teaching of Christ and his apostles by faith and active obedience But over the course of its first 1,000 years, corruption crept into the church. This included unbiblical doctrines, such as a works-based salvation, and unbiblical forms of ministry, such as a concentration of church power, which eventually included exercising authority over secular powers and even presumed authority over Scripture Those in power hid the Word of God from the people, demanding that it be in Latin only and interpreted only by the clergy. And they used fear of eternal damnation or punishment in purgatory, which was just a place that they made up that has no basis in Scripture. Why? To manipulate the ignorant peasants and even the nobles. Satan had clearly taken advantage of spiritual vulnerabilities in the church, and it looked Like he would win. Then, just starting before 1500 A. D. , God raised up men, mostly in Europe. From within that corrupt church, who were serious about the purity of the gospel and the supremacy of the Scripture over the traditions of men. This reformation, under the leadership of Martin Luther, John Calvin, and others, began as an appeal to the apostate Roman Church's leadership to return to biblical truth. When that proved fruitless, solid new churches sprang up that were committed to expository preaching and obedient application of God's Word They translated the scriptures into the common languages and distributed them widely, leading to the salvation of many. But it also led to the martyrdom for many when they opposed that Roman church or the corrupt state rather than denounce the truth of the scriptures. Before long, many social reforms multiplied as people applied the scripture faithfully to their own lives and to the needs of others It also prompted a huge world missions movement to America, to Africa, to India and Asia. Rather than reforming the apostate Roman Church, this movement of God built up the true Church of Jesus Christ with an enormous impact in all facets of life in the Western world and in outreach across borders worldwide In the face of this, it appears Satan fled until an opportune time. But where are those churches today? Where is Europe today? Most of the churches that grew out of the Reformation are now apostates themselves or in serious doctrinal error with very little application of Scripture. Many no longer proclaim the true gospel, favoring instead a social gospel of works, and denying even the deity of Christ. An obvious result is that instead of being a great sender of people into missions worldwide, Europe today is just another mission field. In fact, the cradle of the Reformation is now being overtaken by two key tools of Satan: Islam and secular man-centered governments. Why? Churches were not alert to the subtle and deceptive attacks of Satan, so they gradually lost their commitment to sound doctrine and to obedient application. And Satan took advantage of those weaknesses. Well, what about us in the US? Will we repeat the mistakes of Europe? We had much spiritual strength, grounded in religious liberty and devotion to biblical principles, which were sharpened through multiple spiritual awakenings. God has blessed us both spiritually and materially. We have proclaimed the gospel faithfully for generations at home and have sent out countless missionaries throughout the world. We established many educational and service institutions out of a commitment to applying biblical truth. We have defended the defenseless and come to the aid of countless victims of both political tyrants and natural disasters. But Like the Europeans, our churches, that is, our Christians, have gradually abandoned both sound doctrine and obedient application. We have turned our churches into man-centered institutions, and like the European churches before us, have ignored the subtle and deceptive attacks of Satan. As if they were intentionally following Satan's playbook, these dead churches have created an environment in the U. S. that is ideal for the spread of Islam and socialism. And is hostile to the claims of Christ. A more immediate casualty is that evangelism and missions are no longer our passion. We're not far behind Europe. Is it too late to reverse this trend? Not necessarily Will God intervene on our behalf? Well, frankly, based on the repeated pattern of history, it's more likely that God will allow the U. S. to become fully corrupted. Reprobate, morally and financially bankrupt, and spiritually impotent. More of a mission field than a missionary ascending nation, And while he does so, unless Christ returns first, he will no doubt raise up other people in some other place who will obey him and represent him faithfully in the world. The question for us is, what can we do to avoid our decline? The answer is that, regardless of God's plan for America, we need to fulfill our role in the spiritual war that confronts us. The Apostle Paul describes in this passage not just our adversary, but also our duty as soldiers, and it involves being strong in Christ. Fully armored and always alert and prayerful. If the Lord tarries, we'll investigate those requirements next week. But now let us prepare our hearts as we share in the Lord's Supper together. We know that God, through His Spirit Calls and promotes and pushes and leads us through his spirit, and it's our responsibility to respond to that call. Please rise and join me now in preparing our hearts. Just as I am with Cause that I come shed for me, and that's me come. Onto thee or let I come. Just as I am hand waiting not to raise. With my soul of one dark lots to the whose blood can cleanse each part. I come Just as I am the talks with many are conflicts. Canyon Sands within with our tone. Just as I poor red blind, sight riches. Uh the mind, y