Open your Bibles once again to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 5 through 15. Today we conclude our series on spiritual leadership. What does it mean to be a spiritual leader? To lead people toward God. What is involved in that? To work and labor for God's church. What is one supposed to be like? The first eight lessons have already instructed us well this month to be a spiritual leader. The Apostle Paul has said in this text means, first of all, to be a servant, servant of God, a servant of other people. A servant, secondly, furthering the faith, Christian faith, being used by God to disciple others And to win them to the faith. It means, thirdly, to be a minister appointed by God. The very ministries that we have are appointed and given by God, who ordains ministry, calls people to ministry. and equips them. It means fourth to be a worker relying completely on God's power, not on human ingenuity It means fifth to be a team worker, sixth to be a paid worker, one rewarded by Christ, seventh a hard worker, and eighth a wise builder. Those last three lessons in particular, the paid worker, hard worker, and wise builder, continue today as we concentrate on the very end of this passage. In verses 12 through 15. But let's read the entire passage to gain the context once again. What then is Apollos and what is Paul's servants through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave opportunity to each one? I planted, Apollos watered, but God was causing the growth. So then neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything but God who causes the growth. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field, God's building. According to the grace of God which was given to me like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it. For no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid Which is Jesus Christ. And here's where we'll pick up today. Now, if any man builds on the foundation with gold, silver precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident. For the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire. And the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss. But he himself will be saved. Yet so as through fire. We have two more crucial lessons, I believe, maybe the most consequential of all the lessons we've learned so far about spiritual leadership to take up and consider this morning. We come ninth to this lesson. A spiritual leader is an accountable builder. A spiritual leader is an accountable builder. That's what verses 12 and 13 tell us. Those two verses go together. Now if any man builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire And the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. Each man is accountable to God in what he builds. Now those two verses go together, and I want you to see this. The main sentence, the main thought really of verses 12 and 13, which glues the two verses together syntactically, is found at the beginning of verse 13. Please notice it, where it says, each man's work will become evident. Evident is the noun phanaros. It means to manifest so that it becomes clear to everybody. Now if you back up to verse 12, notice it answers the question, what work then will be made manifest? And the answer is the building work The building work that is done on the foundation which is Jesus Christ. Remember this building Paul is referencing here is the local church at Corinth. single building built on the foundation which is the doctrine about Christ. And who is it who is doing this building work here? Paul simply writes, each man Remember that in this context, each man refers to each spiritual builder, each spiritual leader in God's church, primarily as the context has already shown us the church teachers and preachers of the Word of God, much like Paul and Apollos. And when are they doing their building? Well notice the present tense of the phrase, if anyone is building, that assumes Building construction is indeed going on in the present during the church age on God's house But it is the quality of the builder's work in that in the present that will be made evident in the future When and how will the building the man's building work be made evident? Well that's the last part of verse 13. When? He says the day will show it. The day will make it clear. Clear is a synonym of the word manifest. It is the verb dela'o. It just means that, to make clear, to delineate, to mark it out as obvious. Someday then in the future, the building work in the present each man is doing will be made manifest and will be made clear. The last question and the important one for this morning is, how will it be revealed? How will it be made clear? Well, it is made clear on a certain day, but the answer to the question is it is made clear by fire. Fire. The scripture says here that fire will reveal the quality of each man's work. And now we encounter even a third word similar to manifest and make clear, and it is the verb apocalypto, to reveal, to uncover. We get our word apocalypse. unveiling and uncovering from this word. So if we put all of that information as verses twelve and thirteen tie together and put all of that together Paul is teaching that there are other spiritual builders besides himself and besides Apollos who have come and will come to Corinth and by extension to any other local church. After the foundation was laid by the apostle, that is the foundation of Christ, but each one of these leaders needs to make sure that he is using the best kind of building materials That they build with quality because there is an accountability day for all builders. On that day, the quality of everything that is constructed in this present life will be made clear, will be manifest, will be revealed by fire. We may not always know now in the present who is building properly. Who is doing spiritual building correctly? But because of this future fire, everyone will know then. There will be no doubt about it. There will be no guessword. So the fire and understanding this fire is the key here. This future fire is important to knowing the quality of the spiritual builder's work. Notice again, he writes that it will be revealed with fire. Literally, that is en puri, in fire, or by fire, in the instrumental sense of the date of case, by means of fire, that is The fire will burn something, and as it burns something, it will reveal it to be what it is, indeed. It's not that it'll turn it into something that it's not now. It's that it will reveal it to be what it already is. It is the test. We must be careful then in what we do. We also have to be careful in interpreting what Paul means by fire in this context. Sometimes we read something And something else we've read in Scripture comes to our mind and we take that thought and we impose that in a context that's foreign there. And we could do that with elements and symbols and be wrong. Sometimes fire means one thing in Scripture in one place and another thing in another place. Just like the scripture may talk about light as a symbol or wind or water or other elements. The context is most important. Context. Not pre-understanding always rules in correct Bible interpretation. As we survey the usufier in Scripture, we learn a number of interesting things. Fire is used, obviously, to consume things like God's adversaries. In 2 Kings chapter 1, for example. We read of Elijah who repeatedly called down fire from heaven to consume the troops of fifty men who had come from the king to arrest him They said, Man of God, come down from the hill. And Elijah said, Well, if I am a man of God, then let fire come down out of the heavens and consume you. And it did. And so he is called the prophet of fire. Leviticus chapter 10, verses 1 and 2, I'll read to you. Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective fire pans, and after putting fire in them, placed incense on it, and offered strange fire before the Lord which God had not commanded them. And fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. There's the consuming, destructive power of God's fire. Fire, however, is used in another sense, and that is to purify something or to refine something, to bring out its better quality, for example, in Revelation 3. 18 Jesus told the church, I advise you to buy for me gold refined by fire, the better kind of gold that fire refines, removes all the impurities out of it. And because it is a purifying element and it is most powerful, fire is also used in Scripture to denote the divine presence. Where God is, fire is. Fire comes and shows this is the presence of God. The Israelites by day followed a pillar that was a cloud, and at night they followed a pillar of what Of fire through the wilderness. The fire indicated the very presence of God. The burning bush that Moses encountered in the wilderness, which never consumed the bush but kept on burning, is another example of the holy and purifying presence of God. There of course is the fire most to be feared, and that is eternal fire, the fires of Gehenna or Hell, the lake of fire which burns forever and ever, which is real. Revelation 20 speaks so clearly of that. Jesus called that same fire in Mark 9. 43 an unquenchable fire. It will burn on for all of eternity, a fire that everybody ought to fear, and not want to end up in that fire because it is a real fire. But that's not the context of 1 Corinthians chapter 3. So, what is this fire? Well, notice specifically what the fire does Last part of verse 13, what does it say? The fire tests the quality of each man's work. It does not punish the man, notice. The man doing the work, the builder, is not burned or consumed or refined or chastised here. He's not singed at all. So this is not hell fire in this context. The building that he has built, that is the thing that might be consumed by the fire, depending on the kind of materials he has used Notice, too, that the fire will not affect at all the foundation that the Apostle Paul laid, only what might be built on top of that foundation. Fire obviously can quickly destroy certain kinds of building material while not burning or consuming others. And so fire tests the quality of construction. First Peter chapter one and verse seven also mentions fire as a test in a different sense, so that the proof of your faith, Peter writes there, being more precious than gold, which is is perishable even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ. The idea of testing by fire is seen also in Zechariah chapter thirteen and verse nine The image of this fire burning in a building would have been as plain to the Corinthians as it is to our mind Fires would periodically spread through the slums of Greek cities where shacks were in abundance and would quickly consume all of them. Garland and his wonderful commentary Just puts it succinctly, the supreme test for a building in Hellenistic city was fire. Now notice that Paul lists six building materials in verse 12. Six building materials. I think these are listed in from the costliest down to the cheapest. The most expensive is gold. The cheapest would have been straw. But it is not the cost or the value that Paul stresses in this context, but its ability to endure the fire. Indeed, the better the material, usually the more costly, and also it would endure, so they would work together. So to fit the illustration, they are logically divided here into two groups of materials. The first group that is listed would have three, and they would all stand the fire. That is, the fire might rage, but it would do nothing to consume the gold, the silver, or the precious stones. These are inflammable, and they will endure any fire. By the way, precious stones is either a reference to jewels that were used to adorn temples in those days. You can read 2 Chronicles chapter 3 and verse 6 where Solomon adorned the house of God, the temple, with precious stones. They were also used in other kinds of temples from pagans. They wanted to give their very best to the deity that they worshipped, and so they'd bring in costly stones and decorate them. Isaiah 54 verses 11 and 12 also make reference to this practice, as does Revelation 21-9, where it says, the foundation stones of the city wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone. However, the image may, since we're dealing with construction here, and many feel this is true here, reference precious stones as a building material, that is, precious granite or precious marble. Also costly, but also very valuable for construction. Literally the word just means valuable stones, and it could mean Now in Corinth there was the temple of Apollo that we referenced last time, and it did have marble that was built in its base, particularly and in other areas. Well, either way, it is an element along with gold and silver that will endure the test of the fire. Then Paul lists three materials that certainly will not endure fire. Wood Pay for stubble and straw. These also are obviously cheaper They're flimsier for construction. They don't work that well. But those things, again, are not what the Apostle Paul is stressing, but rather, will they last fire? And the main point here obviously is that those elements are quite flammable and will consume quickly. Wood, zoolas, it was used for the door posts. And the door itself. Hay Quartos was dried grass mixed with mud. They'd used that to fill in the walls and straw. Calame is not the same as a reed. It was a stalk of grain after the ears had been cut off. It was sometimes used for roof, we'd say thatched roofs. It was used for that in construction. Now Paul himself may have had the image of the temple of God in his mind as he listed these materials. The first three materials are fitting to God's temple, the last three would not befitting for the temple, but might be used in ordinary homes around Corinth built that way. Those might be acceptable for an ordinary home, but not acceptable for the temple of God. And since the foundation, again, to stress that, is sure to pass the test through the fire, that is the doctrine of Christ, the point would be that the wise builder is one who would use only materials on top of that solid foundation that are compatible in quality with that foundation Jesus Christ is laid down, build now on that foundation, and with the same kind of building materials. Only those kinds of materials that are fitting to the excellent foundation will endure the fire. will stand the test. Now given the analogy, what do you think the building materials themselves represent? I'll tell you, the building materials do not represent our talents or our spiritual gifts, which God is not going to destroy, and it doesn't fit the context anyway. Nor do the building materials represent people that will be consumed in the fire. But more accurately, from the context again, the foundation of the Corinthian church was Jesus Christ, and what that means here is not that Jesus Christ visited the church at Corinth, but that the doctrine of Christ was laid down. The teaching about Jesus Christ was foundational to the church. They had to receive the gospel about Jesus Christ for there even to be a church at Corinth. And since the foundation is the teaching doctrine about Christ, then the building materials here to fit the context are also continuous teaching. The builder is the teacher or the spiritual leader in the local church who does his work now in the present And many present teachers may look at their work in the present and they may say, I like what I'm teaching, I like what I'm doing I think what I've done is good enough, but Paul wants them to understand that the final evaluation will not be done by them. It will be done by God. And he will test it with fire. Holy, divine fire. And that fire really won't care what someone else thinks about the quality. The fire will just come in And it will test it and consume it, or it will stand. Doesn't matter the opinions of other people about whether that was a job well done or not. The reality of the fire will test everything. See, I believe there are many teachers who think in their own hearts that they sincerely are doing a good job for God. That they believe they're being faithful to solid biblical doctrine. But what they teach will not pass the test of God's scrutiny. Because it's off base. It doesn't square with that foundation, Jesus Christ. It's not teaching that is worthy of his glory. That doesn't mean that these teachers are completely false teachers. No. Indeed, it talks about them being saved, so they're not heretics, they're not denying the gospel, they're not denying essential Christian doctrine such as the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Or his death on the cross. No. Their error is not to that extent. They are not false teachers like that. They're still going to be saved, verse 15 says. But what this saved teacher or leader of a local church taught wasn't solid enough. It wasn't good enough of doctrine through and through to last, to do anything of constructive value for the kingdom of God. And so it didn't build the church properly. It may have looked good, but God will test it. And time will tell. The fire will tell. Remember, this is what Paul has been warning the Corinthians about. That worldly wisdom he's been talking about in chapter 1, and chapter 2, and in chapter 3, it's been on his mind all the way through. These Corinthians had a divisive spirit, and behind that was their Their trust and their valuing of human worldly wisdom in the way they presented it. You may remember from chapter 1, verse 19, Paul quoted the Old Testament where God said, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. I'm going to destroy all of it. Well, here are the references to fire In 1 Corinthians 2, at the beginning, Paul said, When I came to you, brethren, you Corinthians, I didn't come with superiority of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. That was the solid rock foundation. And Paul really has not let go of that theme yet in his mind It is the central theme of the first three chapters of 1 Corinthians. Even look forward in chapter 3 to verses 18 to 20, and you see he's still thinking about it. Look at verse 18. Let no man deceive himself If any man among you thinks that he is wise in this age, he must become foolish, so that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God For it is written, He is the one who catches the wise in their craftiness, and again the Lord knows the reasonings of the wise that they are useless It's going to be burned up. It's useless. If someone thinks they're doing a good job for God, they need to become fools, fools in the sense of fools for Christ and the cross. So they'll say something of value that will last. Those who rely on worldly wisdom, on research of the day and age, as it sometimes is called And they incorporate that into their ministry and they think that way and rely on that and advance that in their ministry, teaching poorly and relying on human thinking. are building worthless material on top of a solid foundation, and God certainly will not accept it. So the teacher in church should always be asking, is my teaching and my example, my doctrine Something that squares with the gospel of Jesus Christ, the meaning of the cross, and is worthy of Jesus Christ? Or am I mixing in worldly material? The good stuff here, brothers and sisters, represents truth. Right doctrine The wisdom from God about the cross. The whole context has reference to preachers and their duties and how Paul preached true wisdom and his example. Flimsy worldly doctrine symbolized, I think rightly, by wood, hay, and straw, easily consumed, gold, silver, precious stones, doctrines worthy of Jesus Christ, worthy of or or adorning the temple of God, lasting through the fire. John Calvin so eloquently comments here. It follows, on the other hand, that by wood, stubble, and hay is meant doctrine not answering to the foundation. such as is forged in men's brain, and is thrust in upon us as though it were the oracles of God. For God will have his church trained up by the pure preaching of his own word, not by the contrivances of men Did they have secret people in his day? The founder's study guide commentary says, Paul's words have a blunt application to the minister or Christian worker of today who uses smooth, bland words to charm his people rather than to instill deep godliness in them. Such a person is more concerned for human approval and recognition than for divine acceptance He may be a believer, but he need expect no reward for his unfaithful performance. Beloved, there is a day when all things will become evident That is built-in and immediate accountability. Anybody who knows that knows they have all the accountability they need for what they're saying and how they are living. God's building will meet a code. There will be an evaluation, and the inspector who's going to show up at that construction site is going to light a fire to see what lasts. And so every spiritual leader is totally accountable for everything he does. Second Corinthians five ten, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Romans 2. 16 says of judgment day is the time where God will judge the secrets of men's hearts. Even their motive will be evaluated. Now people debate. Yeah, they debate. Everybody's debating. There are so many books out there, it gives me a headache. How to do church, so many seminars. And the debate just goes on and on But then there'll be no debate. Everything will be revealed. Now people can argue. Then only what is truly biblical will stand. The fact that all the work of Christian workers will be made evident, I just think is the greatest accountability to my ministry. You grab a hold of that, I don't need anyone to look over my shoulders if I know God Almighty and His holy fire is. But we should we should provide accountability for one another, encourage each other. But if you understand that, that's all you need Biblical fidelity and Christ-honoring ministries today are not the result of stubborn, stuck-in-the-mud Christians. They are the result of people who have holy fear of that evaluation day. And they're not going to change. You're a spiritual leader. Do you ever pick up the Word of God in any venue in the church, even casually, and you teach the Word of God to a new convert, to a small group Bible study in a seminar, over the phone to someone who asks questions. You need to be careful what you say. You need to make sure what you say isn't just following what happens to be said today, but you're making sure what you say is what God says Doesn't matter how sincere you are. Doesn't matter how many years you've been in church. Doesn't matter how many other pastors say the same thing you do. It has to square with what's right here Your spiritual leader has to square with what is right here. If I want to know the mind of Christ, what Christ is going to use to evaluate, this is the only book I have that reveals to me now the mind of Christ so that I know then how my words and my work are going to be judged today. Does that make sense? There's obviously so much application here. I had to reel myself in greatly I'll just give a few. We leaders need an acute awareness of God's accountability in all we do, obviously. Our consciences need to be trained to understand we will stand Each one of us before Christ and give account for what we say. There won't be anything, well, I he told me to say. That didn't work in the garden. When Adam tried to blame the woman, it's not going to work then. Every sermon, every doctrine we teach must pass the test of being biblical. Not church traditions, not popular opinions, not the pressure of what people want to hear, Brother Quincy reading about tickling of the ears they want in the end time. Just be true to the Word of God. That's the way to know you're going to be commended by Christ and receive that reward we talked about. A second application. The evaluation of our works quality is not now You don't drive by a church, see how big it is, how big or full the parking lot is, how beautiful the building is, how nice the sign is, how many advertisements they have in the community, and conclude from that, ah There's a church that will stand the test of God's fire. Not at all. Has nothing to do with that. Nor do you drive by a little rinky-dink church and go, look at that little church. Might be a lot of gold in there. You don't know. I don't know How dreadful for those who have such large followings only to see it as a giant pile of fodder for a great blaze on Judgment Day. Huge embarrassment to the preacher. Churches which attract large numbers but do not do what Christ said and preach what Christ preached. They don't practice church discipline. They don't require holiness and obedience from their people. They don't teach the doctrines well. They don't rely on the power of the Holy Spirit They don't instill a love of truth and a hatred for error. What's going to be left of their homes, their temples that they built? A third application. It keeps us from judging in an ultimate sense each other now. Just look forward a moment to 1 Corinthians 4. 5. We're getting to this and I'll emphasize that then. But it says, therefore do not go on passing judgment before the time. But wait until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the things hidden in the darkness and disclose the motives of men's hearts, and then each man's praise will come to him from God. We are responsible to God. He's the one who hired us. We're his servant. And he will render the correct judgment. We don't need to be judging each other now. We certainly are allowed to judge doctrines. What comes out of the mouth, is that biblical or not? We not only are allowed to do that, we are commanded to do that, or the doctrines worthy of Christ. We're certainly allowed to judge the words of teachers and the actions of people. Christ taught us to do that if they clearly violate or affirm Scripture. But how we or they will be assessed in total in the end, we can never know until that day. Because there's only one who can judge thoroughly, and that's Christ. I may see someone in another church and they may be saying some things that are clearly not biblical. Can I say, I'm not going to imitate that, I'm not going to do that. That's fine. But I cannot judge or evaluate what has happened in their life, what their motives are, what struggles they've been through, how they're serving Christ, what other things they're doing that I don't hear. That is a judgment that God alone will do. And neither can anyone else fully evaluate you and me. But the main application of all of this, after having said that, is really back in verse 10 where he says Be careful how you build. Take heed how you build. Pick the very best materials to build with. Don't do your work in church second rate. And of course, have the right motives in ministry. Be pleasing to Christ, faithful to his word, righteous in life, spreading the love of the Lord Jesus Christ by action, not just by word. Practice the right conduct as a minister. Keep yourself free from the stain of sin. And speak and preach and teach the right doctrine. Build carefully. Get the word right. I think that's the main application. Well, tenth and last, a spiritual leader is not only an accountable builder, but an eternal builder. An eternal builder. And that's in verses fourteen and fifteen. If any man's work which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss. But he himself will be saved yet so as through fire. I think here we reach the climax of the passage. Climax of verses five through fifteen. It leads up to this. And Paul's leading them to the future, to that final day, and he says there's going to be two outcomes. There are going to be some who are rewarded. And there are going to be some who suffer loss. And those are the two outcomes. And they're both future, future effects, future consequences. And again, the sole criteria to determine who is rewarded and who suffers loss Is the fire. That's it. That's the only thing. The fire The fire is going to burn. The fire is going to roar through the building project. It's going to consume all the wood, the hay, and the straw or stubble. It's material not worthy of the foundation of Christ. But anything that endures the fire, there will be the reward. Now, unfortunately, I have to take a few moments to point out that there's been a general misuse of these verses here among evangelicals Many have read these verses and taught from it that a person can get saved, have all their sins forgiven, be saved and safe in the sight of God. Between them and an unbeliever. They look the same, talk the same, smell the same, act the same. There's no fruit of the Spirit in their life, no love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, etc. He just lived and acted like an unbeliever and died and there was no fruit and God consumed all of that, but he still got saved. In other words, not a slightly or mildly carnal Christian, but a Christian who is thoroughly corrupt, not a Christian who may have committed some terrible act in life, but one who lived that way all of his life. All of that is a wrong use of these verses. Again, it just ignores the context as I've labored to show here. This is about leadership. This is about spiritual leadership and teachers in the local church. This is not about individual Christians and how they live. There will be an evaluation of every Christian and how they live. The judgment seat of Christ talks about that in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. That is not what this is talking about. about. What is burned up is the shoddy spiritual construction, the shoddy discipleship work, the shoddy pastoral work, the shoddy teaching that they did. This does not deny that these men had some spiritual fruit, that is, characteristics in their lives They certainly must have showed some kind of love. John writes in 1 John 4, 7 and 8 that he who does not love doesn't even know God, has no relationship with God. So they had some fruit in their life. So these are truly saved church leaders who show fruit in their personal lives. They might not be spiritual giants. But they certainly showed love. They had some of the joy of Christ in them. They were saved. They had the Spirit of God in them. They showed some fruit. But they were not careful leaders. They were not careful with their doctrine. They were sloppy in their Bible study. They made wrong assumptions as they came to text of Scripture. They taught poorly when they were supposed to teach strongly. They were weak. So again, this speaks of reward or loss of saved Christian workers. The reward we've already encountered back in verse 8. There are the wages that Christ pays on top of the grace we already have. He gives us grace wages that we earn by our particular acts. The reward speaks of specific pay for specific work done well for the Lord. It's a promise, it's a guarantee, and it's to motivate us in the present to work hard for Christ. And to suffer loss here, then in contrast to the reward, means to suffer a real loss. Christian workers will suffer a real loss. It's exactly what it says. What will he lose? Well he will not lose his salvation. It says in verse 15 he'll be saved, right? This is not about losing salvation. He's not losing his relationship to God. He's not losing his standing with God. What does he lose? He loses the work that he did for the Lord. He loses the effect of it. It doesn't last. It wasn't built properly, the the faith that he was building was not correct, the people were not guided properly, he loses that. His hard work and his labor that maybe even in his mind he thought what he was doing correctly, the time he put into it. All of the energy was for not. He might have been really very dedicated, but he didn't do it properly. He didn't build it right His work is katakayo, burned up, burned up in a flame. None of it lasts. However, because of the love of God, saving grace still clings to his life. He himself will be saved. That's the normal verb to indicate spiritual salvation. And he is guaranteed. Guaranteed that. Salvation is all of the grace of the Lord. And that is never in doubt for the true believer. Once you were saved, you were always saved. But he will be saved, did you notice, as through fire. Well, it's not the fire of eternal judgment, because that's not salvation, that's judgment. Some Catholics might use this verse to teach the doctrine of purgatory. See, he has to die and then go through long fire of thousands of years to consume and purify him. But please notice the people are not burned here. People are never burned here. Don't say anything about the people being burned here. This is not the cleansing of the soul by fire after death It's the consumption of poor work done by poor spiritual leaders. There's no such thing as purgatory in the Bible anyway We're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Once you're completely saved that way, there's no need for any purifying after that. The blood of Christ has made you completely And it's all done apart from any works that we do. Romans 3. 28, we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. You see, no good works have anything to do with our salvation. Romans 4, 5, but to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. That's the gospel. That's the good news. And all of our sins are removed by the death of Christ, so there's no refining fire after death of any kind anyway At death, a person is either eternally lost or eternally saved. Hebrews 9. 27 is appointed for men to die once, and after that comes what? Judgment. Well then why does Paul write that he will be saved as through fire? Well, that just fits the image that he's been creating of the building. Here's the man and he's been working and it's he's he's built everything up and then the fire starts sweeping through his building and he realized this thing is going up in a flame and what does he do? He rushes out of there, maybe with the smell of smoke on him, but no singe on him. And he looks back and he stands there in horror as this thing that he's worked on maybe for years and years and years is just consumed and it's burned and Well have you ever looked into the face of someone who's just watched their house burn? Down. Have you ever seen the shock in their face? Maybe they're very thankful that they got out alive. That might be the first thought. They look for their children, their wife. Everyone is safe. Good. Thank God for that. But then the realization that everything they owned, all their memories that were contained in the house, all the work that they had, it's just consumed, it's burned, it's gone, and it's like, what do we do now? So they walked through the ashes, they began to say, well, we'll start over. We'll build it again. We'll just build another home. We'll start all over, honey. He tells his wife, let's let's just get going. Let's call the insurance. Do what we need to do Brothers and sisters, after Christ consumes the building that spiritual workers have worked on, there's not going to be another chance to start over as on earth. We can do that here. There's not going to be any chance then to start over. What's done is done. The life is over. The work was either done well for the Lord or it wasn't. Now's the time where the work has to be done well. The warning is for today, not then. It's what are you doing with your life now? How are you ministering now? What are you teaching now? Does it square with Christ now? It's either yes or it's no. And if it's no, it'll be no for eternity. That's it. There's no more. Now's the time to work fervently for God and Christ and to do it right. Picture the future with me. There's the man. He's been a missionary in Muslim lands, tough place. His life has been on the line. He's witnessed for Christ. He called Christ the Son of God, God in human flesh, which Islam vehemently denies. He has a few converts around him, he dies, he goes to be with heaven, and he brings all of that gold for his faithfulness to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's presented to the Lord, it passes the fires, the test of fire, and Christ says, Well done, my good and faithful. Serve. Alas, but look over there in the future. There's another one who's coming before the throne of Christ. He's a world-renowned evangelist. He's been faithful to preach the gospel to many people. Millions have heard, thousands have been saved. Praise God for his work. But oh, he became confused in his doctrine and he began saying Jesus Christ is not the only way to God the Father. And he began confusing churches and giving people false hope And now he stands and everyone thinks he's going to get this tremendous reward. And look at all that fire that consumes a lot of what he said and did. And how sad the shock of that. What a grave mistake he made somewhere along in his ministry. Ah, there's that American pastor, fresh back from an exciting pastor's conference. Rubbing his hands together, can't wait to call the deacons together. Let's get this new thing going here at our church. He has a heart to reach the lost, but lo, he's abandoned the preaching of Scripture. That's outdated now. People don't listen to that anymore. He found out at the seminar. Now his church starts to be full of people, and he he feels that's that's confirmation from the Lord. Look at all these people. But alas, the day is coming, and he's constructing a lot of straw, and it will be burned up. See it go up in smoke. Now look at the face of the minister. How foolish he feels. How unbelief crept into his ministry. He wasn't a careful builder. The application again here for leaders is enormous. I could keep you here another hour. Gordon Fiend's commentary has a great quote. This text has singular relevance to the contemporary church. It is one of the most significant passages in the New Testament that warn and encourage those responsible for building the Church of Christ. It is unfortunately possible for people to attempt to build the church out of every imaginable human system predicated on merely worldly wisdom, be it philosophy pop psychology, managerial techniques, relational good feelings, or what have you. But at the final judgment all such building will be shown for what it is something merely human. with no character of Christ or His gospel in it. But the good news of the passage is that one does not need to build badly. That which has the character of the foundation, Jesus Christ crucified and risen, will not only survive any present hour of testing, but will enter the final judgment as a glorious church And those responsible for such building will receive their due reward, which in itself is an expression of grace. Charles Hodge from a generation ago writes, It is not enough, therefore, that a minister hold fast to fundamental truth. He must take heed what he teaches in connection with that truth. If he mingles with it the wood, hay, and stubble of his own philosophy, he will find himself a loser on the day of judgment Paul Barnett in Focus on the Bible writes, Ours is an age preoccupied with style and appearance rather than substance, which has affected the life of the church and the ministry. This is the day of creating ambiance, of TV style presentation, of management systems, of pop psychology. It is not so much that we ministers today are heretical or outright unbelievers, but that we so easily fail to teach the plain truth about Jesus. Because we are success-driven and failure shy, we apply all manner of sugar coating to the rich almond that is the true message. In the end, it gets down to this, he writes, whose approval do we really seek? Christ's or those around us? So contained in one passage we have a message of hope for people who want to build correctly. Great motivation. And a message of warning to those who just think by the numbers and popularity that they're doing right. I think we at Hope Bible Church have more than the hope of looking forward to seeing Christ return, which is the greatest hope, the singular hope, but along with it is the hope of receiving reward if we remain faithful, if our teaching is a very important thing to do. We do it earnestly. Let your coming entrance into eternity control your decision making. in the present. Does it? Does it control what you do and what you say? If you presently are a leader here at Hope Bible Church, I think this calls for a tremendous evaluation of all that you do, particularly your teaching You need to get from this passage this truth that you need to judge everything you're teaching by the sole source you have for knowing the mind of Christ, as I said before, the Holy Scriptures. And please, in your teaching, be rigorous in your evaluation of self. If you are a spiritual leader or you're thinking about being a spiritual leader, I think it also says this to us. You need to be willing and eager to receive training to be the best kind of spiritual leader that you can be. You cannot accept what you are learning on Sunday morning alone as good enough training. There's far too much to learn, far too much to be trained in, to just treat it as this is it, and so I'm trained and I'm ready. Is your theology thoroughly accurate? Do you have truly a strong biblical philosophy of ministry Are you applying it consistently in what you do? How well are your study preparation times? How rich is your prayer time alone with God before your study time? What training are you opening yourself up to give now? And who are your teachers and what are they saying to you? Because you're absorbing that. Any serious teacher of the Word of God must have a certain amount of knowledge. He must commit himself to training something of the original languages of Scripture. Studying biblical history, church history, the themes of the books of the Bible, key words, key chapters, theological definitions, the flow of grammar and a thought of passage Newest archaeological finds, biblical geography, how to do word studies, what right theological resources to use Applying proper hermeneutics to every different literary genre in Scripture, knowing about the threat of the cults and how they twist scripture, false religions, and then how to lead, how to use that word in counseling and teaching and preaching Whatever God calls you to. In rediscovering pastoral ministry, Dr. Erv Business, one of my professors, in fact, he's my Hebrew professor. Right, so there is a price of preparation to pay. No shortcuts exist in the training for the pastoral ministry. Only persistent prayer, hard work, and focused perseverance will do An undying commitment to be a man of God equipped for every good work. That applies in lesser degrees to anyone leading anything. To all of our developing leaders or those thinking about it, I commend to you our basic leadership training class, which is just that, a basic leadership training class we covered in eight months. We study personal devotions. We cover spiritual disciplines, family discipleship, church doctrine, philosophy of ministry, leadership qualifications, leadership characteristics, Bible study skills, and a deeper grasp of the gospel. And then we have a track system built on top of that. The deacons who study how to do a ministry with excellence, the women who try to understand all that God says for godly women in the present age and what the scriptures say about that small group tract to apply the word of God and in prayer to shepherd people within the church, an elder track which goes beyond the others and It requires mastering all the basics of theology, how to analyze a text of Scripture, taking heed to their family and their life, learning to have a disciplined approach to ministry. And maybe for a few of you, for a couple of you, God will tap you on the shoulder and you'll follow the path that Brother George and soon Brother Quincy is to follow, and that is seminary. Seminary is received A few hard knocks from local churches and if they don't understand what it is, they don't understand its value. Just think of seminary as local churches getting together and trying to provide the most intense kind of leadership training that they possibly can for young men who are going to spend their lives called by God in ministry. That's what it is. The demands in seminary are much greater than the demands in the local church. The studies are much more intense. The analysis of a person's family and life under greater scrutiny throughout the whole process. They're required to master a certain body of divine truth and to know it But the dividends for them are also greater as they make sacrifices. I think that we, as a local church, also need to be committed to have the best training center we possibly can be and Lord willing when there are other churches of like mind and believe like we do that we can pool together with them and resources and extend our ability to train other people in this area. Yes, Lord willing maybe even a Bible institute if God so blesses. To train you, to give you the best training that you can. We already make our DVDs from the Master's Seminary available. We have 15 men going out to the Shepherd's Conference. We have a Shepherd's website that has a bunch of information to help leaders get ready. partner with uh Nank in a sense that we're s beginning to send people off to the biblical counselors to have them train. We we have CDs that we bring back from the Shepherd's Conference. We're trying to bring in as many of these things as we can to train as many of you that feel that you want to Serve God and serve Him well so that you can have the best possible training. Yes, even some of you that are younger, and get po get properly trained so you can spend the life building And your building can count for something, and you're excited about what you're doing, and you see the effect of it in other people's lives And then just even the construction into every home to make sure the men are men of God in their homes and they're teaching the Word of God well and setting a good example so they're not blowing their opportunities what's in their home right there. These are our goals. This is what we want to do as Hope Bible Church. And I just want to ask you as we conclude this series, be praying for that Be praying for those goals, be praying for those programs, be praying for the people involved in it. Make it an earnest, earnest prayer of yours. The future, as I said, the future of our church depends on all of our leaders and what they are like and what God is going to do through them and through their teaching. Amen. Let's uh close our service in prayer. Almighty God, we look at an enormous task and we're reminded once again. That we're not the ones that matter as much as you. We just need to yield ourselves to you and receive power from you. Stick to the blueprint. Do what you've told us to do. There are weak and feeble knees in our congregation, Lord. We pray you strengthen them. There are wandering hearts that don't want to do what you're calling them to do. And Lord, we pray that you bring them back. There are those that have started and they're they're wondering now if they can finish, if they can complete. Lord, help them to see the joy and the rewards and strengthen their resolve to press forward to the very end, to finish the building project. Lord, there are those that are right now ministering faithfully. They're giving time up. They're studying. Give them joy. Lord, give them through the Holy Spirit That sense of joy in their heart that they know that they're doing what's right and they look forward to the future