Open your Bibles for a second time to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 5 through 15, as we continue. Our series on spiritual leadership, you can get part one on a CD from the CD ministry in the back Last time I mentioned that understanding spiritual leadership has value not just for the leaders of a local church, but for all of us because we're connected to them. And as we enter the year 2007 We must, I believe, earnestly desire to have godly, strong leaders who will work and labor for the benefit of God's church Spiritual leadership is no small issue for the local church. It is so important to all that we do in the future of our ministry. It's a topic we need to take quite seriously. We begin today by reading the text once again, starting with verse 5. Paul writes, What then is Apollos and what is Paul? Servants through whom you believe. Even as the Lord gave opportunity to each one. I planted, Hollis watered, but God was causing the growth. So then neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything but God who causes the growth. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building. According to the grace of God which was given to me like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it. For no man may lay can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man builds on the foundation with gold, silver precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evidence, for the day will show it because it is to be revealed with fire. And the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss But he himself will be saved yet so as through fire. Now in our first message we learned four lessons on spiritual leadership. Do you remember them if you were with us last week? We concentrated on verses five through seven last time, and these are the four. I'll just give them quickly for everyone's sake and review. First, a spiritual leader is a servant. First thing that is characterized there in verse five. Notice A servant. In other words, in comparison to God, all human leaders are not really all that important. We just, as servants, servants in God's church, need to do the master's will, keep a humble view of ourselves. Serve God's people well, rely on Him. We are His servants. The second leadership, spiritual leadership lesson we learned last time is that we are servants, and what are we doing? We are furthering faith. Just as God used Paul and Apollos there to build up the Corinthians, so also spiritual leaders are used by God to lead people to saving faith. And then after they embrace the Christian faith, the salvation of the souls, then they are to be strengthened in faith by spiritual leaders No one is a spiritual leader unless, of course, he is leading spiritually. And to lead spiritually, one must help others mature in their faith, in their Christianity. to grow in their walk with God. We mentioned also very particularly that fathers ought to be excelling in spiritual leadership in their homes. They are the spiritual leaders of their homes. The third lesson we learned last time is that a spiritual leader is a minister who is appointed by God. There are callings by God. He calls them to certain specific ministries. God is the one who has to grant a ministry. He grants the opportunity. He grants the power. He grants the fruit in that ministry. If you have a ministry, it's because God gave it to you. We are appointed by God to our ministries. Preachers are called to their pulpits to proclaim God's word, and every spiritual leader is called to his position by God. He is given spiritual gifts, spiritual equipment, so to say, so he'd be ready to do all that God would have him to do, and to do it well. The fourth lesson that we learned last time is that spiritual leader is a worker relying on God's power. We should have a sense of inadequacy whenever we're engaged in spiritual work because we cannot Grant faith to anybody. We cannot cause them to obey. We cannot help their faith to grow. We can't do any of those things. We have to appeal that God will work mightily through His Word, through our example, through our prayers and intercessions for them as well. We want to stay focused on God and have a God-centered ministry, a God-driven ministry, a God-empowered ministry, any kind of a man-centered ministry misunderstands spiritual ministry altogether. And now we come to verse 8 today. Verse 8, and you can focus on that. In verse 8, we're going to just focus on one lesson today. Paul is Continuing on the theme of a servant, we might say that Paul employs servants in the area of agriculture and construction to serve as an illustration for what he really wants to teach about, and that is spiritual leadership. So in the remaining part of this passage, from verse 8 all the way down, we're going to learn a lot of lessons. I'll give you a bit of a preview. That there's a lot of labor involved in ministry. It's hard work, just as construction work, the image of that brings up in our minds how hard that would be. Just as you think about working out in a field as a farmer, as one who plants or waters, that's hard work. We're going to talk about spiritual leadership being hard labor. Also Notice that it talks about rewards, rewards in ministry, and we're going to get to that also. Continues the theme of lowliness, of ourselves as workers. But also that we need to be very careful how we work, to do our work well, because we're accountable to the master of the building project, and he is going to evaluate everything that we build. And of course, that means also that there are eternal consequences to our labor. These are great lessons, and I'm eager to preach on all of these, but we're going to get to most of those in the weeks to follow Because today I want to expand our study of leadership a little bit for our own purposes, which is to look at the leadership of Hope Bible Church and how it ought to be. I want to take this passage and use the beginning of verse 8 to read that, explain that, and then to broaden out what we need to learn, to go beyond this passage and do a theological expansion of the topic of church. I want to take you around the New Testament. I want you to see what some of the verses teach about that. I just want to do a theological expansion of what The New Testament teaches about church leadership, and then we're going to apply that particularly to the situation here at Hope Bible Church. Expansion and application. That's what I want to do today. In other words, God really picks different kinds of leaders and he brings them to a local church and he empowers them and gifts them, and it should be our desire to understand what God is doing and how he operates. To understand our church as well. So we're going to do this expansion in the context of lesson number five. Here's lesson number five. It's the only one we get to today. You can write it down. A spiritual leader is A team worker. A spiritual leader is a team worker. He says it there so simply at the beginning of verse 8, right? Now he who plants and he who waters are. What do you have there? One. They are one. They're doing different work, but they're doing the same work. They have different responsibilities, but they're a team. Now granted, that is a very simple statement, but the implications and the applications of this are quite broad. Let's just think about the agricultural picture Paul has in mind of his servant's work first. Because we learned some profound and practical lessons about leadership here. The planter. You ever been planting? You ever gone out into a field to actually do the backbreaking work of planting? If you're doing that by hand and not using the modern machinery like we have today What does a planter do? Well he gets out there, he plows the field. That's hard. That's hard work. He clears the rocks out of the way if necessary, digs up the ground, makes sure the rows are straight. Gets the soil ready, puts the seed or the shoots in the ground, making sure they're properly covered, they're in the right location, they've been spaced properly. Planting is hard work. In ministry planting is hard work because it's the initial work. It's the beginning work. It takes a lot of extra effort to break the ground, to start something, and it is hard work. But the planters' work must come first, yes? Without that, there's not going to be anything else to water, there's going to be nothing to harvest. So planting necessarily comes first. Of course, by himself, the planter would accomplish very little. Make some holes in the ground, drop a few seeds in the ground, nothing would come from that. So he needs other workers. He needs help. He needs people to come in after him and to work hard. Because without water, obviously the grapevines or whatever the crop would be is going to dry up. It would quickly perish. And what would be the point in all of that? If the master was only smart enough to send planters out into the field, he wouldn't last as a master too long and his servants would starve. So we have a careful situation here. You have planters and waters He doesn't mention it, but there would be harvesters as well, and they're all working together. The waterer is the irrigate irrigator of the crops. The irrigator, of course, would divert the right supply of the water to come out into the fields to water the crops If he had a garden in mind here, then there may actually be the physical hauling of the water to the various places and the pouring of that. Also hard and difficult kind of work, but especially needed in the drier seasons. Watering, of course, is also a beautiful work because as one waters, one gets to see the growth, and seeing the growth of the plant is the joy. of the farmer. He can see, look at my crops. They're growing. I'm anticipating the harvest. This is starting to get exciting. We're beyond just the breaking of the ground. We're watering. We're anticipating what we're going to taste. And it starts to get fun. It's beautiful work. Water allows the life of the seed planted down in the dirt to grow and increase, to come to full maturity, to be strong so we can ward off diseases and attacks upon it. It can weather the weather. And it grows and it becomes strong. And so you have the planter and you have the water and they're working hard and both of them are doing a necessary work But they're doing a work that is together. And let's just go ahead and mention the harvest workers. What would it be without the harvest workers if let's put a grapevine in our minds and all of the grapes are ready to harvest, but we just say, look at those beautiful grapes, and they sit on there and the birds eat them and No one gets the benefit from them. What would be the point? The harvesters are part of the work as well. They're needed. Without them, there's no harvest. So the lesson is so simple, and yet it is so profound and needed. God has some planting. God has some watering. Other portions of scripture talk about harvest. They're all working on the same field. They all have the same goal. They're all team workers. Right? They're inter interdependent. They're complementary. They're not rivals at all. Glance down to verse 9 a minute. There Paul calls all of them, Sunergas, fellow workers. Our word synergy comes from the same Greek root word there. We spiritual leaders work in synergy. We work in harmony. We work together. We are not competitors with each other. We are fellow workers. For as Paul says here, we are one. Paul and Apollos were one, and we in our ministry. are one. That word for one is the normal numerical one, hen. The NIV puts it this way, have one purpose. That captures the sense of what he means here by one. Why are they one? They're not one because they have exactly the same task. No, planting is not watering, and watering is not planting. They are one because they have the same what? Purpose. They have the same goal. They have the same desires to see that crop come to fruition and to harvest it. They are one because they have the same goal in their work. They are both valued as well. One is not more important than the other. They are both necessary. They're varied Yet they're unified. They're different, and yet they're doing the same work. They are many, and yet they, Paul says here, are one. God emphasizes this here, this passage. Do you see it? God is emphasizing it here, showing the importance of solidarity and teamwork in ministry. Do we expect God to do things in our church? at Hope Bible Church in the year 2007. If we do, and I hope you do, then we do because we will be working together And we will be understanding that our work must work together and is necessary to work together for God to do what He wants to do All of the spiritual leaders are going to be needed. Everyone has a part to play, but we're all doing the same thing in one sense. We're all growing God's church, expanding it, and deepening it. We are not rivals, we are allies. You know, we just think of ourselves as a team. We went to a basketball game on Friday night. We got to see the Wizards. play. And it's always fun. I I enjoy watching basketball like my dad did before me. And it's a lot of fun to watch your favorite team, particularly when they win, like they did on Friday night. was Gilbert Arenas' twenty fifth birthday and he really went off the first half, scored twenty-nine points, but you saw him in the second half, he wasn't shooting all that well, and so he Had a season high number of assists. He just said, I'm a teamworker. I'm not scoring and shooting well, even though he's the main scorer. He was passing the ball. The Wizards did very well and they won. And watching basketball tells you, and all you kids that love basketball, just remember it is a team sport. There's a center, there's a power forward, there's a small forward. There's a point guard and there's a shooting guard, and what good would a basketball team be if there were four centers or three point guards? And they all have a different function, yet they are one team. The team that wins is the team that works well together. We have to think of ourselves as a team because that is who we are. Now, among Christian servants, there are a variety of ministries, a variety of strengths. And they bring those variety of strengths to a church. One person is given one kind of a ministry, and another person is given quite a different ministry. One might be better suited for preaching, for example. One might be better suited for leadership in a small group. One leader might be better suited for inspiring others in worship. One is better gifted to energize the congregation to get motivated for evangelism. One might be used by God to counsel people with difficult problems and to empathize with them and help them solve their problems. One might be excellent at organizing ministries, and everyone feels like things are flowing well and it's administrated well, and so they have joyful service because of that person's leadership. One may be skilled in developing written material or in systematic instruction, and you can go on and on and on thinking about the kinds of strengths the variety of strengths that a local church may have. Right? You can see that in some of the leaders I'm sure that you have already had through your Christian life. But together they are all working as a team with one goal. They want to win the loss. They want to build up the congregation in faith, and all of that to exalt the head of the Church, Jesus Christ. Just think about your own life for a minute. Reflect back on who has helped you. Some of you have been in the Lord now for many, many years. Just think back. You remember the time you're getting started out. Do you have a face in your mind right now, someone that that witnessed to you and got you grounded in the Christian faith, maybe told you some of the doctrines warned you about some things that were false out there. It's a spiritual minefield out there. And they were there for you at that time. And they helped you out. Maybe as you grew a little bit more, there was someone else, some book you were reading, someone you came into contact, maybe someone that took some personal interest in you And they started discipling you. Do you have their face in your mind right now as well? Someone that gave some input into your life, and you're like, you know, I grew because of that person that loved me. And they looked after me. They watered me. And so I grew and I grew in maturity. And now you have other people that are helping you and teaching you and imploring you and sometimes correcting you. And just desiring that you would grow in the Christian faith, put off worldliness, and grow strong in the Christian faith. Rise up here. Some of you are coming to maturity and getting on in years. Rise up here and bear the most fruit in your life. You know, because you're you're poised and you're ready for that. All these different workers all working on the same project, and you know who that project was? It was you See? You were the project. You were the field. And they were working on you. And all of them may not have even known each other. They may not have even known what's going on, but they were all working on the same thing. They had the same goal. They were one in what they tried tried to do. They were a team. Well, let's now do that theological expansion and look at our local church and ask What is the local church team like? When we talk about a team of leadership and a local church, what are we talking about? We're going to get into different kinds of spiritual leaders here we have at Hope Bible Church. We're going to start with the primary spiritual leaders entrusted with the care of the flock, and that is the elders. And then in the second half here, we're going to get into the supportive spiritual leaders in the church. A variety of them we'll go through as well. I want you to understand your elders better, so let's just do a study on this. Elders are the primary spiritual caregivers of a local church. Who exactly are to be elders? I want to answer that question. What are they supposed to do? Are pastors elders? Must men be old to be an elder? Are there different kinds of pastors in a local church? Should one man be over all of the pastors or elders? Many people are shocked to find out from Scripture that the New Testament, listen, the New Testament makes no distinction, no distinction between a pastor And an elder, and even, are you ready for this, a bishop. Now some people would have a very hard time with that. It depends on the kind of church background that you came from, because bishops would be over various congregations, and they may even have people over bishops. But the New Testament makes no distinction between a pastor, an elder, or an overseer, a bishop. That might be surprising to you, but I want to take you to a few verses and show you this. I could multiply the verses, but we only have so much time. Turn backwards to the book of Acts in chapter 20. When Paul called the elders of the church of Ephesus together. Now turn quickly because we're going to be moving here. Acts chapter 20, verse 17. It's recounting some of the travels of the Apostle Paul, and it says, From Miletus, chapter 20, verse 17, from Miletus Paul sent to Ephesus, the city of Ephesus, and called to himself. And here it is, the elders of the church. So he comes to Ephesus and he calls to himself the elders of the church. Who are they? Well then he gives us This long speech, it's a very emotional speech. I'm not going to tell you about that now. But go on and glance all the way down to verse 28. And notice what he says to this group that he called elders Verse 28, he tells these elders, be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you, and here it is Overseers. That's the word that is bishops. The elders were bishops. And then it goes on to say, to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. And so you have the pastors there as well. The elders of the church, God made into overseers, and then those overseers, elders, were told that they had to shepherd the flock of God. Do you see all three of them there? A shepherd, a pastor is a shepherd, that's what he is, a poin, is a one who shepherds sheep in the literal sense. And so when they are told to shepherd, they're told to do the work of being a pastor. All of the elders are told to do this. So all of the elders are pastors, and all of the elders are also designated as overseers. That word overseer is the word episcopas, one literally who watches over others. They're charged with looking out for them and caring for them. They look over the flock. So the same men were all three of these things. They were elders, they were pastors, and they were overseers. Same group of men, same exact context, three different designations, they were all those things. Now, the same interaction of these terms is seen in a number of other New Testament verses. We don't have time to turn there, so just listen to this. You can jot the references down. Titus chapter 1, verses 5 through 7. Titus was told by the Apostle Paul to quote, Appoint elders in every city, as I directed you, namely if any man is above reproach, the husband of one wife, having children who believe Not accused of dissipation or rebellion, for the overseer must be above reproach as God's steward. He immediately identifies the overseer, the bishop, with the elders. Appoint elders And they are these elders are to be this way, and then he immediately switches terms and says the overseer is to be that. Also in 1 Peter chapter 5 verses one and two. This time the Apostle Peter writing, he says, Therefore I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed. shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight. So there it is again. He says, I'm an elder, you're an elder, I'm talking to you elders, and this is what I want you to do. I want you to shepherd, be pastors. And I want you to exercise oversight, be bishops, be overseer. Interchanging all of those words Well what does that mean? Well, first of all, that means that being a pastor is not simply a spiritual gift. Being a pastor is not simply having a certain spiritual gift. Being a pastor also is a designated and a official office in the local church. What is an office in the local church? It's something that is recognized officially. It's officially recognized, so it is an office. It doesn't mean that they have an office with a room in it with a little sign above it. It just means they're officially recognized as a teacher or leader in the church, and so it's an office, okay? A pastor is not simply a spiritual gift, but also is an office to which men are appointed once they have been approved Now I want you to turn to the letter of Ephesians. You have to go past 1 Corinthians. Keep on going there to Ephesians chapter 4, and you'll see this here. Galatians, Ephesians. Ephesians 4, glance down to verse 11. Remember I told you you've got to go quickly because we have a number of verses to look at today. Talking about the time where Christ ascended into heaven, and from that position he poured out his Spirit, and that Spirit brought spiritual gifts to the church down below on earth. And in verse 11, he gets right to the point of the kinds of spiritual gifts he's talking about. He says, Christ gave, gave to the church, Christ gave to the church some as apostles. Notice not everybody was an apostle, only some were apostles. And some as prophets, not everybody was a prophet. And some as evangelists, they are in office in the church as well And some as pastors and teachers. I think that goes together the way that's worded. There's the office of pastor-teacher. They are men exercising a gift. Yes, there's a gift that is pastoring, but they are also men with an office in the church, and they are exercising that gift. So these are lists, not just of spiritual office, not just of spiritual gifts, excuse me, but of actual roles or offices that those men with those gifts filled. In an official and recognized capacity. Now the apostles and prophets exercised their jurisdiction over the universal church. The evangelists and the pastor teachers worked from the local church, but they were all leaders in God's church. Yes, it is true that there is a gift from God that some people have where they are particularly suited and able to shepherd the souls of other people. And many who are not pastors of a local church are also given the gift of shepherding. So the gift of shepherding is broader than just those who are pastors and have that office. Some women too are given an ability from God to encourage and exhort souls, to have mercy on them, to show compassion to them, to teach other women well. And thus through a combination of spiritual gifts, they shepherd the souls of other women well. You can see that. It's a very obvious thing. But there is also a formal office of the pastor teacher within the local church that not everyone who has the shepherding gifts fills. That formal office of pastors is filled by elders who are commanded to shepherd the flock of God. All elders are pastors. All pastors are elders. Some of those elders will likely shepherd more effectively than others. That just will be according to their gifting. But all of the elders will be doing their pastoring. They'll be pastoring, shepherding the flock. Furthermore, the idea of one pastor or one bishop or one elder or one primary leader who is over in authority over a group of other leaders is not in Scripture either It's foreign to all of the New Testament. You don't find that idea. Now grant that very early on in church history, very early on in church history The church has decided to have one man called a bishop to be over all of the elders and pastors of the church, and he was given and designated with more authority than the others. That happened very early on in church history It didn't happen in the book of Acts. It didn't happen in the New Testament. It's not a scriptural doctrine. It is a a way that some people went, but we don't see that within Scripture. So we're not going to have one man who is over the board of overseers, who is like the main bishop You can call me Thomas the Bishop, but I really don't want the title. It's really not for me. An overseer or pastor is what I am. I'm one of many, hopefully in time to come, of Now, by the way, if that's true, then it's obvious also that an entire college of cardinals that would be over the entire church and then one supreme bishop Or pontiff or pope above them, all of that is also foreign to Scripture. You don't find any of that in the New Testament. What you find is a group of elders working together in each local church. Now, another thing to understand here, and I've already mentioned it, is that there's not just one pastor in a local church, but a plurality of pastors and elders in the local church. Some churches believe In having only one pastor. They may have a deacon board underneath them. They may have lots of deacons. They may have a dozen deacons and then they have one pastor, and that's the way they've structured their church. If you came out of a Baptist background, that may have been something that you have experienced That arrangement where there's one pastor, one elder, and a group of deacons below that, again, the scripture knows nothing of that arrangement of a local church. Remember back in Acts 20, which we just read or looked at, Paul called together, it said, the elders of the Church of Ephesus. Elders. It was a plural turn. There was the church at Ephesus, and they had a multiple number of pastors and elders. I want you to turn to the book of Philippians, since we're close to there now. Ephesians, Philippians, just one book to the right. Chapter one and verse one and look how Paul begins the letter to the Philippians. Chapter one, verse one Paul and Timothy, bond servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi. So you've got one church, one city, and then he says, including the what? The overseers that's plural and deacons. Just like there are many deacons in a local congregation, there are many overseers in a congregation, many pastors in a congregation. It was assumed and it was stated throughout Scripture. In Titus one, I mentioned that earlier. Titus was on the island of Crete. He was supposed to appoint elders in every single city. Every single city, these are small towns, they had one church in them. He was to have a multiple number of elders in each one of those towns. And Paul told him to do that in Titus Also in Acts chapter 15 and verse 2, it speaks of the apostles who were then in the city of Jerusalem and were presiding over that church as well. But it talks about the apostles, and it uses the plural for apostles because there was more than one of them. There were twelve. And then it also uses the plural for elders, because there were more than one elders also in the church. of Jerusalem. The practice of having more than one elder of a congregation was entrenched in the New Testament church. In fact, you know what? You know what it really was about is the New Testament church got its design from the Jewish synagogue. And in the Jewish synagogue, you know what they had? They had a plurality of elders. Plurality of elders. They always did. And doesn't that make sense to you? I mean if you just sit and think about it, who would you want to lead you? One person with only maybe one track minded and only so much experience and so much wisdom, would you want that, or would you rather have a number of people A number of leaders who are drawing from their background, their experiences, their gifts, their understanding of scripture and all the rest of that, bringing that to bear upon a decision. What would you rather have? I know what I would rather have. If I was in your situation, I know exactly what I'd rather have, right? So that is the wisdom that was borrowed from the Jewish synagogue. They had a number of elders, and those elders The pattern of the New Testament Church, which was all Jewish to begin with, was just to borrow that pattern. And that's why we know this is exactly how it was organized. It's not too hard to figure out. I know there are lots of different arrangements out there, but God has given us a pattern, a wise pattern, and it's pretty clear. Now, that shows that with a plurality of elders, You're going to have diversity of tasks. In one sense, they're all overseeing, they're all feeding, they're all protecting, but they have different Strengths and different gifts and different experiences, and yet they're going to work together as a team. By the way, this also means that elders are not to be equated with older men Elders are not to be equated with older men. If all they were were older men, then that is all that the term meant, why then would the scripture speak of appointing men to be elders? You cannot appoint an age, right? Say you're seventy five years old now, you can't do that. So they're they're not appointed to an age, they were appointed to an office Why would 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1 give the qualifications for appointing men to be elders? Be no sense if all that it meant was. that they had grown up, they were older men, and they were older men in the church, and so therefore they were elders. The only qualification would be age, you get older, and then boom, you would be an elder. Now, Acts chapter 14 and verse 23 and other verses speak of appointing elders, appointing men to be elders. There is an office that needs to be filled. There is an official leadership to the church that needs to be filled. You are to go and appoint some men to be elders. That's what they're appointed to being. They're appointed to being an elder. Acts 14, verse 23. Without the appointments to the local church office, then there would be no elder, even if the man was older. Furthermore, elders were not always older men. It is traditionally true that the leaders of the synagogues were older men, thus the title elder. came to be. In 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 5, I think it also implies that church elders were generally speaking older than the younger men, because the the elders are contrasted with the younger men. But listen, the origin Or the etymology of a term is never what determines the meaning of a word. You can't talk about how a word began and say, therefore, it means this in the context. The only thing that a word means is what it means in its context. And the context does not allow for it to be an older man only. And there are a lot of, I think, evidences within the New Testament that many of the elders were not actually older men. If you look at the context, you look at the use of the word, you'll see that. I'll give you some examples. And here's just how context makes a big difference. In 1 Timothy chapter 5 and verse 1, it uses It's the same exact term to refer to an older man, a man of age, and it uses the word elder. But in the exact same chapter, just sixteen verses later, in verse 17, it uses it for an office of an elder who is to be paid. And we're going to look at that verse in a few minutes. And again, I say there's much New Testament evidence that the church elders were not necessarily older. First of all There is no age requirement for an elder. You can't find anywhere in the New Testament which says a man needs to be 60 or 50 or 70 or anything like that. There's no age requirement given. So even if we wanted to come up with that age, it would be arbitrary and we would all be debating whether or not 55 or 58 or 49 is old enough to be old and and elder and it might change from culture to culture There's no age requirement given in Scripture for someone to be an elder. I think that is especially significant as an absence because in 1 Timothy chapter 3 which we read for our scripture reading, and in Titus chapter one, it gives the necessary qualifications for an elder. You have necessary qualifications, and nowhere is the age of the elder given. Now If there was a certain age that was necessary, that was required, then you'd expect it to be in a list like that. His absence there, I think, proves that there is no age requirement. Also in 1 Timothy 3 and verse 4, the very list of those requirements for an elder, where it says an elder must be these things, the overseer must be these things, and it gives those lists. It says that the elder must be one, listen, who manages his own household well. That verb manage is a present tense verb. The same is also true of the present participle in verse 4. He must be a man who has children under his authority. You say, why is that important? Because they're both present tense verbs. In other words, his children are not yet grown. The assumption there is that many of the elders still presently have their children in their house at home. That's not something that they did in the past That's something that they're doing presently, and in presently doing that, they had to have them under control. So that would obviously mean and allow for a man in his 30s or his forties or in some cases even his twenties to be an elder. In fact, it almost assumed that a lot of them were younger, because otherwise their children would be grown, they would have left the house, they would not be under the authority of their fathers, and that requirement would make no sense. And I really think it should not surprise us, because again, when you look at the cumulative evidence that the New Testament gives to us in the examples of leadership in the church, there are quite a number of examples that we know for sure were very young And I hope this encourages you young men. I'm giving this to you because sometimes you hear the word elder and you think, Well, I can't touch that until I'm at least this age. It's just not true. How old was the apostle John when Christ picked him and said, You're going to be one of my apostles and sent him out into the world? not only to have authority over a local church, but authority over all of the church. Does anyone know? Some were around twenty years of age. Some have thought he was even in his upper teens, lower twenties, certainly not older than that. He was the youngest of the twelve apostles. Of course, Timothy was a young man teaching and establishing elders. He had probably lots of men that were older than him, and Paul wrote to him in 1 Timothy 4:12 and said, Let no one look down on your youthfulness. But rather in speech, conduct, love, faith, and purity, show yourself an example of those who believe. Don't be obnoxious, make sure you're a good example. But when people start saying you're not old enough to do that, don't let them look down on your youthfulness. You're called by God You're God's man. So I think it is more accurate to say that the emphasis is not at all on an elder's age in the New Testament, but on an elder's spiritual maturity. The age really becomes eclipsed by spiritual death. Age is not all that important. The wisdom and maturity of the person's faith is what the New Testament highlights. Some are ready to be an elder by the time they're 35. Some are not ready to be an elder by the time they're 65. Age really doesn't mean all that much. Spiritual maturity does. An older man is not an elder in the church sense. And there are many elders who are not older men. So we need to be, I think, very careful not to call an elder an older man because that has connotations in our society. If we talk about an older man in our society today, we're probably talking about someone who's sixty-five and older. And that of course is not what uh we have in in in the terms of our eldership in church. You might uh you might see a younger pastor, you might see someone who's being Being brought up here to be presented as an elder candidate, you might say, they're not all that older. What are they doing up there to be an elder? We need to know this teaching from scripture. Now I want to take all of that information about elders and bring us back here and see why we're called a team here, a team of leadership in the local church. We're a team. We're called by Christ to work together. But though we're a team, we're not exactly the same at every single Respect. If you look for every preacher and every teacher and every pastor, every elder to look the same and smell the same and function the same, you're going to be disappointed. You really shouldn't do that. You should be looking for different strengths people. You should be modeling those different strengths and learning from them. I want to take you to uh 1 Timothy chapter 5 and verse 17, I think a very important verse as well. 1 Timothy 5 and verse 17. There are some distinctions between elders. There is a variety in the elder Shah team, even in the midst of unity And um, you know, right now we only have two elders and we've been kinda bemoaning that, Alan and me, for a long time. We're hoping that that this year maybe we're gonna get our third and and maybe next year fourth and fifth and that Soon there'll be a team of six or seven of the men that you see right here that God is working on and raising up here. We're praying for you and hoping for that and yearning for that and teaching that. We want to see that. And then maybe what we're talking about here will materialize. Some elders. Oh, future elders will be more gifted teachers. Not every elder can teach exactly the same. Some will be more capable administrators. Some will be great at exhorting and terrible administration. And you're like, you know, they need to improve in that area. You help 'em out, and that's okay. Some are better at looking at the larger picture. They sense God's direction for the They have their nose up and they're always looking forward. Others have their nose down and they're analyzing details and able to use that to bear upon sound decision making so that the decision is anchored in solid facts. Some desire to work at the pastorate full-time. They sense and are compelled by the Spirit of God in order to do that. Others desire strongly to teach, but do not see full-time ministry as their calling Some elders have an awful lot of experience in ministry. They've been through many battles. They're scarred and yet they've learned from that. They're battle-tested and they're tough. They bring a lot of wisdom to bear on a lot of issues. Believe me, when I get into trouble with things, I call some of those guys up. I want to know what happened. What do I do in this situation? And they help out. Praise God for them. Other elders are just getting started out. You can't expect them to know as much. Some have more training. Some have had a concentrated time of learning and testing and challenge and seminaries. What George is going through now. As we said before, some elders are going to be adapted to lead small groups better. Some will just gravitate towards the counseling ministry, and you can see that in them. And by the way, If you do see strengths in an elder or in an elder candidate, you need to go to them and say, You know what blesses me? I see this in you. And tell them that, encourage them that, so they know the direction in which the Spirit of God is taking them as well. I think some will be very well suited for a reconciliation ministry. They're problems in the church, and they're the kind of elder that just shines at that moment. They're crisis managers and they step forward and they help the church come together. I think some elders would confront error very well. Their discernment is strong. They began to smell heresy before he even has the time to pop its head out of the soil and they they're on top of things and they're like, no, look out for that guy. No, no, watch out for that teaching. Oh, did you hear about that book? Don't get that one because here's the problem with it, and we thank God for them as well. Some will plunge more deeply into understanding theology. When you read some of these systematic theologies that elders and other churches have written through the years Your mind just uh it just can't contain all the things that these men had, and we thank God that their service is beyond their local church to the rest of the church Well here we are in 1 Timothy 5 and verse 17, and it talks about some of those distinctions. Now keep in mind, this is not distinguishing elders from pastors or pastors from elders. It's just showing a variety of commitment and affect and ministry in it. It says in 1 Timothy 5. 17, and this is instruction Paul is giving to Timothy for the church there in Ephesus, the elders who rule well, so there's a group of elders in the church. The elders who rule well are to be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard at preaching and teaching. For the scripture says, You shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing. And the laborer is worthy of his wages. Notice it says that all elders rule. It doesn't say some elders rule and some teach. It says of The elders who rule, they all do, some will rule well. Adverb well, kolos, means they rule in a in a in an excellent manner. They have done an excellent job. They rule well. They expend effort, obviously, in the performance of their office. They are uh very dedicated to church ministry. They put their whole selves into their ruling office there in the church. They take it extremely seriously. And you can see people really responding to their ruling and their leadership and their management. They delegate well to others. They manage people well. People underneath them began to flourish. Their spiritual ministry increases through the others that their leading souls are cared for, and you see that going on, and they rule well. That doesn't mean, by the way, that others are ruling poorly It just is talking about those that are excelling. All the elders may be doing a fine job. They may be doing faithfully what God has called them to do, but some are excelling at it as a point. What does it say to do for them? It says they are worthy of double honor. The word honor to me is often used in Scripture to refer to pay or to price, to payment or to price. We have the word honorarium in English, so it goes along with honor. For example, in Matthew 27 and verse 6, in Acts chapter 4 and verse 34, if you just want to jot some references down In Acts 7. 16 and in 1 Corinthians 6. 20, all of those areas and other places as well talk about honor referring to price or to payment. So double honor here is not to be taken in a literal sense, you're talking to them more or something, and it's not even to be taken in a literal sense in the area of pay that they should be paid twice as much as other other elders who are paid. But it's just talking about they are to be given honor and then double honor means they are also to be paid. They are to be paid beyond that. Why? Because their their ruling and their teaching and all of that is so effective and so helpful. They are to be paid, so they can be freed up to do what God wants them to do. And you can see that in the next verse as well, in verse eighteen, where Paul clearly says they are worthy of their pay. Now Sometimes unpaid elders in the church are called, and you may have heard this also, they're called lay elders. Have you heard that before? Lay elders. I don't mind the term, but it's not a designation that Scripture uses, and I think it may give a wrong impression that there's some kind of a division between different kinds of elders. Maybe the designation unpaid elders would be a little bit better, or non-staff elders. That might be a term to use. They do not serve as pastors full time, but they do serve as pastors. They have an occupation elsewhere, and so they can't serve full-time as pastors. It doesn't mean they're not qualified, it doesn't mean they're not pastors, it just distinguishes that w among elders, some are going to have a broader scope to their ministry. And and they're going to have a greater burden put upon their shoulders to carry the ministry. Non staff elders are still to be honored, and they are still pastors. They offer their service without pay, and they will be rewarded by the Lord Jesus Christ, and we'll talk about that more next week. Our good brother Allen is an example of a hardworking, volunteer, non-paid pastor-elder in our church, and we all appreciate him very much. In fact, it was quite a blessing to see him yesterday Serving as an evangelist there at his father's funeral and exhorting the uh relatives to come to Christ. And that was a real, real blessing to see him doing the work of an evangelist and the work of a pastor. If Brother Charlie gets appointed one day or one of the other men as an elder, they too will become a part of the team of pastors of Hope Bible Church, yet unpaid. Now I want you to notice one more thing, the last phrase that says, especially those who work hard at preaching and teaching. That again is not Because the particular person that is working hard at preaching or teaching is all that better of a person, but it shows the emphasis of the importance of the Word of God, which you find all throughout the pastoral epistles, the importance of teaching and preaching for the health of the church. This does not distinguish some elders as ruling only and then others as doing the teaching and not ruling. Some have made that mistake. No, all the elders rule and all the elders teach, but there's some that are ruling better than others, and there's some that are ruling so well also in the area of their preaching and their teaching. They can see the skill and they can see the blessing in that way. 1 Timothy 3 and verse 2 makes it clear that an elder cannot be an elder if he does not have the ability to teach. So they all teach. Rather, the emphasis here is on that verb kapia'o, to labor. They labor hard at preaching and teaching. Yes? Some labor harder at it. They work harder at their studies. They work harder at their preaching time. They exhaust themselves in terms of preaching and teaching. The Greek word Melissa especially marks out that even some of those who are ruling well, even some of that group, are really working hard at their preaching and teaching. And so they are to be doubly honored. These the local churches to distinguish and especially honor, not so much because of the man, as the importance of the Word of God to the congregation. So again, I say there are variety among elders. Even to the point that some must bear the burden of the ministry more. It just goes with the territory. These distinctions in 1 Timothy 5, 17 Allow us to understand why some become leaders among leaders. Peter was not A Pope. He was not the first Pope. He did not have authority over all of the other apostles. He could not tell the other apostles what to do. But as you read the narrative, both in the Gospels and in Acts, it's very clear that he was a spokesperson for the apostles. He was a leader not above leaders, but he was a leader among leaders. James the Lord's brother was a leader among the elders in Jerusalem. He was not above them as a bishop, but he was distinguished by his character. and his knowledge. Timothy was a leader among the pastors at Ephesus, but he was not a leader above them. And this is why it is fitting to call some in the local church a senior pastor, or to call others an associate pastor. It's not appropriate to call someone as a pastor, though, and not pay them, because if they're working hard at preaching and teaching and they're called full-time to do that, then they should be honored with pay. At least as much as a congregation is able to do. It also helps us to understand why some may be called a pastor of evangelism. Or maybe call the elder in charge of discipleship. Or maybe the pastor that is in charge of the worship service. And he's an elder that leads the worship service. And you can see in his very title some of the variation to his work. Doesn't mean they're less of a teacher or less of a pastor. It just shows the variation among elders and pastors. Again, to emphasize Paul's point in 1 Corinthians, they are all a team. They labor together as a team. Not one on top of the others. They pray together, they plan together, they serve together, they work hard to achieve oneness of mind, they guide the flock together, but they have a varied number of responsibilities and ways in which they excel at them. Regardless of whether one is a full-time or a part-time pastor, paid or not paid, young or old, newly appointed or long experienced, their role still is to teach. All of them are to set an example and to pray, to oversee the flock, and to propagate the faith. They have different strengths, different burdens, different callings, different prominence, and different influence in the local church, but they nevertheless are a team. Now real quickly, and we're running out of time here, but real quickly, the support of spiritual leaders as well. I wanted to mention our deacons. This is the second half. Deacons, as their name indicates, are there to serve. A deacon is a server In the early church, deacons were connected with the everyday running of the church business and ministry. Didn't want to get the elders involved in that, because if they got involved in that, then they couldn't work hard at their ruling and preaching and teaching. This was especially in the early church seen in the area of caring for the needy. Deacons were connected with the care ministry. They were to take care of the widows and the poor in the church In 1 Timothy 3, verses 8 and following, it gives qualifications for the deacons, and so you know it was an office in the church But interestingly, there is no formal job description of a deacon as there is of an elder. We know exactly what the elders did, but to study the scriptures, to know all that the deacons did, we really don't know There's no formal job description for them, ministry description. The Holy Spirit left the explanation within Scripture pliable enough that deacons could be used any way that they were needed by the elders because if there was a job description, that would be it. The deacon assisted the elders. The deacons were there to assist the elders in their ministry to the church. There was one thing the deacon was not qualified yet to do, and that was to teach the Word of God. That was the one requirement that's left out of their list in Titus 1. That's clearly in the elders' list there in Titus 1, not in 1 Timothy 3. So they could be used by elders in any way the elders really want them. As culture changes, as there are different kinds of needs, we have a tremendous burden of administration, of taking care of facility and other things like that. They're very appropriate ways. for people who want to assist the elders to work and to serve them as well. We do have a plan and a process at Hope Bible Church to identify faithful workers. to train them for service in our leadership training program and then to appoint them with full recognition from the entire congregation. Currently we have three deacons we're interviewing right now some more for the position and we desire really that every one of our ministries eventually would be taken over by a deacon and led by them. I tell the men coming into the deacon training meetings that one day this this meeting here with All of us sitting around as deacons, all of you sitting around as deacons, you're going to be the guys more than anyone else who are going to be running the affairs of the church. It's a very important place. within the congregation. Deacons are to be really their hands involved in the everyday affairs of the church. They know everything that's going on. They're involved in the communication. handling the money, knowing who's coming into the church, who's coming out of the church, and then they report to the elders and they are the extension of the elders to serve the people. There also are women leaders that are mentioned in Scripture as well. They are another supportive group of leaders. They don't have authority in and of themselves. Elders have that authority And I'm not going to talk about women elders today. Obviously we're getting on in time and that would take a whole sermon as well and one day one day I'll do that. Suffice it to say for now that the New Testament knows absolutely nothing about women pastors or elders. Can't find it in there anywhere. It's not in there. And if that was practiced by the early church, we would we would know that it is in there. And most of church history, by the way, has figured that out as well. It was sort of an invention of our age. But we'll talk about that another time. The question of women deacons or deaconesses as they're called is a much harder interpretive issue. There are arguments for and against that can be made from scripture One thing we do know for sure is that there were women used in leadership of other women in the local church. Titus II, for example, speaks of older women. Teaching younger women, particularly emphasizing their role within the home and all their responsibilities to their children and to uh the husband of the wife. Phoebe was a recognized and commended servant of the church as well, according to Romans chapter 16 and verse 1. Phoebe is a female name. There were women of some kind assisting the deacons in their work according to 1 Timothy 3, and they had requirement that they had to meet in order to do that work. And really all of that is just common sense because within the church, anyone who's ministered in the local church, and those of the local churches, not just men, that there are a lot of things that women do in the congregation a lot better than men do And so they ought to be encouraged to fill those positions and to show leadership for the women and for the children as well. By the way, we have a women's training track at Oak Bible Church and I have uh made their lives much harder by concocting a test for them to make sure that if they want to graduate from our training that they can pass this Long and arduous test that will make sure they understand what a woman's role is in the local church and in the family as well. So you'll be hearing more about that, ladies, as you go through that. Another category of leaders in the local church are small group leaders. You don't find this in the Bible. The justification for it is simply that they, again, are just serving underneath the elders. Maybe even underneath the deacons, making sure that people are cared for. In our situation, we would like mostly for our small group leaders to either be elders or elder candidates or deacons or deacon candidates and working through leadership. Sometimes women have charge also of a Bible study, and they serve within the Women of Hope ministry here in the church, caring for souls. I think that if you can shepherd people on a small scale, like in a small group, that helps elders to know what your heart and your skill is before you're given charge of the full church. It's a way of testing and understanding what our leaders are like. And then of course we have ministry leaders who in the long run will be our deacons, but there are some forty different ministries now at Hope Bible Church. Just for example, we'll pick on the care ministry. Tony is the deacon of the care ministry. Underneath him, he has a number of care coordinators. Each of those are ministry leaders for their area, and they report to Tony in that capacity. We also have a deacon of Christian Ed, Craig, and under him are various classroom leaders, and they serve as ministry leaders underneath Well all of that I hope even though it was a flood of information and I realized that wasn't exactly the most exciting thing for you, but I wanted you at least to have an understanding, to develop your understanding of what the local church looks like You take all of those different leaders and those of you that are supporting the leaders and you think about the dynamic of that working together, and it is truly amazing. What the Holy Spirit orchestrates to make all the Hope Bible Church, its leaders at every dimension, one team to serve Christ. Amen? Just think about that from from every every single ministry that is connected to the leaders and to one another, the people that come in. that are greeted by our greeters and then are handed off to our ushers in here and then the worship service people in here, those that set up that are undergirding the work like this. The money is passed, the money is collected by our money collectors. It goes to the finance committee. They send uh what needs to be sent to the office. They dispense money that way. The office, as we're speaking about the office, is a source of communication to all the other ministries. communicating with the care ministries and the care ministries coordinate with the small groups and the small groups work under the pastoral ministry to to watch for the care of the souls. We have various discipleship groups that work as well. And all of that just works together, one team. With one goal. Glorify Christ. Build up your faith. Reach the lost. That's what we are. Some of us are doing this. Some of us are doing that. We're just one team. I'm looking forward in the weeks to come here to finishing those principles, those lessons on leadership, because I think that they're going to be very encouraging. But but this picture of Hope Bible Church in your mind and your heart, I hope will help you to apply those principles as we get to them, apply them to our situation. Let's go ahead now and get our hearts ready for the Lord's Supper