It's my privilege to be with you this morning and to focus on the discipline of perseverance, the missions challenge. And that of course is from our study in Barbara Hughes' book, Disciplines of a Godly Woman. So I wanted to start by giving you the resources that I use to prepare this lesson, because in Scripture It's so deep. It's a well that can't ever be emptied. I think of Romans 11. 33. Oh, the depths of the riches. of both the wisdom and knowledge of God, how sir unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. So we're looking at this discipline of perseverance, but we're really only getting a peak because the wells of scripture are so deep. So I just thought I'd give you some of the resources I used, and this topic is deeply personal, and we're going to have some discussion. But um I think for most of us we're going to have to take this home. I know I've been contemplating as I've been preparing, but we're going to have to take it home and really search our souls on how we apply this. So, of course Of course I used um Barbara Hughes's book, Disciplines of a Godly Woman. I also used her husband's companion book, Disciplines of a Godly Man, great chapter on Hebrews, chapter 12 verses 1 to 3, which is what I'm gonna teach from today. Um also I used Elizabeth Elliott's book, Suffering is Never for Nothing. This is a treasure, a gem. I listened to a couple sermons that were just so helpful. I listened to a sermon on this, on Hebrews 12, 1 to 3, by John MacArthur, by George Lawson, he gave a sermon in November at Thanksgiving on this. And also listened to one by Steve Lawson called Run the Race. So if you want to look up some sermons on and listen and on Hebrews twelve one to three, just really great stuff. I would also encourage you, if you're going to continue on in your study, read Hebrews chapter 11 because what I'm teaching today is in the context of faith and that hall of faith. So spend time if you're going to look at Hebrews 12, spend time in Hebrews chapter 11. And I also wanted to note, in Barbara Hughes's book, she has an appendix that goes along with the chapter that we're looking at today, and it's called What I Do with the Hard Things in My Life. So that's a great resource. for you. And right now to kind of start off the lesson, we are going to do a book giveaway Four suffering is never for nothing. So this is my copy. This was Tom's copy. I'm not kidding. This is mine. But I have another one. And so get your tickets out And um we are going to see who gets a copy of this book. All right. Claire, you want to come draw a number? I feel like the naughty side of you wasn't That's how I suppose it. Oh, okay, I get to give the number. And the number is seven two seven four eight zero. Oh bingo. Yeah, this is a gem of a resource. It's an easy read. Some of you actually probably listened to her teaching. When COVID broke out, the women's ministry put out her video teaching on this. And so some of us listened to it together. But it took me a long time to read through it just because I needed to just read and absorb the life lessons that she learned from the Lord. So good. I'm glad you have that copy. So scripture gives us a number of pictures of the Christian life, and one of those is us as an athlete, specifically as a runner, in Hebrews chapter 12. Now some of you can readily grasp the picture of an athlete. You you run races. Maybe you're a runner or you have some other kind of sport. Maybe you did it back in the day when you were like in high school or or college. There's a couple people this morning that were actually out training for a race and they're here and so they know all about training. Um maybe you're just a person who consistently likes to work out so you keep in in good shape. Others of you might think of m yourselves as like Athleticism's not my thing. It never it never was. But you know, the Lord wants us to picture ourselves. as an athlete, a spiritual athlete running a race of faith. So I'm going to read Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 to 3. Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. So I know you can't believe it. I actually managed to get an outline to you today, so I'm progressing. So we're going to start with looking at our encouragement. Then laying aside encumbrance and sin, the discipline of endurance, the event which is the race of faith, and our example. So we're going to start with our encouragement. Hebrews 12, 1 says, therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, and I chose a quote from R. Kent Hughes' book. And he says this about the cloud of witnesses. The scene is a great Coliseum. The occasion is a foot race, a distance run. The contestants include the author and the members of his flock, as well as, by mutual faith, us. The cloud of witnesses that fills the stadium is made up of the great spiritual athletes of the past. Hall of Faith members, everyone a gold medal winner. They are not live witnesses of the event, but witnesses by the fact that their past lives bear testimony to monumental Persevering faith like Abel's by which, though he died, he still speaks. Everywhere you look in the vast arena, there is a kind face nodding encouragement, saying, I did it, and so can you You can do it. You have my life to help you do it. So if you can picture yourselves this morning, we're in that Coliseum. We're in that stadium. We're athletes out on the field. But also notice these clouds of witnesses are not looking down at us. Rather, it's like we are turning around and looking up into the grandstands, and we are looking at them. Who are these witnesses? Well, they're all listed in Hebrew 11, where it says, it goes on and on, by faith Abel, by faith Enoch, by faith Noah, by faith Abraham. By faith, Isaac, by faith, Joseph, by faith, Moses, by faith Rahab, and it lists all these heroes of the faith. And the author couldn't even list them all He says this in Hebrews chapter eleven. I'm just going to read a portion of it starting in verse 32. And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets. who by faith conquered kingdoms, performed acts of righteousness, obtained promises, shut the mouth of lions quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight, Women received back their dead by resurrection, and others were tortured, not accepting their release, so that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others experienced mockings and scourgings, yes, also chains and imprisonment. They were stoned. They were sawn in two. They were tempted. They were put to death with a sword. They went about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted. ill treated, men of whom the world was not worthy, wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and holes in the ground. And all these gained approval through their faith. And I know that you and I could add people in Scripture that have inspired us, that have taught us and instructed us to this hall of faith. It's not all inclusive here. You know, I hope you all here have had some kind of stadium experience. Kind of wish Tom was here to tell about his sports experience. He watched the Redskins from the time he was itty bitty And I remember I couldn't find the clip because I know I've seen the interview and Tom told me about it, but at time in when the Redskins play when they were the Redskins still should be the Redskins, but that's a whole nother topic. But um When they were at RFK Stadium and in one of their games, everybody was standing up and they were stomping and it was sh literally shaking the stadium. And everybody was shouting at just it was deafening. The players couldn't even hear each other. What did that do to the Redskin team? I mean, what an adrenaline rush? They were they were going to win. It energized them. That team was ready to win. And have you heard of maybe the saying home court advantage? What does that home court advantage do? It makes you want to run faster. You can jump higher. That's our stadium. We've got a loud stadium. It's shouting, it's loud, it's deafening. It's sold out. The stadium that we're in is sold out. It's standing room only. It's filled with those who have run the race before us and have endured. And they show us that it's all worth it. And God's grace sustain them Can you hear them? If you can't go back to the scriptures, because it's all there. They're shouting out to us. You know, we have modern-day witnesses, our own personal hall of faith. So about three weeks ago I traveled to Charlotte because my daughter Grace and my son-in-law Andrew lived there, and Andrew's grandfather uh passed away in February so we I got to participate and be at the memorial service and I'm so grateful because his name was Richard Dunn and I didn't know him well. I mean Grace and Andrew have only been married three and a half years and Um, I got to know him a little bit, but his memorial service he's in my Hall of Faith now. The the mem memorial service was beautiful just a testimony to Christ in his in his life and we had a dinner with family and friends and and children and grandchildren and coworkers and people who brothers and sisters in Christ who were with him in church all testified to the grace that worked in this man. He's in my hall of faith. I mean Elizabeth Elliot is probably for many of us in our hall of faith. and just the testimony of her her life. So I'm going to attempt to do this. We'll see if I can manage. But you know the top of my list is Tom Week. And I want to give you two aspects of his life that keeps me running, that shouts out to me. One is His Sunday mornings, I know a I got a lot of comments like, oh, you know, if I didn't know he had cancer, I I can't tell from the way he's preaching and standing in the pulpit and delivering God's word I would hear comments like, Oh, he's doing so great and he was. He he did he did very well. But I know his security team and the family and a few other people saw what it was like to get him in the car To get him to his office, out of the car. Once you got here, into his office, down the hallway to the pulpit, back down, down the hallway to his office, back to the car and back home. It was quite um it was quite the race for him, an effort. And then his week where he could have done He literally if I had the kind of cancer he had and the pain that he had, I would have been sitting. He ran the race all week long. His his life was centered around Christ and getting and preaching the Word of God So many of you saw the the power and the strength and how God's word empowered him standing behind the pulpit. But there was a lot of suffering that went to get him there. Also, this is really just mostly a memory for me and my family, but I'll give you a little glimpse into it. The last three months were extremely hard for him The pain really ratcheted up. He began to have blood sugar issues. So things became much extremely, extremely difficult. And Tom had a drive and a passion. And that was to get downstairs to his office to have his quiet time. So our bedroom is upstairs, if you've been in my house, or if not, but our bedroom's upstairs, the office is right underneath of it And he was not content like, okay, I'll just stay up here in bed. We spent minimum of an hour But it was more like two hours where we'd time the medications, massage, heat, stretching, movement, because He had to get downstairs. He had to get in his office chair. He had to listen to songs. He had to read the scriptures. He had to put his coat on and walk the driveway and pray. And then after that he had to start studying the scriptures again. So yes. Does he shout out loudly to me? Yes. Do I want to walk like he did? Yes, I do So as you think about your trials and your sufferings and your difficulties in your Christian walk, think of the saints of old from the scriptures. And think of the saints that you have observed that have finished their race. They've run the same path as you and they've endured. So I want to encourage all of us to look up in the stadium and listen to their cheers and learn how they dealt with the very things that we're facing today. So secondly, Hebrews 12 says, Let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us. And we're going to do this in two parts. We're going to first look at The encumbrance. Let us also lay aside every encumbrance. Encumbrance means bulk. It's a mass of anything that slows you down. Encumbrances are not sin. They're lawful things. But they're unnecessary. They slow us down in the race. In the sermon that Steve Lawson gave, he gave an illustration of a man. He said, Can you picture down in the stadium at the at the starting line, a man coming to run. He's got his nice three piece suit and on top of that he has an overcoat. In his hand he has a briefcase and he leans over to start like everybody else to start the race It's like he's gonna compete with the other athletes. But we would certainly say that man's not serious about winning. He's just going through the motions. Maybe he wants his picture with the team. But he certainly couldn't run the race very well. So what are some examples of encumbrances? Remember, these are permissible things. They're not sin. But too much of a good thing that perhaps keeps you from the best things. Or can't you suggest that it might be for you a place, an event, a pleasure, a habit, a hobby? Entertainment. And like I said at the beginning, these are things that we have to go home and soul search ourselves. What is it that might be encumbrances in our own life to the race of faith? But here are two key questions. I'll repeat these just so you get them because I think these are soul-searching questions. How fast do you want to run your race? How fast do you want to run? And then secondly, how much do you want to win How much do you want to win? We're told that we need to lay aside every encumbrance. So let's go to the next part which says, and the sin which so easily entangles us. Steve Lawson gave another picture in the sermon. He said, this time picture an athlete in a long flowing robe that reaches down to his feet. When the gun goes off and the runner starts to run, what happens? His feet gets tripped up in that robe. It keeps him from running. It causes him to trip and fall, so he can't run the race. And Lawson says, worse than being slowed down by encumbrances is being tripped up by sin. The author of Hebrews states it as de sin. And I think the context of Hebrews 12, 1, chapter 11, God's Hall of Faith. is all about faith, all about trusting God. I think the sin, the direct um meaning of what the author is trying to get to us is the sin is a lack A faith, a lack of trust in God. Because you look through Hebrews 11, it says, without faith it's impossible to please Him. And as I said before, you go through the hall of faith by faith Abel, by faith Noah, by faith Abraham. It's all about faith. That's where the context of this verse is. So I think the primary application For the sin is failing to trust God. It's the sin of failing to trust God that so easily entangles us. But I believe also at the root of every sin that we commit is the sin of unbelief. And it leads us into the other sins. of transgressions and iniquity and sin. And so really you can apply any sin here that hurts our race of faith. Any sin needs to be put off, to be laid aside. I was thankful that just this past week Matt White preached to us from Psalm 51. I was like, oh, this is so fitting, so I decided to put some of what He just brought to us from Psalm 51, 1 to 6. If you haven't heard the sermon, I encourage you to listen to it. And if you've already heard it, go back and listen. So I'm going to turn to Psalm 51 and just read a couple of the verses from the passage he taught us from. Psalm fifty-one verses one and two, where David's crying out to God Be gracious to me, O God, according to your loving kindness. According to the greatness of your compassion, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. So Matt brought out some Some nuances, some definitions of these terms of sin. He said transgressions. He said it's plural. It's intentionally participating in rebellious acts. It makes us a rebel. Iniquity has to do with guilt. We're departing from the good way. We go astray. We become guilty. And sin is missing the mark as set by God. So we're created to worship the Lord our God and service, bring honor and glory to Him, and instead We reject it and we pursue ourselves. We pursue our own self-glory. And Matt pointed out that it's not that we're shooting at a target, we just miss it a little bit. It's more like we're Turn completely around, we're shooting at a whole nother target. And then Matt went on to talk about The picture of penitent prayer and how David came before God to repent of his sin. He talked about David's cry of repentance and his confession. And he also in his sermon gave us six ways to combat sin through penitent prayer. So I just would encourage you, if you're struggling with certain sin areas in your life, go back and listen to that sermon. And the just practical application of that passage. And just lay your sin. Cry out to God like David. Confess your sin to the Lord. You know, we're running a race, and so every step of running this race is a step of faith. And each of us needs to ask ourselves what encumbrances are slowing me down in the race? that I need to get rid of, and what sins are entangling me in this race that I need to confess and repent of so that I can win. Next, we're going to look at what Barbara Hughes calls the discipline of perseverance or endurance. Because Hebrew says, let us run with endurance. We're not only to lay aside or put off encumbrances and sin, but we have to put on endurance. And I think Barbara Hughes rightly called this submissions challenge because the challenge is to submit to our Heavenly Father who has given us a race, each of us a unique race. My race is not your race. He all he gives us each an individual race to run for him. You don't run my race, I don't run your race God Himself has planned our path and our race for us, and he travels with us. Your translation might say perseverance or endurance. Here's my one Greek word for the lesson. Hupo mone. Hupo means under, and money means to remain or stay. So the idea is to look to bear up and not escape what you're in or what you're under. You're going to stay there. I think this is expressed in Philippians chapter 3, where we're told about pressing on Philippians 3, 12 to 14. Not that I have already obtained it. Or have already become perfect, but I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press On toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. We stay in the race. We don't leave it. I thought Colossians 1, 9 through 11 also fit this very well. It says, for this reason also Since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so that you will walk, or I inserted, run in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. And listen to this strengthened with all power according to his glorious might for the attaining of all steadfastness and patience Joyously giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints of light. Steadfastness, perseverance, endurance, this is what we need to put on to run our race. And it says it right in Colossians, how are we able to do this discipline? It's according to his glorious might. It's according to his power. So if we need to if we want to develop this discipline, it comes by understanding the scriptures that we have that cloud of witnesses that have run before us and endured. It comes by ridding ourselves of encumbrances and sin. And then the next two points that I'm going to make is going to come by looking at the race itself. And then finally by fixing our eyes on Jesus. So I'm going to go to my fourth point, the event, the race of faith. Because 12. 1 also says, let us run. So you're in this race, whether you want to be or not. As soon as you became a believer, God entered you in the race. It's not a sprint. It's not a middle distance run. It's more like a marathon. It is for the distance. And it is for the rest of your life. It's a race to be run with all your might and with all the strength that God supplies. It's not a low bar race, as some of you might have, if you're familiar with track and field, it's not a low bar race. The goal is to win. And all of us in this race, we're all front-runners, the people who are expected to win. First Corinthians 9. 24 says, to run in such a way that you may win. And if we're going to win, we have to compete according to the rules. as 2 Timothy 2. 5 tells us. Also if anyone competes as an athlete, he does not win the prize unless he competes according to the rules. So I'd like to read some descriptions Scripture gives us of the track that we're running on right now. And I think if we're honest with ourselves, we wish that a lot of that path would be straight. It's smooth. No curves, no ups and downs, no difficulties. And I do know that God grants us those sweet pathways and joys and blessings. Um I've been reading in Colossians. Colossians tells us To fill our heart with Thanksgiving. We should be overflowing with Thanksgiving. But that race of faith is not Easy feeling. It's not easy stride. It contains challenges, sometimes tremendous challenges that we don't think that we can handle. Listen to John 16. 33 It says, In the world you have tribulation. In Hebrews twelve, further down in the passage from where we're looking, it says, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint the discipline. when you are reproved by him. 1 Peter 4, 12 and 13 says, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal. among you, which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening to you. I know when Tom and I were much younger, early married I remember he said to me, he's like, I'm gonna really listen to the scriptures. I'm gonna uh I'm gonna obey because I don't wanna have lots of trials. So I'm just gonna I you know I'm just gonna learn from God so I don't have to have trials. But we learned James says, when you encounter various trials, we're not going to escape the road, the path, the track that God has put us on. So are we just supposed to, you know, keep our chin up and tough it out? No, because I only read you part of those verses. I'm going to go back and read those same passages. Back in John 16, 33, in the world you have tribulation. But Jesus says, take courage. I have overcome the world. In Hebrews 12, where it says, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when you are reproved by him, also says For those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines, and he scourges every son whom he receives. God deals with you as with sons. And further it says, but he disciplines us for our good, so that we may share his holiness. All discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful, but sorrowful. Yet to those who have been trained by it afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. Do you know your sufferings and your difficulties prove your sonship in Christ? Going back to 1 Peter 4, 12 and 13, beloved, do not be surprised at the fire ordeal among you, which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening to you. But to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. And James chapter 1 verse 2 where it says we're going to encounter various trials, what does James say? Consider it all joy when you encounter various trials. So the race of faith is a victorious race. Steve Lawson said in his sermon, I quote him, running necessitates that you not remain where you are. But take decisive steps of faith. Running necessitates that you not remain where you are, but take decisive steps of faith So when we're in a race, we in the race of faith, we discipline ourselves for the purpose of godliness. We labor in prayer, we dig into the word, we soul search how to apply the word. We strive after holiness, we resist temptation, we flee worldliness. We buffet our body and make it our slave. We fight the good fight, we take up our cross. So it means as we run, as we looked at in Philippians, we're going to press on. As we're running, we're going to widen our stride. We're going to pick up our pace. We're going to press through pain. And then lastly, we're going to endure because of our example. In Hebrews twelve, in verses two and three it says, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfector of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. Well, God provides witnesses for us to encourage us along the way. Our faith doesn't rest on them. It rests completely and fully on Jesus Christ alone. R. Kent Hughes says we must deliberately lift our eyes from other distracting things and focus with utter concentration on him and then continue doing so. It's not a glance, it's a continued look to Christ. Jesus endured, he endured the cross Jesus endured, he endured hostility by sinners. And Jesus also looked to the joy that was set before him, and he is our perfect example. There's an example of losing focus that Arkent Hughes gives in his book And um he talks about two athletes, two runners in 1954. Um in 1954 there was a gentleman named Roger Bannister And he was a medical student, and he was the first person to go sub um four minute mile. Not long after him was a gentleman named John Landy who also did the same thing. So in August 7, 1954, they had a race It's called the Miracle Mile, and I just thought I would read this brief description about their race because it points out something important. Bannister, a medical doctor who later became Sir Roger Bannister and master of an Oxford College. strategized that he would relax during the third lap and save everything for the finishing drive. But as they began that third lap, Landy poured it on, stretching his already substantial lead Immediately, Bannister adjusted his strategy, increasing his pace and gaining on Landy. He quickly cut the lead in half, and at the bell for the final laugh the two men were even Landy began running even faster and Bannister followed suit. Both men were flying. Bannister felt he was going to lose if Landy did not slow down. Then came the famous moment, as the last stride before the home stretch, the crowd roared. Landy could not hear Bannister's footfall and looked back. A fatal lapse of concentration. Bannister launched his attack and won the miracle mile that day by five yards So you can still you can look it up on the internet, you can still look as Landy looked over his left shoulder instead of keeping his eye on the finish line. And R. Kent Hughes says, those who look away from Christ, the end and goal of our faith our race will not finish well. We have to keep our eyes fixed on Jesus Christ, nowhere else. In a few minutes we are going to made a couple discussion questions for us to discuss about the lesson. I think three of them you really can In as we break into small groups, you can talk about any of them, or if there's something else in the lesson that you want to discuss, you can do that. We'll just take a few minutes to do that. But after those discussion groups, we're going to sing a song that maybe some of you are familiar with. He will hold me fast because I want to give you some encouragement that in your race, I already said that God is with you in your race. He gives us his persevering grace. I just want to give you a few scriptures if you were discouraged today about your race of faith. God's persevering grace is going to keep you in this race. Philippians 1. 6 says, For I'm confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. John 10, 29 says, My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. No one's going to take us from the Father's hand and from the race that he put us in. We have an example of Christ praying for Peter. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail, and you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. We have the intercession of Jesus Christ. And this is the same verse I used in December. When I concluded my lesson, but I thought this was so appropriate for today, Jude 24 and 25. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling. and to make you stand in the presence of his glory blameless with great joy. To the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority Before all time and now and forever. Amen.