Well, we have all heard them before shameless appeals for more and more money. To help fund lavish lifestyles of the rich and famous. Not in Hollywood, but in Holywood Church preachers, clothed with jewel-studded apparel, driving luxury automobiles, dwelling in dream homes. These public church leaders make the rest of us Christians cringe a bit because we know they dishonor the name of the Lord Jesus. They give atheists more reason to scorn the church And they lead astray so many of the undiscerning. Furthermore, they make it harder for other churches who actually might have good motives to even bring up the subject of money. How do you encourage people to give money to the Lord when they are leery of being hoodwinked into giving some large financial gift for the work of the Lord? And we know how that can be used. How do you talk to Christians about their responsibility in giving when so many churches spend money so poorly to beef up their public persona? Scripture does warn repeatedly of those who would use religion as a means of financial gain. 2 Peter 2. 3 says of them that in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Well, nevertheless, today it is my job to talk to you about money. specifically your money, and even more specifically your giving to support the church, and even more specifically beyond that to support church workers, one of which is me. As we have made a commitment to go verse by verse through all of Scripture, it happens by divine providence that today we preach on this topic. Yet thankfully, I think you will all see the purpose of the Bible text that we come to today is not to cajole any of you into giving what you do not want to give. Nor is it the purpose to fill the air with false promises so as to fool you into giving what later you will regret giving. Rather, it is for all of us to learn the connection between our Christian faith and our support of our spiritual leaders. For your use of money actually reveals what your spiritual priorities are and the level of your gratitude for what God is doing in and through your church leaders. Now since this is such a tough subject, I want to give a little personal disclaimer at the beginning of this message. Um today is my wife's birthday. Praise God for that. No, we're not asking for extra gifts on behalf of that. But I did want to say publicly that I am married to a very content woman. And those of you who know Susan know that indeed She is very content not because she has a great husband, but because she has great character. She's a wonderful lady She works very hard. I know of no one in the church who works harder than she, and she expects so little in return. I think, frankly, as a congregation, we are blessed because all three of our elders' wives exemplify this important godly trait of contentment. Carol, Rhonda, and Sue, I'm referring to. I think some of Sue's outlook on life came from her parents. She was raised and they instilled this in her a very honest and simple approach to life. They didn't have much growing up on the chicken farm and she uh she continues not to expect much. Um I think the Lord had her design particularly in in mind uh as my partner was uh brought up in life and was suited for what life would be like with me, poor girl, she had no idea what she was getting into at all, but uh she was definitely designed for me. Some of you know our background, many of you do not, and so um I'd like to just say a little something about that. For the majority of our adult lives we have lived Really, with quite little by American standards anyways. That's the standard we have to use around here because we're so blessed as a country beyond other countries Our first 20 years of marriage were filled with studies in three different seminaries, of which Sue helped to put me through. Low salaries in Christian schools. You Christian school teachers know what I'm talking about Having to endure after that the sacrifices and uncertainties of planting a church that had very little financial backing, although the folks that started this church were very faithful in their giving. Some of you I know right now the Christmas season is upon you. You're feeling a financial crunch of sorts, and so you you know what I'm talking about and you feel this now. And we do know what it is like to have gone at different times in our life without having health insurance for our children, not sure whether we could afford groceries that week, certainly not repairs for the car. No budget for clothes, having to accept hand-me-downs of which we were grateful. But you know how that is, you wish you could buy your own. Um no budget for furniture. It was not twenty years into our marriage before we were able to own our very first home. We never really saved all that much. We tried always to give 10%, and indeed we did, of our gross income We were never in debt during that time, we lived paycheck by ch paycheck by faith, and the Lord always provided for us in some way Finally, as this church grew and as our salary allowed for us to purchase a home, the Lord worked, I think, and those of you know the story behind this, uh, in a very unique way through a number of different uh things to uh provide a home for us, including my mother's generosity as well. And uh not just for us, but for the church, a large ministry home as well And we got it for the price of a townhouse in this area, and we're very, very grateful for that. I say all of that because I want you to know how God has worked in our life and what our expectations are, and so there's no misunderstanding in preaching this text that we come to today. I want you to know my motives when I preach on this subject. Besides us The church, this church, Lord willing through the years is going to have other paid workers. We have eleven family now to support as well. But Lord willing, as the church grows, we're going to have other pastors and other associate pastors, those who will work in administration. Oh, I would love to have a paid evangelist in this congregation too. Wouldn't that be wonderful? worship leaders who are paid because so many are volunteering without paying now. A youth director, counselors, disciplers, you you name it. As God enables us through your giving, and through the giving of others that the Lord will bring to this church during that time, the staff here at Hope Bible Church is going to grow. And as it grows, we believe that it will expand our ministry and hopefully deepen and better our ministry as well. Often the measure of a church's dedication and thankfulness can be tied to their giving and particularly how they treat their workers. I think that our church has demonstrated a lot of love to our family and faithfulness toward us, and that I am very thankful for. And yet we can all continue to learn how to make sure the process of caring for our church workers can be improved, how the communication can be improved, how we can be aware of what they're going through and what their actual needs are. You know, we're a elder-run church, and I think sometimes people in the congregation take from that that they don't have to be involved in these kinds of things or know something about it. But in the area of the relationship between paid workers and a congregation, that's a very personal thing, and it really ought to be the concern of everyone, not just the elders or the finance committee but the entire congregation. For it has application to everyone, and I think you will see as Paul talks to the Corinthian congregation, he's talking to them all because there is that relationship and it needs to be understood. I think that supporting spiritual leaders can even be extended, even though there are many who offer as leaders their service without pay, they have a full-time job outside of the church. to which they need to be dedicated. These principles that we're going to learn this morning can be applied in a certain way to them as well. No, they're not on the church's payroll, but they are serving you and they are sacrificing What are their needs and how can we as a congregation serve them as well? Referring to our other elders, to our deacons, to women leaders. And if you think about it in another indirect way, this whole principle that undergirds this passage is going to teach us how we can show gratitude in um very tangible ways to those who have impacted our lives spiritually. So as you think of other people, maybe someone who led you to Christ, or missionaries or a small group leader, other people that have impacted your life, please take these principles we learned this morning and apply them to yourself and think how you can uh You can obey this teaching and you can respond to this teaching in some way that will show that you are indeed thankful. I know this is a very lengthy introduction. Um I just want to make one more point uh this morning. Because it's such a touchy subject, and because there are so many financial needs in a church You know, we want to increase our money for our discipleship ministries, and we want to increase them for evangelism, and we certainly would like to have more missionaries that we send out and support because their evangelism becomes an extension of ours and we can participate in their work. There are also administrative needs. Many people don't realize how expensive that is in a local church. And then there's the huge budget item which is the Facility. And for a small church like us, we are stretching and giving to try to get to that amount where we can actually afford that without damaging the rest of what our obligations are And we're kind of right at that border and even over the last couple of months there's been a dip in the giving. I don't think it's a long-term kind of trend. I'm not really worried about it, but it just goes again to show that uh it's a business item, but it's a spiritual item. And how we all respond as a congregation, every last one of us as members has to do with the how the spiritual ministry in a church is going to go forward and how those who are counting on that giving are going to sense the support behind that and that also has bearing on what the future of a congregation is. So it seems like a very uh worldly and mundane subject, but it actually can be lifted to a very high and spiritual plane if we understand how God speaks about it. And that that is my prayer that as you listen this morning you will understand that it is to be seen in that spiritual light As we open God's Word together to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Today we're going to focus on verses 7 through 15 Money, money, money. There is so much to consider in many landmines to avoid The Lord Jesus said, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Well, let's read 1 Corinthians 9, 7 through 15 and consider some points from there. The Apostle Paul writes, Who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? Or who tends a flock and does not use the milk of the flock? I am not speaking these things according to human judgment, am I? Or does not the law also say these things? For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing. God is not concerned about oxen, is he? Or is he speaking altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written, because the plowman ought to plow in hope, and the thresher to thresh in hope of sharing the crops. If we sowed spiritual things in you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share the right over you, do we not moor? Nevertheless, we did not use this right, but we endure all things so that we will cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ Do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who attend regularly to the altar have their share from the altar? So also the Lord directed those who proclaim the gospel to get their living from the gospel. But I have used none of these things, and I am not writing these things, so that it will be done so in my case, for it would be better for me to die than have any man make my boast. and empty one. An interesting, interesting passage that will continue on also the next time we're here together. next week in talking about his commitment to the gospel of Jesus Christ and its proclamation. Well last time in verses 3 through 6 we saw that Paul knew that he had the right to be supported financially To make this point, he asked the Corinthians some rhetorical questions, which had an obvious answer. Paul knew that he should have been paid food and drink. Paul knew that if he wanted to get married, that he had a right to bring along a believing wife and have her supported in his travels as well. This is what the other apostles did. Paul knew that he should not have to work on his tenth trade to support himself financially while he was proclaiming the gospel. But he did nevertheless. Why? Well the Corinthians thought that Paul did not accept money for his spiritual labor because Paul didn't think that he was all that worthy of support as the other great apostles were, that in some way he was inferior to them But Paul reveals his motive in this very section that he did not take any pay so as to provide a sincere example of dedication to the gospel. He limited his rights and his freedoms so that they would not cause the brethren in any of the new churches he was planting to stumble Remember that this was at the beginning of the church's history, and Paul had to factor in the foundational nature of his ministry to the Gentiles and the immaturity of the new congregation. Nevertheless, he now feels compelled, due to their misunderstanding of him, the very thing he was wanting to avoid, to give reasons why he had every right to be paid, and to be paid well for what he was doing for the work he was performing. And so in this passage here, Paul and the Holy Spirit provide seven reasons why spiritual workers should be supported financially. Seven reasons why spiritual workers should be supported financially. We look back to verse seven, and I want you to Track through the passage with me starting with verse 7, and here's reason number one. You can write it down. Normal human employment pays their workers It's just true that in normal human employment out there in the world they pay their workers. That's verse seven Again, he says, who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? Or who tends a flock and does not use the milk of the flock? Paul again is using the interrogative to get his spiritual application across to the people. Paying workers, well that's customary, that's normal, that's expected. No one questions his appropriateness in other areas of life Who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Armies pay their soldiers. Countries and kings pay those who fight for them. They're given clothes and weapons and a place to stay and food and other things as is needed The linguistic and exegetical key to the New Testament makes this note about a soldier's pay back then. A soldier's pay was probably a denarius a day, out of which they had to equip themselves secure simple luxuries or bribe the centurions for remission of duties. They needed some money. What a silly army it would be if they turned to their soldiers and they said, you know, you're gonna have to f fight, but make sure you hang on to your job on the side because you gotta return back home and make sure you keep that thing going to provide for your family. They fall apart. That's absurd. What kind of an army would we have The next question just continues the same vein. Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? You know, your sweat went into the vineyard, you watched over it, you picked the grapes, but you don't get to eat any of it? That's unheard of In 2 Timothy 2 and verse 6, the Apostle Paul also wrote: the hard-working farmer ought to be the first to receive his share of the crops. It's not even in question whether or not he gets to eat from it, he gets to eat the very first of it. It's his farm. It's his vineyard. The third question again is the same. Who tends a flock and does not use the milk of the flock? Probably goat milk is what is meant here. It's just part of the benefits of the job. That's what they would get. My daddy knew a little bit about this. He grew up on a dairy farm in northern Georgia and he had to get up at four in the morning. It was cold and dark and go out and milk the cows. And he was the youngest of eight, so a lot of it fell on him and uh he had to do that. His hands were very strong even to his old age. You know, it's just all that work he did. uh on a dairy farm. It was hard work. No one would ever think that that family having a dairy farm would not be able to participate and and benefit from all of the supplies that they provided for the community. It just was unheard of. The point is obvious And that's the point that Paul is making into the spiritual realm. He's trying to tell the Corinthians, you're the vineyard that we planted. You're the ones we fight to defend from evil as soldiers of the cross. You're the flock that we tend and shepherd. Why would you ever withhold financial support from us? You exist as a church because of what we did for you. I think these are pretty strong words from Paul. People are not doing their pastors or associate pastors or evangelists or missionaries a favor by paying them. That is what they have earned for their labor. Paul is saying, you go to work, you get a paycheck. Do church workers have any less rights than that? If you expect benefits from your job, should not a church make sure the workers have at least normal benefits It's basic care, it's not exceptional care. Even the unbelieving world does this. While it is true that there are horror stories of pastors getting rich off their flocks, and you've heard many of them, I'm not going to repeat them now. There are also horror stories, thankfully not here in this church, of pastors and their families who have been treated so poorly. I remember Dr. Mayhew telling story once of a pastor in the Midwest who their congregation was so ashamed of this pastor because every time he drove to church, he drove up in just this ugly run-down paint chipping off kind of car and they said you know they were embarrassed by the car that he drove up in. And it never dawned on them if they'd give him a little bit more money, he could afford a no a normal car And we laugh at that, but those stories can be multiplied how pastors are treated, and it's really, really sad. You know, they'd say, look at the look at that junky thing, instead of thinking about they're the ones behind that. They're the ones that are supposed to be supporting him. Now, what Paul just wrote in verse 7 should have been obvious to everyone. But you know how it is some people won't get the point unless you quote a Bible verse They can't get the logic of it, even apart from Scripture. So someone might have accused, oh, that's just a worldly argument. What does God say about it? What does the law say about it? So now direct your attention to verse 8, and we come to reason number 2 And that is that Scripture teaches this in God's law. Verses 8 through 10. Scripture teaches this in God's law. He writes, I am not speaking these things according to human judgment, am I? Or does not the law also say these things? For it is written in the law of Moses, You shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing God is not concerned about oxen, is he? Or is he speaking altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written, because the ploughman ought to plough and hope, and the thresher to thresh and hope of sharing the crops Now verse 9 is a quote all the way back to the law of God in Deuteronomy 25 and verse 4. Oxen were paid for their labor. Paid with food. They were allowed to munch while they walked and uh they trampled down the grain and and pulled what they were pulling Paul anticipates the objection of his use of this verse. Someone might say, wait a minute, that's a law for just a dumb animal. That's taking that verse out of context, Paul. But Paul says, no, you wait a minute and think about that verse a little bit more closely. What is God really concerned with here? There's something embedded in that law. There's justice there. Is care for the animal, the main intent of that law? By the way, God does care for animals. That's not he's not trying to say God has no concern at all for animals. Psalm 147-9 says that God gives to the beast its food and to the young ravens which cry. Jesus said in Matthew 6. 26, Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your what? Heavenly Father feeds them. God takes care of animals. He's concerned about animals. He may be animals But we're more important, and that's the point. The Liberty New Testament commentary picks up on Paul's logic. Certainly, if this principle should apply to the brute beast, they write, much more should it apply to mankind in general. Gromachi in his commentary says the real intent behind the command for the humane treatment of animals was the proper reimbursement of laborers And John MacArthur takes it further. He says, obviously, if God cares for animals as they work, he will make laws for our benefit. The Lord's servants Deserve to be supported well. There should not be a double standard applying to preachers, missionaries, and other Christian ministers, a standard that is considerably lower than that set for those laboring in the system of man We should pay them as generously as is feasible and leave the stewardship of that money to them, just as we expect the stewardship of our own money to be left to us. Obviously, we should give our money only to ministries that are biblically sound and responsible. Every appeal made in the Lord's name does not deserve the support of the Lord's people. Being wise in our giving is part of our stewardship, but when we give to a servant who is worthy, we should give happily, generously, and trustingly. Remember that the Mosaic Law Code contains many, many laws that deal with specific cases. What do you do in this situation or that situation? The law code was not designed to think of every situation imaginable, every single case. It gave a sample of what you ought to do in this situation, and then you were to think upon the logic and the character of that verse and then apply that to other situations. That's what Paul is doing here The immediate application of these words obviously were for the animal, but even more importantly, it went beyond that. Paul teaches that the greater intents of the justice embedded in these words are for human workers. In fact, Paul repeats This uh passage concerning church elders who were paid in the congregation. He writes in 1 Timothy 5, 17 through 18, the elders who rule well are to be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard at preaching and teaching. For the scripture says, You shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing. Same quote from Deuteronomy. And then he goes on in quotes, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. That's a quote from Luke, by the way, which lets you know that the Apostle Paul considered not only Deuteronomy to be Scripture, but also the Gospel of Luke, because he quotes it as scripture and calls it scripture here. Well, just as he writes right here in our own passage, the plowman ought to plow in hope, the thresher ought to thresh in hope. It's very discouraging to a worker to go to labor hard and then not be paid properly. It's discouraging. There should always be the hope of reward. Of course, implicit in all of this is that paid workers in the church really must do labor. We need to work hard Some who are paid in the church act like they deserve to be paid, but then they don't work hard. We were constantly reminded of this in seminary: don't be a lazy preacher, don't be a lazy pastor. Other people go to work, they work long hours. Those who are paid by the church, I think, have an obligation to work hard. In fact, I would say We're working for something which is much, much more important than any corporation or agency in the world, and we ought to be willing to work even harder, even if we are underpaid. Reason number three In verse 11, material support is the least a church can do. Material support is the least a church can do for its workers. He says in verse 11, if we sowed spiritual things in you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share the right over you, do we not more? Now, here, though he's been dealing generally with the principle, Paul gets very specific about what he meant and what he was driving home to these Corinthians in terms of his relationship He's applying the principles to his relationship with the Corinthian church. He's getting them to reflect back on the inception of this church. If the church was considered a field to work in, Paul was the one who first sowed the seed there. He was the plowman and he was the one who sowed the seed. Others were receiving financial support from that church, but Paul and his ministry were not. It's an outrage, really. Shouldn't he receive support as well? In fact, he goes beyond that and says, are we not the first who should have the right to receive financial support? Are we not greater than those who already are supporting? Why would there be any question about it? It's a poor man, what he had to endure. Inherent in this reasoning here is that spiritual things are of greater value than physical things. Well, it takes spiritual people to really understand that and know that. Some people don't really understand why at all they should ever give anything to the church. Why are they always asking for money? It's because they don't value what? Spiritual things. Someone who values spiritual things doesn't even have to be told why they're going to give money to church Someone who is spiritually minded understands spiritual things are greater than physical things. They have that in their mind. They understand that is true. They believe that. And they feel that and they give out of that concern. Is eternal life greater than life in this world? Of course it is. The things that God has given to us in Jesus Christ, which are communicated to us by preachers and teachers and evangelists, those will outlast the things of this planet. If you have salvation in Jesus Christ that is greater than any physical deliverance you can have in this world, wouldn't you be so thankful for a fireman who rescued you or a family member from certain death in a fire? Think of the gratitude that you would feel towards policemen and firemen for doing that. And yet the spiritual rescuing in Christ is greater, and God uses spiritual workers for that. If you have forgiveness of sins, what can you compare with that in the world that you possess? Our relationship with God is the greatest treasure that we have. We say at Christmas time Jesus is the greatest gift. We need to reflect on what that means. Before Paul came and brought the gospel to Corinth, the Corinthians were facing the wrath of Almighty God, and they were apart from Christ and had no hope in this world. They were outcast from the kingdom of God. So if they didn't understand how important the spiritual seed was in the church, they wouldn't understand how important it was to pay them back something materially. For Paul, especially, who had suffered so much for them, it was a very small thing to ask for a little bit of monetary feedback. He deserved it. And Paul wrote that all spiritual workers deserve that. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verses 12 through 13 he wrote We request of you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you and have charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction, and that you esteem them very highly in love because of their work. You know, the world looks down on missionaries and pastors and evangelists and preachers. They scorn them. The church ought to highly esteem them. The church ought to lift them up, not because of them, but because of what they represent and what they say. It is honoring Christ to honor those who honor Christ's word. God is doing a grace in the life of men, and that is to be acknowledged by the congregation. Reason number four Paul writes, our example was exemplary. That's kind of funny. Our example was exemplary. Look at verse 12 towards the end. He says, Nevertheless, we did not use this right. But we endure all things so that we will cause no hindrance to the gospel. This is so precious here. This is so precious. This just expresses again that Paul's practice was not to ask for financial support for his apostolic ministry. Rather, he endured not only the trials of persecution, but also the burden of having to provide financially for his own ministry. He refused to let money become a stumbling block to those who were weak or immature. His love for others was seen and his willingness to do double the work. So the Gentiles could be saved and not stumble over his ministry. The key motive for the Apostle Paul is expressed in that phrase, so that we will cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. Did you read that? That is so instructive. No hindrance to the gospel of Christ. The word hindrance is a very interesting word. En kapi, it means a cutting into. It was a word that was used for for cutting into a road to prevent an enemy army from advancing along that road. A hindrance, a kind of a roadblock. Paul didn't want there to be any kind of hindrance To the smooth advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ throughout the Roman world. He wanted the gospel to just roll right on down the highway. He wanted to make sure nothing got in the way. Notice he calls it the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's not his. He knew he was but a servant of the gospel of Christ. It was all for the sake of advancing his message. It is Christ who suffered and died and paid for sins. It's his good news. We are but servants of it. And he was willing to sacrifice and not use his rights, so the word of God would spread rapidly and increase Oh, here we see a heart of gold from the Apostle Paul. So often we fight for our rights. We feel we deserve more. And here the Apostle Paul said his own personal example was one of keeping the gospel as the priority. In a chapter which outlines the right of a spiritual worker to receive money, it's amazing that he himself refused any from them. This is a great humble example. Truly his priorities were straight. Reason number five. You didn't think we were going to go through these this fast. I know. We're gonna get done. Reason number five, it is right It is right and sacred duties to be paid from the offerings. It is right and sacred duties to be paid from the offerings. That's verse 13. He says, do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who attend regularly to the altar have their share from the altar? See, some might have objected and said, you know, money and offerings that are given to the Lord, that ought not to be used for something mundane like paying somebody a salary. That's the Lord's money. Why is that going to a man, to a person? Some people might have objected that way. I think some people may even have that thought in in church. Unless they object that way, Paul remend reminds them of the practice of paying the priests in the Old Testament system. God had commanded Not just compensation for an occupation in general, but for those who directly worked in the religious sphere God had specific laws for priests who tended to the proper worship of God. That shows the value that God placed on those who would lead his people in worship. In Leviticus 7, just for a sample, verses 5 and 6 it says, The priests shall offer them up in smoke on the altar as an offering by fire to the Lord. It is a guilt offering. Notice that it is offered to the Lord. And then verse 6, every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in the holy place. It is most holy. Holy, offered to the Lord, but the priest was allowed to benefit from it. Leviticus 7, verses 8 and 9. Also, the priest who presents any man's burnt offering, that priest shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering which he has presented. See, food and clothing being provided. Likewise, every grain offering that is baked in the oven and everything prepared in a pan or on a griddle shall belong to the priest who presents it. And so God provided for them this way. It's just a sampling of the laws that Paul is referring to here. It refers to a required share the priest was to get. There was a portion that was his because of the special function that he performed in the religious duty in the nation of Israel. Actually, before the nation of Israel was formed, even before the Aaronic priesthood, descended from Aaron, was established In Israel, Abraham had offered payment to Melchizedek, priest of the Most High God, a tithe of his earnings from battle. We see that giving a tenth isn't just about legalistically reaching a certain amount. It was about giving an amount worthy of the one you were giving it to. You recognize this man as a priest of the Most High God. I'm going to give him 10%. I think in a church, the tenth that we give is also about pulling our weight, everyone pulling what is their weight as a member, as a contributing member in the congregation. Churches like everybody else have bills to pay. Is that a surprise to anybody? There are salaries that depend on consistent giving, not gee, what might come in the offering plate next month There are mission fields that are waiting for church people to give consistently. We know what people are giving. There's their check. It has a certain amount. It's consistent each week. And now we can make a plan based upon that. It looks like we have enough to support another missionary. Looks like we can advance forward. But that depends on consistent and reliable giving. The tithe is behind that. No, it's not commanded of New Testament believers. But some people who are against the tithe are against it because they themselves don't want to give the tithe. And you have to check your heart on that Some who beat the drum that's tithe is not for today because we're in a time of grace giving and of giving of the heart, they do that just to excuse their lack of giving. I'm not saying that's true of every one of you. I'm just asking you to examine your heart. It typically has been what was given by the people of God, a 10% of all their earnings. You should never give it out of legal obligation, you should never give it out of guilt, you should give it out of dedication, you should give it out of faith, you should give it out of jo Sparingly. We don't want to reap sparingly. Well 5% is 5%. 3% is 3%. 10% is 10%. That's how you should be thinking Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart, it says, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. But that has to come from faith, from a willingness to sacrifice and give. Reason number six. Jesus himself commanded the support of full-time Christian workers. Jesus Himself commanded the support of full-time Christian workers. Verse 14. So also the Lord, now there when he uses the Lord, remember how he's been using that in 1 Corinthians, that refers to Jesus himself and his earthly ministry. The Lord directed those who proclaimed the gospel to get their living from the gospel. Now all Christians we know are to proclaim the gospel, right? We're all to be evangelists, but here he's referring to those whose job it is to proclaim the gospel full-time. This, by the way, is not an exact quote from the life of Jesus, but the Lord did talk about the worthiness of Christian labors to receive pay. Just listen to this discipleship passage in Luke chapter 10, verses 3-7. Jesus instructed the disciples early on as he was sending them out in Israel, Luke 10, 3 to 7, go. Behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Carry no money belt. No bag, no shoes, and greet no one on the way. Whatever house you enter, first say, Peace be to this house. If a man of peace is there, your peace will rest on him, but if not, it will return to you Stay in that house, eating and drinking what they give you, for the laborer is worthy of his wages. Do not keep moving from house to house. Just interesting that in this passage in Luke 10, Jesus taught that the workers' support was actually an indication of the support the other people had for the what? The message that they were proclaiming. It wasn't just about supporting that person, but he strolled in the town. He was proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. Someone had to stick their neck out to support that guy in town. You understand Well I see that the he's getting all those guys angry and uh those businesses are up and roar about what he's saying. Come on into my home. Here's bread. Here's the best that I have to offer you. Stay here. You have lodging. If you need transportation, I'll provide that for you. What did that say about the host? What did that say about the person supporting it? I believe in the messenger because I believe in the message and where it originates from God. You see, giving was an act of faith. The physical giving was getting behind the spiritual message. That's so important. To neglect the messenger was to dishonor the message and listen, the source of that message, who is God. We who claim the Bible is the Word of God need to support those who bring the Bible and bring the teaching of the Word of God to us. I was telling Roderick, who heads our missions committee, that I personally feel a debt of gratitude to the Master Seminary for all the input, discipleship. training, rebukes, corrections, encouragements that I received while I was out there. Yeah, I got rebuked a few times as well. Our church is the product of the training and inspiration that that seminary put in me. That's why we're here and we need to know that. You know, our supporting George Lawson to go to that seminary right now is one way that we are showing support and love for that seminary. That ought to be in our minds and heart here at Hope Bible Church I hope one day we can send a monthly check their way as well, because I think it's important to show that appreciation. This principle that we're talking about here, beloved, I think applies in many different directions, but maybe most particularly to missionaries. missionaries who go to foreign countries and they sacrifice so much. They're putting no stake in this world. They're they're not uh gaining because of their uh the degree that they got in college. They're often leaving home, they're leaving security, and they're going out. And they're saying, I'm sacrificing ten times more than the rest of us. If not even more than that. They're putting their lives and their wives and their children often even in harm's way. Do you understand that? And they're doing it for what? For the gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you understand how important it is? for us to support them well. Pray for them, yes. Be interested in their ministry, of course. Try to find other ways to help them out. Yes, listen to them when they write home letters. But even more so, they can count on a home church to what? Have that check in the mail and increase it when they're in trouble. We've got to be behind people like that. It shows our love and support of the gospel of Christ. Well, the last reason, number seven, Paul says, My motive is right even in teaching this now. So even in writing this to you right now in this letter, he's saying, My motive is right. Verse 15. But I have used none of these rights. I've used none of these things. And I am not writing these things so that it will be done so in my case. Isn't this great? He's amazing. For it would be better for me to die than have any man make my boast an empty one. In Greek, the word I, but I, it's emphatic in the sentence. It's up front. I, as for me, let me remind you what I have done. I don't know what others have chosen to do. That's up to them. That's fine. They certainly have the rights to be paid But I did not exercise my rights. In fact, I'm not even writing now that you change your mind and send me something across the Aegean Sea and get it to me so I can have an easier life. My boast is that I offer the gospel of Christ without charge. And I would rather die than have anyone steal that boast from me. There's so much emotion in that. Again, this does not mean that Paul never received money. He did receive a donation from the church of Philippi. He also encouraged the churches to make a donation to the Jewish churches. He wanted the Gentile churches to have a great collection. He talks about that at the end of 1 Corinthians and again in 2 Corinthians, collect a lot of money and send it to the churches in Judea. Why? because salvation is from the Jews and they were in a famine and he wanted to show we believe and understand that all that we have comes from you know this motherland from Israel and we're giving back to them to the Jewish people And we understand that, the Jewish believers he's talking about, not the unbelievers. And your sacrifices early on in church history are why we have the gospel now and we're saved. So he believed in giving. He's even talking about the right of spiritual workers to be paid here. You know, Jesus himself was supported as an itinerant preacher going around Israel and he received that money. Do you remember who carried the money bag was Judas and he was always pilfering from it 'cause he was a greedy man. He was in it for the money Peter and Apollos and other apostles probably were supported financially as well. But this man, this Paul He sacrificed. He gave and he gave and he gave in an extraordinary way to set an unbelievable example. There's so much emotion, I believe, in that statement by Paul. It would be better for me to die than to have any man make my boast an empty one. There's no way he was ever going to let anyone falsely accuse him of wrong motives concerning money It's the false prophets who are in it for money. The only reason they talk so religiously is to get more and more money. They're very skilled with the tongue. They put on a show. They're great orators, and they did that back then, as we studied back in chapters 1 and 2 in Corinthians. And the Corinthians thought that these great spokesmen they were getting lots of money, that these were the really great spiritual men. And they're opening their wallets and pouring the money out for these guys. Why are people so naive when it comes to their money? They hold back where it should go to, and they pour it out where it shouldn't. It was exactly the opposite of what these Corinthians thought. The one person they should have made rich Paul said, Look, I don't want any of the money. I don't want any of the money. They should have just been giving them. And look, I have enough. Really have enough. Stop giving me. We just want to give you more to see what you'll do with the money. That's what they should have been doing. Forcing the money on Paul. But they didn't. But they would to any other Johnny come lately who came down the pike. Preached extraordinarily. It's so sad. I want to close by turning to Second Corinthians. You see more of the struggle he had as he bears his heart. Chapter eleven of Second Corinthians. You've read this passage before, but read it again in terms of comparing true workers who should be supported with those who are not. Second Corinthians chapter 11. The whole passage is great. Let's start at verse 18. He feels somewhat bad about having to engage in boasting here. But he's not doing it for his sake. He's doing it for their sake so they would learn something. Okay 2 Corinthians 11, starting with verse 18. Since many boast according to the flesh, many were just bragging and boasting about what they did for Christ. I will boast also. He writes, verse 19, for you being so wise, this is sarcastic, tolerate the foolish gladly. For you tolerate it if anyone enslaves you, anyone devours you, anyone takes advantage of you, anyone exalts himself, anyone hits you in the face. To my shame, I must say that we have been weak by comparison. See the sarcasm, it's just dripping with sarcasm. But in whatever respect anyone else is bold, I speak in foolishness. I am just as bold myself. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? So am I Are they servants of Christ? I speak as if insane. Aye more so, in far more labors, in far more imprisonments beaten times without number, often in danger of death. I think he decided right here, I better spell it out for them. Five times I received from the Jews thirty-nine lashes. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I spent in the deep, the ocean. I have been on frequent journeys and dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from my countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the wilderness, dangers on the sea, dangers among false brethren. I have been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. You might think that's the worst part. I think he probably thought the next part was the hardest. Apart from such external things, there's the daily pressure on me of concern for all the churches. Who is weak without my being weak? Who is led into sin without my intense concern? If I have to boast, I will boast of what pertains to my weaknesses. And he goes on. Man, he sacrificed for the cause of Christ. Has there ever been anyone like him? You know, may we who serve in the church Be at least a little more like him. I know my life will never measure up to that. And may men who support and uphold the gospel and sacrifice for that, be well supported by this church, by God's church. And may we remember as we go to the Lord's Supper now, the great, great sacrifice the Lord Jesus Christ made for us. And that it is his will and his word that his church support those who are ministering to them spiritually. Let that sink in our hearts, the application in our congregation. As we continue to press forward in growing in our obedience and our wisdom to how to make this a reality better and better in our congregation. Doug, come and lead us in hand.