Well, did you make any mistakes in this past year? Ye even one? You know, James says if you're able to battle your tongue, you're a perfect man. So I know we all said things we shouldn't have said. and uh probably aired with our tongue. What do they say to air is human? And uh except for Jesus, I agree with that. Because he was human and he never committed a sin, right? And yet um perfectly human. Well we all make mistakes. Made mistakes last year Before first day is over in the new year, probably I make a mistake there too. I want to give you some good news today, and that is that there is a God in heaven who forgives sins He forgives spiritual mistakes, he forgives moral lapses. He does forgive it. And forgive means that he takes away the guilt, he takes away the punishment, he takes away the condemnation. He does that That doesn't it doesn't mean that we don't deserve it. It just means he takes it away. That's what forgiveness is. Um have you ever forgiven anybody? That means that you don't hold it against them anymore. You don't make them pay. You don't bring it back up again and again and again Otherwise you haven't really forgiven them, right? God forgives offenses. In fact, if you were to read the Bible, and I hope you are, it's a great goal to have, by the way, read through your Bible But even better yet, circle a few Bible verses, highlight them and do what it says. That's even better than reading through. But if you read through your Bible, you know what you would find out? That as you read through there, a lot of the great people we think about, they were forgiven some pretty big sins. Yes, they were. Moses, you know what he did? Killed a man. God forgave him. God forgave his brother Aaron. You know what Aaron did? He built an idol and worshipped it. It's pretty bad, wouldn't you say? God forgave a prostitute. Yeah, her name was Ringhap. God forgave an adulterer. You know what his name was? David. He forgave a woman who'd been possessed by seven demons, Mary Magdalene, according to Mark 16, 9. He also forgave another guy. Who took Christians and threw them in jail. What was their crime? Following Christ. You know what his name was? Saul. Paul God forgives sins. You can find forgiveness for any sin that you commit, any sin at all. Isn't that great You look at your background and say, I've been terrible, I've done this, I've done that, you can find forgiveness from God to Christ for any sin. You have to admit it. You have to admit that you deserve the judgment of God. You have to admit you're no good in his sight. You have to trust in his son. That's the only way you're going to get that forgiveness. But you can find forgiveness for any sin that you commit. There are three spiritual errors, though, that you can't make. Yes, there are. There are three mistakes, three errors that you must not make, for if you do, they will lead to eternal destruction. And Jesus warned about these three errors, and I want to pass them on to you today, kind of as a warning for the new year. And the past year, in a sense, don't make these mistakes. Don't make these errors. I want you to open to uh the Sermon on the Mount and the Gospel of Matthew just for the Sunday. And turn to chapter 7, actually towards the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 7. And we're going to be looking at verses 13 to 23. And as you're opening there, I just want to uh remind you that we're in a world, people call it a postmodern world, and everyone uh Everyone doesn't want to judge anyone else. Notice that? No matter what somebody does, they're like, well, that's okay. And everyone's kind of rushing not to judge. Everyone's rushing to make sure they don't judge anybody else That behavior is okay, and that behavior is okay. You can't speak against that behavior, you can't say anything against that. And no matter what it is, it's like it's okay. But with everybody's rush to say everything is a-okay God kind of remained God during this whole time. God's opinions didn't change. Man's opinions changed, God's didn't. God's person didn't change. His opinions didn't change. H His judgment's not going to change So one day, if you change your opinions and you kind of go along with the current that the world is in, you're going to run into this reality called God. So it's better now to figure out what he's thinking because it's not going to be, you know, the news, the news people or the politicians or the college professors that will be your eternal judge. It's going to be Jesus Christ who's going to be your eternal judge. So if you were wise, you'd listen to him and what he's going to say, because what he's going to say and you're going to hear now If you don't listen to it now, you'll hear it then on the judgment day, and it's better to listen to it now. Matthew seven, thirteen to twenty-three. Let me read it for you and just see if you can find what some of these mistakes are here. Enter through the narrow gate, Jesus said, for the gate is wide, and the way is broad, that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. For the gate is small, and the way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but in really are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? So every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So then You will know them by their fruits. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord Did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Ooh. You're probably already picking up on a little bit of that, aren't you? Jesus talks about entering in the kingdom. He's talking about the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom that is from heaven that will flow down to earth eventually we'll see it visibly, but as we die we also enter into place that's called heaven. Well we hope to enter into a place called heaven, paradise. God's kingdom. That's what he's talking about. This is at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, greatest sermon ever preached. And uh he's talked a lot about the kingdom of God and the righteous standards of the kingdom in this in this uh Sermon on the Mount. He's been teaching hundreds of people here on it's really a big hill that was out in front of the Sea of Galilee. He had his disciples close to him. He's teaching them as well. And here at the very end, he's providing three warnings. Three warnings to make sure people get into that kingdom, get into God's eternal kingdom, enjoy eternal life. You go to funerals nowadays and they almost just assume if a person died, they go where To heaven. Why don't we assume that when they die, they go to hell? Because nobody wants to preach that message. Oh, there's Sister So-and-so, she's in hell now You don't want to say that, right? Here so-and-so, they lived a nice life here in the world, held a good job for 50 years, died, went to hell. Nobody wants to say that. You want to be a preacher saying that? That doesn't that doesn't work too well in today's climate, does it People are like what they come to a funeral for comfort. They've come to a funeral for comfort and then they hear that. What the hell? There's no comfort in that. So they just say, went to heaven. But how do you know? Did you die already and figure that out? No. So who are we going to listen to? Someone who knows? Who knows? The one who came down from heaven. Pretty good credentials, don't you think? You know who came down from heaven? Not me. Jesus. He said, I came down out of heaven. And so he knows the way back to heaven. And he's giving three warnings people are not going to make it in These are three mistakes you can't make. You're not going to make it into heaven. Three warnings with three dangerous lies. So let's go through them and we'll just go in order here. The first one And I'll put it in the way people might put it today, but it relates to the text. Look at verses 13 and 14. The first lie would be something like this most people go to heaven. So I'm probably okay. Why am I probably okay? Because I'm like most people. I'm just an average guy. Most people are kind of in the middle like most people. Wouldn't you agree? There's like some really, really bad people, and there's some like really great saints and people who do great things, and most of us are just average Joes. And we're in the middle. So we think like most people go to heaven, so I'm probably okay. Dangerous lie. Dangerous lie. I know you've heard it before. Do you know why this lie works? It works because people think that there's safety in numbers. There's safety in numbers, right? When you don't know what to do, you just follow the crowd Jesus says if you fall to the crowd, this time you're going to be in a lot of danger. You're going to be in a lot of problems. I have even had people tell me there's no way that God would be saving only a few and condemning the rest. As if they sat down and gave God some tutorial lesson. Let me tell you, God, how it should be. And then they'll tell God how it should be. This is how it should be. You should be saving most and only condemning a few And that's how people think, and they'll give God moral instruction. It's not what Jesus said here, is it? I mean you have eyes, you're reading it. What do you read? What do you think? How do you interpret those verses? Looks pretty bad, doesn't it? First thing that ought to grab you about Jesus' teaching here at the end of the greatest sermon ever is most people don't get into the kingdom. Did you see that? Look again, look down. Your Bible's on your lap. Look down and read it. What does it say? Most people don't get in. People just assume they have a right passage, a rite of passage into heaven. Jesus said, huge, huge mistake. Probably the worst mistake you can make in life. Now, of course, this lie comes in many forms. You hear people say things like, as long as you don't kill anybody or do anything really bad like that, you ought to be okay. Well, then God has some pretty low standards. Wouldn't you agree? I'm as good as the next guy. True enough, but how do you know the next guy is getting in? All spiritual paths lead to God. As if they traveled all of them and they know. We all worship the same God. Well, guess what? God disagrees. Jesus says there are qualifications to get into the kingdom of heaven that must be met. And most people in the world. Don't meet those qualifications. He says to enter. He's talking about entering the kingdom of heaven. He says, enter through the what? What does he say? Narrow gate. Why? Because the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to paradise. Is that what it says? That leads to destruction. That doesn't sound good. And it says there are many who enter through it, but the gate is small. is narrow that leads to life and there are few. Please underscore that word. You might if you write in your Bible. If you don't, don't worry about it. It's not a sin. Just write in your Bible. There are few who find it. Is there anything difficult about few? The small gate, the narrow gate, also has a narrow path. Gate in that original language, Poine Greek, pule, means a gate or a door, just like we would think. There are many different kinds. There's no particular Kind that seems to be in mind, and the order is not really the issue of how it's put here, anyways. It just means that there's a difficult and less traveled way, it's less popular, and that's the way that leads to life. Narrow is a word in Greek that actually has the idea of being constrained or pressed together. It's kind of like act, if you're going to find it. It's going to be a little more difficult, see? But those who do enter by the narrow gate and they walk that narrow path, they, by making that choice, find something. What do they find? Answer is life. They find life. You think life is a good thing? I'd like to have life. I'd like to keep life. You know, people do everything they can. They keep their life. What about eternal life? Wouldn't you like that eternal life? The Bible often speaks of us not yet having life. Now here we are living, and the Bible says you don't have life yet. Why does it say that? Because it's talking about the best kind of life, the everlasting life The eternal life, the heavenly life, the life that Christ gives that will outlast this world, that involves the resurrection of your bodies and all of the blessings that come in the next age. All the things we have to take by faith now. But it's there. It's a life lived to the fullest was how Jesus described it. It's not boring, it's filled with joy. It's not where you do nothing, you'll have lots of things to do, and you'll have peace, and everyone will get along Heaven is a place that is supposed to be life to the fullest. It even says in Acts 2 that in God's presence is fullness of joy. People who think God is born don't know God. You know, when sin is not allowed, then no one's allowed to bully anybody else, no one's allowed to lie to anybody else, you don't need to lock doors, there's no longer any tears. Sounds pretty good to me That that kind of life. No dying, no crying, no pain. It's a fuller life, more fulfilling. That's where the narrow road leads. Life the way humans were always meant to have it before we fell away from God and are suffering all kinds of things. Is that the path most people choose? Answer: No. Most people choose to enter by what gate, the wide gate, and walk down what path? Broad path. What does that mean? It's broad, it's spacious, it has room for lots of people. It's popular, in fact. It's well traveled. It's probably very easy just to get in there and just go along with the flow. Everything's going to be fine, you think? Jesus points out, many go that way. If you're looking at life and you're just watching people in general, this is where the bulk of the people are going. And where does the broad road end up? Please notice very soberly. Christianity does not tickle people's ears. That's why you know the Bible tells you the truth, because it tells you the things you don't want to hear, and you think in some cases can't possibly be so, but here it is. Most people end up in, you already said it, destruction Destruction. Apoleia. Loss. Even the translation perish or ruin would be best. Whatever it is, it doesn't sound like something that is pleasant. In other places, Jesus spoke of an eternal conscious punishment, a dark place of pain, of loneliness, of isolation, of shame. In fact, there is no teacher in all of the Bible that talked more about the fires in Gehenna, in hell, than Jesus. People have a wrong view of Jesus. Just for example, Matthew 10, 28, this is the discourse on discipleship. He said, do you not fear those who kill the body? That's what we do, we feel fear those that kill the body. Do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell Why is it that when people break the law, they'll do anything to get out of jail, but when they break God's law, they show no concern whatsoever to being thrown into an eternal prison from which there is no escape? And in that prison, they won't get any TV at all. It'll be in continuous agony. Revelation 14:11. The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever What a graphic picture, the smoke of their torment rising forever and ever. Really these words of Jesus are scary They're sobering, really for several reasons. First, please note that there are two ways and only two ways. Did you get that? In life, there are many religions. How many are there? I don't know. There are many opinions. There are many lifestyles. There are many multitude of philosophies, many expressions of those philosophies. Did you know that all of that was true in Jesus' day as well? Do you know that the Greco-Roman world had multiple philosophies and multiple religions and all kinds of people saying what they thought the divine being was like or the best way to live. That was all true in Jesus' day. It's not that he didn't know about it, but Jesus said in his day, true for our day too. There are only two gates. There's a really, really big one and there's a small one. There are false roads. There are all these different roads, but Jesus says that's just the broad way. Some are zigzagging this way on the broad way, others are zigzagging that way on the broad way, but it kind of all goes to the same place. Secondly, I want you to notice that most people choose the way that leads to destruction. Why would anyone do that? You know, we get so upset when we hear about someone committed suicide. What a terrible thing. Around the holidays, someone's depressed. Their life's not going anywhere. They committed suicide. Most people, most people are committing eternal suicide. It's crazy. It's dramatic. The Bible says. Most people are doing that. Proverbs fourteen, twelve, there is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death. Do most people end up getting saved from judgment? There's a false teaching out there called universalism. You ever heard of it? There are different forms of it, but one says, yeah, there might be a little bit of punishment, but in the end, everybody gets saved. That is a really nice wish. What if it's not true? That would be one of the most dangerous false hopes there ever would be, right? And it's not true. Jesus says so. Now, third, notice that a choice has to be made by us. Otherwise, Jesus wouldn't be telling his disciples to choose which gate to enter, right? We will go down one of these two ways. It's not really the issue. You can't say, well, I'm going to choose the third gate. No third gate. Did you see a third gate in there? I didn't see a third gate No third, no fourth, no fifth, isn't it? Well, I'm just gonna sit down and choose no gate. No, you're gonna be on one of these pathways. Almost like it's one of those movable sidewalk things, right? You gotta choose which one you're going on. It's gonna go somewhere That's really not the issue. Your life is heading somewhere. You're going to have to make a choice. You're going to have to actually look for, find the narrow gate and go through it, otherwise. He's just going to go along with the flow, see. Fourth, and this is not stated, but I think it's implied, there is accountability to your life There is accountability to your life. You can avoid God and avoid church and avoid the Bible only so long that it comes back, catches up with you. There is accountability. A lot of people say, you know what, I'm going to do whatever I want with my life and they have fun with it. And they just go on doing whatever they want to go do. Catches up with you eventually, right? You see people eat any way they want to, and eventually they get sick, yes. You see people like live crazy wild lives, eventually they get into an accident. Yes? Spiritually speaking, people say, I'm going to live any way I want to. Eventually it catches up with them. There's this thing called reality, and God is there And so there's some accountability built in. If you choose this, this is what's going to happen. If you choose that, then this is what will happen. And fifth, please notice that Jesus gives them an exhortation. Jesus is there to help them. He doesn't want them to go down the broad road. He he actually exhorts them to enter the narrow gate. He tells them to do it. He doesn't tell the disciples, sit there and admire the gate You know, I had someone once tell me how beautiful a song Amazing Grace was. Amazing Grace. What a beautiful tune. Who cares how beautiful the tune is? If you don't believe in the amazing grace, you're going to go to hell. Yeah, I sang Amazing Grace and then I went to hell. What good would that be? Don't admire the gate. Don't uh sit there and look at it with beautiful pearls around it. Or put it in postmodern terms, don't tolerate the gate. Find the gate, and then do what? Enter through it. You gotta go through it. If you just sit there and listen, you're obviously not going through it. You have to know who to listen to, by the way, to find a gate. Who should I listen to to find the narrow gate? Well, not the people on the broad road to destruction. Does that make sense? If you listen to the people on the broad road to destruction, you're going to end up with them, right? So, in other words, most of the people in the world you can't listen to about this. Probably a lot of young people, probably a lot of your friends that are on the broad. You can't listen to them. Well, what do you think? What do you think is the meaning of life? You can't listen to them What do you think I should do with my life? You can't listen to them. What decision do you think I should make? You can't listen to them. You have to listen to someone who's probably not all that cool to you. Probably someone who's different from you. Probably someone that you might have even tried to avoid. We went down to the Bible Museum this past week. It was kind of cool. It's so big and there's so many people we saw mm maybe twenty percent Maybe twenty percent of it. But they have all these artifacts and they have all these displays and and one of them is showing you how the Bible was preserved, miraculously preserved, through all of these centuries. Isn't that amazing? The Bible was preserved. That means when Jesus spoke and this stuff is written down, and then these manuscripts are preserved and and it's all copied and there's all this proof of it and it's all on this You realize what you're reading now, 21st century, is exactly what was written back then, and they were the eyewitnesses and they heard Jesus speaking. Just think about all of that. All of that Bible history, all of that proof was there for everybody in the world to know. That when they read the Sermon on the Mount, they're actually getting the real words of Jesus. It was all preserved, so we would know today that when Jesus said, Enter by the narrow gate, we would listen to it. The Bible was preserved to help you know not to go down the road of destruction. God did all of that preservation so you could hear His word now tell you, watch out for the broad road. Find the narrow gate. Few find it. Be one of the few Because what it means is that that narrow gate is very easy to overlook. If you don't go look for it, if you don't get out of your normal routines, if you don't think differently, you're not going to find it If you just go along with, well, this is what I've always been told. That gate's not going to seem attractive to you at first. You're going to look at it and go, man, such a small, narrow gate. Doesn't seem even like it could be the answer. This winky dink looking. Who's gonna want to go that way? But there's false comfort in numbers. Most people in Jesus' day rejected him. Did you know that? Most of the people, most of the Jews that he preached to rejected him. Where are they now? They're in destruction. The disciples, you think they gave up a lot, follow Jesus, pick up your cross, follow me, you think they regret it now? Of course not. Of course not. Who's the wiser one You can be one of the millions, though, through the years. If you count through the years, through the centuries, there's millions and millions of people that did find that narrow gate. You can be one of those You can find that narrow gate, you can enter through it. And the gate really is Jesus Himself. The gate really is Jesus Christ Himself. When you find Him and understand Him and believe in Him, you'll find He is the gate to a changed life and to everlasting. Now some people say what you're talking about in getting the gate is getting a little religion I know, I know. I've been out partying a lot, I know. I've been out living for myself. I've been doing sports too much and neglecting God, and I need a little more religion. I need to find God. I need to get a little more spirituality. I've been I've been on the stock market too much. I've been thinking too much about my money and business. And I think I need to get back to church and spirituality. Pastor, isn't that what you're talking about? Not exactly You need to listen to Jesus. The second morning, about the second dangerous lie. And there it is in the verses that follow, verses 15 and follow. And I'll put it to you this way. People say it this way, they say any religion, any religion is fine as long as you are what? Sincere. You heard that one? Oh, yes, you have. Any religion is fine. It's fine with God as long as you are sincere. Boy, this is so common. You hear this everywhere Many people think this is true just because so many people say it. Well it must be true, so many people said it. You know, my teacher said it, my parents said it, and The guy over there said it, and that that personality on TV said it, and that movie star believes it must be true. It's not true None of those people are the authority on heaven. None of those people know about how to get into the kingdom of heaven. Jesus Christ does. Listen to him. By the way It's kind of one of the most blatantly unintelligent positions anyone could ever hold. Because if you listen to all the different religions, they all disagree about everything. Unless God is schizo and he doesn't know what's going on, it has to be wrong Jesus certainly disagreed. He didn't say follow the false prophets. Hey, it's another way. He said, and there it is, check me out. What did he say? Beware. Of the false prophets. Plural. Plural? There's a lot of them. Now, why would you need to beware of false prophets if all religions are fine? You would never need to beware of them, would you? Jesus said, don't accept all the prophets. They're not the same. Beware of them. Don't open your mind to them. Run from them. By the way, this was from imperative. It's a command. Beware. Watch out. Why would Jesus say this here? Because in choosing to enter the narrow way, here is another clue. There will be many false prophets who tell you whatever it is that you want to hear so that you can feel justified In staying where? On the broad road. Stay on the broad road. It's okay. Don't listen to those guys. Those guys in that church that kind of narrow. They're kind of narrow there at that church. I know churches like that. Don't listen to that. They don't know what they're talking about. Most of us that have come to understand the Bible and have studied it well, what we understand is and off they go. Oh, they're so intelligent, they're smooth talking, then they're liars. They're liars. Oh, you're gonna sit there and you've got to figure out who am I going to believe? You better believe your eyeballs when you read this. You better believe your eyeballs when you read what Jesus said. Lying is common in every area of life. Would you agree with that? I mean, businesses, lie. So, of course, there's going to be lying in religion. Of course there is. What is a false prophet? Pseudo prophetes. It's someone who says, Look, I'll tell you what God wants For your life. And then it tells you something that's false. False prophet, false teacher, false apostles, false brethren. They're all there. Do not, do not. Turn me off right now. You need to hear this. We all need to hear this. We need discernment. Jesus said this world is filled with false prophecies. And false teachers. That doesn't mean that our church alone is teaching the truth. I'm not saying that. But it is saying there are a ton of people out there that are not telling you the truth. And you better have ears to understand this Jesus loved you enough to tell you this. When someone says, look, this is what God said, this is what God wants you to believe, this is okay, and it's not what God said, and it's not what God's will is, they're false prophets. And beware of them. But how do you know who is speaking for God and who is not speaking for God? That's a good question Look at the clues that Jesus gives. First, he says the false prophets come to you with a sign that says, I'm a false prophet. Isn't that what it says in there to you? False prophet. No, it says they come to you in what? Sheep's clothing. I could be a false prophet. Better listen to what comes out of my mouth. It better square with what's there in the Bible. If what I'm saying doesn't square with what's in the Bible, write them off. You can't have loyalty to men. You have to have loyalty to God's word. Somebody could have nicer garb than this, could have a really nice, you know, some of those ministers, they have some nice things. Gotta get me some of those. You know? Little red sash around the waist, a little bishop hat. They can have that. They come in sheep's clothing. They look like nice innocent sheep, just one of us. So the first few things they're saying sounds something like bah, bah. Oh that's good, that's good. Hey, he's good, he's good. Keep listening. Because the bad becomes a little growl. Like, oh. So they're religious men, Jesus said. Jesus says Satan gets into religion. False prophets, he's the father of lies. That means they stand in churches. They speak on religious airwaves. Oh, I'm right on air on I'm on the Christian radio station. Should be okay, uh-huh They hold a Bible in their hand. Hold it, but you notice they don't say too much from it. I grew up in a church, you know, we always had these great scripture readings. Now that's a great scripture reading. And then the sermon sounded like readers' digest. Didn't sound like a scripture. It's like, what did he say about the scripture? I don't think he said anything about the scripture. But they hold the Bible. They have a Bible I'm a pastor. I'm a priest. And that's why it's so diabolical. It's treacherous. Don't look for the false prophets in all the obvious places. Satan is way too crafty for that. You know, in Jude's little letter, he talks about how false men creep into churches, and then their bad character is only learned about later. Here, Jesus reveals their true identity. They are not shepherds, they are, and he calls them, ravenous wolves. What is a ravenous wolf? A hungry wolf. They're hungry. What are they hungry for? They're hungry for something. They're hungry to get something. They want money, often. They want a gathering. They want to be followed. They want prestige. They want a title. They lead you the wrong way because they know they'll say certain things to you, and most of the people will like that, and they'll begin to follow that, and then they'll get what they want. They profit from your deception We, I throw myself in with this mix, we cannot be naive in life. It is naive to believe everything, the Proverbs say. Of course, it's also reckless to lump all of religion together and say all of religion is bad. You found 25 bad apples, so the 26th has to be bad also. That's not very good math You know, there are some good ones and you have to listen to them. It's reckless to say all doctors are bad because you had a bad doctor. Would you agree? It's it's reckless to say all school teachers are bad because you had a bad school teacher, or two or three. Don't throw the truth out with the lies. Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. You ask, but why would God even allow false prophets in the first place? Jesus does not answer that question here, you may notice. He just warns us about them. If you were to read more broadly in Scripture, you would see that God allows false prophets in order to test whether his people really truly love him or not. He allows the false message to come so that we'll listen to the false message, hear it, and then say, wait a minute, that doesn't honor God. That doesn't obey God. That's wrong. And we'll be able to say no to something In order to show our devotion and our love to God. And God is pleased with that. God is pleased that we make that division to say no to one thing and yes to his. It's a test. It's a test of our hearts whether we love God or not. That's why false prophets are allowed. Do you want God? Do you want to follow God? Do you want the truth? Do you want to conform your life to what is right? Are you willing to give up your life and lose your life so you can find the life that Christ has? That's really the real issue, right? Jesus said in John 7:17, if anyone is willing to do God's will, he will know of the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from myself. In other words, the real problem with people not knowing who's speaking for God and who's not speaking for God is that there's something wrong with their own internal understanding, their own internal Ability has been compromised because they don't want to do the will of God. Jesus said, if you want to do the will of God, you'll know. If you want to know the will of God, it's a will issue If in your heart you want to follow after the will of God, the understanding that you need to know who speaks from God and who doesn't will come to you. And the problem isn't that you don't have a high enough IQ or you haven't heard enough sermons. The problem is you're unwilling to do what God wants you to do. You're unwilling to give up what you want, and that's why you can't know Now, the second thing that Jesus says about knowing the false from the true is he says you'll know them by their fruits, right? How do they live before God? If it's not right, then they're not of God. Notice he says you will know them by, not you will guess them by. Jesus says, you don't have to guess, you will know It gives the disciples a very familiar gardening illustration from trees. It's basically gardening one-on-one. If the tree has good roots, it will produce good fruits. If a tree is sick, you don't look at the leaves, the bark, how tall it is, or how short it is. You look to see if The tree has good fruit. If it has good fruit, you're like this is a good tree. If it has bad fruit, you're like this is a bad tree. It's pretty easy. I like easy things. He even says you have to make sure it's growing the right kind. The grapes don't have thorns. Some of you didn't know that probably because you haven't done gardening, but grapes don't have thorns. Things don't have thistles. And Jesus repeats this to emphasize this to the people so they're not easily fooled. See, someone might say, yeah, but that that man or that woman Sounds so good, so charming, so delightful, so caring. Look, it looks like the Holy Ghost is on them when they speak. Don't look at that Look at their lack of obedience to the Bible. Yeah, but they have a long tradition of Christianity behind them in that denomination. It's so impressive. Don't look at that. Look at their hypocritical lives. Look at them being loose with scripture. Yeah, but they inspire people. I mean, people leave from church feeling good. And the churches they're in, they're gorgeous. They're so big, and they got a lot of money, and God's blessed them. Don't look at that. Don't look at that. Stop looking at those things. Look at their lavish lifestyles. Look at how they spend their money. Look at how all of that feeds their pride and their self-image. Yeah, but they're so knowledgeable. I mean, they were telling us all about the Hebrew and this and that. Don't let that sway you. People can be learned and still have hidden agendas. Yeah, but they believe in the same Jesus we do. I mean, why are you getting so bent out of shape? Well, if they believe in the same Jesus we do, why aren't they saying the same things we're saying? We can't be charmed by the ecclesiastical honors and the doctorate degrees with a smile on TV or the counselor who has a famous clinic. When God's word describes what a true man of God is, it describes him as a man of humility, as a man of self-control, as a man of patience. A man whose home is in order and one the model, a man who gets along with others, a man whose heart is steadfast after God. Anyone can look good up here. It's when the person comes down and then he goes somewhere, follow him, find out how he lives. That's what matters It's easy to look good on TV. A lot of people look great on TV and they have bad bad tempers, foul mouths, drunkenness, adultery. Anger, falsehoods, off the stage. That's what Jesus says to look for. That's the truth you're looking for. How well-rounded is it? Is it ripe? Does it taste good? Saw this lady, she was in Costco, she was trying to get a pomegranate or something like that out of a box. She couldn't, so I went over to help her. I said, I'm only gonna help you if you tell me how to pick good ones. She says, I don't know I was like, what good is this? I thought I was gonna learn something from her. What's a good fruit? I want to know what the good fruit is like, you know. We need to know what the good fruit looks like. So the Bible tells us what love and humility and righteousness look like. By the way, what's going to happen to the false prophets real quickly? Did you notice any anywhere near? What does it say? They're going to be cut down, they're going to be thrown into the fire, much like what John the Baptist warned about in chapter 3 and verse 10 of Matthew. Now there's still one more lie. I've got to get to it. I'm out of time. I've got to get to it. And here, and this is for you. This is for everybody in here. Here's the third lie. Okay? Buckle up for this one, okay? Here's the third lie. And I've got to be very careful in what I say here, because I want you to hear this just right. As long as I believe in Jesus, I'm okay, I'll get into heaven. Say, wait a minute, whoa! Uh-oh. That's what I believe. I believe in Jesus. I'm getting in heaven, right? Look at verse 21, 23. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, sounds like somebody who believes in Jesus. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many, oh my, you might want to underline that word. Many will say to me on that day. What do you think he's talking about? That day. The day no one wants to think about right now, right? The day that doesn't exist in the vast majority of loose and worldly and liberal acting people in the world today, that there's not really going to be a judgment day, there's not really going to be an accountability day. I'm not really going to have to face Jesus. But he assumes that here doesn't. Many will say to me on that day Because now they know they're in a lot of trouble. Now they know they have to answer to Jesus. And they walk up there and they say, Lord, and they add it in. Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord. Did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles? That sounds like a really good religious resume, wouldn't you say? I mean it's sticking the resume right up there, Jesus. Let me tell you why we should get in. We should get in because first of all, did you hear the Lord, Lord? Lord, Lord We did this for you. We served you. We believed in you. Man, we did miraculous signs in your name. You can think of all kinds of ways people might think Jesus would respond here, right? He might say, Wow, well done, my good and faithful servant. Doesn't say that. Might have said, you know, you're a shoe-in for heaven. I'm so glad you worked so hard for the kingdom. It didn't say that He just says, and then I will declare to them. By the way, assumed in there is his authority, right? I will declare to them. Jesus is assuming something that would be audacious unless it was Not true. It would almost be braggadocio if it was not true, and that is I am going to declare to human beings what their eternal destiny will be. I will declare to them I never knew you. Now it doesn't say I didn't know about you. He says I didn't have a relationship with you You you went to church, you did some activities in church, you sang some songs, you said, Lord, Lord, you probably prayed. I never knew I never knew you. And then he says the most difficult words, I think, maybe in all of the Bible here. Depart from me. He said that doesn't sound so bad. I'll just go off and I'll go live my own life, do things the way I did. I don't need to be with Jesus. No, you're not understanding. Depart from me means away from me is judgment. You will not get any of the blessings that God gave me to give to you. And then he adds why at the end. You who what practice lawlessness. Now all of us commit sins. We should be ashamed when we do. We should confess it quickly and grow. But this is someone whose lifestyle said, I don't care about the teachings of the Bible. I'm going to live my life the way I want to live. want to live it. I'm not going to change. I am not going to bend. I don't care. I can give the religion on the outside. I can show up to church. I can look like a Christian on the outside. I can come at Easter and Christmas or Mother's Day. Or I can come every single week and even sing in the choir. But in my heart, I'm going to do what I want to do. And nobody's even gonna know it. Yes, somebody's gonna know it. Somebody's gonna know it. You might fool me. Sometimes I get fooled You might fool them. Sometimes you get fooled. You never, ever will fool God. He knows whether Not you're real with him. Are you real with God? The end of a year, start of a new year. I thought, what a great thing to think about. What are you going to do in the new year? Build an addition on your house, get a pet, exercise a little harder. How about this? Get real with God Because he knows who you are. You have to get real with him eventually. Get real with God. It's not about Activity in church. It's not about a mere profession of faith. I have faith in Jesus, so therefore I know I am getting into heaven. There is a kind of faith in God and Jesus that does not lead to obedience. Obedience to the things Jesus said to do If your life is not leading to morience, you can have no assurance you're going to heaven. And you shouldn't have any assurance because you're likely an unbeliever. Saving faith in the Bible is the kind of faith that grows into fruit, that grows into obedience. Saying Lord, Lord does nothing to save your soul. Singing hymns, beautiful hymns, by the way. Singing hymns does nothing to save your soul. Participating in a revival, going to a prayer meeting guarantees you nothing. Obeying the word of God proves you are a Christian You don't want to hear those words, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. That's not America's law. That's God's law. If you're not doing the will of God in your life, how can you think the kind of faith you have saves you from the destruction? This is a terrible mistake and error people make. Yes, some say I'm just going to follow the crowd. That's the first mistake they make. They don't look for the narrow gate. Others are like, well, any religion is fine, just be sincere. Jesus says, oh no, you'll be deceived, and you'll follow the false prophets into destruction. But for the last group that already think they're believers in Jesus, this might be the worst one I'm a believer in Jesus. I prayed when I was nine. Are you right now living for the will of God? If the answer is no, you're not saved. And you never were. You've been lying to yourself. You tried to get God to fit your life, and you deceived yourself. Are you committed in the new year? Now, forget the new year, now, to do the will of the Father Forget about your will. What is your will going to accomplish? What are you trying to do with your life? Forget about it. Live for the will of God. What is the will of God? 1 Thessalonians, chapter 4, verse 3. This is the will of God. Your sanctification. That is that you abstain from sexual immorality. If you're practicing sexual immorality, you're not saved. You're not doing the will of God. Ephesians 5, 15 to 17. Be careful how you walk not as unwise men, but as wise, making the most of your time. Why? Because the days are evil. So then do not be foolish, but understand. Understand what the will of the Lord is. Romans 12:2. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is That which is good and acceptable and perfect. Ephesians 6, 6. Don't serve by way of eye service as men pleasers. Some people serve in church to please other people in church. But serve as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. 1 Peter 4:2. Live the rest of your time on earth in the flesh, no longer for the lusts of men, but live it for the will of God. 1 John 2 17, the world is passing away, and also its lusts. But the one who does the will of God, the one who does the will of God. The one who does the will of God lives forever. A believer does the will of God, or he's not a believer Do you criticize other people in church for not loving you? I want to ask you, who do you love? Do you complain about how your spouse treats you? I want to ask you, how good of a spouse are you? Listen very carefully. If you are not obeying God, you are not safe with God. And if someone told you differently, you've been listening to false prophets, and you're on the broad road that leads to destruction. And I pray you get off it. You find that narrow gate called Jesus who calls you to repentance. You give over your life to him. That's the only kind of faith you accept. where you call him Lord and you mean it. Do you know in Luke 6, verse 46, he turned to a bunch of people and he asked them, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and don't do the things I I say. You confess Christ as your Lord, that means you start obeying. You find that kind of faith, God will save your soul, and any sin that you've committed, He will forgive. Thank you, Father, for being gracious to us. Not just in forgiving all of our sins. Because of Christ, but also warning us against false prophets and false faith and a false way. And help these dear people to know what the truth is in their heart and believe in Christ and run to Him truly this very day. Save them, Father. Save the ones that are lost. Bring the lost sheep back into your fold. Pray it in Christ's name. Amen.