Welcome everybody. My name is Mike Jarvis. I'm a pastor here at Hope Bible Church. My ministry is overseeing the adult ministries. So I'm pretty much involved and engaged in pretty much everything that has to do with the adults. When it comes to the kids, that's another story Um but it is great to be here and one of the reasons why I am here is because primarily uh Pastor Plumley is going to be in the new members class, so he's teaching that, so I'm kind of stepping in uh as his replacement, but also this has been kind of a joint effort of wanting to teach a class on how to do uh teaching uh in a ministry. And we're approaching this from several different perspectives because we want to cover uh pretty much everything that's involved with putting together a lesson so that uh you feel confident in being able to teach the Bible. And so uh we're going to be covering today on how to teach a passage of scripture and then I think coming up is how to teach a topic. And those are the two primary categories that you're going to find yourself wrestling through each time because again, you're either going to be invited to teach on a particular topic or you're going to be invited to cover a particular passage. We want you to be equipped to be able to do that and to do it in a way that, again, honors the text of Scripture. And that's why we are having this class to kind of walk you through the process of learning how to really engage with the Bible. Let me begin by saying that when it comes to teaching and to preaching And covering these kinds of issues, like you, every time I go into the pulpit, I go with fear and trepidation. um only because of the fact that I want to make sure that what I speak on, whether it be a passage of scripture or a particular topic that it be clear. And that's the goal is we want you to be clear in your teaching. But the again related to the clarity of Scripture is this issue of authorial intent. authorial intent is the better way of pronouncing it. But what I want to do and what I mean by that is we want to get in there and faithfully speak on or teach what the author of Scripture meant by what he wrote And so the idea is we want you to be the mouthpiece to be able to teach what the Bible says and what it means by what it says. Uh if I could put it real bluntly to you, it doesn't matter what it means to you. The issue is, is what does the text mean? And so with the clarity part of it, we want to make sure that we are preaching and teaching God's message, not ours. And so part of this process of learning to teach a passage of scripture is getting you guys excited about studying the Bible. Studying the Bible is to me the most thrilling and exciting thing that I could ever do. If I can sit down and spend all my time just studying the scriptures, I would be a content person. But I do know that I also want to deliver what it is that I've learned, and so that's where it comes the issue of teaching and preaching comes into play. So I want to back up though today is I want to spend a little bit more time on how to actually study the Bible. I want to get you so excited about studying the Bible that you can't help but explore everything that is there so that when it comes time for you to step up and to speak and to say something about that particular passage or topic, that you are ready to go. You have much more uh to save in what is given you in terms of time and hopefully you will be able to just take what the Bible says and explain it in such a way with clarity and again what the author meant by what he said, and you will be able to explain it in such a way that people will get excited about the scriptures. Um I know that you each have a passage and a topic. I think some of you are probably more excited about the passage and topic that you have than others are. Maybe it's a little bit intimidating. Maybe you're in a particular genre that uh you're not that familiar with and you're just struggling with knowing where to go um how to speak on this issue. Well let me just say when you get into Bible study you will have more to say about that than what you know right now So I want to take some time to really kind of go through that. And you have a worksheet with you. It's a personal Bible study worksheet that I put together because this helped me to uh direct my mind and my heart as I sat down and started to study the scriptures. We all know the um the observation, interpretation, application aspect of teaching the scriptures, I've reworked it in a different way so that when I begin, first of all, I began with a heart of prayer that Lord just help me to speak what you have given in your word Help me to teach what you have already made explicit, and then give me the opportunity to be able to teach that in a way that brings clarity to it. But when I begin my Bible study process, I begin with step one, which is reading to observe And this is where I would just encourage you, when you are sitting down to approach your topic or your passage, that you just get to know that passage so well that without rote memorization, you've read it so many times, you've gone through it so many times, that you can basically get up and quote it. That would be the joy. In fact, just a little personal anecdote. When I was in Bible college, the first class that I took was on um spiritual life and it was taught by the founder of the Bible college that I was attending. He was in his nineties and he was just talking about the spiritual life, talking about what it means to be a Christian and applying the scriptures. to our life. And I remember after the semester was done, he probably quoted by memory um the whole book of Hebrews. And I went up to him and I said to Dr. Mitchell Did you like sit down and just memorize this? Did you r uh just repeat the phrases over and over and over? And he said, no. I just have read the book hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times that it just comes out of my mouth. I just speak it. And it was wonderful to be able to have that testimony because I thought that's the way I as a Christian want to approach the Bible I want to read it over and over and over so that I get to the place where I'm actually quoting it. I'm actually the words of Scripture are coming out of my mouth. And again, I do that because this reading to observe is probably the most critical phase of getting to know your passage and beginning to start the process of understanding what you're going to talk about in terms of the passage itself. So in your notes there, I have read the passage several times, get familiar with it Write a brief summary of the passage in your own words. Write down any truths that you want to remember, and then write down any questions that you want to research later. I say that because again, this is all part of the observation stage. And I would just encourage you that when you sit down to observe the passage, you do it in such a way that you are looking at every detail of the passage. You are beginning to look at details you've never looked at before. You are beginning to see the tenses of the verb. You're beginning to see who the subject is. You're starting to see why that prepositional phrase was used there and not over here, why the words are repetitive that you're seeing in your passage. And then when it comes to a topic that you're speaking on, that you see that topic just literally jump off the page into your face, you begin to see why. That is the most important topic of this particular passage. And when that happens, then you begin to see why interpretation is so important. And that's the next stage, which is observe to interpret. Now before we get to this stage, I want to go back in your notes. Um if you look at uh page twenty-six, we have depth or sections that we want to be aware of as we begin to look at teaching a passage of Scripture. So if you see first of all in number or Roman numeral 1 You see the word context. Context is critical because context helps you to understand how the passage, maybe it's a passage taken out of a particular context take it out in the best way because you're you're focusing on that particular passage, not taking it out of its context and teaching it out of its context. But You are actually seeing it in a greater context. Like I'm trying to think of an example. If you were to like speak on Colossians chapter 1 through 4 Setting your mind on things above, not on the things that are on the earth, you know, knowing where you've been seated, you where that you're seated with Christ in heaven. Colossians 3, 1 and 4 happens in a context And when you start to open up the context, you start to begin to see, okay, how does chapter 2 fit into chapter 3, verse 1? And then you begin to broaden out the context a little bit more to maybe the book or the chapter of the Bible, but then the book of the Bible, and then ultimately what you want to do is if you're chasing down a particular truth in that passage of Scripture, you may then want to go to all of Paul's 13 letters and see the pattern of how he speaks about those issues. throughout it. So there's a context under which your particular passage fits. And you want to be able to know that context. And so my encouragement to you is If you do have a passage in a smaller book of the Bible, read the whole book in one sitting, maybe 20, 30 times. And then as you go back, then start to look at the details of that particular passage and how it fits into the greater. context of the book. But again, what we're trying to get at here is really four things. Historical background, literary background, grammatical background, and then the immediate context of which I've just articulated to you. So as you begin to dig in, and I would say that this is part of the reading to observe stage, is you're starting to unpack what is there in the passage of Scripture. So as you approach your study to that particular passage, you want to ask yourself, okay, what is the historical context? Where did this happen? Who was the human author? Who was the initial audience? Because again, you want to kind of Get into the sandals of those who are the original recipients of this letter, and you want to be hearing it as if Paul is writing this letter to you. Now, again, as a believer in Christ, since the Bible applies to all of us, it really is a letter written to us by God. But bear in mind, Paul had a context for writing his particular letter to you or to the recipient. And so you want to kind of get in the mind of the original recipient and start to hear this from Paul himself. So who was the original or the initial audience? When was it likely written? Under what circumstances did Paul write the letter that he wrote? How does this book relate to the timing of other books of the Bible? uh and when they were written. How does the historical and cultural context inform and restrict the meaning of the selected verse? For example Was this before versus after believers who were indwelt with the Holy Spirit? There was a significant event that took place on the day of Pentecost. That changed everything. with regards to how believers were to receive the Spirit and again to understand now new revelation concerning the church. But also was this a custom, washing of feet That was necessary when the Bible was written, but is much less necessary in our time and culture. I was going to try to use an example, several examples. One that came to mind was way back in the Old Testament And I can't remember the exact passage, but it was where there was something having to do with property and the person took off their sand sandal, spit on it, and then slapped them in the face. And it's like, do we do that today when we do property exchange? We don't Um so it's just understanding what was the cultural context of that particular verse and why was that done. You want to try to understand that. And so again, that's why you're writing out questions in terms of what do I need to research later or what do I need to focus on in terms of understanding the passage better. But then there's the literary context. Why was this letter written? Or why was this book written? What are the major themes in this book? This is where a good study Bible or um Bible Handbook will help you to go back and look at the various themes in your particular book that you're going to be teaching on. So what are the major themes? What does the passage of interest, or how does the passage of interest fit within the flow of the entire book? And again, this is what I was explaining earlier Your passage isn't just a standalone passage. It happens in the context of the book. And again, hopefully when you start studying that, you begin to see the theme of the book come out in that particular passage. What type of writing? This is really interesting because there are whole hosts of genres in the Bible. There is poetry, there is historical, there is uh prophetic, there is apocalyptic, there is there are a number of different uh genres in the book of the of in the Bible And so you want to kind of get an idea of what kind of genre you're going to be talking about. Because if you are teaching on a historical portion of the Bible You're going to approach that very differently than what you would do for a po poetical. So you want to kind of learn the poetry, or you want to learn the history. You want to learn the prophecy and how it applies. Is it a prophecy that's going to be uh immediately answered? Or is it something that's going to be way off in the future? You want to try to understand, again, how the literary approach to that passage fit so that you can be able to speak to it in that in that sense. And so Romans is instructional, Acts is historical narrative. Ezekiel is prophetical. Psalms obviously is poetic. Then there's also the grammar. The grammar. How many of you love grammar? Oh, so a few of you. Um grammar I despised when I first was in high school, and I think it's because I was never really taught grammar well. Not until I got into graduate school and we had to pass an English refresher class before we took Greek and Hebrew and I bombed it. I bombed the test. So I took the summer Greek refresher class and I got so excited about grammar that I wanted to be the grammar Nazi everywhere. In fact I ended up being an editor at Grace Community Church in California and I was editing a document, a Sunday bulletin that was really a little magazine called Grace Today, and I went through that thing with a fine-tooth comb, exercising all of my knowledge of uh English grammar to try to help uh make sure that what we said was accurate. Now having said all of that, please forgive the spelling errors that are in that what we teach document because I read it again and I found a couple. So um Yeah. No. She was editing. No, she was over at Grace today, but I never saw her on campus at Grace. In fact, I found out um fairly recently that Jeff and Hong Fein were at Grace Community Church when we were there. And I preached my very first sermon at Grace Community Church in the f the small group or the uh fellowship group that Hong and Jeff were in And I never met them. I don't think so. No, they said they didn't, but yeah. But they would have been there. Uh because it was right at the time when I did it. So anyway, but uh context gram I mean grammar is so important Um it it it really unpacks the passage for you. When you start actually let me ask you this Are you guys pretty much caught up on the Joel James reading material? He had a section in there, I think it was around chapter eight, that dealt with block diagramming. The phrase. I I call that phrase diagramming because I'm breaking it up into its natural phrases. Uh but in there when you start to block diagram and you start if you want a line diagram, if you're great at that do that, it's helpful, it's a little bit more uh it's a little bit more detailed uh than what phrasing or block diagramming is. But when you do the block diagramming and you start to notice the words and the phrases Wow, the passage just seems to come alive. You begin to see things that your eyes didn't see before. In fact I was taught in doing grammar um research and then also um looking through a document and reading it, I was told read the document backwards and you'll catch any kind of misspellings or m or words that are out of place. And uh I did that frequently and I started to do it to my Bible study and it was amazing. I started to stop and pay attention. to every word that was in there. And when I did that, I ended up like if I take a passage of scripture, I would end up studying every single word that was in that passage. and why it was there. Because it's there, because God put it there. And it's there because you need to know it. But anyway, um line diagramming, block diagramming, um, and phrase diagramming will help you to see the grammar better. Even if you're not very good at knowing your grammar, like knowing the subject, verb, object, or direct object, or prepositional phrase or anything like that You will begin to see the words very differently when you start to phrase it out. So I would really encourage you to do that. But we're asking the question here is how is the selective passage constructed grammatically For example, is it an imperative? Are you commanded to do something here? To whom is this addressed? You begin to let that greeting or that salutation at the beginning of the book start to bleed through the rest of the passage of Scripture. And so when you get to Colossians 3, 1 and 4 When he says, set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth, you begin to say, who is he writing that to? It's the Colossians. And in what context is he writing to them? And so why is that informing Paul's imperative there that you need to set your mind on things above? So again, when you start to see grammatically these relationships throughout the Bible, you begin to see why it is they're so important. You know, why are the verbs in the past tense, present tense, future tense, why Um is this a plural um you rather than just a singular U? Or why is he talking here about Um, you know, a a particular phrase. Um in fact if you take Ephesians chapter one verses three through fourteen, it's all one sentence in the Greek. And if you treat that as one sentence, you begin to see all these little phrases. In there, why is this phrase so important? Why did Paul just go on and on and on with all of this? Because it all applies And it all relates. And so you want to be able to see those connections that are there. Um you want to see it again, how does the select passage fit grammatically with the preceding verses? If you see a therefore or a so or you know, these connecting um these connecting ver words, you want to be able to answer the question if it's there. I always heard it as um when you see therefore, you want to find out why it's there for. So you want to go back and you want to start to understand how that uh connects to what it is that you're studying. So again, it's very important that you look at it from this historical, literary, grammatical um approach. And in fact, I think the best way of studying the Bible is using what's called a literal, historical, grammatical interpretation of the Bible. Because this begins the process of getting you into the interpretive uh phase of your Bible study. So, and there they are, straight from Grace Community Church when I preached my first sermon in their fellowship group and and they don't even remember it. They don't even remember me. So um Oh good. Hong, you're in the splash zone. So anyway, uh what I was saying was it's very, very important that this literary um a literal approach, you know Again, addressing the passage from the perspective of why did the writer write what he wrote, and then how am I to understand it? You want to take it in its plain sense. That's what we mean by a literal interpretation of scripture. But this literal literal, grammatical, historical method I think is the method we need to use in interpreting the scripture. Because again, the literal plain sense of the text helps you unpack so much and it helps you understand what the author is saying, but also the grammar is so important because we're using words here and sentences And then also with the historical background, it helps you just unpack what is there. Now, that's how we approach it, but then we get to the interpretation to actually dig into it. appropriate for them to ask this question, but how much of your research and study should be brought out when you're teaching is it enough to show that you actually studied it and you don't know what you're talking about? But how do you bring bring to the message? Like for us we have ten minutes, so okay. Yeah. So I feel like it's my tip on the first time. Yeah, it's gotta get to the point. Yeah, it's a good idea. Um, five weeks on one verse. I'm just That is an excellent question because again, you're gonna spend I was telling Colleen when I teach a passage now I've been doing it for a while, so it's faster than what I did before, but I would say anywhere from eight to fifteen hours It takes me to study a passage so that I can then begin to teach it. If I were preaching it, it probably, if it was from scratch, it would be anywhere from ten to twenty hours. Um well actually fifteen to twenty hours in studying it. Now I say that because you're gonna s you're gonna dig into your passage. Let's just say it takes you eight to ten hours to dig into your passage you're only going to have ten minutes to talk on it. So the issue is you want to have studied it well enough that you can speak and teach on it as though you know it And that's what you're trying to get to. You don't want to bring all of your research into it. Like I don't want to bring all of my Greek and Hebrew or I don't want to bring all of my grammatical studies into it. There may be something in the passage Like Paul is commanding us to do that, and it's not readily apparent. It's interesting. There's a passage in um Colossians chapter three, let the peace of Christ dwell in you, uh or rule in your life, and then let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. The translators have translated the imperative by and it's because it's in the subjective sense and they translate it as a let Lead is a very good translation of that. But Paul is commanding the Colossians to have the peace of Christ rule in their life. He's commanding the Colossians to to let the to have the word of Christ richly dwell within them. The let in the English translation doesn't really draw that out as much as you would in studying it and realizing this is a command. Now it's a perfectly good translation with let because it addresses the subjunctive sense. And in that passage it would be like Paul saying, you must let the peace of Christ dwell in you richly. You must Let the Word of Christ richly dwell within you. But if you just give the passage as let the peace of Christ, let the Word of Christ, then they're not going to hear the imperative there. You haven't. Yeah, you haven't really drawn out what Paul is intending by that. Now again, it's it and that's just brought out by the grammar. So that's why you want to spend a little bit of time in into that. But that goes into the interpretive process. So in ten minutes, you just want to get to the point. You want to be able to say something about that word that topic or that passage That really draws us in and helps us get a sense of okay what is the author saying? And if you've done that, you're successful in that. But again, you want to just be cognitive of the fact that you have studied and poured your life into this and now you're just going to give a snapshot of that to the people that you're speaking to. There's two two ways of approach two ways of approaching it. One is be content, because God can use a ten minute devotional in a profound way if you have taught the authorial intent of that passage. I'm telling you what Paul told me. So I'm going to tell you what he what he told us. The other part of it is don't beat yourself up because you've got all the notes and you can go back and take a lo a longer time. to teach that passage, maybe teach it to your husband or teach it to your wife or teach it to your children. Um get into it in that sense. But Again, the study is more for you. It's for you to dig into that passage in all the ways possible so that you are so excited about getting the opportunity to deliver that to other people that you can't wait to get in front of somebody and say, here's what I learned. And it's really what I learned from the passage. Um are there ever to different ways, even with studying and everything else, to interpret a passive description Are there ever two different it could be this or it could be that you mean the meaning of the passage? Yes. Are there everything like you could preach something or teach something and Pastor Gabe could teach something? Could there ever Could you ever pull from that two different meanings, if you will? I'm gonna answer that question very bluntly. Okay. And the answer is no. Okay. Okay. There's a principle in studying the scripture uh hermeneutics wise. Where you need to come to grips with the fact that there is one intended meaning, many applications, but one intended meaning. In the church today, in our in our Christian culture today That has been reversed. There's many interpretations, and we're just trying to get at the immediate, a relevant application. That is the worst way of approaching studying the scriptures. Because you have to back up and say, what did the author mean by what he wrote? That's what I'm trying to get at. Because again, it doesn't matter what it means to me. It matters what does it mean. So first of all, what does it say? So take the words in their plain sense, and then if you need to interpret it more deeply, then you will But take it in its plain sense and then ask the question, what does it mean? And then when you get into the interpretation, you're asking the question, what does it mean by what it says? Now, I've approached this, there's a there's a number of different ways of approaching hermeneutics, and I've listed out a few. You might want to write this down. I don't have this in any notes that I've given you, but when we talk about studying the scriptures and trying to get at the attended meaning here, there's really eight different things that you need to bear in mind. One is apprehension. Apprehension. What did I hear? And this really speaks to the issue of listening closely to the scripture. What did I hear? Apprehension. What did I hear? In fact, um maybe at this point, let me just say it. If you can write it down as I'm saying, I'm going to say it a little more quicker. But I will give this to you later. I'll I'll post it in the hopebook um pages. But apprehension, what did I hear? What did I what came in through the Audio, part of my brain. Number two, observation. What does it say? This is where you read it. You read it. Then there's interpretation. What does it mean by what it says? That's where you study it. And then there's the evaluation, what do others say about it? And this is where I'm comparing it to commentaries or or books that have written on that particular subject, and then you get into number five application. How does it relate then to me and to my audience? And again, it relates, but you need to explicitly try to explore that with your audience when you're teaching. And then there's memorization. How can I use it? This is where you memorize it. Then meditation. How does it transform my life? And that's where you meditate on it, chew on it for a lengthy bit of time. And then ultimately, how do you communicate it? Or communication How do I communicate it to others? And this is where the teaching comes in. So if you can do the apprehension, the observation, interpretation, evaluation, application, memorization, and meditation And you can do that to your satisfaction that you know the passage well enough, you're gonna have no problem getting up and speaking on it. that's required of you is to organize your thoughts. So to write down in an organized way. And my approach to teaching a passage is very simple. I want to have an introduction, I want to have an exposition, and then I want to have a conclusion. I want to take off so that everybody's safe. Imagine a plane. I want to take off so that everybody's with me. I want to fly around, see the scenery. I want to enjoy it. I want to see how it applies. I want to see how it's illustrated. And then ultimately I want to land the plane. Now you want to land safely just as you took off. You don't want to crash the plane. You don't want to take too long, you'll miss the runway. The issue is you want to be able to land the plane like you took off And if you could do that, then you will have the enjoyment of taking what you've studied, what you've engaged in, to that level of being able then to teach others. And it will be a joy for you In fact, by the time you've got done with the first seven of these things, um you when you get to the communication and you organize your thoughts That's where the joy of being able to then bring it before people in a very succinct way so that you've done justice to the passage. And again, in the expositional part of my teaching or um preaching, I want to have illustrations, I want to have applications, I want the passage to be drawn out in such a way that people again connect with what it is that the the biblical author is saying. And I do. I want them to connect with the biblical author. I don't care about me. They're not connecting with me. I'm just the mouthpiece of being able to teach this truth. Somebody want to let Margot in? Oh, come on in! Anyway, so the issue is how do you then make that connection? And that's where we come then to the study process. of actually studying the passage. Now, I've gone through so much of that already. The immediate context is so important because again it helps set the stage for what it is that you're going to be talking about. It's going to help you to organize your thoughts. But when you get past the reading to observe And you're now getting into the observe to interpret phase. This is where you're unpacking the passage or unpacking the topic that you're going to be speaking on. Now here in our study we're looking at how to study or how to teach a passage. So what we're trying to draw out from here is what is the author saying Why is he saying it? How is he saying it? We're answering all the questions that a journalist would ask. The who, what, why, when, and how uh questions of the passage. And we're trying to to do this so that we have a very clear understanding of what the passage says and what it means by what it says. Now, I know that in some of the notes earlier on, um, no, it might be in this passage itself Alan gets into some of the details of interpreting the passage. In my personal Bible study worksheet under number three, you have so many suggestions here on identifying key words, phrases. and then describing their significance in the context. You do want to try to look at every single word that is in the passage because again, God has given us his inspired word not just in the plenary sense in the sense of the whole of it but it's also in its verbal sense. Why did he give that particular preposition for that particular prepositional phrase And you want to explore that. And sometimes the meaning of a passage may revolve around a prepositional phrase. Instead of using into, it was it was in. Or instead of from, it was out of. Why did he choose that a commentary, a good study um Bible will draw some of that out. A grammatical book will help draw that out as well. So you you really have to, in those instances, you really have to go back to the You do, but you can let another person discover that for you or draw that out. I'm just saying you you would have to say like why did he use that word Well what was the original word in Greece or what was the original word in correct? Correct. Okay. Now this is the beginning so we're not ex Expecting you to do that detailed of a study, but if you but if you start getting into the passage and you start asking questions, why is this here. You're going to get into all of that. Find the subject, find the the primary verb, find the primary sentence in there and then just let everything else illustrate that. And when you do that, you will then begin to see the passage in such a profound way that it will excite you about what the author is saying. So again, connecting words. Why is and, but, therefore, for why is it there? What's that? That's a difficult question. Sure. is literary context and your point um one step two is a little well oh you say oh yeah you say literally this is literary. Are they just saying it Um the literary approach here is essentially you're asking the question of what kind of themes based off of the genre of the Bible. So it's You know, if you're in a poetical book and you are studying that, you want to understand kind of rhyme and meter and why there's a there is a frequent constructive poetic way of describing things in the in the Psalms that you need to get to know and it's the word chiasm It's where you have something being said one way and then the author takes it and reverses it saying it the other way. So that when you actually phrase it out, you have the first line being the broad understanding of what he's saying, to then the next one being a little bit more specific. And the next one very specific. And then when he reverses that, you can see how he changes a word to relate to that very specific meaning, but then he broadens that out again. That chiastic structure is in this in the poetic books often. And so you just need to observe it there. And that will help you to get to the exact meaning of why that author is saying that exact word. I wish I had an example to give you, but there's so many. And a good commentary will draw out those chiastic features. But when we're talking about liter uh literary here, we're in a sense talking about the genre of the book. Why is this book a historical book Why is it not in epistolary book where it's more of a letter form writing with instructions How does a narrative differ from that? So you're wanting to get at that meaning. But the the when I s talked about the literal sense, I'm just saying that when you understand this is poetry and you understand that this is history and you understand that this is uh prophecy, you then come to it asking yourself, okay, I just need to read it in its plain sense, and then where there are symbols or or figures of speech being used, I need to interpret those in the context of that particular book. So that's where getting into more of the grammatical study will help you with that. So literary, historical, grammatical, and then the immediate context helps you to basically understand what this book is and why it's important, especially featured in the scriptures. So um and then there's the biblical context as well, letter E. Scripture uh is the best interpreter of scripture. There you may come across a passage that is just plain hard to understand. I don't understand what this what this person is meaning. Go to the clearer pic picture or passages. that will then help you to interpret that passage. And there are so many. I tell everybody when they're reading their Bible for the first time, read it through and just write down all of your questions that you have As you're reading through the Bible and don't get stuck on those questions. Don't try to go back and try to study and research and understand those questions Just read through because eventually you're going to get to a clear passage that's going to answer that question. And that's the joy of being able to read to observe as you're reading so much that you know that when you're talking about um some aspect of um I can't even think of one off hand. When you're studying some passage and you're reading it and you have a question about it, well I don't quite get what Paul is saying here. then you get to a clearer passage and that answers that question. Wow, that's the joy of Bible study. Because then you're letting the Bible interpret the Bible. And that is probably the most exciting part of this whole process. a Hope Academy teaching that that Pastor Allen assigned to me this past Thursday and the story of Jesus and Nicodemus. And Jesus says, uh unless you're born of the water and the spirit, then basic basically you're not going to say see the So it's like okay, what does this water mean? Is is it baptism? Is it a fleshly natural birth? Yeah. Is it some form of cleansing Yeah. So even embedded within that kind of passage, it does give a clue I I believe that it interprets itself as to what the water is. It's uh being born of the flesh. It's a natural birth. I would actually from spirit I would actually take it a little bit differently with the water Um and I only say this because when you read through the old Old Testament and you come to the writer Ezekiel and you start to read the passage about the new covenant One of the things that's explicitly brought out there is the washing of the water of the Word. It's the Word of God washing us And by the time then you get to John chapter three, I think Nicodemus would have understood it from the context of the New Covenant or the uh the Washington. But that's again, this is an interpretive challenge and you need to do everything you can to just follow that interpretation out. I may not be right in that. But again, this is there's several interpretations, but you need to be able to let the Bible interpret it but also be able to just trace that out to see if what he's talking about. Nicodemus in the context does say, do I need to enter once again into My mother's womb? No, you don't. You need to be born of the spirit, but you know, what is it picturing? Yeah, you find those two different com I found commentary and then the other but the kind of low-hanging fruit was just a couple verses later that seemed to be characteristic of Yeah. Yeah, it is a challenge. It is a it's a big challenge. And so I think there's grace in interpreting a passage and maybe you get the interpretation wrong. Um well then you just Lord, please. I I just I I'm I'm not gonna go down this rabbit trail. I just have one quick question and we can talk about it afterwards Um what you just described kind of pertains to the question I had earlier about can passages mean something a little bit differently And without going into detail of what my particular passage is, um, what about the end time? I mean, Pastor Mike said m um millions of times good and godly men differs. And so we have churches that teach the Bible completely true everything but end times. We've got premillen millennial uh you know what I mean. And then we've got um amil millennialism and etcetera. So what to do about those kind of things. Yeah, you're on your own. See, and that's pretty much how it feels. No, you don't. I do. No, I completely understand because this is where I got We're all encouraging one another to study even more. Yeah. And then there's one meeting. Hopefully we'll get to the right meeting. No. I think what ensures you headed in the right direction of interpreting the passage correctly is a literary or literal historical grammatical interpretation of the Bible. There are people who factor in other things, other um systems. They begin to read into the passage something that isn't there. That from something that they believe in the past, I've got to read the scripture this way. That's dangerous. And I believe that it leads you to the place of ultimately having an incorrect interpretation of the passage. There is a correct interpretation of the passage. If you get to a place where you are particularly focus on the meaning of a word or a phrase that's in there. Ask yourself the question, is this the main intent of this passage? Is my interpretation of eschatology, the study of last things, is that the focus of this particular passage? If it is, you've got to chase it down. You've got to get to that place where you feel comfortable saying, thus saith the Lord. If you're wrong, you're wrong. Because I would say in the answer to your question is, is it premillennialism? Is it uh postmillennialism? Is it amillennialism? One of us is wrong. Two of us is wrong. Actually I should say that. Two of us is wrong. So Nazi grammar. Grammar Nazi. Two of us are wrong. Plural. Verb. That is very, very important. Because again, that informs the way you're going to be reading the rest of Scripture. So you might want to look at your passage, say, okay, what As catalogical scheme is this unveiling to me. Well then go somewhere else in in the Bible and see if you can justify that. Go to a commentary and see how they treat it both those who are from those various perspectives and look at it. But I believe that if you interpret it in its context in its literal, take the words for what they mean, even though they may be figurative, maybe in some aspect of it, um, but interpreted in its plain sense Understand um you know what the context, the grammar, and the historical background of this, and then just study it until you have become settled in your conviction of that. You may still be wrong But again, you are getting up there and teaching what you know. I would just what you know hold it with a kind of an open fist. Ultimately, maybe you'll change your mind later on having studied it even more. But there's grace in all of that. You're just you're going into this with, I am trying to tell you what Again, I have gleaned from this passage and what I've studied about this passage, what I think the author is saying here, and then you're giving that to us as it has been received as a blessing to you. So um Yeah, I mean i it's it's interesting with all of these different interpretations, there is one correct meaning and we need to try to get there. And that's why Teaching a passage of scripture, just jumping to application doesn't do it. You may be preaching or teaching the wrong application to the passage If you just say, here, let me tell you how this should be relevant to your life. You may be teaching the wrong thing. So that's why this whole interpretation process is so critical. It's so critical for you to be able to say, stand up and say, this is what the author of Scripture said. And this is how it's now been a blessing to me, understanding the context. of this passage. Now again, walking through that, um I just want to get you so excited about the uh passage itself that as you read to observe, as you observe to interpret um as you begin to interpret to apply that you get so excited about your passage, about your topic, that you can't help unpack it before everybody there. And so when you get to the interpret to apply, you're really looking at how does the meaning of this passage then become relevant to us at this particular time. So are there any examples to follow? This is in your um Bible study worksheet on the second page. um interpret to apply, but are there examples to follow? Are there commands to obey? Are there errors to avoid? Are there sins to forsake? Are there promises to claim? Are there new thoughts to be learned about God? Are there principles to live by? How has your attitude changed based on how you know what you know to be true now? Um how should your actions change These are all applying the passage, but they're applying the passage based on a correct meaning of the text of Scripture. And again, as far as you can get to the correct meaning of that text of Scripture then begin to show these principles. And you're not going to have all of this in the one in the same passage. There may be specifically a command to obey and you need to be able to explain that in such a way that Paul would say, Yes, that's what I'm saying. This is what needs to be obeyed here. So when you think about uh letting the peace of Christ rule in your hearts When you think about the Word of Christ richly dwelling within you, you begin to ask the question, okay, I know this is a command But now that I know that it's a command, how do I let the ri the um the Word of Christ richly dwell within me? Well, I know that the same passage that Paul is talking about here he articulates in the book of Ephesians, except that he doesn't use the Word of Christ. He used being filled with the Spirit. So I know that being filled with the Spirit is having the Word of Christ richly dwell within me That passage in Ephesians just interpreted Colossians 3. 16, and Colossians 3. 16 just interpreted Ephesians 5. 18 for you. There may be errors to avoid. List out the errors to avoid based on what you've studied in this passage. Sins to forsake again. Promises to claim. Oh my word, if you are in an Old Testament passage You may come across so many promises that are given, but you need to interpret them in their context. Jeremiah 49, 11, I think it is. Oh, I have to um Does anybody have a Bible Jeremiah forty-nine. This is terrible. I'm teaching and I don't even have a Bible. It just came off the top of my head. I think it's Jeremiah. Forty-nine eleven. No, that's not the right one. It's the one where I have plans for you. Twenty-nine eleven, thank you. I knew it was a nine, I knew it was eleven. Somebody read that. How many of you have heard that applied to you or to a person? Now I'm not going to ask how many of you have applied that to somebody else or written that to somebody else That passage specifically deals with Israel. That is not a personal application for you and I, except for the fact that does God have plans for us? He absolutely does. But you can teach on that passage and draw out what God's plan and promise is for Israel And you can say as a Gentile, guess what? Romans eleven says, I am grafted into that promise So the promise that God is going to give to Israel in Jeremiah, which will take place in the millennial kingdom here on earth in the future I as a Gentile will be participating in that. So I will receive the blessings of God's promise directly to Israel. And that's how I know God is faithful. Because what he says he will do for Israel, and ultimately that promise then extends to me. But specifically in its context, that was a promise given directly to Israel. And you want to just draw that out. You want to help people understand that, because that then informs your eschatology. That then informs other aspects of God's dealings with the with the people of Israel. So all of that to say that you want to draw out what is in the text as the application And this is just a guide on helping you to determine what kind of things are being talked about. In fact, here are some questions, and I'll give this to you in Hopebook as well. Questions for better Bible study. I wrote these down because I thought they were very helpful. But what does the passage tell me about God? That will take me into all different aspects of theology, the study of God. How does this passage tell me about myself or humanity? That's anthropology. That's the study of man. That's the study of understanding man and how he relates to God How does this passage fit into the story of the Bible? The story of God redeeming his people. That's soteriology. That is salvation itself. And then how does this passage lead me to Jesus? That's Christology. What does it tell me about Christ? And then are these are there truths in the passage that I need to repent of? That's harmaryology, the study of sin. Harmartia is the Greek word for sin. But what do I need to repent of? Are there truths in the passage that I need to change in my life? That's Christian ethics. That's right and wrong. That's good and bad. Ultimately, how does this passage reveal the beauty of God and his gospel and lead me to worship and adore him? That is doxology, the study of the glory, fame, and majesty of God. Your passage will draw out any one of those. And that will open up the doors for you to be able to talk about your passage, but talk about using other scriptures or other um other truths to be able to inform that passage better. Now again this is something that we do in Bible study and And if you can do it in a way that really draws out the meaning of the text of Scripture, then you have a lot to say A lot to say. You're gonna have the perspective ten minutes is just it's nothing. That's okay. It forces you to be succinct. in what you say. Because then you focus on the things that you see as very important in the text of Scripture. Later on you can preach a Or teach an hour-long message on it. Now, um Alan wanted me to bring this to your attention, but at the very end on page twenty-eight, there are two examples One is a ten minute lesson on Genesis three sixteen, the the latter half of that. And then another example is a longer lesson on Christ, our Great high priest. If you'll notice in the first one on page twenty-nine, um teaching uh Genesis three sixteen B The focus here is on this phrase, your desire will be for your husband and he will rule over you. This is a very controversial topic or issue. And there have been interpreters that have gone in wild directions related to interpreting this passage. But again, if you start out with the context that God gave Adam a prohibition under the penalty of death. Um, when he ate of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, he died. He died spiritually, he will eventually die physically, which he was never meant to, but because of breaking that law, that word that God had given him, that command that God had given him In the curse, God said to the woman, here is how that sin is going to manifest itself that's in your heart. Your desire is going to be for your husband. Now You look at that and you think, what's wrong with having a desire for your husband? That's where you get into studying the word desire. What's he talking about here? Again, the context is they died spiritually that day, but God graciously then killed an animal to cover them and their s their um that animal became the substitute for them, the provision of God's grace, the commands and the roles that God had given to Adam and Eve, then for cultivation, for um child bearing and childbirth. None of that changed, but sin entered the world. That's the context. So When sin entered the world and changed the relationship between God and man, it had a severe effect on it. And then you get into this second part And you ask yourself the question, what does that desire mean? What does it involve? And Ellen lays it out here very beautifully. Um It's just wonderful to be able to see this word being used in the scripture because it's used in in Genesis 3, it's used in Genesis 4. And then it's used in Genesis or in Song of Solomon. When you compare it with Song of Solomon, Solomon is using it very much in a positive sense. He is using it here for a loving, gracious desire of intimacy and connection. But in Genesis 3 and Genesis 4 we see the worst part of this. word desire because it literally is to take control of and to usurp the authority of the man in the relationship. And what's interesting is when you compare it with uh Genesis 4 verse 7, you begin to see how it relates to sin when God says to Cain, Sin is creeping at your door and it has a desire for you, but you must master it. In a sense, this warning to Eve is your desire is going to want to usurp your husband's role in creation, and what will happen is it will be a negative response to you from your husband. He will rule over you. And what does that rule mean? That's where you're drawing out for this message. that you would talk about. And then just quickly, um, because we're getting close to being done, the application would be that husbands need to leave their lead their wives with wisdom and Christ-like sacrificial love and wives need to be submissive to their husbands in the most God-honoring way based off of Ephesians chapter five. Both roles require selfless sacrifice intent on resolving and preventing conflict, not fueling it. And that's what we see in Genesis chapter 3. and Genesis chapter 4 as far as the warning. Wives need to make it easier for their husbands to lead them by submitting to their husbands as the church submits to the headship of Christ That doesn't mean you just roll over and you're the floor mat for your husband to wipe his feet on. If he tells you to do something that is sinful, you say absolutely not I can't do that. I've got to obey God rather than man. But the issue is, is how can you make it so that you are reversing the curse? And if you can, as a believer, you know Christ, then you do have the power to be able to reverse the curse. You have the power to be able to again Live a godly life where you can see that Genesis three and Genesis four sin is not having its dominion over you. um presentation, um teaching, this would be a good outline for correct? Yes. And I probably would only change the the titles to it for me because I look at it as introduction exposition, um, conclusion or application. Okay. Yeah. So basically just introduce us to the topic. Why is this important? Or I mean the passage. Why is this passage important? And then just walk us through it. Help us to understand it better. And you can order that however you like. There's three principles that Paul talks about here. In fact, in uh talking about the priorities of the Christian life, if you look at Colossians chapter 3 When you get into the the you have first of all in verse twelve, I think it's twelve and thirteen, you have the character of the person, those that have ch been chosen by God, holy and blameless Then you have in verses 14, you have the character uh of the person, and then in uh verses And those three concerns are let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts Let the word of Christ Christ richly dwell within you, and then whatever you do in uh for the Lord, do it all for his glory. Um so there are actually three commands there. And you could say, hey, I'm gonna talk about this passage that has to do with the the character or the priorities of the Christian life here in Colossians chapter 3, and I'm going to give you three of them. Paul gives you three of them. So then just go through and explain each three all three of those And then um and then land the plane. Very nicely, but land it. Um and so the application is just drawing that out and saying, here's how one can apply here's how you use the um the second person singular or second person plural uh the you or you all to give your force there with application um because Based on this understanding and this knowledge of uh the Word of God, here's what you need to do. And the passage will draw that out for you. So if you're talking to a bunch of five year olds, go real deep into But if I'm teaching a seminary class, then they just will follow all the Greek. Or if I'm teaching a bunch of other languages, I may not even get the GH word and go right back and tell you. So your audience indicates you put out there and with you. Yeah, definitely consider your audience. Um yeah, you would teach differently to children than you would to adults. Um and definitely you teach different to believers and unbelievers. So And you just want to draw that out. So just think introduction, exposition, application, or conclusion. Yes, Sarah. Of the Colossians passage? No, I'll the thing you're gonna put that in. Sure. I'll do that I'll do that. I will give that to you as well. I'll give that to you as well. I'll try to give you as much as I can just to help you really explore the passage. Like I said, the thing that I want you to get from this is I want you to get so excited about the passage and the topic that you're teaching on that you cannot help. I can't wait to get in front of people and share your insights. Uh John MacArthur always used to say, I love studying and I can study all day. And I can agree with him on that. Um but when I get in front of people, all I'm doing is I'm just letting the floodgates out. I'm just telling you everything that I learned. uh from this passage. And when you do that in an organized way, and let me emphasize, organized way. Think of your outline of what you're going to speak on or what you're going to do as guardrails. We're taking a mountain drive with you, we don't want to go off the cliff. And when you go on down a rabbit trail, you have gone off the cliff And sometimes the end is a crash because you don't know how to how to conclude it. But the guardrails will help you stay on the road. So just think of it that way. Yeah. Did you want to say more? Thanks. Alright, any qu uh Kirk. Yeah, I was hearing you talk about the communication part after all your studies. And how you can derive a lot of joy and satisfaction. And remind me of Proverbs fifteen, twenty-three. A man takes joy in obtaining reply and how good it is to give a timely word. Yeah. Yeah. And be praying. You know, when I when you start your Bible study process, I say here in prayer, acknowledge God's infallible word, that it's perfect, reliable, completely trustworthy, and that You need the Holy Spirit to illuminate your mind in order to understand and apply its truths. Confess any sin, receive God's forgiveness, and then ask God for his wisdom and his understanding. When you've done that, you are then in a mindset to be praying for those who will receive it. And let me tell you, in here We are the audience that wants to receive your insights into the Word of God. And so just be praying that the Holy Spirit will take what you've given to us and apply it specifically so that we can walk out of here with twenty, four, five different ways of looking at a passage of Scripture in the sense of, wow, I if I could just apply all of that over the next week, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, etc. Um, it's going to be a blessing. I always liked preaching lab at seminary because I loved hearing other people how they approached the scripture and then taught it. I always learned from it I am the dullest knife in the in the drawer, so it was always nice to ha to be sharpened by other people speaking it. So would you also recommend that we set a timer and make sure that we're within that ten minutes? Yeah, you could. Practice it. In fact what I do, and I'll just give you a little bit of a secret here When I preach a sermon, I literally manuscript my sermon sermon as if I'm teaching it or preaching it. So I will have everything in there that how I would want to communicate it to somebody. I write it out in a complete you know single space. I know ten pages is is it about fifty minutes for me. So when I then take that, put it into my preaching notes, I put it the size of my iPad Which is five and a quarter by eight and a half, I think it is. And I take every sentence and I separate it with a space. So I end up with forty pages of sermon notes uh in my iPad. And I've gone over it and over it and over it. So hopefully it doesn't look like I'm reading it. But a little secret. I'm reading it. But I just know it that well that I hopefully won't it won't come across as though I'm reading it. But I know that that's fifty minutes. If I do 45 pages, it's gonna be an hour If I do 36 pages, it's going to be about 45 minutes. I just know that. So maybe do that. Write it out as if you're going to teach it Verbatem and then just read it and time yourself. Now the other thing we've been told by Pastor Allen is we're to teach in an interactive style like you've been doing today. Yeah. So we need to take that into account as well, correct? Yeah. Um yes, you should. Okay. I I would go with what he's saying because teaching is different than preaching. Right. Um preaching you are you are taking people for a ride and that's why you know, taking off and landing the plane is always helpful. It's a standalone message ultimately. I mean it can be a series like Gabe has done, but ultimately it's a standalone message. A teaching, you're getting into maybe a lengthy teaching on this. So Yeah, sure. And nerves usually make you go faster. They do usually do their secrets. They do. Okay, you don't want to give away all the secrets. Because I start rubbing my nose, I start going like this I start, you know, just I start doing those little idiosyncrasies that you should never do. And speaking fast is one thing that I end up doing. So that's why your messages are always private. Yeah, I know exactly. Exactly. Alright, has this been helpful? Yes. Okay, great. Um any last minute questions, because we do gotta go. All right, thank you guys. Let me close in prayer. Father, thank you so much for this time together. We thank you for the wonderful joy that we have as your children to be able to study your word, to learn it, to grow by it, and to really be able to share it with others. And I pray that Each one is they have a passage and a topic to speak on, that they would see this as such a joy, an excitement of being able to unpack a passage of scripture and to teach it in such a way as to draw out an even stronger desire to want to go back and look at that passage and and see it in its greater context and within the book itself. I just pray, Lord, that we would get so excited that your Holy Spirit would take these truths and really activate, inflame us, and really spur us on to how we can then teach, continue to teach others. And I just pray, Lord, that you would use this time productively in our lives to help us to become better communicators of your word. And again, I thank you for each person that's in this in this room and I thank you for Their ministries and pray that you would just bless them immensely. Thank you, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen