All right, well we are on lesson three. The first couple of lessons we've had have been about uh uh Studying the Bible, because that's ultimately the focus of our teaching, right? We're making the segue today to the teaching part of it. We're going to be speaking about the Bible, but our focus starting today is on teaching philosophy and practice. Um next week we're going to look specifically at um teaching a passage of scripture, getting you ready for your own exercise of doing that in the class. And the week after that, we'll be looking at teaching a subject, Bible subject. uh topical study and uh again preparing you for that second thing. Uh by the way, um next week I need to teach in the membership class and so Pastor Mike is going to come in to teach the lesson about uh teaching from scripture. Okay. So I'm on page twenty-one in your notes. Could someone read the n the passage at the top there from James? Let not many of you become teachers, my brethren, knowing that as such we will encourage pricing So does anybody want to leave? Wha why do you suppose he said that? You would think We would want lots of teachers. And he's saying that not many of you become teachers. Why do you think he's saying that? meeting twice a year I'll say just to remind you if you hear me say anything that you know is off I want you to come to me because I want us to exhort one another and truly have the right understanding God's word. So I want them to keep me accountable. Okay. So that triggers me to really understand what I'm saying before I Okay. That's important and it's certainly connected. Um but he doesn't say if you're a teacher, make sure you're accountable. That's kind of maybe included in a little bit, but anything else? Yeah, um so the the one who is in Okay. And so if they will believe what you say because you're like in their mind You're the expert, you know about this. So I'm going to follow what you're telling me to do. And so that multiplies the impact for better or for worse. And if it could be for worse, then who's accountable for that? To God, the teacher, right? And I would just say, um, you are saying thus saith the Lord and so you're you are God's spokesman. So if you say thus saith the Lord, you've got to make sure it the Lord really didn't say that's I was thinking our estimation of ourselves is too high ninety-nine percent of the time? Probably a hundred percent of the time. And so, you know, so often we think, oh, I have something bad after that. And we need to be so careful and we need to be, like Proverbs says, quiet more than we are king and we need to know that it's the Holy Spirit that's actually speaking through us and not our wisdom because our wisdom So we could be saying, here's what God has said, but here's what he should have said. And what authority do we have to say that, right? So do you know what James covers right after this verse? It's about the tongue. Yeah, it's about what about the tongue? It's dangerous. Who can tame it? It's like a fire and uh all sort of thing. Um And so someone who's teaching is speaking, right, using their tongue to instruct others. And um what is it the um be careful what you say How's that little thing go? Be careful what you see, be care be careful what you say. Um and so it is a warning um that uh our teaching which is needed, right? Uh he isn't against teaching, but our teaching has to be um A consistent with scripture. We talked about that. B it needs to be um helpful. And we're going to talk a little bit more about that as we go on. So some background here. I don't know if you've thought about this, asking yourself Do I have the gift of teaching? Some of you may be absolutely sure that you do, some of you may be absolutely sure that you don't, and others may be somewhere in between, and that's all fine. What's the purpose of the spiritual gift of teaching? Is it okay to be a teacher without it? I sort of already told answered that question. In what way is it okay to be a teacher without the gift of teaching? sewing class. If you're teaching a sewing class. Uh maybe I should be more specific about being in the church, right? Teaching the Bible in some way or shape or other in the church without the gift of teaching. Why is that okay? Because we're all grown to encourage one another, to edify one another, okay. That's that's basically teaching Okay, good. Excellent. Anything else? Yeah. I've known people that um are very capable teachers that seem they have more of the gift of excitation. Okay. It's more kind of geared toward application. and taking the truth and applying it to um you know getting people to conform, you know, to the truth that's being taught And so that's that's very needed, but it may be a different gift that's being expressed through teaching. Okay, that's good. Well what are the issues I have that Yeah, maybe some black and but I thought myself I kissed what he sent or cheese to the fall. Uh-huh. Because of my speech, people are in me. Why did I write it down for some reason? So partnering with other people. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. I've got I've done that in the Hope Academy and grow that with a classic. Mm-hmm. I hope Well uh one of the points I want to make uh very clear about spiritual gifts and they all sort of the ones that are operative today, they all operate in a very similar way. And that is, um, in the in the overall scope of the church, presumably all of the gifts are present one way or another, but no one person has all of them. In fact, many people may not have any more than one. That's okay. It's all by the Holy Spirit's discretion. It's giving. Um but take for example the gift of evangelism. Should we rely on the people who have the gift of evangelism to do all the evangelizing? No. No. Why not? We're all all supposed to be perceived on the top. That's a job for everybody, so if that's the case, why do some have the gift of evangelism? They're motivated. Which gives them more of a motivation to do that. I would use the word passion. Passion. Yes. They have a passion for it God's given them a a strong desire to do that and a growing ability. It doesn't mean they're experts right at the time they're saved. They probably have the gift at the time of salvation, but they grow and and they have a passion for it and and they gain experience. And that also spurs other people Yes. So think about someone who has the gift of evangelism. Yes, they're going to be out and about doing evangelism well, but ideally That example and also their encouragement of others and training of others, motivating others to have the same, even if they don't have the same passion, they have the same mindset. Right? That yes, we need to be about this and it's not as hard as you think and God blesses it and and so they can encourage others. They, the ones with the gift of evangelism, are building up the body to be better evangelists. Right? I shouldn't give to the church because I don't have the gift of giving, right? You see the same thing? What's what's the role of someone who has the gift of giving? Encourage others? Um to be an example, although that's a tricky one because you don't want your giving to be shouted from the house off, right? But um there are Th there are things that someone with a passion for giving it just overflow. People it's just obvious to people that they have that passion and that God-given um uh gift Mm-hmm. When we sh when we say giving, you know what it's like. It's not just money, right. That's it could be a wide range of giving, correct. Colleen? What I see when people have given is in an area or um with a particular ministry if you will, the teaching, the evangelism or whatever, I see something that is so unbelievably attractive When they are moving in that in that gift, when they're operating in that gift, when they're using that gift for the Lord's Lord And it can be contagious. Yeah, and encouraging, moving others, even if they don't have that same gift. It's it's how the body is growing up together through those who are gifted and others who are gifted in other ways. Yes. Oh, okay. True, because if I know of someone who has the gift of hospitality, I say it doesn't have to be money, then I can go to that particular person for encouragement Because I may have that desire but have no uh no way of knowing how to go about it. Right. You know what I mean? with that gift and say, you know, I really like you say I s I see the joy in what you have in that and I really would like to implement that in my life. Or I feel that the Lord is speaking to me in that same way. I just don't have to go valid So if you display your gift of what the Lord has placed on your heart, then it encourages you, like you're saying, to go to that person and say, I really appreciate that and I really would like to know how I can do that. Yeah. So it's it it um spurs others to Um loving good deeds as well. And then if I do the hospital and then I go then it's not it. I'm like, okay, well never mind. That's not it. No, obviously. But yeah, but it is not a good thing. So just to wrap this up, uh one one thing I wanted to make sure we all understood is that you don't have to have the gift of teaching to actually teach in an official capacity at the church. Okay? Um Uh but if you don't have the gift of teaching, you would imagine that it's incumbent on you to benefit from those maybe who do, to learn and um become better and better in your teaching, whether it's through reading from others, attending classes, observing others who are teaching, whatever it might be, all those things can sharpen you for those times when you have opportunity to teach in the in the church. Um before I forget, I forgot, Steve, to call on you. Um Steve brought in another um Bible um study aid that's very helpful. I didn't mention it last week, but go ahead, Steve. Sure. I was thinking uh this is uh called the treasure of scripture knowledge and it's uh MacArthur Tom Crocker had said it is his favorite tool. And essentially what it is is you can go to any passage we might be studying, and it has just loads and loads of cross-references. So you're kind of going from the idea that scripture is its best owned interpreter. Right. Um so um I I know a lot of people can get to this online, but it's sometimes neat to see it in actual Like golden base when I bought this. Can you pass that over? I will. Yeah, Treasury Scripture Knowledge. Yeah, and it's it's sometimes bundled together with some of these electronic apps, Bible study apps So the cross references you just click on a link and it brings up cross references from the TSK. By you guys you're going through the Bible, you'll see like you're in Jeremiah it will have a passage and you'll have So the the um uh the book is organized by Bible reference, but when you go to a Bible reference and you click on it, you're getting Something similar to that verse, whether it's a topic, whether it's uh an event or a person or whatever. And so it's very helpful. So it's pre-evented that it actually goes uh coronary verses are actually pertinent to the to the verse and they're not spurious. Yeah, but your interest in the verse may be from one angle, one topic, let's say, and the verse actually has multiple So he explores all of it. Well I'm not sure it's exhaustive but it does cover a lot of the bases. Yeah. And sometimes you go to that verse it's referring to And it refers back to other ones that oh yeah, that's also related. And it's just a network of cross referencing. Yeah. My opinion though, John MacArthur would have been a lot faster in his preparation if he had that electronically. Which is so easy now. Yeah. Anyway, if it ain't broke, don't fix it, right? Okay, so I'm on uh letter B here on page twenty-one. Teaching versus preaching. What's the difference? What are the di what are the similarities? So um when Pastor Gabe's preaching, is he teaching? Yes. Okay. When I'm teaching, am I preaching? Sometimes. What's the difference? Okay, alright. So it's it's teaching kind of is more so it's more involved with everybody. It's a lot more personal, right? you're able to go ahead and call on different people to try to see whether or not that they get the the message that you're trying to give them. And then it also allows for everybody to kind of learn from each other. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So um if you're raising your hand in the worship service, he's got going to interpret it as you have a question, but that you're giving glory to God, right? Something like that. The if rightly done both teaching and preaching makes the material understandable and interesting and not boring. Right. So there's a there's passion in in both in both. And the teacher has to recognize that okay there is a tendency For people to not care about this information. So it's like looking both teaching and preaching, how do I overcome just putting the material out there in an unattractive kind of way Right. I use the term lecture. Right. Which to me is kind of a negative has a negative connotation. Um, does the Lord speak differently Yes. It seems to me one might have more weight If you will. I don't know. I'm not sure that weight is the right word, but um we've been we've been getting at it here from multiple um uh angles I let's let's kind of walk through the table here and I think this will come out. Alright. So which of them uses the Word of God to teach, reprove, correct, and train in righteousness? Well both. Right. Um the the preaching, as has been mentioned, may involve a little bit more exhortation. That's usually the what we mean when we say preaching, that it it's not just teaching, but it's it's exhorting people to not only understand but also apply, right? Um but teaching also emphasizes understanding and application. Now the delivery method we've also mentioned, right? It's more preaching is more monologue. Whereas teaching ought to be, in my view, dialogue. Big difference. Having a conversation together. We'll talk about why in a minute. Now who's the audience? Well with preaching it's typically the whole church, whereas for teaching it's typically not. It would be a smaller class or a small group or something like that. And the expositional approach in preaching, not all the time, but you know, it's possible to be expository and not go verse by verse through one passage alone. It's possible to have an expository topical. sermon. And you've probably experienced that a few times. And the preacher will typically say, use all your fingers in your Bible to mark these various passages I'm going to be going to through. We're maybe starting at one spot, but it's going to necessarily take us to lots of other passages for context, for a broader look at things, and so on. And Uh that's fine. The point w for the the point about being expositional is that it's exposing that's where the word comes from, it's exposing what the Bible actually says, right? So It's not just telling nice stories and whatever. It's proclaiming, it's revealing, exposing what Scripture actually says So that we can not only understand it but apply it appropriately. Ezra did that in Ezra the MI. Yeah. That would be closer to kind of the verse by verse, kind of methodical ploughing through a passage or a whole book. Uh but you could do that in one sermon as a topical sermon, but being expository, and that's what we're going to be talking about when we talk about teaching a subject even to a smaller class. It doesn't have to be a it's probably more common in a smaller class than it would be in in uh preaching in a sermon. labor is a point, but wouldn't you think that um preaching is for the entire body of Christ. Teaching is not and what I mean by that is I will never preach, I will only teach Right. So wouldn't there be a huge difference in preaching and teaching in that when you preach, you're preaching to the entire body I will never do that. So I I I I and I don't mean that one I is way here. I do when I think that I and maybe I'm wrong, but I do think that there's um um um more of a um accountability to God, more of I don't know what to me, I would never want to be a very balling thing. And and and I I I don't know, it just seems like there's a significant difference Well, no, there are very distinct differences and you're you're pointing to them, but there are also similarities. Right. It's not that one's expositional and the other's not, for example. Right Um but yeah, the the kind of distinctions that I've got here in that summary table um try to emphasize the similarities and yet the differences. But we're recognizing that for this class we call it Bible Teaching Lab, not Bible Preaching Lab. Uh because that's the context where most of you are going to be using this, right? Who's your audience? And that's who's your audience, which is typically going to be a smaller Subset of the whole church. Yeah, preaching to your larger audience next of when you teaching could be a men group or a women group or children group Yeah. So that's that's one of the normal differences. Yeah. You can preach to a small group, but typically it's with the whole group, right? Okay. Um success as a teacher. Success as a teacher is not achieved merely by giving information and explaining it You have succeeded as a teacher only if your students really understand it and become committed to applying it like you. And so Jesus said in Luke 6. 40, a pupil is not above his teacher, but everyone after he's been fully trained. will be like his teacher, which means what about the teacher? Has to be a good example, right? Um so the teaching is not just by the information that's that's given but also by the the example of the teacher. I mentioned a while ago that um for me the term lecture is is kind of a uh A negative term. Um it was driven home to me in college when I was in a very technical class and the professor who was in the process of writing a book on the subject and actually assigned to us as a book the photocopies of his draft of the current draft of the book. And in class what he did was just read it. As if I couldn't read. And so that was his lecture and he gave us homework, now go do it, kind of a thing. And that was the hardest class I ever took. In many ways Um I love the subject, but it wasn't warming me up to it so much because of his method. He just he was a professor because of his training and experience and so on, not because of his ability to teach And he probably preferred not to be teaching, but rather to do his research, right? Um that ought not to be true of us in the church. In other words, just to basically read the Bible to people. That's fortunately a whole lot better than reading your draft manuscript of a new textbook. Um but the job of the teacher is to bring it out, right? And and to help people to see what it says, not just gloss over it. Yeah. Yeah. Very similar don't want to sit there for instance my topic is you know my uh my verse is Luke four one I have it open. I don't want to sit now Jesus full of the Holy Spirit. Yeah. So um that would actually be true whether you're teaching or preaching. It needs to be um easy uh Engaging, yeah, easy for people to process and and not putting people off unnecessarily. Because the content may be fantastic, but you may be turning them off from it. You don't want that, right? Actually, even worse. uh if we're meant to if we're meant to go ahead and you know try to teach but also try to bring people into the church who may also not be believers, right, there's the worst thing I can do for somebody like that is Is just sit there and just read. The content is fantastic, but the delivery isn't Not everyone can be taken off from it. However, we want to be careful not to think that teaching is um showmanship. Right? Um it's n it's not about us anyway. Right? But what is the statement here? Success of the teacher is not achieved merely by giving information and explaining it You have succeeded as a teacher only if your students really understand it and have become committed to applying it like you. So if you've taught a class and nobody understood what you said, you haven't taught a thing. You haven't been a teacher. If everybody understood what you said, but um they s they don't see any application of it, then you really haven't taught them. The t the teaching process hasn't come t to its fulfillment. It's it's objective. The point is to be able to apply it. Sharon, was that Jonathan Edwards that was extremely monotone and boring and that the teaching was phenomenal and so it has so much to do with the study, it seems like what are we have to study to show The teaching should be engaging. We might not be our homeless homeless that we do. But if we've been faithful then we will present material that the Holy Spirit used and proof of what came out of how how I am. So it's not about my presentation of friends, but left from seven and out. Right. It's not about us at all. But um Back to James 3, if our practice of teaching is keeping people from understanding accurately the Word of God and applying accurately the Word of God, then we've done more harm than good, perhaps. Or at least we're going to be accountable for the shortfall. So One of the things we've mentioned here, and I think for me this is key, is the kind of teaching you're going to do, I think in most cases ought to be more conversational than lecturing. Okay, so if you can draw people out, make sure they're grappling with the right issues that we see in the scriptures and they see it and they see the implications of it and they've got as part of the conversation, multiple people contributing to that understanding, then you've accomplished something. Boy that raised some hands. Kurt. Margot, thankfully, she points it out to me. It's like, okay, perfect in small groups. Um so it would probably be good for you to do less talking. and more interacting and asking questions to kind of make sure that we're we're actually all learning together. Yeah. Good point. Um so as a woman, because I love being a woman, um around them a lot. When and I'm just saying, you know, teaching men, I don't know how many of you have caught women, but I would imagine if you're trying to make this interactive, you start teaching women in an interactive way and you're going to have like two minutes of teaching and 30 minutes of trying to wrangle them back. And I don't mean that in a mean way. I just mean that in so my question would be Then how interactive are you suggesting that we be? Just like we are right now. Okay. I'm always willing to cut people off when we're getting up down a a a um uh rabbit hole or or a sidetrack or whatever, but having a conversation about the and keeping it focused on the right things is how we learn. And it's how we get engaged with the information. It's not just going over our head, it's or going in one ear and out the other, but we're processing it. There's some processing unit between that ear and that ear, right? And in the heart. Um and that that's aided, I think, best in a teaching situation like this through conversation, guided by scriptures. That is where teams are being able to manage your students and the conversation that is art. Good point. Um Sarah's saying that um sort of looking at Colleen's example, you're it's just like herding cats. Maybe if everybody's raising their hand and they're going off in diverse rabbit trails. Sarah's saying that it it takes some skill to keep that from getting out of hand, right? Or or whatever. And that's true. And so what does that suggest What's that? I heard that mumbling over there. As a teacher, be a listener. Like we don't talk too much about in the talk. And also the questions. We ask them questions that don't give a yes or no answer. Okay. And also like One of the things with the woman correcters task is that we would cut back on at least vote And then um so we we cut it back to thirty minutes and we're now trying to be more specific and focused. And I like something that Pastor Um Dave Doyle said. He says um some what you want to teach 'em. Teach 'em and then some which just that right there just helps keep people's mind, you know what I mean, focus. is you're not suggesting get up there for 30 minutes and lecture. That's not what you're suggesting. Yeah I'm s I'm suggesting that the most effective thing is now there may be a place for that at times Particularly if let's say it's probably not going to happen to any of you, you're invited into a church and you're there for one week and then you're gone. personal relationships with people is probably not as natural or uh a given. And they may be in they may have invited you because you have some expertise, experience, or whatever in a particular topic That's different. That's not really uh what I'm thinking most of your experience is going to be is teaching people in Hope Bible Church. about the Bible and its application and that kind of thing. And there I think conversation is going to help them grapple with it rather than just be daydreaming while you're talking, right? But the observation that that you need to learn to manage an open conversation like that suggests to me that it takes practice. And we're going to give you practice. And it also depends on the size of the group, right? Yeah. Yeah. Um you could do it at a women's breakfast. In fact I've done it at a women's breakfast. right there and had some conversation but yeah there's a limit to how big it can be to be effective for sure. Yeah. Yeah. So you may find yourself as a a table spokesman or or uh or um uh discussion leader that kind of thing. And um You can draw people out. What I typically do is ask for people to raise their hand and and uh if I ask a question or they're asking a question. Um but Um if you find that everybody's just staring at you and they're not really syncing with you, you may need to just call on somebody. So what do you think about that, so and so? Right? Mm-hmm. Again, the reason for that conversation is to process it. Um so it's not just um hearing superficially going in one ear and out the other, but it's I'm thinking about what are the implications of it and and uh what what does it really mean? Does it mean this? You know all that processing of the info is critical. Um is that the the m the method that you're gonna use to teach uh is also very helpful if you prefer every morning, right in the beginning And I'm not gonna go thirty minutes of just straight me talk. I would like to anticipate questions, answers, and thinking and feedbacks and so that way we together will be able to come to understanding as I lead you through this passage. I think that way you give people quote unquote permission to say, okay, I can participate. Yeah. Otherwise they would silent because that's what they would talk to you. That's a good point. Uh there may be some contexts where they might not realize that what you're aiming for is a conversation that really grapples with it. And so you may need to give them a heads up. Yeah. Um I didn't do that for any of you because I was pretty sure that you speak freely, right? And when I ask a question people have Um but that may be needed. Yeah. outside you if it's the the dynamic of the group is completely different. We come in here expecting to be able to ask questions But they don't. They say, Oh I'm come to a breakfast. I'm supposed to be silent. Somebody's teaching me. So if you preference it, they like, okay. So now we So just two things that were referenced. One was in talking about the difference between talk uh teaching men and women in general. Women you you need to understand your class and with the prevalent style that the class is, women are more relational thinkers where men are more more linear. So women are relating what you're talking about to point B in somebody else's class from six years ago or whatever, you know, and and and whatnot. Where men are like, you know, in general, well, can you get to point C already? You know what it's going to do. You just have to understand the spell of our class, but to the point where you were talking about earlier with conversation, is that sometimes we get caught up when we want to teach into what is the style, what is the framework, what is the you know, how do we do this? And when we're talking about teaching in in respect of being a conversation, most times you're up there teaching because people like how you conversate You know, and if you try and stand up in front of a class and say, I want to teach like Pastor Plumley or Pastor Gabe or something like that and try and force your style into somebody else's style You're gonna fall into that people just staring at you sort of thing as we've been talking about. And and you're not authentic, you know, up there teaching. So when we talk about style and conversation and stuff. Be comfortable with your material, but go up there and and talk to the people as if you were talking to them in person, whether or not you're standing behind a podium or you know, standing in or sitting in chairs in the worship center after a service shouldn't make a difference in that how you present the material. So be authentic and be relational and everything and some of what we've been talking about about interaction and constructive conversation all that other stuff will flow out naturally in the class if you you know make it a natural class conversation. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's true. Uh everybody has their own um um personality and approach to conversations and ultimately then to teaching. Um but the main point is to engage the people. You're not just um you're one of the most inefficient in my mind, one of the most inefficient um methods of teaching is to take the information that's in my mind to speak it orally to you so that you can write it down into your notes and hopefully you don't miss anything as I'm speaking That's pretty inefficient, right? How is it inefficient? You likely not catch everything. You focus more on getting it down rather than what it actually means. And so that's one reason why I suggest and requiring actually for this class that you have a little outline that you hand out. So they're not busy just m writing down everything you say But they're able to process it while you're saying it. And they have something to refer back to so that um they can delve into it further in their own study. Right. Um that's why you've got these notebooks. So it's a resource. You you don't have to memorize everything. You don't have to write everything down. It's there for you. At least the kernels of it are there. Um I usually don't do fill in the blank because I remember as a kid. Having kind of a steady diet of that kind of thing. What was my focus? Filling in the blank. Filling in the blank? Alright, I got that word. Next. Not even thinking about the content. Right. Now there may be some situations where it could be helpful. Um particularly if the blank could at the beginning. Well, no, if if if the blank could have multiple good answers, it's good to draw people out. How would you answer that? Alright, that could be part of your conversation. Okay. Uh page twenty-two I'm gonna go over these fairly quickly. A Bible teacher must be a good example of one who understands So Jesus spoke very clearly about the blind leading the blind and also being hypocritical. And there this several passages here but there are plenty more of them. Third, the Bible teacher must be humble and knowledgeable. What's one of the most serious problems or challenges of having someone get up in front of a class. They get in the way of what they're teaching. Yeah. That w Anybody have a problem with pride? If your hand doesn't go up, you've got a problem with pride. Okay. And it's not about us Right? Um and so if we're not humble and even teachable, it's gonna come across that way. They're not gonna learn, they're gonna be you're you're being a stumbling block rather than a a building block. if you will. So we need to be knowledgeable, yes. But we're not there to impress people with our knowledge. We're there to help them grow into the same understanding and application. Right. And if they're not if they don't understand it, they're not going to be able to apply it. But and if if they understand it and are not motivated to apply it, then you haven't really finished the teaching job there, right? you've just spent some time. So we need to be humble, we need to be certainly knowledgeable, and there's a good balance there. Now there's a little note here at the bottom of that section, right before number four. We won't always be knowledgeable when answering a question. And many of you may fear teaching because you you know you're not going to be am able to answer every question that's thrown at you. That's okay. That's okay Um, but you can still be humble. In fact, one way to show that you're humble is to admit, I don't know the answer to that question. But I'm willing to research it and get back to you. Okay? That's a very mature way, both to show people um that y you're not just blowing hot air But you're caring for them, but you w you want them to have the right answer even when you don't have it at the moment. But you may know who might know or You know, you can search the scriptures and probably get the answer for them. And then do get back to them. They'll appreciate it. Sarah? Um I am from who was a teacher of That's still true, right? She would always take questions that she didn't know what they were to do. And she would say, Well, what are we looking for the Uh whatever. Wherever we got it, I was the boss in Funny Yeah, so maybe you can encourage well what is can't say about that, or what does Wait, who I would do that, you know. Sometimes, yeah, in those situations you can encourage them to how you know how to find the answer. Um but that's usually best done if you know where it is and you can help them find it and and you basically either know the answer or you know where to find it. But sometimes you're not going to know off the top of your head what the answer is or where to find it, but you need to be humble enough to say, I'm I don't know and I don't want to just give you an an answer off the top of my head. I want it to be accurate, so can I get back to you? And people will respect that. Okay. Number four, success as a Bible teacher is helping people to understand what they need to hear, not necessarily what they want. to hear. Do you remember um Second Timothy four is is good on this, uh where Paul is exhorting Timothy, I I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is judged um who is to judge the living and the dead, and by the appearance of his kingdom, preach, that is, proclaim the word, be ready in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction For a time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but what? Wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance with their own desires, and will turn away their ears from the truth. That ought to be a warning to us that um we don't want to just tell them what they want to hear, we want to tell them what God's Word actually says. And it's God's word that will bring the conviction and the application. And and those kind of things. That's probably what it'd be fair to say also to understand what they need to hear and not necessarily what they are I Want them to be here? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah That's really the fundamental point, right? We want to teach them what Scripture actually says. Um we don't want to give them our opinions. Yeah. So our teaching is not about our opinions, the teaching is about um what God's Word actually says so that they can understand it and And apply it. Good. Okay. Uh to wrap up here on page twenty-three, so what are some teaching methods? Well, I think one of the first things to do is to put yourselves in the shoes of your students. Um asking yourself, what range of understanding are they likely to have about this currently. In other words, how can I build on what they already know and kind of fill in some gaps or or whatever? And you may or may not have the answer to this going in, but be sensitive to that Um, what do they need to learn and apply? It's another word, another way of saying a similar thing. Maybe there's some definitions that are not common Particularly in the Bible's use of some words that you want to be sure to emphasize to clarify, they see what the scripture is actually saying, right? Um provide an outline, notes, and applications for them. So Why? So they can follow along with you more easily. We talked about that. So they can jot down supplemental thoughts. I see some of you are doing that. Um and So they have a resource for further study. If they're scribbling down just from s on a blank piece of paper as much as they can get out of what you're saying, and it's not really all that organized and They might not even be able to read their own chicken scratch. Uh it's not likely to be a helpful resource in the future. But if they if you hand them a an overview, a synopsis of what you're going to cover, they can supplement it with some notes, but they can catch it while you're going through it. Um and don't forget the application part. They would have some concrete suggestions for how uh to apply what you're talking about from scripture. Okay, so then preparation, as if that's not already kind of getting your mindset right. Pray for guidance and wisdom. Teaching God's word is a spiritual thing. It's not an academic thing. And God uses his word and he's um he's gracious to use the likes of us to help other people digest and apply his word. So it's all a spiritual exercise, be praying about that. If you're teaching a weekly class, my recommendation would be to try to prepare all the lessons for all the weeks up front before e even week one so that both you and the students have the big picture right from the start. Um if you're busy with next week's lesson this week and an emergency comes up and you're you're cramped for time, um, you're probably not going to produce as good a set of uh a good resource for your students as if you had the time to set it all out in advance. Now many of you might not have a weekly, weekly, weekly context in which you're teaching, and so that might not be as That's big a deal. But the main point is to be prepared and to have everything you need before you start and everything they need. before you start. Uh and then number three is important. Have someone review and even edit your handouts before the class begins. That's another advantage of having it all written out in advance. Um what you don't want is someone who will pat you on the back and say, oh, this looks great. They provide you nose. My experience is, you know, I'm pretty good with the English language. I'm still learning it. Um but almost everything I write is made better when somebody else's eyes look at it. And so I put this notebook together and I gave it to Karen. And she said, Oh, it looks nice to me. No. But i in addition to giving it to other people to edit before you even do that, go over it again. Go over it again. And Do some of your own editing and make sure it's saying what you want to say and you haven't made a typo and all that sort of stuff. So that when you ask someone else to review it, it's it's not going to be a laborious thing for them just to catch your normal typos Um but you may be you may have included a certain set of things and you think that basically covers all the bases, but you give it to someone else to review it and they might say, well You didn't address such and such. That seems pretty important. You say, oh of course, why didn't I think of that? So it's very helpful to have another set of eyes over pretty much anything you write Okay. Um four, once the handouts is ready, use your time just before each lesson then to review it. Make your own notes, maybe even on that outline, of what you're going to emphasize. what you're gonna say or or whatever. Just to get your mind focused on the content beforehand. And you've got it basically there right there in front of you. And number five, when you're teaching You don't want to be the last one to enter the class. You want to be the first one to enter the class. Um in college they say how you know how many minutes do you give a professor if he doesn't show up you can leave Well, i if if in the church, if the teacher doesn't arrive at the appointed or before the appointed hour Um the teacher should leave. I don't know. Yeah, maybe. Um it's it's important to egg be an example of of uh how much of a priority it is to engage in this spiritual exercise. And that means we need to get our ducks in a row and and uh be on time. Okay, the actual teaching part Again, pray for humility and clarity. Demonstrate tender love for your students. You've heard the phrase people don't care what you know unless they know that you care, right? Um you see examples of this in Paul's lab, for example, in first Thessalonians two. Um he gives this example of how caring he was, like a like a a mother, but also like a father. Um In some situations, like I mentioned before, you may be invited to speak to people you don't know, it might be appropriate for you to actually introduce yourself, maybe to open in prayer. Um didn't really have a need for that here, and and you won't have a need for that when you do your exercise either because we all know each other. Okay, so page twenty four. We've talked about some of this already, but if you're going to have this this Engaging conversation with people to grapple with the content. Get them to work through observation, interpretation, and application. And so getting someone to read the text of scripture, or there may be multiple ones that you're going to be walking through. invite people to participate in that way. Often when someone's reading it, it it hits them more than when they're just hearing someone else read it. But it just gets it engages people, it gets more people involved. Um you can give an overview of the context from your handout. So you remember in in this passage, um it's in the middle of Ephesians where Paul has transferred from he's making the transition from a more doctrinal statement in the beginning to how do we apply that? And and that's where we're at here in this passage. You know, something like that. Just a real overview. of the context. Again, you're you're not spelling out everything you've learned in the notes you've taken of when you've studied it, but you're giving them enough of the context either in the notes or in your um introduction or both so that they get the context. Provide an introduction to the importance of the passage or topic. Why are we interested in this subject? It's not just academic Right. So that sets you up, it sets them up for thinking application and how it's important. Guide the class and group discussion, we talked about that. You might be tempted to spoon feed them. You know what I mean by spoon feed them? But they're more likely to digest, if I can continue that that uh feeding metaphor, they're more likely to digest the concepts well if they take the time and if there's enough time available to chew on them. How do we chew on a biblical topic? Meditation. Meditation, that and in fact another word for meditation, the the Hebrew word for meditation as I understand it is um basically the same as, you know, a Cow chews its cud, it regurgitates it, reprocesses, and sounds kind of weird. But uh they do that what like six or seven times But it it's a picture of processing it, thinking through the implications, and meditating on it, even memorizing a passage is done best when we can think through the implications of it and the application of it And they're very much tied together. Yeah. Maybe asking all of how, where, what, who, why, questions is is a way of um kind of modeling it over in your mind. Yeah, and even uh asking all those questions, but even the opposite, how would the meaning change if he had used this word instead of the word he used? Right? Those kind of things. Uh thinking it through. And the meaning becomes clear. Maybe the the focus becomes more narrow as you see what he actually said And therefore what its application is. And so, you know, you read through the text and you can ask them, okay, so what do you observe about this? And that generates some conversation getting them to interact directly with the text. You can't always do that, but it's usually helpful to get them in the text, thinking it through, chewing on it. Yeah. Okay, we talked a bit about that. Okay, so asking them questions to help them understand um the interpretive issues. And so depending on the nature of the text you're talking about, uh what may be very helpful for understanding what it actually says could have to do with this, is it singular or plural? Is it already true of us what it's saying? Or is it talking about something that will be true of us or that it's it's an ongoing thing? Those are some key distinctions in a lot of passages, particularly with regard to application. Is it true of everyone or is it more restrictive, right? And if so, who is it restricted to? What does it tell us about the character of Christ? Uh often when you're looking at the Gospels, that's a relevant question. Sometimes there are a lot of passages, right, in the New Testament, and sometimes Old Testament, that speak to the character and the nature of Christ of Christ and uh it's usually helpful to draw that out. Can you think of any other passages of scripture that teach something similar to that? And often you get people say, oh yeah, what about such such a passage? and so on. And that's helpful for them to just interact with it and see how scripture reinforces Scripture. Um can you and number seven, can you think of any passages that help provide a fuller understanding? So the text you're looking at uh they understand, but it may only be a piece of the puzzle, right? And the rest of scripture provides a fuller understanding of of the whole point. And so And by the way, when you're asking these questions be sure you know the answers to them yourself. Or at least some of the ans uh some of the examples. So you could ask someone, well does this mean such and such? And usually the tone of your voice would indicate what you mean is it's not that, but you I want you to tell me why it's not that. Right? Um and then you follow up that by s asking, okay, so what is it saying? And that helps to just Just process it, right? Think it through. You interpret it, what's it saying? But then every now and then you're going to get someone who responds to, they give you the wrong answer to your question. And you could say something like, so what makes you think that? Help them to think it through more logically maybe. And you see maybe where their thinking is uh by their answer and you could say something, well, but what about such and such, this other verse or uh this other obvious aspect of salvation, let's say, if that's the context. Um is it okay to bring bring a uh a big bronze gong? Whatever you don't want to answer. No, probably not. Um but before don't hesitate to say, well, I don't think so. Remember You know, Ephesians four whatever says such and such and and we need to understand what we're looking at in this passage in light of that. And so given that How do we understand the current passage? So just because you're inviting people to offer their answers doesn't mean you acknowledge their answer is correct. Sometimes you will, and it's helpful to do that, but sometimes it won't be actually correct, or at least not fully Correct. I can wrap up with application and isn't it interesting that it says end on time? We need to end. So if you have any questions, um hopefully what's here is self-explanatory, but uh feel free to ask if you've got more questions. That's great. Father, we do thank you for your word and that you have chosen to use just regular folks like us. to be a blessing to others in helping them to grapple with your word, to apply it. And I pray that you would help each of us to grow in ability. And in conviction about all that, so that your people would grow and that you would be glorified. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.