Okay, so we are on lesson five. Last week uh Pastor Mike came and led you through Session four, teaching from a passage of scripture. And so today we're looking at teaching a topic from Scripture Um verse we have at the top there, 2 Timothy 3, you're quite familiar with, I'm sure. One of the reasons it's r really relevant here is it says all scripture is inspired. And one of the things you have to do when teaching a topic from Scripture is to scan all of Scripture. And uh it's helpful that the Word of God is consistent. Uh it's it's the best place to go to get commentary on what you're reading in the Word of God. Um so yeah, I'm on page thirty six. Uh I don't know if you thought about it much, but my perspective is that teaching a topic studying a topic and teaching a topic is actually harder than teaching a given passage. Because with a given passage you you It is what it is. Right? You m other passages may bring come to bear on it, but you know, you know, its immediate context and and uh um uh you you can kind of walk through what it's what's the meaning, what's the purpose, what's the intended lesson and application from that. That takes work, but you've got focus when you're looking at a particular passage. When you Speaking of a topic, that's presumably going to be supported by verses all over Scripture, in some senses. The more the merrier, right? But you have to sort of do a a um uh a study of each one in its own context, just like as if it were your only verse And so what are you trying to avoid? Taking verses out of context to meet your your intent where you're at in this topic. And so the way to avoid taking something out of context is to know the context. And so both the immediate context and of course the context of all of Scripture Sure. So that when you're looking at a at a topic, you're you're seeing consistency, you're seeing maybe nuances and and aspects that are a little bit different from one passage to the next looking at the overall topic. Um but it's it's really the same As teaching from a passage of scripture, except that you're likely to be handling multiple passages in order to treat the topic well. Now, because of that, some topics probably require being divided up into pieces. Um you know, uh take a topic like um um well let's uh say uh Christian family life in the home. That's pretty broad. Right. There are lots of aspects to it. You've you've got um uh marriage kind of relationships, you've got parenting kind of relationships, you've got um um Um training of children. Roles. Roles in the family and yeah, training and so on. Um And even those can kind of be split into different sections, right? And so on the one hand, when you're looking at a topic of scripture, it's probably the most fruitful if you're not as broad as possible, you may need to stay focused. Now the the topics that we've assigned to you are really, really, really focused. We're just focusing on a word. What is that what's how is that word used in scripture, right? Um and that's a good example of a a topical study is uh o of a word uh so that you have a better understanding of uh how it's used in scripture. Um but it it could be something that's not a word but i it well maybe it's it's Well some of your words are kind of could be pretty broad. They're taken directly from Galatians 5, but the topics involved in those words could cover a lot of territory. And other ones maybe are a little bit more narrow. And so sometimes when you have a very broad thing that you're you're researching, you may have to not pick and choose um i in the sense of just flipping a coin But uh intentionally getting a an idea of the the broad nature of the topic and say, okay, well for now I'm going to focus on this piece of it. As broad as it might be We just kind of narrow it down. And and that may have a lot to do with your teaching context. So if you're teaching a class over a whole quarter, you may have time to deal with each of those in sessions, in pieces. Yeah. Um since you chose the words from that specific passage in the Um I'm thinking maybe narrow it down to the exact nuance in that chunk. Is that what you would like us to do? If if one of the words if if the word you're you're pursuing has um maybe some relevance in other contexts, then yes, uh thinking of it in the context of Galatians 5 And I'm not thinking of anything particularly here at the moment, but um uh if you're starting from Galatians five, say I want to learn a little bit more about what the Bible teaches about and how this word is actually used. Um Probably some combination of a good scan. I see it's used it's translated, let's say, multiple ways. And uh I see why it does that, because in their context it's not quite what I'm looking at here And so you've s you scanned it, but you spend more time where it's relevant, and that's fine. So for example, my word of insulation and I believe that insulation cycle So then I would I'm thinking that I would hone in on that because that's the concept. That's like what I'm wondering. Yeah, although that's an interesting one because Um, well I'll just turn to Galatians five. Um Um I don't have the updated table that I sent you all. Does anybody have the updated table? Yes, please. The word and the reason I sent you that updated table is because some of the translations translate some of these original words in different ways. rather than getting hung up on a particular English translation, I wanted you to focus on the actual Greek word that was used. Um and I tried to point out what those were. But impurity, which It's impurity all the way across the case. All the way across oh uh zero one six seven. Yeah, that's the strong number. Um Yeah, so if if you look if you've got NASB or LSB, that list begins in verse 19. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are and the first one on the list is sexual immorality and then impurity. Sensuality. Man, these things are related, right? So um actually the one that I prepared for you today on page thirty eight is taking that very first one. Um and I haven't assigned that to anybody since I've kind of done it for you. Um and so in your whoever has impurity and sensuality are going to want to understand nuances between the words that are listed here. Because he's not he's not saying those are those three are the same thing. They are there are distinctions. And so it's gonna be helpful to know what those distinctions are. Right. Okay. Hello, question. Um would it also be helpful sometimes taking the contrast? So you if you have impurity, what's the opposite? Sure. Go through some verses. Yeah, and sometimes the word I don't know if it's the case with impurity, but it may well be, it has the negative prefix in the beginning of it. Like an a. Yeah, and I I have it right here in Yeah, and so you take the ah off, you probably have the root which is the opposite. Yeah, so that's helpful, for sure. Yeah. Okay. Um So you don't have to worry probably a whole lot since we're focusing just on one word in each of your cases, but um if there are just a zillion references to that and uses of it, then you may have to Scan but uh find the most relevant to the Galatians five context. Okay. So what are some potential dangers of a topical study? The first two are being lazy. Um why is that a problem? Well, if we're too lazy to understand the context, we should say, oh, that one works great here. Because it conforms to my preconceived ideas usually. And let's use that. You see this one over here, oh that doesn't meet with my preconceived ideas, so I'm not going to choose that one And we're cherry picking, right? You don't want to do that. You want to fully understand all of them and see what their overall relevance is to your topic. Um and to the extent that there's maybe some tension between different passages on a topical area, that's actually healthy. There are nuances here. It's not just a quickie um you know knee-jerk interpretation and so it takes work. But most of us are lazy. We don't like work. And um that's a danger. Secondly, being too lazy to explore the full range of related words and topics. So you've got a particular word, but man, I can think of you know, half a dozen other words that are really related to that in English. Do do those show up in scripture? How are those verses and words connected? Are there Is there insight to be gained from and this is particularly helpful if you if you have a word, and you may have from Galatians 5 in your assignment, if you have a word that's only used like twice else in all of the New Testament That's a good time to be thinking about synonyms and cross-references and that kind of thing. And see what additional insight you can get. gain from that. But that ta again, it takes work. And um like anything else, Bible study and preparing to teach Um you get out of it what you put into it. If you put very little into it, you're gonna get very little out of it. And uh you sort of you you reap what you sow, right? That's the biblical principle. So you need to pace yourself, you need to do the work necessary to really understand, in this case, the topic. from a biblical perspective. But that probably means understanding multiple passages well. Then a third potential danger is intentionally excluding passages that are relevant But inconvenient, I sort of referenced that earlier. Um so if we've got our preconceived ideas about uh the truth And we're trying to interpret a cir a particular passage or how a word is used. And if if it's inconvenient to our preconceived ideas and we let our preconceived ideas control our interpretation of Scripture, what is that? Isegesis. That's not letting the words speak for itself, we're constraining the um the the meaning and the interpretation according to our preconceived ideas, which is, when you think about it, is putting our precon It's a s it's taking our preconceived ideas as ground truth and forcing Scripture to to conform to our idea of what is true. That case is just backwards, right? We need to let scripture speak for itself. It's the only thing that's inerrant. And allow scripture to change our preconceived ideas. Is it wrong to have preconceived ideas? Not necessarily. It's sort of like a scientist. You know, you start with a Hypothesis. Hypothesis, right? But what do you do with a hypothesis? You test it, right? And how if we have a hypothesis about some doctrine or interpretation, what should we do? Tested against Scripture. And what does that require on our part? Going in with objectives. Okay. Objectivity. Objectivity Is that easy or hard? Hard alright. Yeah. Yeah, we're prone to take the easy route. I got this figured out. Next. You know, and we're going to miss so much and misinterpret so much that way. By the way, none of us, none of us, none of us It's exempt from that. It's just so easy to be lazy. Um anyway. Yeah. That's the thing about science and hypothes hypothesis is you go in with the assumption that your hypothesis Hypothesis true and you have to prove the hypothesis true. You know, if we go to scripture with the mindset that we don't have the truth and you go to do the study and to have the to understand what the Bible actually says more objectively It's not a bad thing to um have a hypothesis Right? As long as we're objective about it. And we understand that it's it's an assumption, it's an it's a hypothesis that needs to be Proven or disproven, whichever the case. Um and that takes discipline, it takes objectivity Unfortunately, in science these days, there are too many hypotheses that are treated as facts without the objective testing. Or there's the interpretation of the test results. with an agenda in mind and you can see the evidence of that all around us. Um anyway. Pastor Allen. Yeah. I I can recall a couple of sermons And I'm sure this was um more than the the two that I'm recalling, but Pastor Lake chose on certain Sundays in the past years to address a specifically for whole Bible church. So he he chose to speak topically. One of them that I remember is that he could see relationships and ways of us not thinking correctly towards our brothers and not relating to them and maybe going into a situation and thinking that you know you have all the facts and you you operate and you end up and So it was interesting how he topically preach from different passages. And I can see the dilemma is that you you kind of know what your application wants to be directed towards By what the pastor or the elder board is observing in the congregation. So you don't want to just be so focused on application that you jump ahead of the of the verses that you want of exchange. Yeah. There was another topic on it was uh following the elders and it had to do with And in some cases the the elders are making rules that it's not specifically covered in scripture, but this is the a decision has to be made and people have to have clarity on which way to go, right or left in certain situations. So he he spoke topically on that by maybe confusing it with another Yeah. But it was interesting. I can see the I can see the dilemma where you you have a specific application that you feel that's needful for or the congregation, but you don't want to jump ahead or around scripture to actually say what what you feel would hit the nail on the head. So that that raises a a a good point. Um when you think of expository preaching, what do you think of? What what does it look like? Kind of verse by verse, this is what it means, right? And yeah, it starts with scripture and it's it's uh a an exposition of a passage and verse by verse taking into account other passages, but you're guided by that particular uh passage that you're preaching through. Is it possible to um have an expository message that's topical? Isn't that what Pastor David did? Last not this summer, but the summer before where I mean I really appreciated how he would he was going topically through things, so we weren't like going through a whole book, but we did ex chunks Um and he stayed within the context of the passage so that it wasn't like he was necessarily jumping all over the place grabbing scriptures everywhere. He was getting the topic in a specific Yeah, I think those were focused on basically attributes of God and understanding God, knowing God. Yeah, even Psalm 73. Right. Yeah. Um and so, you know, last week you looked at and your first assignment has to do with um teaching from a passage of scripture and it's somewhat easy to think of that as being expository. Being expository, what do we mean by that? It's it's not defined by verse by verse, but by what? Just saying what the verse means. It's exposing the meaning of the scripture in this particular case. Well that can be done in a topical study. It can it's often what's easy in a topical study for you for it not to be expository, but it is possible to uh have an expository message or teaching on a topical area, if you're faithful to the broad teaching of Scripture, and you're not just picking and choosing based on some application that you may have in mind or or some agenda you have in mind. So it's not that one is expository and the other is not. What's expository is the method, the Bible study method. Sticking with the text and letting the scriptures speak for themselves and the teacher or preacher is just exposing that meaning. Make sense? Okay. Um so for a topical study, I'm back on page thirty six. Uh one of the things you're likely to do a whole lot is searching. You may already have in your mind, okay, I'm interested in this topic. I know of uh several passages already that I would go to about that topic, but you want to be more rigorous in your searching as well. And that's where things like concordances or uh uh an app that allows you to just search very easily come in handy uh topical bible and and those kind of things. Um so you can start with the main English word. That's sort of the the easy thing to do and it's helpful. Uh but those English words are translated into that English word maybe from different Hebrew or Greek words and so that kind of broadens your search a little bit. Uh you're not you're not um searching just on the English word love, let's say. But there may be other words that are translated into the English word love that mean other things, and and there are. So you can start narrow and then broaden from there. And so I suggested to catalog verses where it appears and what the Hebrew or Greek words are translated into just to kind of see, okay, I've got um well actually if you flip the page, the handout I have for my little ten minute thing here, which hopefully I have ten minutes at the end to do, um The word is taken from Galatians five, the very first in that list of sinful uh works of the flesh is immorality. So I've got the Greek word there in the top row and how it's translated in the various uh uh translations uh uh in where it appears in other verses. Um and it's it's a noun there, uh but it's also used as a verb And it's translated in various ways across those those translations as well. And it's translated as a noun referring to a person involved in that activity whether male or female. And those get translated various ways. So you just kind of catalog what you're what you're looking at here and um you can start you can just build on that. You've got that as a reference Um and that's related to uh B back on page thirty-six. Search on each of the Greek or Hebrew words that are translated using English words other than the main English word that you started with and just you just branch out into your your study. It may be that the the Greek in this case, the Greek word for whatever it is you're you're looking at is used only a couple of times in the New Testament. Well that should say something. But it may be that the more common Greek words that's translated into the English word you're focused on has, you know, 30 or 40 instances in Scripture. That distinction, if there are different Greek words translated into the same English word may tell you that there's some nuances in the Greek that we miss in the English. And so that's helpful to get your mind around in your study Um let us see there, see if you can get additional references from a topical index tool or cross-references. Some of the things I uh illustrated for you a few weeks ago. Uh make that very easy electronically. But you may have um books. Uh Corinne has one there where you can see for a given word um where it appears and And so on. Behind behind curtain A or whatever there. If the word you're focusing on is, let's say, a noun, it's often helpful to see, is that ever used in verb form or you know adjective form And does that teach me anything? Am I gaining better insight as to, particularly in the Greek, how it's used? And uh maybe the answer to that question is no, but sometimes the answer I think is going to be yes. It's helpful background And um okay. Let me pause for a sec. Any questions so far? Yeah. Um with all that we're learning and all that we're doing. doing and the fact that I will be teaching women, okay. Um I I'm I'm a little confused because I view teaching women um more along the lines of and not a hundred percent by any means I know studying needs to be done but I view it as more application more talking about um if the topic is gentleness more talking about how to how to um be gentle in in a given situation, how to respond gent in a given situation. Which I I would not um first I wouldn't teach men But I would never even begin to understand what it means to teach men how to be gentle. Okay, so this is a good idea. So this is strictly for women. So I guess um what you're saying, I hear all that you're saying, but Isn't there or is there a distinct difference between for instance when the men get up? The men are teaching the women and the men, correct? Yeah. Okay So we are just teaching one another. So is there a a definite difference or am I thinking incorrectly Not so much in how I prepare, but in the deliverance. In other words, I I really will know my audience because I'm one of them. Yes. Do you know what I'm saying? Yeah, and and that that is key no matter what our our situation that you need to identify with your audience, right? for where they're at and what your perception is of what they need out of maybe your own personal experience, but certainly knowing them and you're speaking to them in a way that would be helpful to them in their situation. Um and so no matter what we're teaching and who we're teaching to, that needs to be our mindset. But in your case when you're you're always going to be teaching women or maybe children. Um you need to understand where they're at, where they're coming from, what their special needs are, how you can relate to them, how you can relate the scriptures to them Right. So if we get them to a topical situation like gentleness, I'm going to gear that towards and not for the other three hundred definitions. I'm going to gear that toward women and how we can be gentle in certain and in certain situations. So I really am focused more um more instead of a broad topic, I'm really focused more on how it applies to us as women. Yes. However, um and and that's absolutely true. Um you still want to use scripture as the basis for your application. Oh absolutely. And and some of those scripture passages are going to be general teaching. Some of them are going to be maybe examples or counter examples we see in scripture, and they may involve men. You know, you don't have to focus only on the examples where women are involved. There may be more actually where there are men involved and we learn from their errors rather than you know uh and so definitely make the applications applicable. to your audience. Um but that probably won't narrow your your reference to scriptural examples and teachings all that much. But the way you the examples that you might provide or the specifics of how-tos and this kind of thing to be consistent with scripture uh may be definitely focused on your your uh audience I know the focus is how we are going to be worked, but if it was a situation where we worked for women, like everyone has listened to Mathees and different things like that where we're speaking of men from the Even in that, it may still be a project. So it is possible that we the focus is not whether for black, white, man, women, just how do we exception by Christ? But I think that even how we generalize for men and what we see those through the spirits. This is not specific to gend gender, but more so how can we just focus on prior to that really what we're called to do. Um and and and that's certainly true. But I could see if if in your teaching or your application maybe uh references to your own experience whether it's a good example or a bad example. The examples that you might suggest ought to keep in mind where your audience is that and what they're so for example let's take gentleness let's say you're trying to uh uh encourage um young moms to be gentle with their children even when they're frustrating you Okay, that's that's an example that moms can relate to probably. Um uh that's uh that's a good takeaway, it's a good example, but your to your point, how can we be Godly. How can we be Christ-like in that response? The context may be a mother needed to be gentle with her children, as as the example that the teacher's making, but Th the same biblical principles apply. Using examples like that, rather than just theoretical being like Christ, how can we be like Christ in this kind of situation kind of brings it home and makes it more applicable probably. Um so what he's trying to say is when teach the the biblical concept, but when it comes to application, you gear toward your audience For example, if we speak to a young mom and children, we speak that. But if we speak to young college students, we don't use that example, we use something else. Right. And the teaching may be basically the same, but your approach to the application may be customized to that target audience. No, it wouldn't necessarily have to be exclusively focused on that target audience. Um But then they need to see how the the biblical principles apply to them where they're at. I don't I I remember specifically even what room I was sitting in where a a message was spoken and there was applications and I was the Holy Spirit was applying it in different ways in my own life and it felt extremely narrow for the speaker to be focusing on that and it was mixed. It was something men and women. Um but I I'm ultra cautious if I I no I don't have that experience. But I have a sense of I'm gonna be really cautious with application because I don't know what the Holy spirit is doing in other people's hearts and minds. And so yeah, we could do suggestions or or maybe we do know there might be a s where we know there is a struggle learning But I don't know, I just feel like we have to be careful because even with that, we can think that an application is needed when we don't know what social security is doing in people. Yeah, no, that's for sure. Um I would say though that um when you're teaching, the application portion is not going to be ninety-five percent of what you're saying. You want to develop it biblically Right? Which is going to have broad application. But by way of example, you can provide suggestions where that you think are relevant. But even if if someone is going through something like you're saying that's that's different and The Holy Spirit using what you've been teaching from the the breadth of Scripture speaks to them in a different context or a different application. You might not even know that But because you've covered the broader context of the teaching from Scripture, whatever examples you give or suggestions you give for application may or may not be where they're at. But the main teaching should be where everybody's at, right? Yeah, well when in the issues that I be aware is that people who will reduce disabilities sometimes don't have Yeah. And when you see any um group who like obey your parents, that's as if we didn't want to. Yeah. But Yeah, we talked with we have because they have a contact and maybe a blue code over to uh a sibling. Sure. And so there are definite takeaways from the broader teaching that are relevant in lots of different contexts. Yeah. I see why it's so difficult for me, Cookie, because you either have an adult church home or you have a child criticum. You don't have anything But you've got the Bible. Yeah. Yeah, and so having curricula and other people's studies can be helpful. You can draw on those, but Um if you know your audience and you know um what they need to know and you've got scripture, um God can use that. Anyway, um all right, some study suggestions here for a topical study Bottom of page 36. Um you're probably going to come across lots of verses and all these various branches of searching that you're going to do. Group the relevant verses into categories based on meaning um based on application perhaps based on uh the type of passage you know is it a command is it an example uh or whatever um Not that these are the only and maybe the best categorization ways, but they're just examples. You you you look through all those verses, how do I sift through this to make good use of what the Bible's telling me, you can categorize verses that are very similar into their focus, right? And other verses are a little bit different on the same topic, but a different focused. As you look through historical examples, for example, you see a lot of bad examples in the Old Testament particularly. I usually refer to it as is Israel's dirty laundry. It's on display for everybody, right? But there are lessons there, right? But there are also good lessons, even in the Old Testament. And uh separating the good the good examples from the bad examples um which are basically teaching the same thing but from two different perspectives may be helpful in your study Um and we may have already sort of uh mentioned this, but with a very broad topic, narrow it down so that um uh you're you're getting a portion of that large topic that's most relevant in your in your immediate context, the group that you're talking to or whatever. You can still make reference to things in that broader topic, but still focus where focus is needed. Uh point here, uh number C, topical studies frequently are spawned. They're they're you you start it uh because of an in-depth study of a passage. And they can be a very important way to evaluate the broad biblical context of whatever passage you're looking at. And so the most common example of that would be a word study. You're studying a passage and there's a word that's used there You want to understand any nuances of meaning that may be we may be blind to in the English. And um And so you're off on a topical study that supports a a study of a particular passage of scripture. Uh I don't think I mentioned it in our study or our lesson on uh tools, Bible study tools, but don't overlook an English dictionary. I've been fooled a few times. I thought I understood a word, but when I looked at it in an English dictionary, I said, oh, that's what that means Um or it can mean different things in English too, right? Um and so that that can not always but it it can be helpful to sort out what you're seeing in the scriptures. I don't know if any of you guys are aware of it, but the 1828 Um Western Dictionary is free and it has some very interesting um definitions of words that include scripture. sometimes and then older definitions that are um a lot closer to something we would replace two but this if you're looking for a a dictionary that's free and it's it's provides I have a hard bound copy of that. eighteen point. Um stupid. I didn't say original. Um and just a reminder here, point E, that just because you're doing a topical study doesn't mean that you throw out the window uh the need to observe, interpret, and apply what you're reading from scripture. It's just that you've multiplied it now. You're looking at multiple places, pulling it all together, right Um so I I assigned you all specific words thinking that that would be a good first step for a topical study. Uh it's probably not going to be as broad as some topical studies could be, and so it helps you to focus a little bit. But uh I'm guessing that's for some of you you you're gonna find related words that are sometimes translated into the same English that would be good to understand so that you know the nuances Why was this Greek word used and not another one? In fact, in Galatians 5, as we already noted, um some of the words in English are really, really related. And but they use different Greek words. And so what would be helpful in your presentation is to uh shed some light on some of those nuances, some of those differences. Now, before I forget, I just want to make sure everybody understands, because the presentations start next week, right So one thing I want to recommend, and I think Colleen a actually suggested this, is that starting next week, all of our lessons are going to be your teaching. times. First the um the passage of scripture and then second the topic. Um and and so we're going to go through You've got that table at the very beginning. We're going to go through every one of you through the Bible passage assignments. And there will be uh what is it? Five. Five per week Right? Which means our time is gonna be tight. You're not gonna have a whole lot of time for Q and A or or whatever. Uh so your your presentation should be just ten minutes. And then we'll have five minutes of um um evaluation, critique, discussion, whatever. And the subject matter there is not so much um am I getting the application right But we're helping each other and critiquing each other in what we're learning about how to present well to a group. Um Mostly that critique is going to be whichever elder is here. And by the way, next week I'm going to be gone, and so you get Pastor Gabe. And I should be here all the other weeks. So although whether he comes in, I don't know. Yeah, let me explain that. So we're going to go through the next four weeks, we're going to go through everybody's Bible passage. It's going to be five people per week times four weeks, that's twenty topics. And after everybody's doing their done their Bible passage, then weeks um the last four weeks of the quarter, whatever they are. are the Bible topics. And so we're going to go back through the same sequence of people but now it's the Bible topic, not and so you don't do both of your things at once. Each one of them is a separate ten minute presentation. whole schedule for everybody on the group so you can have your dates. Everybody got that the logistics there? Also on the on the on the subject of logistics, um to make it easier for the women to be speaking to the women when they're teaching, let's have The women all on this side of the room. Physically, on this side of the room. Have the women in the middle. Well we could, if there's enough space for all the women in the middle. Yeah. Because the time there's looking though. It probably would. It probably would. No way you're talking directly. You probably are gonna need right now we're probably missing a table there. We may need to fill one in. I don't know how many women do we have. Like w today we've got what three, six Sure. Yeah, that okay, that makes sense. Um you may have to in that last row, you may have to add some tables. I'll I'll do a cap those in there. here for all the women. Okay. Okay. Everybody got that? Make sense? Do we send our outlines here into print before we speak or do we just print out? If you if you want if you No, it's not an if. Yeah. No, I mean like You will share your outline. It's a one pager. Oh god. Okay, yeah. And please don't send it on Friday if that would Six o'clock will do, huh? Yeah, since Jordan week three. If um and obviously there will be an outline is prepared as you go through this. I understand that. Is it imperative that I hand out outline if I get it to you and you see it, do I need to hand it Yeah, why do why do we why do I want you to have a an outline, uh a handout? Just that way everybody follows, right? So Everybody's on the same page. Literally. Would it be perfect if you were actually preaching you would I have an outline Yeah, I think I think in in all of your cases, You're probably not going to be thinking about preaching, you're going to be thinking about teaching. Right? And so you have a think of it as a class or a captive audience anyway. Um And so if you give them something in writing to follow where you're at, that means they don't have to be taking notes about everything you say. Right? But they can see okay, I'm I'm following. They can take some notes on your outline to add to it, but um A, they can follow along while you're teaching. B they have a resource that's already there for them if they want to um you know apply it, uh expand it or or whatever. Um so I would Not only recommend I'm I'm requiring you for this exercise to have that one page handout that you will give to the whole class. Even if you're teaching to the women, it's going to go to everybody. But what we have a little match would be a little bit more. Exactly. What you have for your own study and preparation and maybe what you're teaching from would be your expanded version. But what you give them for ten minutes, I think a one pay-through should be fine. Kinda like fill in the blank. I I I don't like fill in the blanks. Because w what happens when you have fill in the blank? I'm waiting for that magic word. You're not actually listening. Yeah, you need to be listening, interacting with the subject, right? And I'll probably do a back page so you're not having so many pieces of paper. But if you can send it to me on Thursday, that'll give me the time to get them all print it together. Because I do want to just make sure that there's there's less Yeah, that makes sense. So one person's outline will be on the front, another person's outline may be on the back, because they're one pager. And also um I was thinking pass that on. Um we can consider if anyone wants to to be recorded, I would only send recording to you. Could be a helpful learning experience. I'm not sure I want to record it. But we're not recording it the class itself like we have been. Right. This is the last the last recording for it. So for anyone who wants to record it, we'll have a recorder up there, you hit the button and okay. Okay. And and then I will send it only to you. Um getting the comment. I'm actually thinking about next week since I'm not going to be here. Okay, so so I'll make sure. At least next week. But I won't pass it on to anybody. I I just wanna I'm Well we want to see his truth and we're just gonna do it. We gave hands. Double blessing. Double bless. Okay. Uh A2Is on the three that's better than one, I guess Indeed. So turn to page thirty-eight. You haven't given me ten minutes here, but I'll try to go through this quickly. Think of think of this as your one page handout. This is a handout? This one page. Page thirty eight. No, no, no. That's the hand ail? It's mine. It doesn't mean that you have to have a similar format. That's what I'm asking. I'm I'm I'm gonna go through a topical study on the word immorality in Galatians 5. 19. And this is merely reflecting the way I think, and the way I think scripture would help you, um the way you struck your handout could be a whole lot different. Yeah. And it's specific to the powerful one. Not the um This particular one is topical, yes. Today you had one last week, I think Pastor Mike went through on the biblical passage, and that was also a one-pager Right. Now he didn't put that together, I did. So it may look a lot like me. Um okay. So as we're studying Galatians five and the uh works of the flesh as opposed to the fruit of the spirit. Um the first word we come up with in that list is immorality. Uh the the Greek word that's used there is pornea. It's a common commonly used word in the New Testament. Uh it's something like twenty five times. It's just pornea. uh being used as a verb uh meaning to commit this kind of sin is used another uh eight times or so in scripture. And then uh people who commit this kind of sin, whether they're masculine or feminine, uh there are related noun forms of the same root verb as well. So what we learn from looking at the use of this term in Scripture is that it's sometimes Sometimes referring to adultery, but there's a separate word for adultery. Um but it's quite often used um d distinct. from adultery. And a good example of that is um Matthew fifteen, nineteen. For the out of the heart comes evil thoughts. Murders, adulteries, there is a specific word for adultery. Fornications. So what would be the difference between adultery and fornication? One's married, one's One is happening in the case of fornication is very specifically being done by a non-married person. Uh and so there is that distinction. Uh however, sometimes the use the the word pornea includes any extramarital sex, including adultery. Um and the good example of that's Acts fifteen. Yeah, in the Jerusalem Council, uh the the elders and apostles uh uh after discussing how best to to evangelize uh uh Gentiles uh in the light of uh a a uh a rising practice of some of the Jews of requiring Gentiles to become Jews in order to become Christians. And So this council met to address that practice and that that belief and they said very very clearly that's not the case. People come to Christ the same way, no matter what their background is. It's by grace through faith. Uh but they said um in their summing it all up, it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you they're they're writing this letter to Gentiles To lay upon you no greater burden than these essentials, that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols and from blood and from things strangled, and from fornication. And if you keep yourselves from such things, you will do well. There Pornea is used in a very general way. It's not talking only to singles. It seems obvious from the context. Right. So that's suggesting, and we we see elsewhere in scripture that that's the case, that cornea is the general term that um both adultery and fornication uh fall under that same umbrella because it's it's sexual activity outside of where God designed it to happen in the marriage Right? And so you know from the context whether it's speaking just to singles or to to everybody. And in Revelation you see a lot of use of the same term used in a spiritual sense Uh much like the Old Testament where similar words are used in a spiritual sense. Uh you know, fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, she who has made all the nations drink the wine of the Passion of her immorality. What immorality are we talking about here? It's going after uh gods who aren't gods. Who aren't God. And um uh outside the bounds of God's design. That's sort of the the the way to think about it. But it's the same word, cornea. It can be used very generally to be anything that's outside of God's uh design for purity. And so uh the way to interpret the word then is that it can refer to Any sexual activity outside of marriage. It's not restricted to um sex before marriage or by singles, unless the context makes it clear that that's the context. And it certainly applies there, because outside of God's design. translating it simply as immorality, which we see all three of these translations do uh probably is not all that helpful because a lot of things are immoral that are not pornea. And what this is what pornea is talking about is specifically sexual immorality outside the bounds of God's design in marriage. And so as is often the case with all three of these translations, NASB, LSB, and ESV, they put in their sexual immorality just to make sure we understand what the context is. I think that's probably the best way to translate it. So what are some applications of that for us? Well, as we're looking at Galatians 5 We see that this is something that is that is a common deed of the flesh, that the Holy Spirit's work in us, the fruit of his work in us. is going to overcome. It's sort of the the opposite of what the Holy Spirit does. Uh but there are other passages that it's very critical in, for example, in um both Matthew five and Matthew nineteen, both speaking about Jesus speaking about divorce, he gives Divorce as a uh a permissible example of um do I say divorce He he's giving pornea uh as a specific uh exception to the general rule about divorce, that divorce is not God's design, but if your spouse Is guilty of pornea and they're unrepentant and they're not changing, then God, because of the hardness of people's hearts, allows that innocent spouse to divorce. That's just the the one exception he gave for taking that initiative. Well the problem with that is that most people when you talk to them they say that well the exception is adultery. That's not what the text said. There is a word for adultery. The text says pornea, which includes adultery, but it can include all sorts of other things that are sexual immorality outside the bounds of marriage, including pornography S same root word, pornea, pornography. Um yeah, I I mentioned the uh example from the Jerusalem Council. Already. So uh this is an example I think of how we see how a particular wr uh a Greek word, or even Hebrew in in other cases But in this case a a Greek word, how it's used throughout scripture gives us a greater understanding of the breadth or narrowness of that term. And so we can interpret things appropriately. Make sense? All right. Was that ten minutes? Yeah. Is that a question? No, I didn't. On on the I on the on on part C there were your um revelations saying that immorality is more of a describes a spiritual rebellion? Um but I I can see where you say a better way to describe immorality in Galatians five is sexual. For sure. Yeah. Well Um its use in Revelation throughout Revelation, not just this verse, is very similar to how in the Old Testament God refers to Israel's sin as parlatry. is idol worship, forsaking the true God for false gods, um and if God's viewing his relationship with Israel as uh uh his spouse Then his spouse is engaging in adultery, poetry, immorality. And I kind of think is there's also the word in there of passion. The senses are definitely involved. And there could be a very fruitful, more detailed study just on that use of the the word. Alright, well let's go ahead and close the prayer. Father, thank you for uh your word and for giving us tools to study it well so that we are not uh blinded to the full range of um ministry that your word would have in our hearts and our lives. And pray that we would be objective as we study your word, that we allow it to speak to us Well, and that we would be handling your truth in Scripture faithfully, both for our benefit, but ultimately, Lord, for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.