Well let's open the guiding light of God's holy word to First Corinthians chapter two once again. First Corinthians chapter two. So much has already been written by Paul about the wisdom of this world and how it is inferior to that of God's truth. I hope everyone knows that by now. And sense that nothing the world can come up with that is going to bring to us God's truth. It comes from the Lord. So one might wonder now what else really could be written and what else could we say this morning. That's a good question. We've already heard in chapter 1 and 2, those of you that have been with us, that God destroys, destroys The so-called learning of the most educated people in this world. With all of their learning, they have yet to learn God, and so they've learned nothing. You don't know God. You really don't know anything that you think you know all that well, because it all comes from God and has to be understood from God. God right now has made a mockery of anybody or any institution who considers themselves to be smart, scholar, those informed on the cutting edge, insightful people, aware of the times, whatever description. Yet they do not believe in or understand the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, it's true that the Jews would be impressed with miraculous signs if we did those. The Greeks would be impressed with stunning words of human wisdom, well articulated. But God just decided to give the entire world an executioner's cross and a man dying upon it and say, That's the message that I have for the world. And the Jews stumbled over it, and the Greeks, the Gentiles laughed at it. But the truth remains the truth. Nothing can ever change that. And God's very worst The past chapter told us is better than any of man's best. And God's very weakest is stronger than any of man's strength. And that's just the way that it is And so only Christian education from God's Word, based squarely on God's truth, can reveal true wisdom for our lives, for you and me. Yes, it's true, we've already seen that God purposely passed over proud people in this world, those who were something in this world, the nobility, the rich, the educated elite. the powerful, the some bodies of this world. And in his sovereign election he passed over them and he decided to grant knowledge and insight and understanding and salvation and all the benefits of that on the lowly and on the poor. And on the less educated. And in general, that's just what he has done in the world. You can see how Christianity has been accepted by slaves and by those who are of less Less fortunate in this world, and God just does that. He does it to confound the proud of their worldly knowledge. They think they know, so God shows them you don't really know anything And you know, we've also already seen the Apostle Paul and his personal example as he ministered to those proud Corinthians, and he came to them, he says, Do you remember how I came and ministered? I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. I didn't come with superiority of words or some human philosophy trying to bring you to faith that way and persuade you that way. I just came and brought the Word of God and let the Spirit's power be demonstrated. That's what he did. And so we've heard all of this and we took all of this truth that we've been learning and we took it and tried to apply it to our situation. here in the twenty-first century to our preaching, to our evangelism, to our ministry, to our Bible teaching, right here in the 21st century This whole section really challenges us to rely not on religious machinery, not on the way humans do things, but squarely on God, on his shoulders. to advance our ministry, to advance the gospel, to advance Christianity through the power of God, not us. Even last time, if you were with us It's really two Sundays ago we saw in part one of the series there were four reasons or four truths why we just are We just continue to teach the Bible and just teach it and just teach it and teach it fully and without apology. We keep doing it now forthrightly. We do it in any age to any people. Why? Well, because if you look back to verses six, seven, and eight, because it's the Bible alone that imparts God's wisdom. And it is the Bible teaching that the world so desperately needs, and if we don't teach it, how are they going to know it? In verse 7, particularly, that the Bible reveals the very mystery of God to the world Bible teaching verse 8 has to go on even though the world is blind to it and the rulers knew nothing at all about it. We have to just keep preaching it and teaching it. Well we might ask, what else could be said today How can you do more than that? I mean that's really a lot already. Yes, but Paul continues on in the passage, and as we continue on, we learn. Also in the passage, I think that Paul is trying to put the final nail in the coffin to this worldly mindset that the Corinthians had. You might feel at this stage that we're taking a dead horse and beating it to death and it's already dead. I don't know. But that sectarian spirit in Corinth was was uh a real problem that the Apostle Paul had to deal with And it was all based upon worldly thinking and worldly wisdom. And so the Apostle Paul and his wisdom he knew that unless he removed their worldly way of thinking and really showed them that there really was nothing that the world provided in terms of of the knowledge of God and just remove that from their minds, he would never be able to achieve his goal in writing at least the first part of this letter, and that is unity. for that church and maturity in the way they think. And I would say that for us also there is this ugly beast, if I can call it that. of a man-centered worldly way of thinking that the evangelical church has welcomed in the front door and now dominates our present ministry. Our, I don't mean our whole Bible church, our. I mean just the evangelical world. We're so driven by a man-centered, man-pleasing way of ministry, and it seems to work because so many people like to hear that and like to be part of that that everyone seems to be embracing it. And it's like this ugly beast. And we need a message to deal with that. I kind of hope that this message will be like the final shot to the head of this ugly beast in your mind, you know, and just put the thing to death if it's in your mind at all. We want to see the folly of the modern error in ministry in this passage. Speaking of folly George Barno, a well-known name in his very influential book, The Market-Driven Church, writes this. My contention, he writes, based on careful study of data and the activities of American churches Is that the major problem plaguing the church is its failure to embrace a marketing orientation in what has become a marketing-driven environment End quote. He says a 21st century marketing environment demands the church have a marketing approach to ministry. That's his understanding of the major problem the church faces today. So we're doing fine with holiness, I guess. We're all praying as hard as we ought to be. We're all evangelizing boldly. That's not a problem, I guess. It's just that we don't know how to be market savvy in our present world. Well, if we just learn this and read his book, everything is going to be fine. And in his book he pushes for what he calls a people centered marketing strategy, which finds felt needs of people Where people, whatever they feel is unfulfilled, or how they feel that they're hurting, and then set the church up and market your church that way to meet those needs, people will flock to the church, you will grow in numbers, you will prosper in ministry, and you will gain influence. And that is the whole movement in a nutshell. And it is swept like a mighty tsunami right through the evangelical world today. Now here's what you I'm hoping that you will get from this preaching series. He and many others, and there are many others, who promote all of this, have misunderstood the very power of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ and how God works in the world today. They don't get it, they don't understand it. And so they may be very sincere, but they're sincerely wrong This passage of scripture, brothers and sisters, all of this passage really, chapters 1 and 2, opposes all of that thinking for many sound reasons that I hope to impress again on your hearts today. And that is why Paul is taking us deeper into doctrine in this passage. This is a tougher passage for you. I hope you're sitting up tall. I hope that uh we might have to open a couple of windows in the back. There's feeling a little warm in here. Make sure we're set for this because this is there's a lot of thinking that's going to go on here. It's a hard passage to put in an outline and you need to follow it carefully, but it's got some rich truths, particularly about the doctrine of the Spirit of God. You ever wonder why some people respond to the gospel and others don't? Or why things seem to work the way they do? Paul is going to give you the answer in this passage. And it relates to our teaching the Bible and church ministry. And particularly for our developing leaders, I hope God gives you ears to absorb and understand this passage. Let's read it. Today we're going to be in verses 9, and I'm going to go down through verse 14. But just as it is written, things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard. And which have not entered the heart of man all that God has prepared for those who love him. For to us, God revealed them through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the Spirit of the man which is in him? Even so the thoughts of God no one knows except the Spirit of God. Now we have received Not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things freely given to us by God, which things we also speak. Not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. Now there's one controlling thought in this entire passage that will help you out. It's in verse 9. It's really the base thought on which everything else rests. And it is the statement there at the end of verse 9 all that God has prepared for those who love him. How do we know that? How do we know what God has prepared? How do we know what's coming and what God is doing? The passage tells us There are incredible things that God has prepared for believers in Jesus Christ. And by the way, believers in Jesus Christ in this passage are described as those who what? Who love God. Person doesn't love God, they're not a believer in Christ. Okay? There are incredible things. This re reflected back on Matthew 25, 34 in a parable that Jesus taught, where he said, When he comes back, he will say, Come, you are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom Listen, prepared for you from the foundation of the world. They're marvelous things prepared for believers. Even God had this in mind before the world was even created What is all of that going to involve? All these joyous and rich and wonderful, triumphant, glorious, splendid, harmonious, peaceful, everlasting kind of things, what are they all about? Well God has prepared them for us. So the pressing question is, how does anyone know what these great and marvelous things are? And also why? Why is it set up this way? Why must it be this way? Now remember from the context we know that Paul has in mind God's hidden wisdom and God's salvation in the cross of Jesus and everything that goes with it. And so really he's concluding his argument to the Corinthians here before he comes right back to them and starts talking to them specifically about their carnal mentality. He's concluding it by telling them how the truth can be known and how it can't And why it has to be that way. A how and a why. That's the outline if you're looking for one. A how and a why. It kind of gets mixed up in the passage as well, so do the best you can with your notes today. That doesn't sound very user-friendly, does it First, how you can know it. I'm sorry, first how you can't know it. Let's get that right. How you can't know it. That's verse 9. Look at that again. But just as it is written, things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard, and which have not entered the heart of man, all that God has prepared for those who love him. Does that sound familiar to you? It should. This is very much more of the same, more of what Paul has been emphasizing all throughout the passage. What is that? Human education. all the halls of learning, all the studying that they do. For us, the entire academic world and everything that involves, including especially the best and the brightest thinkers All of the world's knowledge cannot penetrate even one iota. What is the truth of God? What is God doing, and what is he going to do? Remember back in chapter 1, verse 21, he said that they have not come to know God. And now in chapter 2, verse 9, he's saying they cannot know his plan, what he's doing either. They don't know him, they don't know the plan. Now to prove this, Paul, who believed in Scripture, went right back to Scripture and he says those important words just as it is written. What is he quoting when he says that? The Old Testament, right? This is not actually a quote so much. It's a combination of words and ideas from the Old Testament. If you were to go back to Isaiah 64 and verse 4, you'd see that it's not an exact quote. Robertson's word picture says this. It is likely that Paul here combines freely Isaiah 64. 4, Isaiah 65, 17, and Isaiah 52, 15. in sort of a free chain of quotations as he does in Romans chapter three. In other words, he's just clustered together a number of Old Testament ideas here, and he says the Old Testament says this. He's not giving an exact quote. But he's giving an exact representation of what Old Testament teaching said. The Old Testament scriptures indeed did teach in a number of places That man's mind and man's heart cannot probe into the things of God, cannot know it. And Paul gets real specific here, and I'm glad he did. He gets real concrete. He talks about the heart, he talks about the ear, and he talks about the human eye. And that really helps us to understand that he's really eliminating everything. Now when he writes not eye and ear, you need to understand that he's saying that So that he can eliminate all the five senses. It's sort of representative of the others. He doesn't mention taste and touch and smell, but the eye and ear stand for that and covers all of that. In other words Human experience, the human senses cannot be used at all to discover this truth. In philosophy, this would include all of the forms of empiricism. All the different philosophers that call themselves empiricists and base their thoughts on experience and what man could see and touch with his senses, this passage is saying, nope, that won't work. And by the way, by eliminating the ear as a source, it also eliminates listening to all the other wise men and all of their experiences that they have had. And everything that they would pass down in their civilizations in their books. Nothing that would come to the ear or to the eye is going to help in this situation Also, Paul says that it has not entered into the human heart. Heart is cardia. You hear that word, you think of emotions, how sweet it is when someone has a heart for someone else. That's not at all what it means. Heart has to do with the seat of reason in a human being and his thought, the way he thinks inside of himself. That's consistently how both the Old and New Testaments use the word heart. Heart is the place of learning and thinking, of the capacity there for men and women. The heart works obviously in conjunction with the senses. The senses experience things, and the heart thinks about that, puts them together, and they come up with conclusions and ideas. And Paul says it's not entered into the heart of man either You can't get it through the senses, you can't get it through the mind, that rules out empiricism, and that rules out rationalism. Those are the only two branches of philosophy. There it is. All of human learning, whatever it could be, however they would want to do it, Paul just says obliterated every form of that right here in this passage. The Bible says that no one can arrive at ultimate truth via human intelligence or human contemplation. There is no intuition inside of man to bring him to the truth. There is no light of knowledge that is in his mind that will guide him. There is no inward meditation that any religion can provide that will allow him from his own heart and his own meditations to extract the truth. So by specifying these, he has just utterly excluded all human learning. Neither scientific observation with the senses nor philosophic speculation in the heart leads to understanding God. Doesn't happen. Can't understand ultimate truth that way, can't understand the meaning of life, can't understand God's plan or God's wisdom. You can't use objective means or subjective means in learning this matter, nor deductive or inductive methods can arrive at the truth. In fact, the very assumption that a smart, educated person can sit down with a bunch of his buddies And use their own faculties to arrive at what the truth is and to guide other people and teach them and let them know and pass on degrees of knowledge of learning. Is utterly refuted by this portion of God's Word. I'll just take that a step further. The very idea that a human being could sit down and on his own arrive at the truth is a is a sinful act itself. The idea of trying to discover what the truth is apart from what God says is itself rebellion and folly. Do you see it? It's sinful for them to act independently of God. It is sinful for them to even think independently of God's thoughts. It is sinful for them to exclude the word of their Creator and then on their own come up with what they think the truth is. God says that entire educational process is built on rebellion, folly, and sin. It is wrong. Isaiah fifty-five, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the h as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways And my thoughts and your thoughts. Well, if you know that and understand that, then either you get what God is saying and you receive what God is saying, or you're cut out. You have no chance. Despite how confident people are. That's just the way it is, people. That's just the way it is. That's not my opinion. That's not what we teach here in this church. That's just the way it is. God has the knowledge We don't. Well, then how do some come to know the truth? There's still a how question here, maybe the positive side of this second. How does God reveal it? Well, he reveals it through the Spirit. Look at verses 10 and 11. 10 and 11, this is precious. For to us, God revealed them through the Spirit. This is a humbling statement For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the Spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, the thoughts of God no one knows No one knows except who? The Spirit of God. God reveals these truths. God Pulls the curtain back, and God reveals truth. And he does it through one means. What's the means? The Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit. How can a human being with his eye and his ear and his heart know? He can't. But how then can he know? Answer: God's revelation, truth, comes through the Holy Spirit I said Holy Spirit, it just uses the word spirit there. He's not talking about the human spirit here. Otherwise he'd be saying, yeah, you can't know through your heart, but you can know through your own human spirit Spirit and be contradicting himself. So he's not talking about that. He's talking about the Spirit of God. Did you see that? Look in verse eleven. Verse 12, the Spirit who is from who? God. Verse 14, the Spirit of God. Sometimes Paul just uses the word spirit, but he means the Holy Spirit. The context makes that clear here. This is the third person of the Triune Godhead. The Holy Spirit. God, the Holy Spirit. Write it down. Only the Holy Spirit reveals ultimate truth. Only the Holy Spirit reveals ultimate truth. The Holy Spirit tells all that God has prepared for those who love God. For those who love God, they get told. Those who don't, well, they don't. And who does the Spirit tell? Well, believers in Jesus Christ. In fact, the words to us, he revealed to us, are emphatic in the Greek sentence. The Holy Spirit of God reveals or discloses or makes God's plan and blessings known to believers through the agency of the Spirit of God He brings the truth to his church, to us, to those who love God. And he doesn't do it by secular education. He doesn't do it by human philosophy. He doesn't do it by empiricism or rationalism. He does it solely by his Holy Spirit. That's the method that he's chosen. Indeed, it is the very Holy Spirit's role to bring the thoughts of Almighty God to men. He, the Spirit, you might say, bridges the gap. We're in ignorance. God is in knowledge. The Spirit of God is sent to bridge that knowledge and to bring knowledge to man. He makes the connection from God to man, not from man to God, because it doesn't work that way. God's purposes can only be owned by supernatural revelation from the Holy Spirit of God. Jesus said something similar in Matthew eleven twenty seven. All things have been handed over to me, he said, by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal him. I know the Father, and I'll reveal him to whoever I want to reveal him to. Say that's the Son, that's not the Spirit. Yeah, but the Spirit is the Spirit of Jesus Christ and was sent into the world by the Son. So he speaks what the Son knows. Now, next there in verse 10, Paul expounds the Spirit's qualifications. This is sort of some of the why here. Why is it that the Spirit does these things? Why does it have to be this way? Well, the Spirit searches all things. What an amazing statement. All things. Even the depths of God. Now we're getting into something deep. No pun intended. The Spirit searches all things. All things. Now the word search in Greek, the Greek verb is erana'o. It means to to examine, to uh investigate, to penetrate, to probe, to search. And it's in the present tense, which means this is what the Holy Spirit is constantly doing. The Spirit constantly is in touch with and examines All thing. But a fascinating insight into the Holy Spirit. He searches, examines all things. You know, I have a smartphone now that I've bought, and it's pretty smart. It can do a lot of things, but it's not this smart. I guess we can imagine If we had a computer that we could talk to and it searched and examined everything and we would say like in Star Trek, you know, computer, tell me where my lost keys are. Computer, tell me the answers to my next test, or whatever it is. And they would give it to us. We would like that. We'd say that's the greatest invention man has ever had. This computer that searches and knows all things. Well the Holy Spirit Has great qualifications to reveal truth because he is every single place in the entire universe at one time and he knows everything and he searches everything. He's omnipresent and he's all-knowing, omniscient And he searches out everything. But he doesn't stop there. He doesn't just search out everything in the universe. He even searches out the depths of God. Now that's one of those statements that I don't know what to do with up here. I really don't. I I don't know what I'm supposed to say at that point in time. The depths of God. Yeah, let me tell you about that. Like I was there and I understand that. We just know that he does it. Right? What would that include? Well in chapter two, verse seven, from the context, it mentions things that God foreordains. That would be that stuff. In verse 9, it mentions things that God has prepared. It would certainly be that stuff. But even more, the depths of God would be God Himself, His innermost being, His essence, His perfections. His plans, his volitions, his attributes, his innermost thoughts. In other words, the Spirit of God knows all that God is, and all that God knows. He knows all about God. You know what that means, right? The Holy Spirit is God Himself. He's not a it thing, an energy force that goes out there. He is intelligent and he knows and he is God. God. You know, Romans 11, 33 says, Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways. That's true, but that's for us. The Holy Spirit searches it out. He knows. Daniel 2. 22. It is God who reveals the profound and hidden things. He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. And the Holy Spirit tells those things. Job 12, 22. He reveals mysteries from the darkness and brings the deep darkness into light, because he knows it all. Psalm 92, 5. How great are your works, O Lord, your thoughts are very deep. Yes, they are. Next, we get a little bit of proof because this truth is so far beyond us. Paul has to bring it down to our level and give us a little illustration here. And he says this: For who knows the thoughts of a man except the spirit of man in him? Now here's Paul, he's taking something we do understand, something we do experience, and taking us from that knowledge and then trying to bridge the gap and bring us to some understanding about what the Spirit of God does. Who is the person, Paul's saying, who really knows your thoughts? Who knows what you're thinking right now? You do, right? What are you thinking, by the way? Come on. So I'm thinking about the sermon. I'm taking good notes, Pastor. Ah, okay. Maybe some of you who knows what you're thinking. The point is we don't know. You could be thinking about food right now. You could be thinking about how more padding you want on your chair Maybe some of you are examining a Greek word or something out there, I don't know. But you know the person next to you doesn't know this. Don't worry There's no thought bubble that's going to pop up over your head and expose it to everybody. Your thoughts are your thoughts. Now, when we live with someone for a long time, we begin to say, well, we know what they're thinking. But the truth is we don't know what they're thinking. We kind of know their patterns. We know What they've said in the past and what they do in this situation and what their facial expression is and their body language and all of that communicates to us because we know them, but even then, those deepest motives, end goals, aspirations. They're your private possession. Nobody can see them and know them. At least down here. God does, of course. You need to be aware of that as well. There's some accountability in that. But now he's saying, okay, this is how it is with God. Who can penetrate into God's mind and tell all that is truth Only one, God Himself, His own Spirit. Now don't take the analogy too far and try to think of man as a Trinity the way that God is, and everything is corresponded. There's just one correspondence here, and that is just as we probe and understand the things that are going on inside of us We have thoughts and we have feelings and we mull those around in our own minds. God, who is a spirit, he also is well aware of himself. He's conscious of everything about himself, and his thoughts are his thoughts And he'll reveal his thoughts only to whoever he wants to. And if he doesn't reveal them, we're not going to know them. We're not going to know the truth. If he never revealed them, we'd all have to be agnostic. We'd all have to be those who don't know the truth because he didn't reveal them. But because there's revelation, we don't have to be agnostic. We now can trust a greater mind than ours. That's how we know. People say how can you justify the confidence and knowledge you have as Christians? Well we justify it this way, because my pastor and church knows everything. Because I read this book. Because God has spoken, and He spoke clearly He used human language. Some people try to say, well, you know, you can't really bring ultimate truth into human language and all that. How do they know that? God created human language and now he's investing his truth in that. And he tells us to read it and says we can understand it and we're supposed to know, so it should work We know because God has emptied his mind and he's given us words. More on that later. But we can have certainty, certainty from God. Notice how Paul draws the conclusion with the next words. Even so, no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit. of God. How do you know ultimate truth? Well you don't get it from other human beings. You get it only directly from God. And if someone's not speaking from God, then you can't get it. And that's just the way it is. That's just the way that it is. Now we get into more of the why. Third. Why is it that some understand? Well, because some receive the Spirit of God. Third, there are some who receive the Spirit of God. See, the Spirit knows, and then there are some human beings who receive the Spirit who know. That's in verses 12 and 13. Look at them. Now we have received. Not the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God. So that we may, what's the next word? Know the things freely given to us. There's your epistemology. How do I know what I know? Because the Spirit of God knows and he told us. And that's how we know. Which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit. The very words are taught by the Spirit Combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. Now those opening words in verse 12 are really important. We We have received. We. It's been revealed to us. So yes, we can know. And that's an aorist verb, so it's past tense. That means we've already received the Spirit of God. Now, one big interpretive question here is who are the we that Paul is referring to? Well, it is true that every single believer in Jesus Christ has received the Spirit of God. We're going to be told that later. in 1 Corinthians 3. 16, where Paul writes, Do you not know that you are a temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? Well listen, if the Spirit of God dwells in a believer, then that means that that believer has done what? Has received the Spirit of God, right? In Romans 8, it couldn't be clearer, verses 15 and 16, for you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received He's talking to all Christians. A spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out what? Ah, the Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. We've all receives the Spirit of the living God, and that is the truth. So all believers have the Spirit of God from the very point of salvation. And we benefit from the revelations that the Holy Spirit makes And that is secondarily what Paul has in mind here by using the word we. But primarily, listen, primarily, that we there is the apostles and prophets of the New Testament. The we stands for the apostles and the prophets of the New Testament. Why do I say that? Because they are the ones who directly received revelation from the Spirit of God. And then they were the ones commissioned to preach it, to speak it, as he talks about in this passage, and also then to what? to write it down so we would have it because we don't hear them speaking it anymore, right? If they didn't write it down, we'd be out of luck. Thankfully they wrote it down and we have scripture and we now know the truth, okay? Now look, just to prove this a little bit, mostly for the body of Christ, when he's talking about all of the Christians, he's been using the word, the pronoun you. If you notice back in chapter 1, for example, of verses 3 through 8, also in verse 15 and on through, just look at the pronoun you. And you see that he's talking about the believers, the Corinthians, the church there. And for his own preaching ministry and the other apostles, he's been using the pronoun we. Just look back at chapter 2 and verses 6 and 7, where he's talking about we speak. The speaking there is the preaching ministry of Paul and others like him who were bringing the truth of God for the first time in the first century. But he also uses that us, and I think he's including all believers in the broadest and general way, for all believers ultimately benefit from this revelation. And I'm going to explain how in a minute, because he does that. Paul's really unfolding this for us, and you hang in there and you'll see this. Now, what have all of us, and most properly, the apostles, received? Well, he tells us what we have not received first. We have not received, he says, what? The spirit of this world. What does that mean? Well, the term spirit is being used in the sense of attitude or prevailing thought. of the day. Ultimately it finds its source in some supernatural realm behind the thinking of men. I don't believe it's directly referencing Satan here as the evil spirit, but Satan always is somewhere behind everything that is false and everything that is a lie. In Ephesians 2. 2, he's called the prince of the power of the ear, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. He's working in the sons of disobedience So he's back there, he's behind there, but he's saying the spirit of the world is the spirit in the sense of a teacher, one who's promoting a certain doctrine, is talking about certain things and promoting certain truths The spirit of this world, which is drastically limited by the human eye and the human ear and human contemplation, manipulated by evil spirits. The spirit of this world we did not receive that spirit. Well if we did we'd just be like everybody else, right? There'd be nothing different about us. Well you have your religion, we have our religion, and you got yours from the spirit of men, and we got ours from the spirit of men. What's the difference? Agree to disagree and get along, and everything would be fine if that were true. The thing is, though, that we have not received the Spirit from this world. And he he says that, and I think that's important. But we did receive The Spirit from God receives as that common verb lambano. It just means to welcome, to receive in. And this spirit is described as a spirit from God, he proceeded from God to tell us. And he proceeded from God, and he came to the apostles In a teaching sense. He came first to the apostles and prophets of the New Testament era, and he spoke to them And he spoke to them and revealed his own thoughts to them, his own plan, his own wisdom, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Spirit of God came into the world. The Spirit of God invaded the world, if you would have it. Came into the world to bring truth. And the apostles were the ones who received that revelation first. They got it. Directly from God And they received it, notice the purpose also here, so that we might know the things freely given to us by God. There's that sow that again, and it has importance. It shows that this is the purpose. Paul and the teachers were given the Spirit of God so that, and I emphasized it when we read it, we would know. Yes, we sit in ignorance, but the Spirit of God brings knowledge. Knowledge is a gift. From the Spirit of God to our spirits that we are to know for certain. And what can we know? The things freely given to us by God. That freely given Verb there, karizomai. It's a deliberate reference to the fact that everything we have that's been prepared for us is a gift of God's grace that we do not deserve. There are all these wonderful things that are going to happen to Christians, but it all has to do with God's free generosity and giving. It didn't have to do that. Now what Paul writes next is very important because if you're listening to now you might just say, Wow, I have the Spirit of God too. And so that's really cool. So the Spirit of God knows everything and I have the Spirit of God. He just started talking to me on the inside of me and I'll just start hearing voices And I'll just get all these thoughts and they'll pop in my head and the Spirit of God will talk to me. And I don't need any teachers. I don't need any Bible. I don't need anything out there. I have the Spirit of God, and He searches all things and knows all things and He talks to me. And you would completely misunderstand what He's talking about here And there are some who have. It'd be a wrong conclusion. There is a process that the Bible teaches us how the Spirit of God brought that message to man. And it's brought out here in verse 13. Paul writes, look at that again, which things we also speak. See, it's not going on inside your head, we're speaking it from our mouth. Which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit. Listen, combining literally spiritual with spiritual. Numatikois, Numatica. Spiritual with spiritual. Spiritual things with spiritual things. What does that mean? Well the context makes it clear. God's spiritual thoughts, his plans, the things that he wants to reveal, are combined then with something that we can read and understand, and they are spiritual what? Words Spiritual words. The thoughts of God are spiritual and they're communicated by carefully chosen words. By the way, those people that say they believe the Bible is inspired and and all of that stuff and they believe in the Bible but they don't believe every single word of the Bible is given by inspiration of God, well they've lost the thoughts of God. Because if the words aren't inspired, then it could be changed and rearranged and you can come up with a lot of different meanings and we're going to lose what God is saying. And since Satan is so crafty and he does that, we have to treasure every single word. If you want to know why we preach expositionally, there's a why. Every word is inspired by God. We want to hear all of it. We want to know what it says. I don't want to summarize it only in my own words. I want you to see what words were chosen. Now, did he use the vocabulary and the experiences and the understanding and the background of the particular people that were writing the scripture? Yes, he did The Holy Spirit, yes he did, but he superintended it to make sure there were no errors, and it was exactly what he wanted communicated. Paul says, we use words. We speak those words taught to us by the Spirit of God. They're combined spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. Let me give you, in theology, just write this down, three processes that God uses to bring revelation to your mind and my mind. Jot this down, this is good. There are three processes and they're hinted at in the passage and I think even expressed a couple of them here. The first process is revelation. Revelation. Revelation means that which is revealed. God reveals truth to a prophet or an apostle. Apostles were prophets. Here to the Apostle Paul. And God reveals that truth to the prophet through the Spirit of God. That's why Paul says we have received the Spirit, so we might know. The revelation comes. It may come in the form of a dream. It may come in the form of a vision. The Spirit of God could directly speak to them. The Spirit of God has even said in the upper room discourse to come into the world to help the apostles remember all the things that Jesus taught to them while he was on earth. And bring to their remembrance those things, a promise that's given particularly to the apostles because they're the ones who heard them with their ear and that didn't want it forgotten. It brings back to their mind what it was And so they have truth directly revealed to them from the Spirit of God, and that is revelation. The second step is inspiration. That's when the prophet would either speak the Spirit's words or write those words down. The thoughts originated with the Spirit of God, they were revealed to the Prophet or the Apostle, then they were combined with words the Spirit of God made sure would come out of the mouth of the Prophet in some way And so now you would have spiritual thoughts combined with spiritual words, and it would be down on a page in the case of Scripture, it would have been proclaimed from the mouth of Paul as he went throughout the first century world To use the language of 1 Peter 121, he says, No prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved or carried along by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Remember, you only get the spiritual thoughts if you get the spiritual words. 2 Timothy 3. 16, you know it. All scripture is God breathed, inspired of God. All of it is, every portion of it. It's the very breath of the Holy Spirit on page. So you have revelation, and then you have inspiration, and the last step, and this is something you and I are constantly involved in, is illumination. Illumination. Some people get thoughts when they read the Bible and they say a revelation came to me and I know what you're talking about, but but technically it wasn't a revelation that came to you, it was a It was an insight that you got from revelation that was already given. The revelation is there. It's inspired. You read it. A light bulb went off in your mind. When that light bulb goes off in your mind, that's illumination, not revelation. Every believer has the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God teaches him inwardly to understand the words that the Spirit of God wrote outwardly on the page of Scripture. Illumination, listen, is not a new revelation. Illumination is not a new revelation. It is not more revealing of truth by the Holy Spirit that you got and the rest of us didn't get. No, no. It is not adding anything to what God has already revealed to the prophets. It is not new information for my little private relationship with God. It is an opening of our minds as regenerated people who have the Spirit of God to apprehend spiritual truth already revealed and already inspired and enscripturated. Someone put it this way, a blind man does not need a second sun in the sky in order to be able to see. You don't need more revelation. What he does need is eyes to see the first sun. That's what illumination is. Eyes to see the light of Scripture. Scripture is the sunlight from above Our new birth gives us new eyes with which to see the light of Scripture and recognize it as the wisdom from God and truth. And so these three processes work together, and that is what Paul is talking about right there. But lastly, look who does not have this capacity, and this is sad, but it's very, very instructive. This also answers the why question. Why don't some know the truth? Why do we know the truth? Because we've received the Spirit of God. Why don't others well? Because some have rejected the things of the Spirit of God. They have rejected the things of the Spirit. You see that in verse 14? Now this verse is going to lead us into the next passage as well, but I wanted to use it to conclude our thought here. But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. And he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually appraised. You know what a natural man is, a man without the Holy Spirit in his life. Oh yes, and ladies, that would include you too. Any lady without the Spirit of God is a natural man in this sense. The word natural, sukikas, is soulish. Better yet, it has to do with the natural realm. He's called natural because he's only able to draw on normal natural resources. That's all he has. He is a man of the flesh. He's not a man of the spirit. He does not have supernatural resources to help him see and to understand. He is not yet a new man or a new woman. He is under the influence of nature, under the influence of flesh. He is his same old person as from birth. He is not now, nor ever has been, a believer in Christ, despite false professions. The natural man is dead in his trespasses and sins, handed down from his forefathers. He is in a condition where the Spirit of God has not yet moved in. He has no heavenly insight. No revelation, no illumination. He has only natural sight. And so he's looking at life. Limited. He's utterly limited, really. Limited is putting it nicely. Everything to him is upside down. Right seems foolish and weird to him. Jude 19 talks about this. He says, these are the ones who cause divisions. He's talking about troublemakers in the church. And then he says Worldly minded. Same word. Tsuki kas. Natural men. And then the next phrase really defines it. Devoid of the spirit. Why is he a natural man? Because he's devoid of the Spirit. The natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. You say, tell me something I don't know. I'm out witnessing talking to people all the time and they just don't want to listen, you might be thinking. Yep. And it's helpful for us to understand this. Here it says he does not accept the words. Ever see them shifting their eyes, changing the subject? Because you're starting to speak the words of spirit. He doesn't accept them. He does not accept the thoughts behind the words. He doesn't accept the truth. It's not that he's not educated. Remember, many of these were wise and noble people, scholars of the earth, smart, educated, beyond us. But God shut them out because of pride and unbelief. James 1. 21 is a command of believers. It says, therefore, putting aside all filthiness and all that remains of wickedness, that is in our lives. In humility, receive the word implanted, which is able to save your souls. This they do not do. Why not? Two reasons are given. One, they are foolishness to him. And we've already been over this, right? Remember the foolishness of the cross? Moria? Seems stupid, absurd, even distasteful to them First Corinthians 1 18, remember that? For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. 1 Corinthians 1 22 and 23. For indeed Jews ask for science, the Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, the Jews are stumbling block. And the Gentiles, foolishness. Second reason. He cannot understand them because it takes spiritual appraisal to understand them The word can not, dunomai, in Greek means he has, listen, he has not the power He does not have the capability to receive them. That's what the word means. It doesn't just mean that he won't, it means he can't The emphasis of the word is on his inability. Charles Hodge comments: it is not simply that he does not do it or that he will not do it, but he cannot. And this is in the present tense, so it's his present condition, continuous. To know these kinds of things Takes something he doesn't have. It takes spiritual appraisal, spiritual insight and knowledge Anacrino, to appraise, means again to examine, to investigate, to search out, similar to that other word we looked at that the Spirit does. The Spirit must be received into one's life to be able to judge the value of the Holy Spirit's thoughts and his words. Without the Spirit, the natural man cannot discern it. He can't see it as beautiful. He can't see it as powerful. He can't see it as wise. It's just a bunch of religious words. He tries to grab something poetic, poetic out of it to bless his life, but he doesn't get it. It doesn't penetrate. He can't see it. Only the Spirit of God penetrating his darkness will bring him to the light. Remember, it's not because the Word of God or the cross of Jesus Christ is some mysterious truth. that average intelligence kind of people cannot understand. He already we already looked at that word mystery. It's not doesn't mean that. A mystery is something now that was was hidden before and now is revealed. It's only a mystery in that sense. It's not mysterious. It's not hard to understand. He just doesn't have the capability to understand even the simplest things from the Spirit of God. The blind have only one hope, and that is to beg Christ. For sight. Some of you may be in this situation today. You may be saying, I have heard preaching so much before. And I just don't get it. Maybe your wife gets it and you don't get it. You've been coming here, you just don't get it. You need to understand there's a reason for that. You don't yet have the Spirit of God in you. You don't have the resource. You say, what am I to do? You are to beg Christ for mercy. Admit that you need him. Admit that you need to cry out for his help. Humble yourself. Believe in Christ, cry out to him, and he'll give you the insight. He is not selfish. He gives it to anyone, anyone at all who will cry out to him. He's waiting for that humble cry, that plea, that desperation from you. Maybe you're a teenager and you've been here, you look at your parents, or you look at your older siblings and you say, you know They have something there. I can tell they've got the Christian religion in some way I don't have yet. And you're looking at them and you see that they have it and you don't. You need to know. You haven't yet received the Spirit of God. Maybe you're a visitor and you're coming in and you're listening, you're like, this is just foggy to you. What is that guy talking about? Maybe you've been in church before and he said they don't talk about things like that before. Well, maybe the pastor that's been teaching you didn't even understand that the Spirit of God You say, is that possible? Oh yes. You need eyes to see. You need truth from the Spirit of God. You need to ask Christ, forgive me of my sins, send the Spirit of God into my life. Help me to see And he will. He will for you, just as he will for anybody. Just ask him. You need to know you're in great danger without Christ, you're cut off from God, nothing good has been prepared for you. You must repent. It's a command in the Bible. And if you cry out to God, He will forgive you. All your sins. All of them. Some of you are going to go and witness to somebody this week or next, talk to a relative, like Mike was telling us, and you're going to talk to them, and there it is, just going to land on deaf ears, stone face. Hardened heart, however you describe it, it's bouncing off of them, it's not penetrating, and you can tell. Maybe it's the way I'm explaining it, you think, and you come at them from another angle. There it is. Think it just stinks off their hardened armor. It doesn't go anywhere. Nothing happened That's nice for you. Well, we have other beliefs. And you're like, you have no hope without salvation from Christ. And you yearn for them, but it doesn't penetrate. This is why. You know what you need to pray for, that God will grant them eyes to see. You know, you might be wanting to give up. You might say, well if he has no capacity at all to see, there's no light inside of him, why witness to him? Why? Because God is sovereign and God grants still faith to people who ask. You don't know who those people are. There could be someone that looks completely disinterested in the things of the Spirit of God, even hours before they're saved. That was me I wasn't reading anything, looking at anything. I wasn't searching for anything. You could have interviewed me two hours before I was saved, and I didn't care. There wasn't a thought in my brain. Just because today they look like they're not listening doesn't mean that tomorrow God is not sovereignly going to move into their life and grant them mercy. And the amazing thing is he's going to do it through your words. If your words are his words, right? Because it's still the power of God and the salvation. And he'll use you. Take that track. Take that CD as we're trying to exhort you. Don't say they're never going to listen to it Don't make that determination for them. Let God work. Scatter the seed. And don't just keep giving it to the same person. They're not listening. They're not listening. They're not listening. The same one or two or three. And you're just bummed out about evangelism. Spread it broadly. Find people you never talked to, if you can't have a chance to talk to. Just give them the word. Let God work. Scatter your seed broadly. And see how God does his sovereign work. Well, I'm out of time, but this is why we teach the Bible. This is why we're sticking the mud here at Hope Bible Church. This is why we just make it thorough and clear and bold to the best of our abilities. You know, uh we don't need to reinvent church. If we understand the truths about how the Spirit of God works, it's the same today as it was back then. Nothing has changed. Other churches and ministries may promote their marketing philosophies. We just choose to be weak, to let the power of Christ work through us. They may have something else that they want to talk about. We just want to give the words of life and let God work. I know that a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. But I also know that God has chosen the weak people of this world, and He chooses and elects some people. And I'm going to rely on that. I'm going to bank on the Word of God and God's sovereign elective grace. To leave forth how I do outreach and how I minister to people. And I pray and hope that each of you understands that is what God wants all of us to do, even now in the 21st century. Oh God, we do pray, though, having learned those truths and understanding that, that we still would be a humble and holy vessel for you to use. We know that we would be more useful to you in our lives if we would cleanse ourselves of the love of material things and our personal lusts. And we pray we would not be proud but humble. Receive that word implanted. Think on it richly, spread it broadly, for we ask you to bless us in Christ's name as we've heard your word. Amen.