Here we are. We're in the 21st century. Things really do seem like they've changed from previous generations, don't they? Such a different time in terms of human history. Life is so fast-paced. All of our communication is instant. We have emails, text messages, satellite TV, you name it. People seem so inundated with high stimulus kinds of things, our TV and DVDs, movies, concerts, sports events. They're all done up so amazingly. Life like video games. I couldn't believe Madden 07 and what it's like. Football games. Incredible. A hundred years ago people just didn't have all this stuff, did they? Technology has shifted the way the average family lives. It's changed the way we live in this culture. We all know that. We don't need that illustrated. But it seems also to have changed people themselves, at least at times. People have shorter attention spans. They seem more stressed out than normal. They're have become more visually oriented because of all the stimulus in that direction. They can't seem to absorb more than a few sound bites at a time. Just look at the way the elections are conducted these days Furthermore, the messages that people are getting these days are also so many. There's so many things being spoken out there, and they're so varied. Just anything seems to go today, and few question whether that is absurd or not. Things that used to be considered absurd or not questioned Every belief, every practice is allowed in the door. And it seems that certainty of what is the truth has been crowded out the window. People are no longer certain of things anymore We used to have ultimate standards in this society, but now they seem a thing of yesteryear, do they not? So the question in the midst of a society like this, and don't worry if the lights go out, I'm just going to keep preaching How do you teach the Bible to people in a century like ours? That's an important question. Can you really take an ancient book like this, the scriptures, the Bible? Which requires translation and interpretation and instruction about ancient customs and places far away, distant and strange lands, their manners, their lifestyles, their customs And also a book that demands thinking from statement to statement, teaching, doctrines that are just piled into this book. Much concentration and expect people to absorb that today. How do you teach that effectively to a generation like the one we live in? That's a question that many in the modern church are asking, but they are answering it in very different ways. One pastor of a large local church wrote to me in response to a CD that I sent him exposing the dangers of postmodernism And he wrote that their church and their leaders are actually studying postmodernism and how they can change to minister to a postmodern age. Do we really need to change? Postmodernism is a word that's used a lot these days. It's been defined in so many different ways. It's sort of an elusive thing. Maybe the best way to describe it is that it's a mood. It's a mood that people are in, society finds itself in here in the 21st century, a mood that truth is not worth fighting for anymore, because there isn't just one truth Postmodernism is mostly a feeling or a sense that people have that there are different truths for different people. So let's just leave each other alone about it. No one has the right to tell someone else they're wrong, certainly not to tell them that they're going to hell because of their beliefs. Well, postmodernism dovetails very nicely with another belief today, and that is pluralism. You've also heard that The belief that there are many channels and many ways to God, you can find your way any way you want as long as you're sincere. That diversity in philosophy and religion is not a liability but a strength for a nation Back in the modern era, great ideas and great concepts and beliefs competed with each other, sometimes violently in war. They competed for supremacy, the right to say that their view was right, and their view was the one that unified the world or reality. But in postmodernism, the general feeling of people is that we're beyond that. We're post that. Believe what you want to believe, leave other people alone, everything is right. Everyone is right in their own way So again, I would ask a question with people diverted by such a busy life and sound bite values surrounded by everybody can have their own truth anyways. Is it even conceivable in such an atmosphere to take an old and authoritative book, to hold it up, and to teach it fully and completely and then expe expect people to listen to it, much less to believe it. Is that possible? Many churches have concluded that it is not possible. So they jazz up their presentations. A talking head is not enough. They make it more entertaining. They certainly make it shorter And they dare not sound like they are authoritative in anything they say, oh no. That's a turn-off to people. Or give the opinion that their views are right. That would be ministry suicide in their view They just share some nice things, some warm things, things to think about, touching stories that you can relate to if you like. If you don't, well, you don't have to And that's what they believe means being relevant in the 21st century. To them, relevancy has led them to conformity. to the world and conformity to the age and the spirit of the age in which we live. But if you don't accept that, if you reject the world and its wisdom as foolishness and you believe that Christ wants you to reject the world's wisdom, then you're going to come out to some very different conclusions And I think refreshing conclusions, frankly, about what you should teach or what I should teach or what we ought to stand for, and about how to do that, how to teach the Bible and communicate the Bible to our generation. If it seems to you, since we've been on this topic for several weeks now, that we are belaboring the topic, we are doing so only because the Apostle Paul did so in 1 Corinthians And I think also because it is so much about what we are about here at Hope Bible Church that I want you all to be deeply and firmly convinced that this is so. The text we turn to again today in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 6 through 14, let's dare to open there and consider what the Apostle Paul said Amazing insights from God's Word about humanity and about how God works among sinful humanity in any age. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. I'm going to read verses 6 through 16, though we won't swallow all of that in one go. Paul writes, yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature. A wisdom, however, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. The wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood, for if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But just as it is written things which eye has not seen, and ear has not heard, and which have not entered into the heart of man all that God has prepared for those who love him. For to us God revealed them through the Spirit For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the Spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, the thoughts of God no one knows except the Spirit of God Now, we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things freely given to us by God, which things we also speak. Not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. But a natural man Does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually appraised. But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself is appraised by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he will instruct him. But we have the mind of Christ. Well, let me remind you of the big picture, where we are in the midst of this whole series, the flow of thought here in the middle of chapter two, just to bring you all back into this. In this letter of Paul to the church in Corinth In ancient Greece, the very first problem the Apostle Paul wanted to deal with with this church, and it goes back to chapter 1, verses 10 through 17, was that they were being divisive. They were being sectarian. They had that sectarian spirit about them. They were fighting each other in the local church. They were not fighting over important doctrines, which, by the way, are worth fighting for, but they were fighting each other over status Status. Which leader was the greater leader that had come to them? Paul, Apollos, Cephas, and others. And along with that status, it was their pride because they wanted to be identified with the greater speaker, as the Greeks were known to do. To correct all of that, Paul launches them into this lengthy section that we have been expositing for a while now. And it all started with chapter 1, verse 17. And he wanted to show them that God's wisdom and God's way of doing things is reverse from the way the world does it, vastly different from the way the world thinks In fact, if you look back at verse twenty, I think it's really one of the most important verses in the whole passage. It says, Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? And that's what it is all about It's not just that God is opposed to the wisdom of the world, but He's made the world look very stupid. He's made the world look very moronish, very foolish, and he's done it on purpose. To prove this, Paul goes on to focus on the greatness of the cross of Jesus Christ, a symbol really of a failure and weakness and stupidity in that society. And he said, this is what we focus on, this cross. The hidden greatness of the cross of Jesus Christ. The Jews didn't get it. It was hidden to their eyes. They looked at that and said, A Messiah who's crucified, and they stumbled over that. They couldn't get past that, and they couldn't believe in Christ. The Gentiles thought about some Jew dying for an executioner's death in a in a faraway land and said that's going to save mankind and this one it was a stupid message But that cross is wherein God demonstrated his wisdom to the world, and where he demonstrated his power And then as you get towards the end of chapter one, flowing into the beginning of chapter two, Paul is illustrating again how did God do it? How did God make foolish the wisdom of the world? Well, there's two illustrations there The first illustration at the end of chapter one is that God decided in His sovereignty that He would choose some out of the world. He would choose the weak, the base the the despised, the the the the foolish things of the world, he would pick them and choose them to come to know him and grant them salvation, and he would bypass the wise, bypass the noble and the powerful And he would do it just to confound them. Go ahead and keep on learning, keep on doing everything you think you can do, but you'll never come to know me because of your pride. And then the second illustration also about how God did this is He says, Corinthians, I want you to remember what happened when I came to you the first time. When I came preaching the gospel, do you remember my preaching ministry? And that's in verses 1 through 5 there at the beginning of uh chapter 2. He says, I didn't come with all this worldly wisdom. My style and my manner was not impressive, and my words were not all about human philosophy. I didn't use any of that I just was diligent and faithful to preach the message of the cross among you. I wanted to be weak before you. I wanted God's power to be seen in me. I wanted your faith to rest on God's power, not human ingenuity and trickery. That's because Paul loved them. He didn't want them to be persuaded by him, but by the scriptures, by the truth, by the cross. The preaching of the Bible, Paul said, was his trust, both in evangelism and in discipleship. Now, as we arrive here at verse 6, these verses provide more of the theology, more of the doctrine and the thinking behind what Paul has already written. Alright? We're getting down deeper into it, in other words. Same topic, but we're just descending deeper into it. He's explaining more of the truth. about the work of the Holy Spirit and about how God works in this world and about how that affects ministry and our mindset and hopefully ultimately would correct all their pride and then they would not have all that sectarian status stuff in their church. One point of connection, by the way, from verse 5 into the verses that follow is the crucial work of the Spirit of God, which he's going to elaborate on here in this passage. Namely, that natural men, that is, men who are unsaved, unregenerate, they're without the Holy Spirit, they can't know the truth. It's not just that they don't, it's that they don't have a capacity to know the truth. They cannot discern it. It has to come from the Holy Spirit. And he says that. In other words, if Christians and churches today really understood the truth of this passage, the doctrine that these verses here teach, they would be fully committed to the greatest and most comprehensive Bible-teaching ministry they were capable of. Not backing away from teaching doctrine, but emphasizing it all the more that people don't want it, just teaching it all the more So focusing today only on verses six through eight, I'm sure you're relieved that's as far as we're going. Just verses six through eight We are privileged to learn four truths here. This is our outline. Four truths about Bible teaching in Any age. Four truths about Bible teaching, preaching, ministry in any age. I hope it will encourage us. I hope it will encourage us to continue to do it with excellence and understand why we do what we do These truths transcend every age. They apply to every age. I want you to see why, and we'll see as we go along. First Truth number one. Bible teaching imparts God's wisdom. Write it down. Bible teaching imparts God's wisdom. That's just the first part of verse six. Yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature, Paul writes Yet we do speak wisdom. The we are the ones doing the speaking. That would be the apostles, the teachers of God's Word The wisdom refers to the same wisdom throughout the whole passage, that is, the message about Jesus Christ and him crucified, the cross. What they were speaking, in other words, was the gospel, the truths about Jesus, the doctrines about his crucifixion, and all that goes along with that. By the way, you can get our CD from last week if you missed that, if you want to know more about what the doctrine entails That message and apostolic teaching today is found only in one place. Where? The New Testament. The New Testament gives us that apostolic teaching and doctrine that he's talking about. When he says we speak We don't hear them speak anymore. We have to read. And we read it in the New Testament. Of course, the New Testament is based on what? The Old Testament, right? So it's our doctrine, it's our scripture. It points the speaking here points to Bible teaching This is about Bible teaching and Bible speaking from the Bible. So Paul is saying we do speak Bible truths. Don't have any question about that. This is indeed what we teach. Oh, by the way, first century Rome and their Roman Empire was by no means monolithic They had so many different beliefs. It was a pluralistic age as well. Everyone was doing their own thing in terms of philosophy and religion. It was very similar to what we're entering into now. But Paul says in the midst of all of that diversity and all of that, let's just get along, we speak wisdom, we speak truth, we speak the message of the cross But who would listen to such a message there? Well Paul already showed that the Jews stumbled over a crucified Messiah. They had a hard time accepting that. Paul didn't change the message for them The Gentiles thought that a man dying, a criminal's death on a cross, would become the savior of mankind. That was silly and foolish, but he didn't change the message for them. So who's going to listen then Well, he says he spoke it among those who are what? Mature. He uses the word mature. Some will listen. They are the mature. The word mature, tell aoi. Here it could be translated perfect, but it doesn't mean that. That would be a poor translation. He doesn't mean he speaks with only the perfect human beings, only those that are perfect would listen to it because there are none. None of us are perfect. He's not assuming sinless perfection on the part of believers so that they would listen to the truth and wisdom That's not what it means. The verb does mean to be brought to an end or to be brought to a goal, to to be brought to completion. That's what the verb means. But when you're thinking about completion in a context, you always have to look around and ask yourself, what is the completion in this context? Well look at it. It's not Glory, being brought all the way to glory, it's not being it's not being sinless as a Christian. It's about having maturity in your thinking, a mature mind. In other words, being brought to the wisdom, being brought to the truth In other words, he means that the mature are believers in the truth of the cross. Those who accept the wise message of the cross, they are the mature. Paul's not trying at this point, by the way, to make a division of two kinds of believers, one that's mature and another kind of believer that is immature. There is a sense in which There's a measure of truth to that because all of us are maturing and we're growing, and obviously those that have been in Christ longer and have been obedient to Christ tend to be more mature than those that are newer to the faith. But he's not talking about that here That's not what he means. He's using this term for all Christians. How do we know that? Because the mature are equated in this very passage with those who have received the Holy Spirit, and that's every believer. Also, since it is equated with those who love God, look at verse 9, those who love God, it is revealed to them. They are the mature And in Paul's writings, that is a designation of all believers. Notice how Paul says that they are for our glory in verse 7. He talks about those who love him, or revealed to us in verse 10. Or we have received the Spirit who is from God in verse 12. All of that's talking about the church, about Christians, about all believers. Remember, too, that it is the unsaved who think the cross is foolishness, not the saved. That's back to chapter 1, verses 21 to 23. Also, look down at verse 14 of chapter 2. It is the unsaved who do not receive the things of the Spirit of God. So the wisdom he speaks of here is not some sophisticated wisdom for a select few believers. It's the same wisdom he's been talking about throughout the whole context. It is the wisdom of the cross which every believer accepts. Otherwise, he's not a believer. You say, yes, but Pastor, later down there in chapter 3, verse 1, he calls the people here in Corinth infants And then he also calls them fleshly, yes he does. And that's because that's how they were acting. They weren't acting like believers. They seemed like they were thinking and acting like unbelievers, and we're going to get to all of that soon They had the truth, though, don't forget, they still were believers in the cross. And all believers, by definition, accept the truth of the cross That by necessity, by the very acceptance of that cross, gives them Christ. When you believe in Christ in the cross, you get Christ. And remember at the end of chapter one, Christ has become to us wisdom from God. So all Christians believe in the cross, all Christians have received Christ, and Christ is wisdom to them, and so they are the mature. They're the ones who understand while the world doesn't. Morris in his commentary puts it more succinctly than I did. Those who have welcomed the message of the cross are mature. Well then why does he actually use that designation mature? Well I think he's purposely choosing the terminology of those who thought of themselves as really wise. He's using their terminology, mature. mystery, hidden, words like that to be able to show them that that they're not all that mature and they don't know all that much He's purposely turning it around on them. You think that you're mature, but you really are babes. You have no understanding. The unsaved are like immature children. They don't have any understanding really at all Despite what they affirm and say. And one other thing I want to insert here theologically, too, is you need to remember the New Testament never makes any kind of a classification between believers. We don't have some believers that are on this plane and other believers who have jumped up to this plane. In fact, if Paul were meaning that in this passage, he'd be undermining the very thing that he's trying to stop there, and that is people trying to one up I'm with this person and so I'm a wiser person than you. No, no, no, no. Everything he's writing against. We don't know two classes of Christians. Now I know there's some groups out there that talk about you come to Christ and you get saved. And once you're saved, that doesn't mean though that you're really an on-fire Christian and so they talk about a second step or a second blessing or a second consecration and this is actually a very common kind of teaching out there. Sometime after you're saved you just You go through a baptism of the Spirit, or you go through a consecration, and now you've jumped up to that other level and you're in that higher echelon of believers. He does not mean that. He's not talking about that Everyone who's accepted the cross is mature. Everyone who's accepted the cross has the wisdom from God. He's not dividing them up here There is no higher plane to Christian living. We're all on a pathway. Our pathway may look rugged like this. We may be growing a little bit here. Sometimes we think we take some steps backwards. Other times we grow more. We may have certain jumps in which we really become mature But we're all on that pathway of growth. We're all being sanctified by the Spirit of God. We're all one body. No one is greater than another person. That whole approach to Christianity that divides the mature from the less mature is wrong. Christian life frankly has many exciting experiences to it. Many times where you consecrate yourself and reconsecrate yourself and do it over and over again. Lord help me. I thought I'd already overcome this and I'm just back doing this again. And please, God, just strengthen my resolve to do what's right. But there are no levels of Christians. So we do teach wisdom to who? To those who believe and have the wisdom. Now they have the capacity to understand that, and that's why we teach the Bible. Church is for believers. And you teach to the believers, you teach wisdom to them, and that's the scripture, and that's why we do it. It's really not too complicated. They'll recognize the good teaching and they'll respond to it if they're a believer. Second Bible teaching is desperately needed. Look at the last half of verse 6. Bible teaching is desperately needed. He says, he's talking about the wisdom, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are passing away. So we have a wisdom, we're preaching and speaking wisdom, however, it's not of this age. That however is pretty important. It shows a strong contract Paul has been laboring in this entire passage to show that he's not speaking about the world's wisdom, but a greater wisdom than anything the world would know. The world doesn't really have true wisdom. And this wisdom does not originate with them, with the world. It doesn't even fit their way of thinking. See, the very fact that the Bible's message is so different from people in our age, in our time period, is that's to be expected, first of all. It's just to be expected. If we understand the world and their thinking, we understand of course we're going to have a message that's at odds with them. Of course we're going to have something they have a hard time understanding. It's not a message of the age. It's a message that contradicts the age. That's the whole point. And then he says, nor of the rulers of this age. Interesting that he throws that in here. Some have taken this to be spiritual rulers, demonic rulers in the heavenly places, but Later, if you look down in verse eight, it talks about how the rulers crucify the Lord of glory. So it must be in this context referring to human rulers, human government, as it does in Romans 13, 3 Why does Paul bring them in at this point? Well, because he wants to use the leaders as those who really think that they're wise, able to lead other people, show the way, and they are the the governing authorities and they're the leaders and they're the ones who are in the know and he says and and and they don't even have the wisdom. It's like there are some of the noble and the great ones that were listed back in chapter 1 that God overlooked. He did not grant them eyes to see. He trapped them in their own pride. And he said, you know, I'm not going to choose those kind of people. They're the upper echelon of the world. They're the wise. They're the mighty. They're the powerful. They're the rulers of the age. And the age, by the way, doesn't refer just to the ancient age. It's just referring to the whole present time period which we live before Messiah comes again. All of the last 2,000 years fits this age. By the way, that doesn't mean that demons have nothing to do with the world system. The primary reference here is to the human ruler, but human rulers many times in Scripture are described as being part of a world system uh that that demonic powers have some say in it. They are orchestrating a system that is moving towards a rebellion against Christ, and we read about that in Psalm two. Human history does progress under the influence of greater forces than mere humanity. Well, just to drive home the truth about this age, Paul writes next that they are passing away. Katar geoth. You know what that means? They're being abolished. They're being brought to naught. The verb indicates an age and rulers that are coming to nothing. They they're coming to ruin. Where they're heading is they're heading nowhere. They're just heading to destruction. That's where they all are. And that's a present participle, by the way, so it's talking about The age is already passing away. You say, I don't see it passing away. No, you don't see it with these eyes. You have to see it with the eyes of faith. God is working right now, bringing an end to the whole world system and the rulers. In fact, if you think about it, the irony here is amazing. God used the most evil act in human history, the killing of the Son of God, to be the undoing of all the powers of evil. It's amazing. Baker in his commentary says, the cross is the decisive event in a cosmic struggle that unmasks and overthrows the powers of this world. 1 Corinthians 7. 31 says, the form of this world is passing away. 1 John 2. 17 says, the world is passing away, and also its lust, but the one who does the will of God, what? remains forever. First Corinthians 15, 24 talks about the end. He says, then comes the end when Christ hands over the kingdom. to the God and Father, when he has abolished all rule and all authority and all power. He's bringing them to naught. The kingdoms of this world, all of them without exception, have been weighed in the balances and found wanting, and God is Disposing of them. So what does this have to do with Bible teaching? Well, a lot. If the world and its rulers in our age don't have the wisdom, where are they going to get the wisdom from? If we start acting and sounding like them, where are they going to be benefited from that? What's the purpose for the church and the world anyways? To make them feel better about themselves as they're being lost and condemned? Is that our role? Why don't you all feel good about yourselves out there? You're on a highway to hell, but that doesn't matter. Just ignore that. What's the purpose of the church? The purpose of the church is to teach wisdom to them because they don't know it. It's not of them. It's not of their age Their rulers and teachers in classrooms don't have this wisdom. Either we as believers do it or nobody does it. Nobody else will do it. We're unique educators in this world. Our education is the kind that lasts beyond our age. See, our diplomas really last. They matter. You get educated here and you're truly educated and your education lasts. So we teach the Bible because it imparts God's wisdom. We teach the Bible because they don't have the wisdom and that means they desperately need it. And third Bible teaching also reveals a mystery. Bible teaching reveals a mystery. That's verse 7. Look at it, please. But we speak God's wisdom in there it is. A mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. This is such a rich verse We speak God's wisdom in a mystery. Let's start there. Well, the contrast, again, but, is with the world's wisdom. We are most certainly not speaking the wisdom of the world. It's not something that we want coming from our lips and from our pulpit. A pure Christian educator will not compromise what he says just so that he can be accredited by the world system. We don't pass on the world's message, we don't speak it. But we do speak God's wisdom. And here again you see Paul's insistence on Bible speaking or Bible teaching and preaching and exhortation and evangelism. By the way, God in the Greek sentence is emphatic. It reads this way, God's wisdom we speak. So yeah, that's what we want to hear. Now you're really talking. I don't want to hear what the world has to say, do you? I want to know what God says, God's wisdom. See, I don't really ultimately I don't really care about postmodernism. I mean ultimately, what difference does that make to me? I don't care what age we move through, it really doesn't matter. I I want to be post-ignorant. Not postmodern. I don't care about that. I just want to help people know the truth. Whatever you're in, whatever system of thinking you're in, I just want to bring you out of that and bring you to the light. As God did for me. Because it doesn't come from me. I didn't originate it. I just want God's perspective on life. Ah, when I look at a an unbeliever, I have to remember that That man or woman is blind. They're dead in their trespasses and sins. They have not come to any real knowledge of God at all. And in their pride, they never will. And a little bit of knowledge in the most simple believer goes beyond all of what they know. I'd rather listen to them, frankly. Give me teachers like that. God knows. Give me people who understand what God knows. I'll listen to them. God's wise, don't you think? Don't you think? God's wise. He's wise. And guess what? God doesn't change. 2,000 years ago, same God. He's not up there evolving or adapting, trying to keep up with the times. God doesn't change. No matter which way the philosophies or the world swing back and forth, you know how it is. Like a pendulum from one age to another, just back and forth. Paul says, we speak God's wisdom. Now that's a pretty powerful statement of confidence, by the way, to all the people out there say, you know, in your ministry, you don't want to sound too confident. Hmm. We speak God. God's wisdom. We know what we're speaking, we know what it is, we're confident about it. And then he says it's in a mystery. What is that about? What is that about? What is a mystery? That doesn't mean that Paul spoke strangely, by the way. It doesn't mean that he just told riddles and people scratched their head and walked out after after the meeting. It's not that he was mysterious in the way that he spoke. The mystery is God's wisdom The mystery is God's wisdom. The wisdom of God is a mystery to this world. To speak in a mystery means to speak by means of a ministry. It's an instrumental sense there. Mystery, musterion, it's a word that's often misunderstood in scripture. Let's take some time to understand it. When you say mystery in English, you think of Sherlock Holmes, right? You think of a a a a dark alleyway with fog all around, and you think you have to solve some crime. And that's not what the Bible means by mysterion. A mystery in the Bible is not something mysterious, it's not something vague, it's not something hard to define Nor is it a mystery that has to be solved like a riddle or a brilliantly conceived crime. In the New Testament, when you see this word mystery, and it comes up a lot, we're going to take you to some of the verses in a minute, it means this. It means a secret A secret. A secret that God has. It's something only God can know. He has the secret, and men down there can debate and they can analyze and sit in their councils, but they just can't know what it is because it's his secret. He has it. But, and here's the good news, it's now a secret that God has chosen to reveal. And not to whisper, but to shout it through the voices of the prophets and the apostles. He has revealed it, so now it's an open secret. It's one everyone can know. I want you to see this. So I want you to turn back one book to the book of Romans, chapter sixteen. Just a couple pages for you. Romans 16, verses 25 through 26. Look how he ends this great epistle. Romans 16, 25 to 26. Now to him who is able to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to here it is, the revealing, the revelation of the what Mystery, which has been kept secret for long ages past. But now is what? Manifested. And by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, has been made known to all the nations leading to obedience of faith. Now God's telling what his mystery is. His secret is out on the table. He wants everyone to know, and it's the gospel, and it's being proclaimed everywhere. Go to Ephesians now if you would. Keep with me Chapter three. Chapter three verses eight and nine of Ephesians Paul's expounding on this. He's amazed at the position that God gave to him in the revealing of this mystery. He has a ministry of revealing the mystery. Ephesians 3:8 and 9. To me, the very least of all saints, this grace was given, he writes in verse 8, to preach to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ Verse nine. And to bring to light what is the administration of the mystery, which for ages has been hidden in God. who created all things. God was hiding it. God had it. Nobody could penetrate and see it. But now he has a ministry of revealing it to the world. It's exciting. Now go to Colossians. A couple books to your right. Colossians chapter one, verse twenty six. Again he says That is the mystery which has been hidden from the past ages and generations, but has now been manifested to his saints. You see the truth about Christ And the Gentiles and the making of the church and going out to all the nations was not taught in the Old Testament explicitly, but it's revealed in the New Testament. And Paul was revealing that that mystery. He's very emphatic that it was not known in previous generations. They didn't know that in the Old Testament. One more. Go back to First Corinthians chapter fifteen. First Corinthians fifteen And here he's talking about another mystery, but just so you see how the term is being used. The resurrection, and then also The rapture of the church, the snatching away of the church. 1 Corinthians 15, 51 and 52. Behold, I tell you a mystery. In other words, listen up, here's the secret We shall not all sleep. You know what he's talking about there, right, Death? But we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. The physical and immediate snatching away of the church out of the world was a secret. It was not known, but now Paul's saying, draw a little bit closer, I'm going to tell you a mystery, and here it is, here's the secret, this is what will have. And it's now being revealed. It's an open secret It's what God is revealing in the world today. Now come back to chapter two of 1 Corinthians. Because we learn a little bit more about this mystery. He says here, it's the hidden wisdom of God which God predestined before the ages to our glory. Wow, this is a secret he's been hanging on to for a long time. A long time. The hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages. Before the ages, plural, all the way back to the beginning before creation. To our glory. Well, there's three descriptions here of God's wisdom. I don't want you to miss it. First, it was hidden. It is hidden. The hidden wisdom, you say, I thought it was now revealed, it is. But it's revealed to those who are mature and have understanding, and know it, it's still hidden to those who are perishing. They don't understand it. Second Corinthians 4 3, even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are what? Perishing. Still veiled to them. They can't see it. It's hidden. Second, it says here that it was predestined before the ages. Predestined is the verb pra orizo. It's a strengthened form of the verb ha-rizzo. Ha-rizo means to mark out with boundaries, to determine where something is going to be, like uh the boundaries of a nation or something. So this means it's really marked off, it's predetermined to fix things ahead of time. It's so fixed it can't change. To predestine is to determine what would happen before it actually happened. And since this wisdom still is in reference to the cross, Paul means here that the cross was not an afterthought of God. It was not God's plan B after they rejected his son. It was not plan C. This was his thought from the beginning. The cross was in the divine mind before there ever was even man or even one sin. The wisdom of God and the cross was the eternal plan of God. It was predestined before the ages. Before the creation of the world. Third, it also says with the wisdom here that it is predestined for whose glory? Oh, you gotta love that here. Did you get that? It's predestined for our glory. Talking about you and me in this text now, you better pay attention. This is about you. It was not predestined for our same. It was predestined for our glory. This is exciting. God has always had a plan to bless you and me. He's always had this plan. See, the rulers of this age are coming to nothing. We are coming to glory. Quite the opposite. And it's all by God's predestined plan through the cross. Glory. What is glory? It has to do with the final result of our salvation. Now we're saved from our sins, we're justified, declared innocent in the sight of God, our sins are forgiven, but we don't see glory in this body yet. We don't see all of the glory that we're going to be surrounded with. So this is salvation at the very end, the fullness of salvation, our glory. In Romans 8. 29 it says God predestined us to become conformed to the image of his Son. The Son is glorious. We're going to be glory. We're going to be like Him. This is mostly an eschatological statement here, eschatological language that is that of end times, the future. Listen to Romans 8. 18, Paul says, I consider the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Not to everybody, but to us. Christians. Philippians 3. 21. God will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of His glory. Colossus three four when Christ who is our life is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory That's amazing. Before all time even began, God had a plan to bring you and me unto absolute salvation and glory. That's amazing. You know, someone in the membership interview this past week Shared how a pastor had just shared with them a very simple message of the cross of Christ and how to make sure you were saved and headed to glory. The bridge illustration. Man is separate from God. Why? Because we're sinful, we've disobeyed God, and God is way over on this other side, right? He's holy, not like us at all. And there just is a gulf between us, and we cannot come to God on our own. And Christ in his cross comes and fills the gap between man and between God, right? He dies on the cross. Why? To pay for all of our sin. Now we can cross over to God by belief in the cross. It's that simple. We just have to repent of our sin, acknowledge our sin. Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and His cross, and we go from a place where we're distant from God to join God in the glory. It's that simple. That's all you have to believe, and you're saved, and you come into glory. It's just that wonderful. And he predestined it to work through the cross for our glory. It's amazing. You follow the world's wisdom and you're gonna perish. Don't say you weren't told. You follow the revealed wisdom of God, you will get eternal glory. It's not going to be disappointing. It's a no-brainer. It's a no-brainer. What do you have to lose except your pride? I'm looking forward to glory. The older I get, a little bit more so. figuring out that this doesn't move like it used to. Don't laugh, some of you know w m more than I do. Imagine a time where your body is always healthy and it can do whatever your brain tells it to do. That's wonderful. Imagine the time if you want to take it more seriously where all of the dark thoughts in your mind are removed. That your identity that people don't get will just burst forth in shining glory. And everyone will know, oh, you're one of the sons of God. You're one of them. That's glory. I'm looking forward to it. Again, that's why we teach the Bible strongly, without apology, in the 21st century. 22nd century. Doesn't matter which century. Because it reveals the mystery of life. What's the meaning of life? Here it is. There it is. Most purchased book in the world, and people still run around saying, what's the meaning of life? Got it right under their nose. It's all right there. Christ. Listen, just because they don't know the truth and don't want it doesn't mean that we're not going to preach it and teach it. Last, I'm running out of time. I gotta fast forward. Fourth, we teach the Bible even though the world is blind to its message. Verse 8. Verse 8. The wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood, for if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Again, the rulers of this age are political rulers, probably influenced by evil. They didn't get it. That didn't stop Paul from teaching it. Did Paul reinvent church to catch up with the times because, gee, people weren't listening? No Now, how do we know they didn't get it? How do we know they didn't have wisdom? I mean, maybe they're they were following some other way to God. There were a lot of very smart philosophers in the first century. The postmodern view today says that. The postmodern mindset allows for that, right? How do we know they didn't have some wisdom and their path wasn't okay? Well, here comes the answer. For if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Any questions? They killed wisdom and the Lord of glory. You know there are many reasons to believe that those who follow other religions, other paths, other philosophies, that they they don't have the truth and they're not making it to God. Back in verse 21, we already saw one of those reasons in chapter one. It says through the world's education and wisdom, they did not come to know God. Doesn't say they partly came to know God. It says they did not come to know God. That wipes out every philosophy of the world in one statement. If you could get to God by worshiping other gods, why did God condemn idol worship in the Bible? Let me see if I remember what the very first of the Ten Commandments is. Thou shalt have what? Oh Lord, don't you know it's just another way to understand you and to express you. He was very intolerant of any other way, any other conception of God. Well, here's another reason. If they had understood and had believed in God's wisdom to some measure, Why did they crucify Jesus? See, the blame for the crucifixion in Scripture often falls on the earthly rulers and leaders. Listen to Luke 20, 4. 20. The chief priests and our rulers delivered Christ up to the sentence of death and crucified him. That's an accurate historical statement. 1 Thessalonians 2, 14 and 15, for you brethren became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus. that are in Judea, for you also endured the same sufferings at the hands of your own countrymen, even as they did from the Jews, who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out. They are not pleasing to God, but hostile to all men. It means the leaders of the Jews Acts 3. 17, Peter said, Now brethren, he was talking to the Jews, I know you acted in ignorance, just as your rulers did. They were ignorant. They were entrusted with the oracles of God, and they were ignorant. No wisdom. The Romans were the strongest government the world had ever known up until that time of history. The Jews had the best religion the world had ever known. And they both worked together and conspired to put Christ to death. How foolish was King Herod to examine Jesus and found nothing in Christ to honor! Hmm. Pilate, the Roman governor, could plainly see Jesus was innocent, but still asked that question, what is truth? as he stared truth in the face. Caiaphas only thought of his position of power and rejected the very one he was supposed to be representing as high priest. The wise men came from afar after the birth of Christ to give their presence and to honor the holy child. But Herod and Pilate and Caiaphas and Annas were no wise men. To them the wisdom of God was foolishness. And the Romans did not understand the cross. To them, the cross was their greatest tactic to intimidate their enemies and hold them under their feet. But God then used that very cross to conquer the entire empire. They had no wisdom. Lensky says the crucifixion of Christ is the final demonstration of the fact that the world's highest representatives did not and do not know God's wisdom. But they still carried out exactly what God said would happen to our glory. It's amazing. They crucified the Lord of glory. I don't I can't even understand that statement. Uh I'll be honest. Just in trying to prepare, what do I say? How do I explain that statement? They crucified The Lord of Glory. I I don't even know what to do with that. It's it's unfathomable to think about that. I can't even touch that statement. They were so stupid. They crucified, crucified the Lord of glory. The greatest shame and the highest glory are in that same statement. There have been very few, at least in terms of human history, who have understood the shame of being personally crucified. Can you imagine it? stripped naked, placarded to a tree, mocked, spat upon. But Jesus knew it even more, for he took on all of our sins, all of our disgusting things we've done, and he carried that for us. And yet he is the Lord of glory, it says, The deepest disgrace, the highest exaltation in that one phrase. The most heinous crime of all of civilization The Lord of glory visited this planet one time, and the governments of this world, with all of their understanding about what to do, they slaughtered him like a criminal, like an animal. They thought of them as anything but glorious because they were and are ignorant. But brothers and sisters, he is the Lord of glory. Matthew Henry calls this title a title much too great for any creature to bear. The person crucified was a divine being. He dwelt in glory before the ages. And then he was made incarnate and lived a glorious and sinless life. He was raised to glory. He ascended in glory. But there was also a great glory in his death as well. The centurion in charge of the crucifixion saw Jesus give up his spirit and he said, surely this was who? The Son of God Christ is both human and divine. In his humanity, he dies. In his deity, he's the Lord of all glory. Yet he is not two persons, but one So that it truly can be said of him, the Lord of glory, was crucified. The hypostatic union is the union of the divine and the human. Listen, Jesus was not fifty percent man and 50% God. He was all man and he was all God. Two natures, yet one person, the Lord of glory, was crucified. Charles Feinberg in an article in 1935, Bibsac, says this, So real is this union that in Scripture human attributes are ascribed to him when he is designated by a divine title. and divine attributes when addressed by a human title. This is proof that Jesus Christ is Jehovah God. Just like in Acts 20, where it says, God purchased the church with his own blood, God's blood. The God man, glorious and beyond human understanding. His glory has to do with his radiance, the showing forth of all of his beauty, the majesty of who he is. His glory is his radiant holy glow. Psalm 24 asks, or says, Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the King of Gory. Stephen, as he gave his speech to the ruler, says, the God of glory appeared to our father Abraham. Jesus is the Lord of glory, brothers. He possesses glory. He dwells in glory. He rules over glory. He is glory. James 2. 1 calls him our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. And what did they do with him? They crucified him, the biggest blunder of all time. The smartest people of the world doing the most stupid thing. Why do we teach the Bible so strongly, so passionately, without apology, without watering it down, without jumping verses? Why the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, even when people don't want to hear it? Why won't we change? Why won't we adapt? Why are we such a stick in the mud? Because the word is about the Lord of glory. Does that mean something to you? The word is about the Lord of glory. And him crucified. So let's preach it and teach it and share it as diligently as we can. Amen. God, we need help, courage, strength, and wisdom as we read these words. It just takes us out of our own minds, really. We're told here that we have the mind of Christ, and yet we know we're still developing that mind. We still have so much worldly thinking. And sometimes our worldly thoughts we think come from you. And we pray and beg forgiveness, we pray for diligence, we pray for humility as we proclaim your Son. The Lord of glory crucified, we ask it in Christ's name. Amen