Alright, we'll go ahead and get started, if you could. Y'all got got a quick seventh inning stretch there and ready to get going? So I'm Matt Brooks. I've been at uh Hope now for uh I guess about uh almost ten years. Um came in in two thousand twelve. Um I've got two boys, uh aged ten or sorry, um almost turning twelve and then fourteen. Yeah they they go they go fast. So um I'm kinda the middle of all this stuff that we're gonna talk about tonight and so hopefully you'll you'll find some good uh information about it. Just want to say real quick a lot of the material I'm presenting tonight is actually from a uh uh foundation or a a a project called Safe and Secure Online here, the Center for Cyber Safety and Education. It's associated with some computer information technology certifications. And so um as part of my career that I I'm w I work in, you know, I have some of these certifications and they have these these kind of programs to kind of help public outreach and stuff. So So f there's kind of a just a a little little plug there. Um a lot of the uh statistics and all the data and stuff that I'm gonna be talking about tonight are are from the research that this group does. They have a website also that I'll mention at the end of the uh presentation. where you can go and find more information on some of this kind of stuff. I'm going to be going through a lot of ideas tonight for you to think about and consider. Obviously every family is different, so some of these ideas and and and things and tips to try to try uh may not work for you or may not work for your family, but you kinda have to as as a parent have to take charge here and figure out what works for your family, what works for you, and what your kids need. We all know our parents know their kids the best than anybody else, right? So So just kind of take that as an understanding there. And then just want to kind of give an overview of what we want to talk about tonight. Really, you know, we're as uh Pastor Powell mentioned, there's a lot of a lot of stuff out there on these online devices, right? You you got the world at your fingertips, you can access any information in any language from anywhere pretty much. And so um You know, what I wanna wanna do tonight is really to make you aware that some of the threats that are out there, some of the the things that can can be out there that obviously the kids can stumble upon very easily. Um then we're also going to identify um go through many topics, kind of go a little fast-paced here unfortunately, but um I want to just give you uh some places for you to focus on, so hopefully some good easy takeaways you can you can take back uh and and use. But then also just areas where you might have not been aware of of before that are out there that you may need to pay attention to in your in your family or the way your kids use. your devices. And then certainly the main thing I want to do is make sure that you have some good tips to follow and some things to figure out. I'm going to have in the presentation there's going to be a little tag that says idea all over the place. And those are just basically tips or or guidelines or things you might want to take action on. And um to save you from furiously writing everything down, I've got a handout in the back if you didn't pick up when you came in. and that has all those ideas. We see an idea appear on there, it'll be on that page so you can use that and kind of sit and and listen and not have to, you know, jot everything down So we're going to talk uh just an overview there, we're gonna cover the the main key, and as I think you heard Pastor Powell say is communicate. Communicate with your kids. We're going to talk about that. We're going to go through device use, chat rooms, social media, sexting. It is out there and it is a thing. Online bullying, gaming, and then just have some general device security that will not only help your kids but help you hopefully as well. So with that, let's let's jump into it. First thing I do want to say before we kind of get to some of the the areas is is a note about controls. I'm going to mention a lot of things that are kind of controls here. I'm a little bit of a Star Wars fan, or I uh used to be, I guess. I'll say that. Um so, you know, controls are out there. They're meant to help your kid, your child follow the rules. But as Pastor Powell said, you know, all these controls, every single one of them can be can be um circumvented or or um built or you know Yeah, gotten around. And so um these are things that that really they're they're in are engaged here to help your child um be safe and try to not stumble upon some of the threats that I'm gonna be talking about here and hopefully keep them away just in inherently away from some of this kind of stuff. But if you have a willful child that is, you know, looking for this stuff and trying to get around controls and actions. And you've got to take some some different um some some more aggressive things um and and really, as Pastor Powell said, take the devices away. I mean that's really what it comes down to is access, right? We're going to talk about that first though. Um but you know luckily we have a a loving and all powerful God who um gives us hope in our in our you know parenting life. He God is a perfect parent and we're the child, so um, you know, we look to him for our role model on how to deal with our family and our children. Had a little uh passage here, Isaiah one eighteen, come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they will shall be white as snow, though they are red like crimson, they will shall become like wool. So God can change the heart. He can um, you know, uh give you hope as a parent for your child. Maybe you have a strong willed child as a challenge to to um to maintain uh a discipline in the family or whatnot, but um you know I think our our biggest you know tool we have is is God's word and prayer in the in the Bible to um you know, allow our our great God to change the heart of our child and hopefully, you know, turn a a a t a source of temptation into a a source of um good and great capability we can use for for God's glory as well. So all right, let's get kind of get into the the basics here. The cyber world, y'all kind of asked all um we we our generation we kinda grew up in the in this in the wor in this world in this cyber world we call it right we we had uh you know as as Pastor Powell said we had cell phones as um young adults maybe or after you got through college. Uh maybe you kinda grew up with a computer at home that was a Gateway two thousand or some like Windows three point one machine or something like that. And so the community was kind of maturing as we were maturing with it. We kind of were had that opportunity to learn as the technology progressed. Um and so, you know, and we also had that paradigm maybe you took it from your grandparents or or your or your parents where it's like, you know, the w generally the world you can you can trust it You know, th trust people first. You know, people are inherently good, right? That's obviously not what we learn uh but the truth is, but that's kind of the the pervasive kind of attitude is like, yeah, you can trust trust people, you know, it's it's alright, you trust them first Um however with this the current generation and I think moving forward that that paradigm is no longer. It's gone. They our children were born into the cyber world. You know, kids, um you you read about, you know, one year olds or two year olds, as soon as they can hold a screen, they're watching YouTube for hours on end a day, you know. And they get access, you know, they they can they can manipulate these devices. They're set up to be very simple, easy to use, and so the kids have this kind of almost innate ability to be able to operate these devices even sometimes better than than we do. I remember when I ha we had an iPad when I was my um oldest son was three and uh you know I we didn't actually give it to him to to watch but every once in a while we were sort kind of sitting on the couch together and he actually taught me I never learned this to switch apps by doing a multiple finger um drag across the screen and I was like Henry, how'd you do that? You know, and so I was kinda like wow, these kids, you know, they already know, you know, it's easy we seem like we're always already behind the power curve. I'm always always struggling. But um there are some tools out there to use and hopefully that's kind of some of the stuff we're gonna go through tonight. But one of the big takeaways here is is to have an attitude of zero trust when it comes to online development. Devices, um iPads, computers, phones, um the zero trust should be your paradigm that you use nowadays. A lot of these devices, especially if there's you download these free apps or you get something that's free, always, always um uh take the paradigm that this is this is probably something nefarious going on with this app here. Um if it's free, that means the person that made it and provided it is m expecting to get some money out of you somehow. Or sell your data or get a profit off of you in some other way that that you are not aware of. And so, um, you know, whenever you download a free app, they're making more money off of you than you than you think you're getting out of them. Right. So just take that paradigm. We're going to see that multiple times because that theme's going to come up here in the uh um information that we put out here tonight. Um so just keep that in mind. But have a have an attitude of zero trust when it comes comes to online devices. I'm not talking about zero trust with your children, but zero trust with these devices that we're that we're using here. Alright. So uh if you ha if you have I got two key takeaways here tonight. If you if you um get nothing asked uh nothing else out of it is that um number one here is that kids need to understand anything they do online is forever. Um they post a text, they post a picture, they um you know, play a game. You would you would be s you might be s maybe you're not surprised, but you will y there everything that you do online is recorded somewhere and it is um potentially stored um for a very long duration. You know, when you talk about Facebook, obviously you you probably all know that, that they store your posts, they store your information, anything that you do on there. Um Google it they s they keep records of everything that you search. If they can get a hold of it, they save it, they store it onto the server and then they use that to obviously feed you ads and maybe other things. And so that's the main thing you want to communicate with your kids. Is anything you do online? You might think it's temporary, but it's not. It it'll it'll be there. And when where this becomes a problem is with um some of these apps we'll talk about here shortly where you um post a picture and you think, oh, it's just on there for a little while while it's while it's on the screen. Not true. Someone can take a screen capture on their device and save that picture then as a as a permanent picture on their on their device and then use that later on. So we'll see that so that's that can be a challenge. Um and so it like I say, everything anything you do online is is around forever. All right, so just a couple of statistics here. Um 30% of children 8 to 14 use the internet in a way they know their parents would not approve. And so that's there or again, um, you know, it's just be um don't necessarily have to be untrusting of your child, but just be aware. You know, I I always say trust but verify um with children, you know. So um you know your child better than anyone else. You know whether whether they're trustworthy or not. You know maybe they've maybe they've lost your trust in the past or maybe they've built your trust in the past the past. But just be just be aware that you know anybody can make a mistake or stumble on something that's that's um could get them in into a bad situation. Um so um here's some here's some things were um on this research they kids um ended up doing that would their parents would not have proof of. So chatting with strangers, using webcams with strangers, uh borrowing parents' credit cards for online purchases. You hear about the the kid that b bought like a thousand items from off of Amazon and showed up at his parents' house all at once. Um and then just making poor decisions with your personal information too, putting stuff out there about where you live, what your name is, all that kind of stuff online and just making making bad decisions there. Not knowing that hey, there's people out there that use that information and and Alright, so our second key key takeaway tonight is important. And this is actually probably more important than the first one. Communicate early and communicate often. You want to just have a relationship with your child and you want to be able to talk to them as they're using your devices. It's an it's not just a one-and-done kind of thing, as Pastor Powell said, it's a continuous conversation And it's not just about being negative either, you know, oh don't do that, don't do this, don't do that. It's it's about being in taking an interest in what your child is doing online You know. Maybe it's um they like playing a particular game or something. Well ask 'em about that game. You know, what what are you doing? How how do you get how do you get so good at that game, you know? What is what's everybody else doing? You know, that kind of thing. Be interested in general, taking a general interest of what they're doing That'll not only help them be able to have conversation with you when they run into a problem, but then that will allow them to be comfortable having that conversation with you as well. So um I know I I grew up as a little bit of a gamer and so my my one of my sons is big and into Minecraft and you know, we play a little bit together and and that kind of thing and get to talking about what other kids are doing with it, modding and I've used it to to as an avenue for him to learn computer coding as well. So that you know you can you can turn it into a good thing. Games aren't inherently bad. You just have to, you know, as as again Zero trust and making sure that, you know, that what's what they're doing is you talk about it with them. Why are why do you like this game? What is it what is it about it that you do like and getting back to those hard issues, you know, as we talked about earlier Alright. Okay, some more data here. Um half of the children surveyed here on the internet are playing after are using the internet after 10 p. m. at night. Um kids end up I hear ten percent of those that that admitted they were using the internet were late for school the next day. Um five percent missed school because they were too tired to be and on online too late. Um And then ninety percent of kids have their phone or tablet in c or computer in their room, in their bedroom. So um m you may think, well what's the big deal? You know, um kids uh when they're by themselves at night and ha or have this opportunity are good that's when they're gonna start thinking about doing doing the bad things, right? When they're undercover, when they're not being watched, when they think they have this like notion of privacy in their bedrooms, um that's when that's when things happen, right? And so it might be something for pretty benign uh from just, you know, looking at who knows what, you know, stuffed animals or something online, but it might be but but the the point here is that they're um they're putting their own health and their sleep and their school ethic, work ethic uh uh behind you know ac being online and staying up late and and you know not be not being ready for the next day. So there's obviously a problem there. So let's get into device usage is kind of the first kind of detailed topic I want to talk about here Alright, so some ideas for you. So device usage. This is probably one of the key and most effective controls you can you can implement around online devices, and it's it's having access controls. So first off, you want to establish some rules in your household about when you are able to use devices. Maybe it's um Maybe you have a time constraint here, I idea here, one to two hours per day only after school. That sounds like a lot. your how your family operates is what you need to tailor to your your children. If they can handle one to two hours a day, okay. If not, you know, maybe that's they're they're pushing the boundaries on that one. Maybe you need to drop it or or or then they have like you know access one day out of the week or something like that. that yeah this isn't where you need to tailor it to yourself. Um and then also uh as far as um usage times Maybe it's a good idea to um not allow your children to have a personal device. You know, we we um you know it's we think it's fun to give a or on a new, you know, cell phone for Christmas or something like that, for instance. But then they when they have the owner they feel like they have the ownership of the device, then they're more willing to do something that they probably shouldn't be doing on that device as opposed to when you have a shared device, then you're saying, well, mom and dad are gonna get on this thing too, so maybe I don't want to be, you know, doing something that I sh I know I shouldn't be or you know exposing uh my son to something or you know my brother to something else and I'm doing whatever. So that that's a little bit of a maybe a motivation to to say, you know, I think twice before I go start clicking on things. Um and then uh w prevent usage in private. We talked about, you know, not having uh not allowing any screen device of any type in the children's bedroom. Uh make sure you when you do have the devices that they're uh out in public places. You know, we talked about having you know at at home at my home we've got uh computer in the main living room and it screen is facing to the room. So anybody walking by when we're sitting and watching TV or something else, you can always see that what's going on in that computer. Um so you know, take that approach. Uh laptops are kinda challenging because I know a lot of kids have laptops at school and that kind of thing. Um you wanna establish maybe rules that you can only use your laptop on the kitchen table and it has to be facing this direction, you know that that kind of thing might be a something to think about as well. Maybe only use devices in the family room. And then there's another idea here is keep devices in a central location. Maybe you have a charging station that everybody has to use, you know, you can't plug your device into the wall in the basement. You have to plug it in up here in the living room or something like that. You know, I know my son's terrible about managing his battery, so You know, he he's always leaving it when it's like one percent. Like, oh, you're s you stuck next to the wall trying to plug in, you know, keep that i i pad going. Um and so uh central charging location would allow you to then to to keep mo uh physical monitor over that device. And then maybe there's other ideas about, you know, just not um or just discouraging or barring use of devices while a parent is not at home. Maybe you have older kids, you know, you can get out and do an errand or something. Uh maybe you want to um You know, just say no no sc no screens while I'm out of the house, that kind of thing. Alright, let's see here. Got some more statistics for you. Thirty-seven percent of kids have accidentally visited sites meant for adults Um and this is again, you know, we've talked about accident versus purposeful. Um stuff is really easy to pull up accidentally online. I mean I'll probably almost every of you every one of you have had a experience online already and trying to type something in your fat finger and then all of a sudden, whoa, what is this? you know, and then you You gotta get out of there. Um and then you know twenty percent are searching for sites on purpose and over half follow through with the visit. So, you know, you might have um kids that are, you know, just an example here, this is obviously kind of in the secular world here, but you might have kids that are searching for something and stumble across you know Google search results that that are, oh, what is this? That looks interesting, you know, when I click on something like that, or know it's something that they shouldn't be clicking on and they go ahead and do it anyway. So just um you know be aware of that. Alright, so how do we how do we take care of this then? Um so again, take take advantage of the built-in device um access controls that that we have. You know, ever you uh whenever you introduce your child or your family to a new device. Um, you know, for instance, you know, maybe you get uh maybe the kids get a new iPad for school or something. You want to take that device first. The kids aren't the one using it and setting it up. You should be the ones using it and setting it up. You want to establish your own accounts on there. You want to establish um Um parent fermal controls. Uh you want to set your own passwords and not have those passwords given to the the child. Um you heard you know you hear about all the the ways around that. You can do screen video capturing I wouldn't worry about that too much. I mean if there again um if there's a problem you'll you'll see it in other ways. But um Uh you know, when you set up your device then your child is not able to go and and do purchases and download additional apps and those kinds of and and you end up you know they you can basically escalate control. If they get a little bit of control, they can usually escalate that control to the entire device, right? You know, Pastor Gabe talked about, you know, factory resetting a device and now that all of a sudden they they can get into it Additionally, you there's some there's some tools you can apply. And and I know a lot of this stuff is might be a little confusing to you if you, you know, oh I've got an iPhone or I've got an Android or I've got you know whatever Windows device A lot of this stuff is either you can you can figure out by looking up the help uh manual online, maybe there's uh some tutorials you can watch online. I I don't you know I personally don't have all the details of how you would set up panel controls on one device versus another. But usually there's there's enough out there online you can kind of figure it out and search with and that and and figure it out. But I can certainly help you um afterwards if if you have a So then uh another good idea here is with your basic internet at your in your house. Um there's actually router if you uh use like um Verizon or um Cox or some of these other companies, their routers that they will provide to you or maybe you bought yourself have a administrative control panel you can go into and you can set rules to help with inter internet access issues. So you can um at at my home we have the internet shuts off at basically nine o'clock at night and it doesn't turn back on until six o'clock in the morning. And um that is so no devices are getting online at all. And that then that's a router rule you can set up to to you know, we actually had a problem where one of my one of my children were getting up late at night and And trying to get on online and it's like, no, we're not doing that. Um and so, you know, you you you kinda help um take away that temptation. It's not even not Another thing, it's a little more complicated here, but using a a uh a different domain name server, DNS server here, uh domain name service if you're not familiar is basically when you type in a a plain English plain English address into your br web browser like say yahoo. com. Um that um domain name server takes that plain English address and it turns it into a numeric IP address which the internet then uses is to get you to the right place. And so what this is is when um if you set up your um if you have internet service at home, your domain name system is kind of default. It's a maybe your internet service provider and it's basically wide open. No no problem, you know, no no restrictions or anything. What you can do is you can set your router to use a different domain name service. And there's some good ones out there. Clean browsing DNS is one to to search for. If you just search DNS content filter, that'll bring up some a lot of good options for you. And what these these domain name service services do is they're managed And they block a lot of the the bad domains that are just inherently nefarious. You know, you got pornography, you got malware, you got a lot of these online uh underground kind of forms and things. It will just block a lot of these sites outright. So you don't have to worry about um your child accidentally getting onto a a website um and and downloading your pornography or malware or what have you. So those are always and they're also kind of faster a lot of times than the the default ones that the internet service providers give you. So that's an idea there to use as well. Alright, so we're gonna shift your that's access controls. That was you know that your your most effective controls is like, you know, obviously as as I said, you know, taking ownership of advice yourself. Your child doesn't have ownership of it, you run the accounts and the passwords and those kinds of things. things. Now we're going to talk about a little shift about chatrooms. Chatrooms are definitely pervasive out there. There's a lot of there's used to be it just started out as chatroom services are dedicated like you know, AOL online or or what and the have you. Now chatrooms are seem to be integrated into every app and every game and every every website almost it seems like. So here's some statistics about the the chat rooms And the the threat here is really that your child could meet someone online, obviously, and then they would be chatting with them and we there's there's been uh a terrible uh um trend that children are then convinced to go do things that the ch the stranger was convincing them to do, either take pictures of themselves or go out and meet 'em in a park somewhere and then get ab you know, abducted um in a lot of these kinds of uh really really bad endings here. So chat rooms in general we want to uh stay away from but there are some if if if they if they're for whatever reason you have to they have to be in there somewhere then there's some rules we can apply here. So chat room behavior just in general, remain anonymous. You don't want to have a screen name that's your actual name. You don't want to reveal your your actual name on a chat room. So that's the second one there Um you want to give you know this obviously if if there's a chatroom that's that's even remotely talking about anything, then you probably want to stay clear of it, you know, have your kids stay clear of it. There might be some kind of academic chat room that your child just has to be in for a class or something, but make sure to communicate with them that any if anything starts going down the tubes, they need to log out and get out of there immediately And then encourage kids to set up private chats with people they they have met in person, friends, teachers, you know, whatever it is. Um just d discourage children from from using chat services with p with strangers in period. Um there's there's certainly um instances where you can set up chat services with just, you know, maybe your family, maybe you have a cousin or a a friend that you live that lives down the street from you, you see in person regularly. Those are the kind of w things that if you have to use chat, that's probably the the some some ways you can keep it uh under control there. Alright, so now we're going to talk about our uh the a big a big threat here, social media. Um you all know uh that You you all use social media probably. Um if you don't, well good on you. But I know there's a lot of good to come past social media too, not only from you know finding out good information, but uh keeping up with friends and and even witnessing through social media. media. So it's it's definitely a a good opportunity. We just have to be real careful. And we have to um with our kids in particular, we gotta be uh pretty prejudiced about social media. Okay. So here's some stats. Average worldwide social media users, two hours and twenty-seven minutes per day. So you know there's That sounds pretty high. That means there's probably some folks that are a lot lower than that, but there's probably some folks that are way higher than that as well. So um social media apps, here's the here's the thing I was talking about before about zero trust. They're designed to keep you online as long as possible. The longer you stay on that app, the more m potential money that that company can make off of you Um, through ads, through search trends, through what have you. And they use quite nefarious ways to keep you online too. You know, w we're all probably familiar with um Facebook. Uh they they use tactics like the the likes, you know, the oh let me see what uh you know how many likes I got on my post today, you know, that kind of thing. Um they keep you online by keeping your feeds random so you you you have a hard time tracking what you saw and haven't seen yet, you know, this keep oh I'm gonna keep scrolling to see what make sure I get all my updates today. Um They also, you know, obviously pop you up with the suggested context like, oh we know y you're friends with this person and this person's friends with that person. Let me suggest that you friend them too, you know, and they kinda keep you they try to keep you on with that kind of stuff And this is all all with uh vulnerable our kids are vulnerable to this stuff too. Um and so um you know you really have to be careful with the social media. I would say, you know A good starting point is is no social media. Obviously that's probably not super realistic, but um but there's an interesting n uh documentary on Netflix, the social dilemma. It's if you're interested in hearing all this what happens in the back end of social media. Definitely a good documentary to see. It's uh does have some interviews with some of the folks that uh you know the founder of um MySpace and Twitter and they interview some of these these these guys that that came up with some of this stuff and how it's it started out pretty good, pretty good uh motivations, but it's gone down the tubes and it's It's it's pretty bad nowadays if if you see what's um what the the motivations behind all this stuff is. Um And so too with social media, you know, a lot of times they do say, Well, this the apps are um age you know, they have age ratings and you can't download 'em unless you're, you know, eighteen or twelve twenty one or whatever, but obviously as we've seen, you know, parents and even grandparents or other other friends can um enable these apps or you know kids lie about their age all the time, that kind of thing. So that's not really a a barrier to these these social media All right, let's go through quickly some of the types of social media. You see one of these apps on your child's devices, you need to be take it with extreme prejudice. Um there's some there's some there's some real junk out there. Um so first uh again zero trust and you should definitely apply zero trust with uh social media. Texting and chat apps, the top ones there. Let me see. We've got um from left to right there we've got Group Me is one. That one's where team it's like a set up for teams to t always be connected so you're always you can always text somebody and they'll supposed to always get it, I guess, apparently Kick Messenger is the next one on the from the left there. Easy to communicate with strangers and a lot of nefarious marketing on that app there. WhatsApp, that one's actually not not bad, but the problem there is it allows secure and private um group texting. So If you're not in the group chat, no one else has uh you you have no ability to monitor that that particular app. Discord is the one on the top right. Uh it's popular with gamers. They have a lot of game streaming on there. Um but the searches are not or the the chats are not moderated in any way and so there's all kinds of stuff that can that can be posted on there and then it contains a lot of kind of toxic communities and and communication. You have a lot of the you know very competitive games and People obviously get use use foul language and all that kind of stuff on there. The next line is image and video chat. type apps. These ones are uh hotbed for inappropriate content, pornography, all kinds of um crazy videos and things. Um the one on in the middle there at Instagram you probably know it. That one's we've it's fairly popular and it they try they had some at least some controls on there, but um it's again you can search for just about anything and and find it pretty darn quick. So you want to be careful about that. TikTok, that you you all probably know about that one. Inner very inappropriate speech, sexual content encourages thing, they're just a shallow and poor i s idea of of people. I mean people just doing stupid things on there, obviously. You know, I don't have to tell you all about that, but um it's just uh not a not a good quality use of time online. You know, it's just there's not a whole lot of value there. And then the last one, Tumblr, it's uh public by default, so strangers can talk to strangers, and it e it's very easy to find sexual content on there too. So um like a as as I say, a lot of these apps just don't have any controls or buffers. It's just you get on the app and bam, you're already hitting getting hit with a lot of these threats. Uh the next one next the bottom row are probably the the worst, unfortunately. Um these are the s what I call self-destruct apps. They're marketed as um apps that you you either take a picture or you um You post something and then it's supposed to be gone. It dis disappears, you know, or or it gets destroyed, self-destructs. Um and so you're supposed to never see it again. But as we know, that's that's totally false. Um these apps all can anyone that can take a picture of you know you send a a post or a picture to someone if they think it's temporary, but nope, they just click two buttons at the same time, take a screen capture, and then they have it permanently And they can go post it somewhere that is permanent, right? And so that's there's that um that principle of uh what stays online is permanent. So these are um yeah, definitely want to stay away from those. If you see these apps on, you know, obviously if we if you take the um advice about controlling your child children's apps then uh you you decide what they download and what apps they download. Uh you definitely want to s you know stay away from from these here Oh, let's see. So um I went through them. I can uh let's see, so we have I don't know, I I I don't have on the outlo on the um the handout in the back, but I can I can get you list. I can run through them real quick here too. So there's group me. I'm about to go from the top oh the bottom. I'm sorry. Yes. Um it uh sorry uh so live me live. me is the the the one on the far left is easy to find inappropriate content, bullying and bullying and manipulation. Uh Whisper is the one in the middle. That one's like this confessional kind of app where kids get on there and like confess their sins or their bad deeds or you know whatever they did and it's yeah Um the extremely dark and appropriate content. And then uh Snapchat is the bottom right, and that one is it's a time limited pictures and chats, but obviously it's it's it's uh false sense to security there. A lot of uh sexual content on there as well. So yeah. Alright Okay, so here's some ideas. How do we how do we take care of some of this stuff here? You should be approving what your child downloads on on their devices. Make sure that uh your understanding of what they're downloading before they before you you approve it for them. Uh ensure the children have private profile settings turned on. So a lot of the um apps will have these private settings where they don't will block any kind of stranger um You know, you can't find your your child's account online by just searching and and people can't just randomly text you either. So you want to make sure you turn those on when they're available. Um and then for the social media stuff that your kids if you do allow them to be on something, I suggest you uh have an account on there yourself and you become friends with them. And in that way you see exactly what they're posting. They know that you're watching and you know that they're watching too, so what what they're watching too. So And then, you know, just again, communication is key here. Make sure that they know the only friend people that they know in person. Um, you know, they in fact it's even better if it's only people that they see regularly, you know, at school or um, you know, here at church or whatnot. So um that c you know, just keeps them um from you know this this stress Ranger situation here too. So all right. And again and some other ideas for social media. You could you know if it gets to a point where you need to uh really have a sit down, you could even maybe um have a s kind of social media contract maybe you set up, that might be an idea. I don't know. Um something that you say, you know, okay, if you do this, you will lose this or I when I use this, I will do this, you know, that kind of thing. Yeah, hopefully you can set up. Um stop and think before you post. Obviously your kids uh if it's it's the tendency online is just to say anything that comes to mind and be Be stupid about it. Uh make sure that you only communicate the way you would communicate to a person in real life to their face. dishonest way. And then uh shouldn't be a social media should not be a popularity contest. Another idea there. Just uh you know, you're not on there to stroke your own ego or um see how cool and popular you can be. You're on there to maybe help your friends. or get access to good information to help either with school or with or with some other endeavor. Alright, so let's change from social media here. Just going to touch on pictures. Pictures reveal a lot. Our iPhones usually have geotagging enabled by default, which means that when you take a picture, your GPS on your phone logs the location where that picture was taken And so when you post this picture then to Facebook or other sharing websites, people can see where you are maybe or what you're doing or where you where you might be or where you aren't or not. Like i i. e. you're not at your house right now Right. And so um this is a goofy picture of this uh uh uh mil member of the of the army who posted uh picture of himself on Facebook and He was actually in the in the fight in Iraq and so he actually revealed some uh radio call signs on his whiteboard back there unknowingly so that the enemy could potentially uh use those call signs on the radio. So Um obviously this is like a military example, but the same thing applies when you're on vacation, right? Maybe you're uh post you're out you know, on a cruise or something, you're posting pictures and all of a sudden, oh, so and so's not home right now. Maybe, you know, we could figure out what's going on over there or um the same thing goes with your children, you know, they don't want me p posting pictures online that reveal that they're at school or they're getting ready to walk home, you know, to to to get home after school or um waiting for the bus or whatnot. You want to basically turn geotagging off. Um However, you don't want to turn all location services off on the phone because maybe there are some legitimate apps you want to use to track their location. So maybe um uh you know a monitoring app or something that you're using. Alright. Okay, this is a heavy topic here, uh sexting. There this is prevalent in our community today. Kids just just do it because they're asked to do it and they're like, Yeah, why not? You know, and so obviously I think we're probably in a l the better better community here at Hope Bible Church, but um it's still something that you need to be at least aware of. So uh sexting is defined as uh uh uh you know basically sending a sexually explicit picture to someone um of any content. Um there's um Uh obviously there's a lot of lot of ways to do this. We just talked about social media and the cameras and all that and and uh you know having control of the devices is one way to to be able to make sure that that this kind of stuff doesn't happen. know that your children are not doing it themselves. But a key takeaway here is what's what goes online stays online forever Uh just a rule to touch base if you want to go this route with your kids and and talk about consequences, Maryland's law does not have specific sex um sexting regulations or laws, but they do have child pornography laws apply here instead. And so when a child takes a picture of themselves and sends it, they could be charged for generating child pornography. And if it is sent to a minor, they could be charged with Uh uh basically um uh it's a misdemeanor um uh you know sending or or showing obscene images to a minor. Um and then if you are in possession or retain such images, that's another charge. Um and all these all these charges on the in the Maryland law, you know, the the child pornography, production or distribution is ten years in jail, first offense, $25,000 fine. Second offense, $20 years, $50,000 fine. And a lot of the um precedent nowadays is to have children. uh treated as min uh as adults. Minors treated as adults in the in the cases too. So I'm not a lawyer, I don't know all the ins and outs of that, but you can go online and kind of find the details if you're interested. interested about the consequences there. That might be I don't know. I probably don't start out with that, but that might be a uh something that you that you go to if you if you need to. So just be aware of that All right, cyberbullying is a thing. Um I think I'm gonna kinda speed through this as we're kinda running out a little bit out of time, but um This ba the bottom line here is that kids uh need to be um need to be aware uh that that they can They need to a as you have a relationship with your children, they need to be able to talk to you about what goes on online. If they're feeling bad about something or somebody's not behaving properly online, they can come to you. Um there's actually the pol the police uh uh department has websites you can go to to purport uh cyberbullying. So they kind of have some resources there to check out and then um Obviously it goes both ways too, right? You want to um communicate with your kids what's appropriate and how to speak. You know, you don't want to speak to someone online that you wouldn't say, you know, in in person. So let's see here. Um there's a pr warning signs to just watch out for. Child is suddenly angry, depressed, frustrated about when they're using their devices Maybe stops using the device altogether all of a sudden at once. Maybe anxious or worried about going to school, that might be a a sign. Um and then or or maybe stops using their their normal apps that they use as well. So just just something to beware of there. Alright, gaming. This is a big one. All right. So uh when we were growing up, obviously games were were immature, they were basic, they only really uh you know were motivated to hold your attention for like you know, an hour and then you were done with it. Nowadays games like social media are designed to keep you on the game as long as possible. You got these open ended games like Minecraft and well shoot you name it just about any game nowadays. Additionally you got the threats there of of the of the graphics, you know, the the photorealistic graphics, the violence, you name it. Um there's games out there that that show all that kind of stuff. And then you got the m the online uh multiplayer threats too, like you know, uh World of Warcraft and those kinds of things that keep the kids online as long as possible and they um of course you have chat and interacting with strangers. So there's a rating system you can use to to understand what the games are. You want to use that to your advantage here? Um you want to communicate with your children, you know, why or are you interested in this game? game. What do you do in the game? And you know, is this a good use of your time? You know, those kinds of things. Not only just with the violence and the sexual content, but with um uh just the the idea of these open ended games that never end. You just stay on 'em and keep playing 'em and keep playing them, you know, and they and they uh use achievements and that kind of stuff to keep you there. So um the rating system here at the top, uh you wan you wanna you know stay within the E, that's everyone, or E plus 10. ten you know, ten years and up. Um teen you wanna check into, yeah. There's still blood and gore and violence in s in some of the team rated games. And then when you get to M and and adults only, no. You don't even wanna you don't even want to allow the kid to even be thinking about those kind of games. I mean there's there's everything that you can imagine under the sun that go on in the in those games and so that's there's there's no reason you want to even have that in your household. Um whether it's an adult or a kid playing it. I don't even know. I'm surprised they even allow a lot of these games around. So just be aware of that on the the ratings system. Alright, we're gonna wrap it up here real quick with some device uh threats. Uh hacking is a big thing nowadays. Um it's Uh what I I I do I I uh deal with this all the time in in my job and uh it's it's very prevailant prevalent out there. The hackers have found ways to monetize their their hacking and so they they go after it like it's no tomorrow. So seventy-five percent of black hat hackers say traditional firewalls and antivirus security is irrelevant and obsolete. They can get right through that in a in a in a thirty seconds if they really want to. So I I do actually kinda stay away from the um antivirus stuff. I mean you you'd think, wow, why you you don't scan your computer for antivirus? Like if you keep if you keep other safeguards in place, you're not visiting sites that are nefarious Um a lot of times the antivirus software itself is almost like malware. It runs your computer processor. Who was it? Um not McCaffey, but the other one, the other big one, was just charged of uh uh mining bitcoin mining. They use their com customers' computers to mine big coins. So it's like, oh really? Um Anyway, so yeah, it was Kospersky I think maybe, yeah. Yep, and so uh it's it's a problem. So real quick here, wireless threats, don't don't join or don't have your children join public Wi-Fi because it's open. People can hear it or uh can can get on there and see it and and get and compromise your device that way. Don't join random Bluetooth connections. Uh when you're in the airport, don't connect to charging stations. Those things, just by virtue of plugging your computer into a charger, it can be compromised. So use your own charges, use your own cables, use your own power bricks, and have your kids do the same. Turn access uh location services off as much as you can with the apps. So why would a phone a a social media app want to know your location? Obviously you want to turn that off. So these ideas are on the back. I'll I kind of skim through this a little bit. Real quick before I I I think I'll just end with this topic here, email and and downloads. Um here's where zero trust applies with email you want to sit down with your children if they have an email account and go through this with them. Uh make them known of of emails to to have that kind of zero trust mindset. Any links in in emails nowadays are almost always a problem. Um you know, you obviously you You you could have a a f a friend that you know, their Facebook account might have been compromised and all of a sudden you're getting this email from them that says, Hey, this is pretty cool, check out this link and then all of a sudden you click on it and bam there's an app malware, you know. So it's it's really easy. And that's uh malware and we we call this phishing when some some uh a hacker sends an email to you to try to get you to click on a link. That's eighty five to ninety percent of the successful hacking that goes on is done through email phishing. So y you want to stay away from that. I know you're if you work at a office or a company they might actually test you with these kind of things to get you to see if you click on stuff, you know. Hey print out this, you know, print out this file for me, that kind of stuff. Um and then um of course downloads. Um only download files apps from trusted stores. You know, when you're on the on an iOS device, you want to stay on the app store or the Apple, the iOS Apple store and then on Google, Google Play Store. And even then you gotta be a little careful too. Read the reviews, make sure you know the apps are actually doing what they're saying they're doing. All right, and you can back up your data. That's always a way a good way to um you know if you do have to reset a phone or you lose a a device, you can you can do it I you They have the USB drives now are very easy to just plug into your computer, download your important you know documents folder and then unplug it and then you're good to go. You don't have to w try to down uh um back up your entire computer. It's kind of a waste. Just you know, if if something happens you can reinstall the the operating system and all that. Alright, so that's the that's uh the the end of it. Um as I said, anything posted online is forever. Uh communicate, communicate, communicate with your children. That's the number one number one uh thing you can do. Um remember zero trust and uh you know use the access controls first as your main line of defense for your devices. So um there's a website here. Um it's it's good. Uh I am cybersafe. org and holy cow I'm just plugging uh Instagram here too. So I would probably stay off of that. Yeah. I am cybersafe. org that's a good one to go and and find kind of updated information that kind of just and uh additional ideas to to find as well. So So that's it. Um appreciate ya coming out tonight. Uh I know uh in the youth group here as um I know Jason is uh our our uh lead there. You know, we we we want to continue to provide forums for parents to help with their children and as we we we certainly enjoy hanging out with them every Friday night and on Sundays as well. Um uh we appreciate that you are trusting your kids with us and so we wanted to kind of yeah you know do this this night for you to be able to um you know help you in in as much as we can So appreciate it. So with that we can do some questions maybe for a little bit. We're right at nine thirty, so if you have to go, you gotta go, but we can stand around for questions. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, Jason, do you want to take that? So when we what we look at the Um I I'm breaking up into the problem. And relatively what I'm doing is I dumped them part of the video and I think All the uh button so how take you a system. How maybe you take this system? And the thing to how they all they are is they do big data on the pattern for them uh they have any revenue service. Um you know And uh and I know that some of them like it would be the useful thing Um the way that social media general is joined with algorithms, algorithm is very important. And now the separate program We started off by talking about uh Oh yeah, we we mentioned it tonight. Yeah. So that means they uh little tools um which is uh in basic artifact that is but it's a little job where you can figure out ways to morally people on Google as much as possible. And essentially what happened is it has either the job to realize there's really no good knowledge that it's really what I think sorry for our in 2010 pretty much explainable how we think that we decided our um innocent, but we don't realize there are hundreds of people in the background who are really engineering sites who can manipulate the people. Yeah. Um Uh Christmas R S the A. Anything else? All right. Small thanks for coming out tonight. Appreciate it.