But let's open again the James 1. That's part of his concern is to make sure God's reputation is upheld in the area of our temptation. And desire and deceit that the blame gets put where it properly belongs, not on him. His name will be exalted. If you would open up the James 1, I'll begin by reading. This is part two of our series. On temptation. Starting from verse 13, we'll go through verse 16 The scripture says, Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then, when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And when sin is accomplished It brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Well, the Bible right here tells us we cannot legitimately pin the blame of our sin and temptation to sin. on God. Can't do that. Try to stick it to God. It won't stick. It can't stick. He is not to blame. Whatever thoughts we have about God being blame, those are thoughts that need to be transformed in truth We may not like our circumstances in life. We may not like how things have fallen out for us. We may want a scapegoat, but we cannot blame God. Kind of our outline, we see that James is providing four reasons as a defense for God, that he is not the source of evil or the problems. That comes from evil and our sin. The first reason or defense of God was that God does not tempt anyone. We saw that in the first part of verse 13. We covered that last time. God does test people, but he never tempts them. The difference is the intent, and the difference is a wide gulf. Our bodies that God gave us were good when he gave them to us. He does not make evil. He did not have our body tempt us to do evil. The fallen flesh resides in our body. That's not one of God's creations. Evil is not a thing that God created. Evil is a perversion of what God did create. The second defense we learned last time about God is God Himself cannot be tempted by evil. That's the latter part of verse 13 So evil doesn't affect God. Evil doesn't twist God's hand. God's not really even battling against evil It doesn't influence him, move him, penetrate him, and so nothing then can come out of him that's evil either. Evil is only something that we can talk about in relation to a creation, a created thing. When we talk about the category of creator, we've left the realm of evil and sin and temptation. And so God never is corrupted, and of course, we cannot think he does any of the corrupting Well, we come to the third defense today, verses 14 and 15. And really there is a fourth, but that'll be another series because it gets expanded on the goodness of God. But the third one we covered today, and that is Well where does the temptation come from? Well the defense of God is that man tempts himself. So this you kind of know. If you have uh any Christian experience at all, you say, tell me something I don't know. I know I tempt myself. Good. I'm glad you know that. No reason for me to preach then this morning. You've got it all covered. You understand you are the source of the problem. I'm the source of my problems. And uh so that's it. So I guess sometimes the problem is we don't really grasp hold of that and we don't flesh it out or understand it or So I guess maybe there is room for a sermon here today. So try to listen up, because this is a really practical verse, a couple of verses here. Let's look at them again, verse 14 and 15. Each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then when lust is conceived, it gives birth to sin. What an ugly picture. And when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death Hmm. Verse 14 has the opening word, but it sets up a contrast. It is not God who tempts man, but it is man who tempts man. There you go. God, no, man, yes. There it is, a contrast. Notice also how specific and personal the temptation is. Each one, each one is tempted by his own lust. Not your lust, my lust. I tempt me with my lust. You tempt you with your lust. Very individual, very personal So, yes, sin and temptation is universal among men, that's true, but the process of temptation is quite individual. Something we have to own up, in other words. He's getting very specific here. It's one thing to say, you know, mankind is fallen into sin. You know, there's a lot of sin in mankind out there. But then when you come home and you're like, no, it's my own. Sin, my lust that boomerangs back and tempts me. Now it's more personal. Now I gotta deal with it, don't I? By the way, the present tense there means something The verb is is tempted. You know in Greek that means it's continuous. It's not that once in a while I tempt myself. Once in a while you do it. No, we do it quite regularly, daily. Some of you might be tempting yourself right now. We wouldn't need to be tempted by God anyway. I mean God doesn't do it, but we wouldn't need to be tempted by God. Because unfortunately, we do a really fine job of tempting ourselves. We're good at that And we've been good at it since birth. You ever notice there's a lot of things that babies have to learn? But you never have to teach the babies how to tempt themselves. They just know how to do it. Just come out and they tempt themselves and then they sin. Wow. That's nature. That's what Ephesians 2 says. We are by nature children of wrath. Someone may want to blame God, they want to scan the heavens, find some alignment of the stars, find some power that's out there that's working against them in life That's tempting themselves. But the telescope outward is not what James is looking at here. It's more the microscope inward. Look inward and see what's tempting you. That's what we're dealing with. You know, Eastern religions tend to talk about it, close your eyes, meditate, you know, concentrate on something and find the light within. But this passage tells us there's not a light within. The little light that they think they've turned on, the Bible says is darkness. It's a little bit of a problem with that approach to religion, wouldn't you say? If you call darkness light, there's a problem. So on the inside, Jesus said, you know, when you look inside you see all kinds of corruption. He taught that. The Old Testament teaches it too. The heart is more deceitful than all else. The heart's in the center of us, right? It's desperately sick. Who can understand it? People say to follow their own conscience, to follow their own heart, but their heart is all messed up. Their conscience is blackened. Your own lust is the true source of your individual temptation. It's a sad truth, but it is a truth. So we're not allowed to blame others. That's the point. It's nice to blame parents, you know. It's because of the way I was brought up. No, no, it's not. Well, it's heredity. It's in the genes. No? No, it's not. It's the stars. I've been following the zodiac and I know it. It's got to be the stars. You're really way off It's not even your environment. You know, sometimes we get in certain environments and we do poorly, so we like, yeah, it's that place. There's something about that place. No. It was you in that place. See? Put Jesus in that place, he's not sinning. Put me in that place, I'm sinning. Well, what does that tell you? So the blame for evil goes right here. Clunk, clunk, on my shoulders. And that's where you have to view it. You have to understand that for yourself. You have to come to admit that. You know, you are a harsh Bible preacher. Yes, it's so mean, so condemning It's not. It's freeing. If you understand the truth that the problems for your temptation are yours, it's actually very freeing. Now I've got hope to latch on to the resources of God and then do something about it But when it's everyone else's fault, and I feel good temporarily, but I just keep doing it. I'm trapped by it, you see. They always tell, you know, a an alcoholic, a drug addict, until they admit they're an alcoholic, admit they're have a drug problem Until they get to the point where they admit it's their problem. They can't really do anything with them, right? You got a sin problem. You got a tempting yourself problem. So, you know, we have to this is uh one of those meetings where we all come together and we don't let you leave out of the room until you admit it, you know. You're a sinner. You got a problem with tempting yourself. Do you acknowledge that Don't let anyone out the back grab them. We have to have a confrontation right now. We have to oh no beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers, Peter writes. It's 1 Peter 2. 11, to abstain from fleshly lusts, which wage war against the soul. Your own soul. You're battling your own soul. You're pounding your own soul. You're fighting yourself. There's that word lost again, epithumia in Greek. People uh read that and they a lot of times they immediately think of sexual lust Well, that's included. 1 Thessalonians 4:4 uses it for that. It says we need to know how to possess our own vessel, first to our body, in sanctification and honor, not in lustful passion. Okay. But the term is broader than sex. In fact, epithumia by itself, we've mentioned this before, is really a neutral term. It simply means a strong desire of any kind There can be good, strong desires. The Lord Jesus, uh this word is used of his desire to eat the uh Lord's Supper with his disciples before he departed. It can be a good thing But context is always paramount in all biblical interpretation, right? It's not just the word, it's the word in a context, and usually in the context, this word is being used to correct some kind of wrong desire in man. So it usually comes out negative And it's translated lust has that evil connotation to it. Most of what human beings desire, unfortunately, most of what human beings really, really want Is not good. So it's a lust of how it comes out. First John 2. 16 uses the word, all that is in the world The, you know it, lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world So the world kicks in in that process too. 2 Peter 2. 18. False teachers entice people by fleshly desires. How do false teachers make a living? Answer, they hook into Bad desires in people, they like what the false teacher says, and he can prosper off of the fact that their flesh tempts them. They make a living off. In fact, Jude 16 says the same thing. False teachers follow after their own lust. They follow after the lust, they hook into your evil lusts, and that's how false teachers are able to get a hearing. These desires, these lusts are entirely unprofitable. This is for the pragmatist out there. How many of you are the kind of person that loves the to-do list? You know, you can't stand in life sitting still and getting nothing done. In fact right now you're tempted probably to pull it up on your little phone, you know. What do I need to do? Check, check. You just love watching those things disappear, checking it off. It's how you get that feeling of I'm accomplishing something, I'm doing something with my life. Well let me help you out here. Whenever you lust, you're not accomplishing anything You're wasting time, you're wasting energy, you're wasting resources of the soul. So when you're like, I've got a lust, okay, so now you're not going to be productive. That's the way it's going to be. You're going to hurt yourself. It's a waste of time. Ephesians 4. 22 talks about the deceitfulness of lusts. It says, in reference to your former manner of life, lay aside the old self. Which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of the seat. That little phrase lusts of the seat means that the lusts deceive. Lusts are corrosive, lusts are unproductive, ah, lusts are deceitful. What does that mean? That means they lie to you. See, this is the moment where you're listening to the Word of God, or during the day you're reading the Word of God. That's when you're hearing truth. But when you're out there and lust kind of grab hold of your mind, your thoughts and everything, that's when you're listening to a lie. And and you kinda like the lie. You're kind of like, oh yeah, maybe Maybe that is true. Oh, that would be so wonderful if. And you've bought into it and it's got you. You've you've believed a lie. It's deceiving you. What makes desire evil, by the way? Here it is, when our desires go contrary to the Creator's desires for us. See, part of it is that we think, yeah, I know, I know, God wants me to be holy. I know, I know, I know, that's what he wants, but I don't know that that's all that much fun to be holy. I don't know. Being godly, you know, I know I'm supposed to, but if you ask me when I'm all alone, do I really want to be godly? Like, it's not all that much fun. And so what we're doing is we are preaching Satan's doctrine to us. Following God's way is not gonna be Fulfilling, you're not going to find joy and happiness and productivity. That's not the way to go. You've got to stick a little bit of that in your life because there's church and all of that. You know what I mean? But you you gotta kind of bury down deep inside those lusts Because that's where you're really going to find your happiness. And that's what you believe. When you're honest, you'll know that's what you believe. You believe it. You know how I know? Because you're like me, and sometimes I believe it. Shame on me. But it's not true. God wants you to have the happiest life He wants you to have the most joyful life. He wants you to experience what life is to the fullest. You just don't believe him yet. You don't believe his doctrine enough yet. I mean sure on a piece of paper and a doctrine, you know, I got that down. But in your heart, in your mind, in your meditation. You think maybe the Almighty is setting us up for something that's kind of like, it's what we oughta do, but you know, it's not fulfilled. And so you go with your lust because, yeah, your lust at least gives you five minutes of being fulfilled. Five minutes. Do you think God has something better than that? By the way, another little note here: lust is in the singular I've been talking about lust, but really here it's in the singular. These little observations in the Bible are not without merit. Why in the singular? Because he's not talking about the separate lusts that tempt you, it's talking about this principle inside of you of lusting that tempts you. I mean we have a bunch of lusts. We could say, you know, I want more money. I just I gotta have more money. Because with more money then you fill in the blank. Yeah, I want that cute boyfriend. No, I mean not me. I'm talking about someone. Someone says, I want that cute boyfriend. And inside, you know that's what's going on there. That's what's cranking around in there. Some of you like you couldn't relate that. I gotta have that sports car. Oh look at that thing. I just got that. Imagine me in there. Yeah, it'd be stolen in a week. Or some of you are like, no, none of that's hit on anything at all. How about this? I just want a week or two or three without any responsibilities. Oh yeah, now we're touching on it. Boom, right on there. So some of you are like, yeah, don't go there. No, I'm going there. I'm going there. That's your lust. That's not a sexual lust, that's a please leave me alone. Oh my goodness, Lord, keep them away. True? We have to deal with people, you know. It's a driving singular impulse inside. That lust seems like your friend, but it's there to ruin your life It's there to push you off the cliff, spiritually speaking. James does not say your lusts tempt you, that is true, but he emphasizes just that indwelling operating principle. So this is just like this is so practical. Think. Exactly how does man tempt himself through lust? Well, James gives us two pictures. Two pictures, sort of an outline, inside of an outline. There you go. Two pictures. We need to understand what's going on. We can't really see this whole process. So he he lets us see two things. One is a picture from the world of fishing, and maybe the men will like that one better. And then the other is an illustration from birthing children, and you know who might relate to that better. So notice the fishing illustration there in verse 14. Each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. You say, I don't see the fish. Where's the fish? There are two verbs in there. There are two participles exactly. The first participle, carried away, translates a compound verb, ex-elko, meaning to draw out or to drag out, or thus to be carried away. That verb was used in fishing when they're caught in the water and dragged out of the water unto death The fish, hooked or in a net, could be dragged along at the whims of the fishermen. They're caught, now they're dragged The second participle is the verb translated enticed there. Verb was very common for luring fish, dangling something in front of them The big fishy eyes attract them, you know. They come, they see it, they bite in. Now it's the place of no return, right? It's a deadly enticement for the poor little fish. Now remember James is the author. James is the brother of Jesus. He's not a fisherman, but he's been to uh Sea of Galilee. He's been from Nazareth down to Capernaum a lot. He knows about fish and fishermen. Could have gone to the Mediterranean Sea at some time in his life too. So he's he's acquainted with that. The image is there just to help us to understand what's going on with us spiritually inside. We we have no clues sometimes. We're like the fish. We're just, wow And and we dive into it. And so this helps give us discernment and warn warns us. I think uh the point of the image is to show the power of deception. The power of the dangling lust. You know, smart fish around the dumbfish should be saying, don't bite it, it's not just a worm. If they could talk. It's not a meal, it's death. Well, the humans should be shouting out to one another, don't grab onto that desire, it'll drag you off to death. See, people got love all wrong these days. You know, people talk about love. Well, if you're loving, you know, if you're loving, you won't tell people that they're doing badly. Actually, if you don't tell them they're doing badly when they're doing badly, you don't love them. You're gonna let them be dragged off into destruction, and you're gonna call that love. Please, the world has it so messed up, you know. It's deception. Deception works with the lust. The lust lies. We have to not believe the lie. The battle's in the mind. If you surrender to the thought, your will will follow along. You'll lust, and it will not lead to pleasure. Oh, of course, it'll lead to pleasure for a very brief period of time. That's the lure. But then just think of the taste afterwards. Does the person that enjoys sexual immorality for the moment enjoy it after the moment is gone? No, of course not. They have to experience the pain and the shame and the hurt and the lack of trust and all the rest of that So the enticement is meant to be brought before our eyes. It's a phony pleasure. It's a non-existent paradise. It's a mirage. The human will kicks in, craves it, and that craving, that strong desire, that lust becomes a powerful tug on our will. Powerful. Powerful. That's why there's warnings in the Bible. It's powerful. A lust can cause a man to do something that he promised he would never do. Stand on the altar, put a ring on a finger. before God Almighty say a vow and then he still goes off and does it because of his lust. That's powerful, right? You know, it can it can uh cause a woman to pursue things that sh she said she would never see herself doing. And now she's doing it. Lush. Strong. Drag people away from a principled position. So we have to be forewarned. We have to sit here in the school of temptation, be instructed. Notice there's a little progress to this. There's a genealogy, so to say, of evil inside of us. The chronology is even suggested by the words then and after. So memorize this order. It's even there on your bulletin. First lust, then sin, then death. Right? Lust leads to sin, leads to death. More on that later. This truth is so important for us to understand and to understand ourselves. Why is that people start out and make a wonderful commitment? I am beginning a wonderful diet. I'm gonna diet. This is a month of diet. I did you know it's one in the morning, they're down there in an eating bench. How's that happen? What happens to people they go into a store, I'm only getting one thing. I'm only getting one thing. They come out with a couple of bags, you know. What happened in between all of that? Lust. Lust of the eyes. Or someone's a really good salesman in there. Something happened. Why do some people pray in the morning and they're restful and peaceful? And then by afternoon, it's like the mind goes blank. They forget everything spiritual and then they're right off into that same Pursuit. Each one is carried away and enticed by his own lust. There's the explanation. That's it. That's the s explain it to me, Lucy, remember? Explain it. That's the explanation right there We often hear of some horrific thing and then the microphone gets pushed into the parents mouth, you know, some someone uh you know did son did something terrible and they interview the coworkers and the parents. Oh I just I just don't think he could do that kind of a Oh no, no, no, no. He's he's not like that. I know that man. And yet he did it. What's the explanation? He's enticed by his own lust. See, unless you take into account the power of indwelling lust, you can't understand other people. You can't even really understand yourself all that well. What kind of a psychology is it that doesn't understand indwelling sinful lust? as a starting point. And goes off, well you know why people do what they do? No, you got it wrong. The Bible tells us why people do what they do. It's just right in there. Understand that. Behold the power of lust. For lust Esau gave up his inheritance for a pot of stew. Still marveling about that centuries later. I don't care how good the beef and lentils were. You know? I mean at that moment He gave away his divine inheritance. How do you think he feels about that now? For lust, David committed adultery, suffered years of family turmoil because of that. You think he cared how pretty Bathsheba was when his baby was dying? Think he cared? For lust, a young man will throw away his entire upbringing and end up being locked up in jail, not listening to anything his parents taught him, daring to be cool, to hang out with the right gang. And now a lifetime of pain and stigma to follow. Oh, we'd really like to blame God when the bad things happen. It's God's fault. Man, he set me up. I'm angry at God. He abandoned me when the difficult time came. I had to take things into my own hands, you see. Who's looking out for number one here? Well, I don't think so. God didn't lead you into an immoral relationship, uh, so you could try to find some satisfaction, get past your boredom. God didn't pull you into sin. He tested you. And I got news for you. It's a little hard, you know, because most of us graduated through school, right? We're used to getting something under poor card that puts us in the next grade, right? I mean it's devastating if you're from third and you don't get to go to fourth grade. It's devastating. We're marred for life. Fourth grade we don't get to go to fifth, but they somehow they passed us all the way on through. Even me. It's passed right on through But with God's test, big old F. We failed. It's better to it's better to tell that now. Then pretend hang on to your self-esteem and pass that on. Because God's going to tell you better. Better better to come out now and say, you know what, I failed morally. I wonder if we have someone here today who has failed morally in some great way. And you don't really want anyone to know But you need to bring it out. You need to tell somebody. You need to confess it. You need to say, God, I I want to be free of this. I I need forgiveness. And I need help. But you just keep stuffing it down and hoping it doesn't come out too much. I can manage it. I'm okay. The problem's not really that bad. Come clean. Be real. Quit pretending. Okay, I know how some people start thinking at this point in time too, because I've funked it too. Well, maybe it wasn't God to blame. Hmm. Maybe it was the devil. Yeah. Let's blame it on his pointy tail. The devil made me do it. There it is, he gets the blame. Isn't it interesting that James doesn't even mention Satan's role in temptation here? I mean here we have a great passage on temptation looking all over. There's no devil in there. Wow The King James Version, by the way, if you have that, may seem to indicate the way they translate this that the only the drawing away is done by the lust, but the Enticement is done by someone or something else. The way they translate it, they leave it ambiguous. But grammatically, both actions go with the lust. The devil's not mentioned or even implied in the verse. Now later in the letter of James in chapter 4, verse 7, he says, Resist the devil and he will flee from you. So he mentions him there. The devil is part of temptation, yes. Satan was there in a garden. He did tempt Eve. That's true. Matthew chapter 4 and Luke 4 record the temptations of Jesus in the Judean wilderness. I mean the devil gave him three strong temptations Of course, the Lord had no sin in him, so he didn't give in. We also are told the devil runs the world system. He has his big paw, so to say, on the whole world system, and he runs it, and he deceives the entire world. So, yes, he's part of temptation. However, really the devil's main tool is defeat. He's a liar. Remember what Jesus said? You're of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a A murder from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there's no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature because he's a liar and the father of lies. He's a liar. That's what he is. That's his tool. He's a liar. He cannot generate a desire inside of you. He can only present a temptation and try to hook in to the desire that is already there. The lust is in you. He can't create that lust. The devil doesn't have any sway over believers, by the way. It says if you resist the devil, he will what? Flee from you. Wow. I mean it doesn't mean that the devil's a lightweight, it just means if you do the proper resisting in the proper way, he runs He's he got nothing on you. Greater is he who lives inside of you than he who is in the world, yes Christ, through the presence of the Holy Spirit, as a stipulation of the new covenant, permanently indwells, lives inside of every believer. Romans 8:9 All the devil can do to the Christian is plant a suggestion in the mind, give a false doctrine to endorse it, bring along a few other people who happen to believe it. Your lusts have to cooperate with it. So again, who gets the blame? Chunk. Chunk. My shoulders. My lust. That's why James is dealing with it apart from the devil at this point in time. So let's just bring this back together with trials a little bit. We are not to blame for the trials that come upon us. I mean, unless we do something really foolish, right? You know, we just hurt ourselves, we do something foolish. Okay, we get the consequences there. But a lot of the trials we didn't choose. We didn't ask for that. God does bring that upon us. That is God's domain. We can't help that. We do have the responsibility for the sin that comes after the trial hisses. That is what James is driving home here. Remember, the trial that you fall into is a test. What is it a test of? Your faith in God What are you supposed to believe? God is good. God will work me through this. God will supply for me. God is concerned with my happiness. God still loves me. That's what my faith says It's the one who doesn't believe in God that says there's nothing there for me. I guess I've got to resort to this other thing. God's not leading us into the pit of despair. God has a bright future for us. That's the words of faith. God is right here with me. He's never left me. He's here to guide me. Well, then why did he let this hard thing happen? It's a test. Respond in faith. The Spirit of God lives inside of me even now. God's bringing this into my life for my benefit to mature me. I'm surrounded by hardship. It's hard, but I'm gonna Incline my voice to the Lord. He's going to incline his ear to me. And I'm going to cry out and I'm going to grow and I'm going to learn. God's the lover of my soul. Nobody, nobody loves my soul more than Jesus Christ. How do I know? Because he wants on the cross to die for me. That's how I know. Be gone, Satan, right? That's just not true. God wants my eternal joy. God has planned my eternal eternal bliss. That's amazing. All this stuff works out for good to those who love God. Romans what? 828, right? God causes all things to work together. For good to those who love God, to those who called according to his purpose. Everything's working out for my good. I mean, he's designed the whole thing. The whole planet was made for human beings to be on here, all the sheep and the birds and everything we're supposed to rule over. When we mess that up, God has another plan. I'm going to bring tremendous joy and happiness to all that will just simply love me, believe my promises. I'm going to work it all out for their joy. And Satan keeps coming along and saying, nah, nah, it's not going to be any good. Go with your lust. How stupid. Lust is my enemy I want to see that. I want to see that. Don't you? Don't you want to see that? Lust is my enemy. Lust doesn't love me. Lust doesn't care about me. Lust wants to destroy me. So why do I act like he's my friend? I want to hate my lust. I want to hate God, take this filthy thing away. For me. I want to get to the point where I'm looking at it, like, I don't want to indulge in that anymore. I want to hate it. I want to have godly passion that says now I see it for what it is. It's filthy and ugly. It's a hook. It's death. Maybe the second image will help some too. Childbirth. Look again, verse 15. Then when lust is conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Death! This is where it all leads. Please notice verse 15 is a continuation of verse 14. The first word then shows that James has a sequence of spiritual events in his mind. He describes these three sequential events. Going on inside of each person. We already memorize them. First is lust, then is sin, then is death. That's the order. James Alters the image of the lust from a fishing lure now to a child being conceived and born from the womb. He writes, When lust has conceived. But he still means the same first event, the sequence, lust. The thing conceived metaphorically refers to the lust. Lust is the thing now in the womb. The second event in the sequence following lust is sin. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin. The lust having been conceived in the womb presses and pushes. So it can be expressed outwardly. And as a result, there's the the birth of this, frankly, a hideous, foul-looking child called sin. And then there's the third step, also in verse 15, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. The worst. After sin is born, when it is fully expressed, when it grows up, so to say, it brings forth death. serious stuff. This is very serious. It's the tragedy of where our lust leads us, death that demands we pay attention. Please pay attention to this This passage is not only a vindication of God, it is a cold-stark look at real human experience and misery. Ah, let's take the microscope look a little bit more closely here, the first step, which initializes the whole process. The first step is the lust. We already noted it's it's uh not every desire in life that is wrong, it is a wrongly placed kind of desire. James is not saying that it's wrong to have natural attraction to beautiful things or to h want to have some comfortable things in life or even to have some pleasures. Even ambition, if it's for the things of God and seeking the kingdom of God, can be a good I mean last night we were out walking around the backyard and showing Sue this plant, that plant, what I want to do. And there's this gorgeous orange sunset up over the hill and through the woods, there it was. It looks beautiful. You stop, take a moment, and make sure praise goes back to God for that, right? Who could not be denighted at a starry night or standing in the shadow of a massive mountain? You're just like, whoa, it's just a great feeling. It's given by God for that. Valentine's Day is coming up, in case you missed that fellas. You know, a nice little rose would be very nice this time of year. Dozen would be even better. And you look at those roses, those are beautiful things. Aren't they? Beautiful reminds you of your wife, right? Beautiful. Beautiful. It's only natural our eyes attracted to these things. That's how God Designed that. Lust, however, goes beyond a mere attraction. It goes beyond mere admiration. It involves strong desire for self. That's lust. It's an overriding desire. It controls our decision making. And it's a desire that cuts across the grain of what's good for our soul rather than pursuing what's healthy and good for our soul. soul was just gotta have that. Now we all show lusts in different ways, but we all have that indwelling lust. Some people show lust rousing through the mole Right? Some of you that's where it is. That's where you have to measure yourself by. As you get into the mall, the catalog, online, wherever you like to do it, there it is. It just keeps coming up again and again and again. excuse it, you say things like, Well, I just love shopping. Yeah, you love shopping 'cause you lust. That's what it is. You know uh same lust can be generated if you're not on your guard, you you look at your neighbor's home. We pull out of our home. We have a nice home. We drive down the road and there's a couple of these incredible mansions. Can you look at these mansions and say, you know I'm glad they have that home. I don't have to live in that home. Beautiful home. Why? It's a beautiful home. Boy, you better be careful right there. Might just be getting ready to step on over, you see. Fixate on it. Smell We got some cooks in my home. I don't know about you, smell good food. Is that fine to enjoy food? Smell good food? Is that good? Of course it is. When does it become a lust when it is I've got to, I've got to have it, right? Young people, lust is harmful to you. Young people, the Bible has specific warnings to you. concerning lust. Not because you're the only ones that can lust, but because young people tend to lust more. Now flee from youthful lusts. Those who don't say flee from old people lusts. You ever think about that? Youthful lusts. Gotta have it. And then it tells you when you flee from one thing, you better have something else to pursue or you'll go right back to it. So pursue righteousness. Start to learn to love righteousness. Pursue faith. Start to learn to love living a life of faith. Pursue love. Start loving other people. If you do those things, you won't go back to the lust. And peace. The power for overcoming lust is in Christ. Galatians five. Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Lust no longer has sway over the believer, even though it feels that We still have to cooperate with Christ. Romans 13, 14 commands, put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provisions for the flesh in regard to its lust. Why do we lust sometimes? Because we make huge gaping provisions for the lust. We don't run and flee. We sit in front of the thing we're not supposed to lust after. We sit in front of it. Now why do I lust after that? Ah, it's really beautiful. Why lost? Shark it back and get close Sorry, I don't know what that was. Did it fall off or something? It's okay. And just go and flee and run. Well that at least woke you up, didn't it? You're asleep. I don't know what happened there. I must have bumped it Just run. In other words, the the point is to nip it right in the butt. If you don't want it to grow, you don't want it to get worse, why wait and sit in front of it and just stare at it or consider it. Why not just run? So any strong passion that you have that's contrary to the will of God That's a lust. And it leads secondly to sin, right? After lust is conceived in the womb, it gives birth to sin. The word for sin is hamartia. You've heard of that before it means to miss the mark. We have a new dartboard. And we had to put not only the dartboard up, we had to put all this corkboard down below it. Because people shoot and it's whoo it misses the mark. It doesn't hit the target and that it's stuck in my drywall. That's how we are with God. We're just like, well this is how I'd like to live. No. And we missed the mark. And we do that. That's what sin is. In this verse, sin is not talking about uh the principle of sin in us, nor the sin nature. Here it's talking about the particular act of sin that lust produces. Lust leads to specific acts of sin. The inner desires, those inner cravings, when not abandoned, result in committing a sin. In fact, there's a definite connection there between lust and sin. The image of conception and childbirth tells us three things here. This is going to be gross, but just think about this. First, the only thing that the evil lust can produce in us is sin. Lust won't produce something else other than sin. It can't produce something beneficial. The baby that is going to be born from the womb with lust is sin. Lust won't produce a cute baby. Secondly, when there is lust, sin is inevitable. In other words, it's not just that what will be born is sin, but sin must be born. The conception of lust is already present, the damage is already done, you're already pregnant. It's just a matter of time before the lust turns into the sin. And then third, by implication, even while the lust waits outward expression, even before the actual sin, the act of sin is committed, the lust itself is still evil. Further on in James 4, he will write, What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you is not the source your pleasures which wage war in your bodily members. You lust and you do not have, so you commit Murder, and you are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. The connection is clear there. Lust leads only to sin, lust leads always to sin, and so lust itself is a wicked desire James could have given many other examples to show the connection between lust and sin. He could have started spelling this out, so let's do it a little bit. He could have said that too strong of a passion for your self-comfort will give birth to the sin of laziness And overconcerned with satisfying the belly or receiving comfort from food results in gluttony. A desire for a woman who's not your own leads to fornication or adultery. Now listen, listen to this. We've learned that lust and evil does not come from God. However, the judgment against sin does come from God. God did not cause Adam to sin in the beginning, but he did judge Adam with death after he sinned, and that's the third step, right? Death. Verse 15, when sin is fully accomplished, it brings forth death. Death What sense of death is James talking about here? Well, we know there's physical death, we know there's spiritual death, and when spiritual death is carried on into eternity, we call that eternal death, or the second death as the Bible describes it James doesn't really define which death, so probably he has all three aspects in mind, just death. Physical death is a picture of spiritual death, right? What happens to physical death? The spirit and soul of a man is separate from his body. So the spirit leaves the body. The body returns to the ground. The soul flies off to the Creator. Well, what happens in spiritual death? We're separate also. Separate from who? The one who's life, who's God's. God is life. He's the source of life, all kinds of life. So when we die, we're separate from God. That's spiritual death. And according to the book of Revelation, chapter twenty, verse fifteen, anyone who dies in the state of being spiritually dead is locked into that condition for eternity. Eternity. There is not a second chance after you die. What you are when you die is what you will be for eternity. That's why people who say, well, I want to wait to receive Christ to be saved and get eternal life. You're just gambling with eternal life. eternity. You will certainly face God's judgment, and there it's called the lake of fire, the second death. Romans 623 helps with this, right? For the wages of sin is death, right? But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. That death there is not talking about physical death because it's contrasted with spiritual life The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. There's the promise from the Scripture. You don't have to have death. You don't have to have it for eternity. God will give you life But how do you get that life? It's a free gift from God. How do you get eternal life? It's not something you work hard for, you could never work hard enough for it, you could never be good enough for it. It doesn't matter matter what you do, how many what kind of church you go to or what you do in church or how many times you take the Lord's Supper or whatever. It is a gift. A gift. You reach out a hand in humble, beggar-like faith and you say, Lord, I want the gift of eternal life, though I don't deserve it. Please give it unto me. And he gives it to you. But notice that you have to abandon your sin. You have to leave your sin behind because sin, if not repented of, leads to death, right? Have you repented from your sin? Have you repented? Have you said, I know I've been living a life of self-will, and I I've had some kind of a faith in God and in Christ and in the church, but I But I've been hanging on to this core rebellion. My life is my life, and I'm gonna live it the way I want. That is not saving faith. You have to let go of your life, lose your life, as Christ said, and you'll Find it. Repent from your sin. Repent from it. Push it away, and God will give you life. If you don't, you're headed to death. And it doesn't even matter if you're a member of this church. If you will not let go of your sin, you're headed to death. That's the point. The free gift of God is there for you, but you have to turn from your sin and you have to receive the free gift. That's what is involved in putting your faith in Jesus Christ, who is the Savior. Well, James has vindicated God, in my opinion, already, but he has more to say. He wants to show the goodness of God, and we'll get into that next time. But it really acts as the fourth vindication of God. But we're going to see that every good thing that there is comes from God. What a contrast to the way people think about God, right? Beloved, make sure you're dealing with your lust, because lust leads to sin. Sin leads to death, and we must repent of sin so we don't have death, so we can have life from God. Pray for yourselves. Be honest and Real yourselves. Warn people of that too. Sin is not to be trifled with. It's not loving to just let people continue to sin. You need to confirm them. If they'll listen, you need to confirm them. That's love. Be patient, be gentle, be kind in your tone. They're facing the wrath of God, though. Be urgent and earnest in the way you speak. Okay? Father, we want to just come into your presence again as we've been listening to your word. It's a powerful word, Father. We pray you minister to our hearts, to my heart. We'd all be genuine before you, Lord, that we'd have accountability, places to confess our sin, that we'd rely heavily on what a merciful, wonderful, merciful Savior we have who forgives all All our sins. So why do we hang on to them? Wash us and make us clean, Heavenly Father. Let these truths sink deep into our minds. And see how you can work more powerfully in our life than before. Because we are obedient to your word and do what its good advice tells us to do. Thank you for your abiding love toward us. Help us to remember that love this week. Pray it all in Christ's name. Amen.