Jesus said that he came into this world to give us life. That's a strange statement for people who are already living. But the life that he spoke of, he said, is a more abundant kind of life, an eternal life, a heavenly life, a life the way it was meant to be for humanity. However, as Christians, our experience of that more abundant life sometimes doesn't seem all that great. And that's because it depends on the vitality of our relationship to the Holy Spirit of God. Yes, it depends on our relationship to the Holy Spirit of God. Did you know the Holy Spirit is essential and vital to everything that we do as believers? He's called the Spirit of Life, and as the Spirit of Life, He brings us eternal life. As the Spirit of truth, he teaches us divine knowledge As the Spirit of Christ, He unites us to our Lord and Savior. As the Holy Spirit, he sanctifies our hearts. As the Spirit of the living God, he teaches us how to worship richly As the Spirit of your Father, he assures us of our adoption as sons into the family of God. As the Spirit of grace, he communicates the riches of God's forgiveness to us. Furthermore, the Holy Spirit is described as living water and as a fountain gushing up within our hearts and as a drink to satisfy our spiritual thirst. That sounds great on a hot day. Life as a Christian is considered to be life in the Spirit. The Bible says we heard the gospel preached to us by the Holy Spirit. 1 Peter 1:12. We confess Christ in the Holy Spirit, 1 John 4. 2. We pray in the Holy Spirit, Jude 20. We're sanctified by the work of the Spirit, according to 1 Peter 1. 2. That's why now for our fourth message, we are deepening our understanding of our relationship to the Holy Spirit. You may remember over our first two messages, we were studying what the Holy Spirit did in the pre-Pentecost era And also on the day of Pentecost. Last time in our third message, we began learning of what the Spirit is doing today. What is his work inside of us in the post-Pentecost era? We are post-Pentecost Pente Pentecost believers. That's right. That's your identity. That's who you are. You are a post-Pentecost believer. Tells us who we are, what God is doing within us during this present age. The Spirit of Jesus literally came rushing into the world in Jerusalem on the Jewish feast of Pentecost in the first century. And when he came, he ushered in a whole new age in God's dealings with mankind. Began with the baptism, the immersion with the Spirit, immersing believers into Christ, into the very body of Christ, placing us there. But, beloved, the baptism with the Holy Spirit was only the beginning. It was the initiation. It was the start, you see. That spirit baptism, like water baptism, immersed us into a whole new realm of living. In which the Holy Spirit ministers to our entire lives in ways I think that many of us don't even know. Now, today we're going to have a survey of all of these different ways, the post- The Spirit ministers to us in the post-Pentecost era. A lot of different ways. We only have time today for a survey, and I want us to look at a number of these features and for you just to be excited about How your relationship with God's Holy Spirit can grow. Now last time we began doing this actually. So you've missed the little smidgen of this. We talked about the filling of the spirit. You may remember back in Acts chapter 2 that it did not actually say in that text they were baptized in the Spirit. We surmise that from the related text. We put that together and saw yes They were baptized in the Spirit, but in Acts chapter 2 and verse 4 it says they were filled with the Holy Spirit, and they began speaking supernaturally in these other languages. We noted that kind of a filling with the Holy Spirit was a special filling. It came immediately, came suddenly, you have no real control over it. It was something God gave. It really didn't affect personal character, and so therefore it's not the kind of the filling of the Spirit that is ever commanded of believers. There is a kind of the fullness of the Holy Spirit that is commanded of you and me. And we're going to begin today by looking at that. We're going to turn not to Acts two as we have in the other Sundays. We're going to open up now, if you would, to Ephesians chapter 5. Paul's letter to the Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18. Please open there and follow along. Again, since this is a survey, I'm just going to read the verse, mention a few things about it, apply it, and then we're going to move on to another work of the Spirit. So hang in there, you're going to have a lot of note-taking. If you can't get it all in, there's always the CD, right? Alright, the first work of the Spirit in this age, beyond the baptism of the Spirit, that is, we're going to look at the fullness of the Spirit. That's number one, the fullness of the Spirit. Ephesians 5:18 says this And do not get drunk with wine. Now, by the way, that would include beer and everything else. For that is dissipation. Excessive living. But be what? Filled with the Spirit. And yes, that's talking about the Holy Spirit in this context And this is the only place in the New Testament where we're directly commanded to be full of the Spirit. And Paul here is using a different Greek word from the kind of filling we looked at last time. Pimplane was the verb from last time if you're interested in those things. This is pleyrao, Greek verb play rao. It's a different word. It describes more of a continuous fullness of the Holy Spirit, something that every single Christian should be experiencing In fact, I think the command is best translated this way: keep being full of the Holy Spirit. It's a present command. It indicates something is to be ongoing. So it's not describing that sudden filling that comes and goes. Rather, it describes a permeating influence of the Holy Spirit. You might think of yourself as a sponge And some water's in it, and now needs to just spread throughout the sponge, and you are to be permeated and filled with the Spirit in that way Now this same Greek word group, if you want some samples of this used elsewhere, is used in Acts chapter 6 and verse 3. Just listen to it. It says there, the apostles told the congregation of the people to choose seven men. And they were to be men, quote, of good reputation, full of the Spirit, there's that term full, and full of wisdom. And they were to serve the congregation under the apostles. Some think they were sort of uh a precursor to the role of deacon. Being full of the Spirit, being full of wisdom are descriptions of their character, not a sudden rush where they then spoke with something. In Acts chapter 13 and verse 52, the same verb is used. It says the disciples were continually filled. Listen With joy, that's a character trait you see, and with the Holy Spirit. It was continual, there was an ongoing fullness Same as Ephesians 5, 18. One who is full of the Holy Spirit, then, as Paul is commanding here, and as illustrated in those verses in Acts, means that they are reflecting, listen, reflecting the character of Jesus Christ to others. You are looking and sounding and smelling, if you would, more and more like Jesus Christ. People look at you, they see Christ in you. You're full of the Spirit. You got it? That's what it is A person full of the Spirit is characterized by the Spirit of Jesus Christ. Now notice that the filling of the Holy Spirit is something that is in sharp contrast with something else in that verse. What is it? Drunkenness. Drunkenness. The word Allah translated but that represents a strong contrast in the Greek. The contrast is really between two states of being. He says, Don't be this way, but be this way. The state of being drunk with wine that's going to dull your senses, make you act foolishly. If you look at the verses prior to that, it talks about being full of the wisdom of God and knowing his will So if you if you're drunk, you're you're foolish, if you're controlled by some substance, controlled by something in your flesh, you act in a foolish way, dulls your senses, and indeed you become increasingly weak and subject to slavery to whatever that is That can include drugs and other things, but even just any kind of sin of the flesh. And that's contrasted with the state, this continuous full state of being full of the Spirit What's that going to do? That's going to sharpen your spiritual insight. That's going to give you happiness and joy that lasts. Doesn't tease you for a while and then leave you with a headache. It's going to give you a continuous joy. Remember in uh in Acts chapter 2 they were not only filled the one way, I think they were filled the other way because uh he said, Well these people are all drunk, something's going on with them, they're filled with sweet wine. Peter said, No, this is the Spirit of God, the influence of us in our life We need to get drunk. You see Christians get together, they're having a good time, other people look in and say, What have they been drinking? They haven't been drinking anything except the Spirit of God. That's it Because the Spirit of God gives us happiness and joy. We can look giddy even at times. Yes, we can. We can look happy and joyful and full of the Spirit of God. A richness of life that we are to experience. You see, verse 18 is much more than a command, it is an invitation. An invitation to what? A better way of living. Who would pass up that invitation? Who would do that? I think all of that should make us want to ask, how can I truly be filled with the Spirit? Well, we noted before that the verb be filled is in the present tense. I want you to notice now that it is a passive verb. My how grammar helps. It's wonderful. This is not an active verb. We can't fill ourselves. Paul is not telling us to fill ourselves. He's saying, let yourself be filled. Let yourself become full. Who's doing the filling? God Right? God, the Holy Spirit wants to saturate you, but we're the ones who need to be saturated. In fact, both verbs in verse 18 are in the passage: don't give yourself to drunkenness, don't let it take you over. Don't let it have control, but give yourself to being filled with the Spirit. Let the Spirit of God permeate your thinking, your life, your everything. So this is a command, really, about yielding. Out on the roadways we see the yield sign. It's yellow, it's there, it says yield. Most of us obey that, right? Give way Let the other person have the right of the way. Who are we to be yielding to? Spirit of God. Spirit of God wants to change you. He wants to have his way in your life. He wants to do something in you. You're not To resist him. Doesn't matter how hard or how strange it is that God is trying to do in your life, you cooperate with him. He knows what he's doing. He's been doing it a long, long time. He knows how to make your life happy. He knows how to take you through what you need to be. Doing. Whatever it is. Whatever age you're in, whatever circumstance you're in, you already yield yourself. Psalm 32 warns against being stubborn and not being teachable Being like the horse that has to be led about, don't be that way. Be teachable in your spirit. Be humble. Never, never attempt to replace the fullness of the spirit with something like drunkenness or other worldly pleasures. They're only going to destroy you and weaken you. Notice that though the verb is passive, the responsibility is put not on God but on who? On us. We have to open ourselves to God. We have to yield to Him. All week long you have influences working against the fullness of the Spirit in your life. Did you know that? All week long, from probably even sitting here as you're thinking about things or things operating right now in your mind to make you distracted, to make you lazy, to discourage you, to make you not want to believe that it's true, to not trust God. There are worldly influences working on you when you're out in the hallway. Unfortunately we believers aren't perfect either in some of the things we share in one another in conversations are not good advice and it works against the fullness of the Spirit. You walk out of here, by the time you plop down on the sofa at home, already influences are working against you. You have to cooperate You have to want to be full of the Spirit of God. You have to say, Lord, I need you in a deeper way in my life, you see. But I tell you, if you put your sail up, you hoist your sail of your life, so to say, up, the wind of the Spirit of God will catch that and will move you in the direction that God wants to take you. Peaceful fruit of righteousness. Well, being full of the Spirit is similar to what Paul also described in another letter, a second work of the Spirit, this is number two, and that is walking in the Spirit. If you turn Just back one book to the book of Galatians, chapter 5 and verse 16. Galatians 5, 16, walking in the Spirit. Galatians 5 16 says, But I say, walk by or in the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. The flesh will set its desire against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please. But if you are led by the spirit, you are not under the law. Then he goes on to describe the deeds of the flesh, and all the way down to verse twenty-four it says, Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with his passions and desires. And it talks about living by the Spirit and walking by the Spirit. Verse 16, though, is the one I want to focus on. It says here we are to walk by the Spirit. You take a walk at the beach sometime this summer, you're going to walk along. How do you take a walk? There's only one way to take a walk, and that's what Step by step by step. So in you can't run ahead of what the Spirit of God is going to want to do. You can't get zapped and take a giant leap here. You have to take step by step by step The Spirit of God wants you to walk hand in hand with Him, and He's going to take you through life. He's going to show you how to live. We're not to veer to the left or veer to the right. We are to follow what the Spirit of God wants. We're to cooperate with Him. Notice that this verse, this command, has a special promise in it. Did you see it? It says: if you walk by the power of the Spirit, you will not carry out the desire of what? The flesh, the sinful flesh, right? Have you ever been surprised that you had a quiet time with the Lord in the morning where you you you got your mind immersed in something wonderful and then Just a few hours later, maybe by noon or the afternoon, already your attitude is soured, and you wonder why did that happen? I had such a good time of prayer and reading the word in the morning. You don't have to answer that out loud. I know the answer to that question. How about this? Have you ever been uh surprised that shortly after a worship service where you were singing in the Spirit and you were filled with thoughts of God, you go home and There you are, yeah, you plopped down on the sofa, you're doing something else at home, you bumped into somebody, and that worshipful attitude that you had, it's evaporated. Or if you ever started out to serve the Lord in some ministry and you had a lot of enthusiasm and God was motivating you to do this ministry, and then only over time That humble attitude of gratefulness to serve God had turned sour. Listen, God is not after just your morning devotion time. God is not after simply your time of worshiping Him in a worship service. God is not after any part of your life. He's not after just your religious part of life. He's after all of you. He wants all of you He wants you to open up your life to every part of him. Give up everything that you're clinging on to. Let him be the Lord of every part of your life. There is a need in the Christian life to surrender every single moment, hourly, to the Spirit of God. That's the Christian life. That's how you live it. You wake up and you fix your mind on the things of God and you say no to the flesh, and you ask the Spirit of God to empower you, and you say, This day, I'm going to walk by the Spirit, and you say the same thing the next hour and the next hour and you you continue to filter things in your mind through your understanding of scripture and you walk by the Spirit of God. I believe the key to being energized in the Christian life is not to go out and seek some strange experience so you can be zapped and all of a sudden You're going to be on a plateau and there's no longer going to be any climbing in life and no struggle. That's not the Christian life. The Christian life is learning to give up yourself day by day, hour by hour, and live with God A constant reliance upon Almighty God and the work of His Spirit in your heart. Unfortunately, we get stubborn, don't we? We get stubborn. Too many Christians resist the Spirit of God There's like an inner voice, you don't hear the sound of it, but it's bringing the truth of Scripture to your conscience and reminding you of what the Scripture says, and He's telling you how to live and what to do and how to give yourself, but you're resisting inside. You don't want to do it. You just let it drift away. Or other times you're so rebellious you just even have the gall to tell God, no, I'm not doing it. Of course, God's not going to work in your life like that. You're saying no to the Spirit of God. You're making him sad. You're quenching his work. He can't work in that environment. He won't work in that environment. He refuses. He will not follow you. You have to follow him. So many say they're reliant on God, but you know what they do? They go through life and they depend on their personality and their education. and their intelligence to how and their experience and they're just going through life and I know how to do these things and they're not relying on the Spirit of God Many are busy even with church things, but they're prayerless. There's no real commitment to prayer, and you can tell they're not full of the Spirit and walking by the Spirit. They're active, but they're anxious in heart They're outwardly very religious, inwardly quite worldly, tackling life's problems their own way. Listen, if that's you, you're out of step with the Spirit of God in your life. You're out of step. The sad result of that is a weak spiritual life, and when there's accumulation of those in the church, it's a weak church, and it's quite ineffective However, walking and step with the Spirit also results in something wonderful in this passage. This is where the fruit of the Spirit is listed. Looked at verse twenty-two. The fruit of the Spirit is what? Love Well, you see genuine love, there the Spirit of God is working, and joy. If you have joy in your life, and peace, and patience, and kindness, and goodness, and faithfulness, and gentleness, and self-control. You don't even have to make a law against those things because they're so wonderful, Paul says. He puts love in our heart, he he gives us an immense joy, he calms our mind in our heart, he trains our tongue to be kind. He impresses upon us the faithfulness that when we promise to do something, we'll keep our word. He gives us the impetus for self-control. Romans 5. 5 says, the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has given us. If we demonstrate that kind of love, joy, peace, patience, we're going to be the kind of a congregation and a church that other people want to be around. Do you know that? It'll be attractive. You want to know where the power of God will be at work? Well, we just need to get more bold in our evangelism. Yes, we do need to get more bold in our evangelism, but you know something? We need to live the Christian life for others to see it We tell other people it's a more abundant life and they come in here and it's like, don't look something more abundant. Sort of nullifies what we say. Alright, the baptism of the Spirit. With the baptism with the Spirit comes the possibility of the fullness of the Spirit and walking by the Spirit. But beloved, there's so much more. Third, there's the indwelling of the Spirit. Third, the indwelling of the Spirit. Here we're going to turn to 1 Corinthians. Just back up again a couple more books. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 19. You have to go quickly and keep up with me this morning now. Again, in Acts 2, the indwelling of the Spirit was not directly stated, but the other scriptures make it clear that a permanent indwelling occurred on that day and continues throughout this age. All Christians are indwelt with the Spirit. I'll just read you Romans 8-9 while you're turning to 1 Corinthians Romans 8. 9, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. Every Christian has a spirit You don't sense the Spirit of God working in your life. You don't even belong to Christ. You're not even one of his children. You're not saved yet. You're not part of the kingdom. You're not a Christian. There are a lot of church people these days who don't have the Spirit of Jesus in them. They're not born again, but they think they are. But I tell you, once you give up your life, you reject your life, it's no good, you accept a new life from Christ. You're born again by the Spirit immediately, whether you felt it or not, the Spirit of God came to make your body His home. He dwells there, He remains there, He lives there. Inside of you. In 1 John 4, 13, it says, By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. Keeping with Jesus' promise in John 14, 17, it says the Spirit did not come just to be with us, but to actually indwell. Or do you not know, he's chastising the uh Corinthian believers, do you not know that your body is a temple? of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God. It's a gift And you are not your own. You don't belong to you. You have been bought with a price. What's the conclusion? Therefore what? Glorify God in your body. Glorify God in your body. Well, it completes our relationship with God. We are in Him through the baptism of the Spirit, placed in Him. And now he is in us through the indwelling spirit. Under the old covenant, God dwelled in the tabernacle that was portable and moved about with the people of Israel. And then when it became permanent in the city of David in Jerusalem, God came physically, spiritually, but his spiritual presence I mean, came there to to be in that temple. So much so if someone came into that temple in the wrong way, they were struck dead. God was there. Yes, God is everywhere, but in some special way, God was in that temple. And the Ark of the Covenant between the on the mercy seat, between the cherubim, that's where God lived and dwelled, and if the people wanted to meet with God, that's where he was. And he trained them and taught them that way. The New Testament dispensation, God lives in the hearts of believers, Jews or Christi or Christians, Jew or Gentile. All are Christians, followers of Christ. This is an improvement from the Old Testament dispensation, a great improvement. Millard Ericsson in his Christian theology writes this. Jesus had been a teacher and a leader, but his influence was that of external word and example. The Spirit, however, is able to affect one more intensely because dwelling within He can get to the very center of one's thinking and emotion. You can't help but be moved by the fact that you are a walking temple of the Holy Spirit. If that doesn't grip you, I don't think you've understood it yet. That is just an amazing thought. Individually, God lives in my life and in your life. Collectively, he indwells a church It's just amazing. Jesus said in John fourteen, twenty-three, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him. And we will come to him and make, listen, make our abode with him Father, Son, Holy Spirit living inside me. That is a most humbling thought This guy here is often unfaithful to God, with plenty of sins in his background, and I'm sure plenty more in the future. God chose to live and dwell in me. Is that the definition of the grace of God or what? What about you? But I tell you, that's more than uh humbling, it's also extremely encouraging to me. God says he's going to be with me forever, but even more than that, in me. What a joy I have in that. But what Paul is emphasizing here in 1 Corinthians 6 is that it ought to challenge us It ought to hold us accountable when we realize that. He says your bodies are to be free of sexual immorality. Look back up at Verse 18, flee immorality. Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body, but the immoral man sins against his own body. Don't you know your body is a temple? Sexual immorality with a body where the Holy Spirit lives. People say, you know, it's my body, I can do with it whatever I want to. I say, no, it's not. That's not your body. God made that body. You don't have any right to live your life the way you want to. Your Maker gave you that body and He commanded you how to live in it. And even more for a believer, you're not only made by God You've been bought by the blood of Christ and He owns you. You are under obligation to obey Him in your body. Do you understand? It's not my command, it's God's command. He owns you. Think about your life as a house, this might help. The Holy Spirit's in your house, right? But with many of you, you just treat him like he's a guest in the living room. Oh, come in here and sit here. It's the clean room in the house, you know, it's where you bring people He wants not just to be in the living room. He wants full reign of your house. Is he in your dining room where you're nourished by him and his words? Have you invited them into the study where you do your most careful thinking? How about the garage where you work hard on things and fix things? Maybe the patio where you sit and you relax. The family room, where you enjoy others and develop relationships with others. Yes, even the bedroom, the most intimate place You are a temple of the living God. He is to have reign of every part of your house, your heart In 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 16, it says that we collectively are a temple as well. That has tremendous implications for local churches, does it not? I wonder if if churches understood that they were a temple of God, that they would do some of the things that we see them doing these days. I wonder. I really wonder Yes, church is to be a place to forgive sinners and welcome sinners to Christ, but it is to be much more. It is a place to discipline us in holiness. That we would live for God to train us by grace to live godly and sensibly in the present age, so says Titus 2. 12. That's where we have to part ways with secret churches and what they're doing in their churches these days, beloved. They've turned a church into a haven for sin, many of them. There is no church discipline. They can't even forthrightly talk about sin. Rather than a temple for God, it's a haven for sin. It's become filled with disobedient people in the name of evangelism. How do you fill a church with disobedient people and say you're being obedient to God? I don't understand that. In a temple, the focus is upon God. The life to be lived is for God. And it's his character, his holiness that we emulate. The secret churches, the focus is on man. How do you feel? How can we make you feel at home and not feel condemned? A church like that, I think the Spirit of God feels more out of place than the seekers do. They're quenching and grieving his supernatural work to convict sinners and draw them to him. Well, that's indwelling. Let's move on. Closely related to indwelling is what's called the sealing of the Holy Spirit. This is something not understood very well by people. Come forward a couple of books. We jumped over there. Ephesians chapter 1. And verses thirteen and fourteen. Ephesians one, thirteen and fourteen. This feeling of the Holy Spirit It says in verse thirteen, In him, you also he's talking about the Gentiles, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed So they've heard the gospel, they believed, and then it says, you were, and here it is, sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise. And then the imagery is added to in verse 14. Who, that is the Spirit, is given as a pledge of our inheritance. You don't have all your inheritance yet. He's given us a pledge of that. With a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. In other words, the Spirit of God received and indwelling in us is the seal, God's stamp or seal on our lives. You see? And it guarantees us we're going to get a future inheritance. In verse 14, the spirit is a pledge. That's an arrowbone, a guarantee, a down payment. It was both a legal term and a commercial term in common Koine Greek. A down payment means that it pays a part of the purchase price in advance and so secures a legal claim to the article in question. Where it makes uh a contract valid, obligating the contracting party to make further payments. That's what God has done. He's given you the down payment. What's the down payment? The Holy Spirit in you. What does that guarantee you? You're going to get the whole thing You're going to get the whole inheritance that you haven't seen yet. In first Peter chapter one it says our full inheritance is reserved in heaven for us. We don't see it yet. We don't even have it all yet. But we have the guarantee that we're going to get it. That guarantee is the sealing of the Spirit of God. You see that John Walbert in his book The Holy Spirit says the presence of the Holy Spirit not only brings all assurance of God's constant care and ministry in this life, but the unfailing purpose of God to fulfill All his promises to us. If you're a believer in Christ, you need to rest assured that because you have the Spirit of God in you now, you have God's guarantee. You know, God has made guarantees before. He put a rainbow in the sky and he promised what? Never to flood the earth. You know, we were weren't too sure about that last week. Never never to flood the earth, the whole earth in the same way. Because he kept that promise. Because he has. He's put the Holy Spirit in your heart. What promises he given you? You have a rich inheritance. You're rich people. You just don't have all your money yet. So the secret people, uh excuse me, not the seeker people, but the the word faith people, they want you to name it, claim it right now. You should be rich right now. Well you are rich in the spirit right now, but the the riches of this present world are passing away. That's not rich. He's giving you a greater, greater inheritance that that's eternal And so you are rich. You still have to wait, but you have to guarantee that you're going to get it. You're stamped with God's mark of ownership. That is the ceiling of the Spirit as he put his heart within you. I don't know any warranty or sworn affidavit on earth that would give us as great a guarantee of that treasure. Do you? When you think about the sealing of the Spirit and try to personalize that, really it encourages us to continue to hope in God for the future, right? Listen to Hebrews 10. 23. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised us what? Faithful. There it is. Don't waver. Don't quit. Don't give up. Don't stop believing. Don't turn back. Don't slow down. Keep your hope firm. He's faithful. I think it also brings us a sense of safety and security. I'm sealed God sealed me. I'm pretty protected. Boom, there I am stamped, protected. I'm safe with God. You don't have to worry about did I commit the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit? Some believers worry about. Did I commit that sin? Can't. You're sealed. You're owned. You're guaranteed already. You're a believer. It's impossible with you. You're safe. You have the permanent indwelling of the Spirit of God. This is in Romans 8. 11. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, then he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal body through his spirit dwells in. You're saved in the soul, your body's going to be raised to everlasting life as well. Same spirit who raised Jesus from the dead lives in you. What he did to Jesus, he'll do for you. It's that simple. Alright, fifth, the anointing and the teaching ministry of the Spirit. They go hand in hand. The anointing and teaching ministry of the Holy Spirit. Now you have to turn to 1 John. We'll get out of Paul a little and come over to 1 John. Chapter 2, verse 27. Actually, a large chunk of chapter 2 in 1 John is about the anointing, but I want to highlight verse 27 for you. 1 John 2, 27. There he's talking to believers, and he says, As for you, the anointing which you receive from him abides or remains where? In you. And you have no need for anyone to teach you. Now don't get up and leave just yet. You say, hang on, I'll explain that. You have no need for anyone to teach you, but as his anointing teaches you about all things and his It is true and is not a lie, and just as it has taught you, you abide in him. This is exciting. I have to fly through this. I hope you can just get understanding this. What is this anointing and teaching of the Spirit? Well, there's some characteristics about it here in this one verse. First, and the most obvious characteristic about it is that it teaches. Not only does it teach, but it teaches so effectively that those who learn from it will be safeguarded from all erroneous doctrine as the surrounding context tells us It even tells us and teaches us about all things, verse 27 says. That's all things pertaining to God in the Christian life. I'd say that's a pretty good teacher The second characteristic about the anointing is that it's true, it's not a lie. His anointing teaches you about all things and is true and is not a lie. In other words, you can depend on this anointing The third characteristic is that this anointing was received at some time in the past. It says the anointing which you receive past hence from him And then fourth, it says, this is anointing from the Holy One. So it's from God Himself. Anointing from the Holy One. And that's also from the context. All of that tells us this anointing is the coming of the Holy Spirit in our lives The Spirit is called the Spirit of Truth in John's Gospel. In John 14, we are told that he was sent to teach the disciples. We're also told the Holy Spirit is holy, of course. And we're also told that we received him, so that description perfectly fits the Spirit of God. Our receiving the Spirit was our holy anointing. Now this term anointing is a very significant word, I think. It is the Greek noun charisma, which is associated with the Greek verb kreo to anoint And very significantly, it's also related to the word translated Christ, which means the anointed one, the one whom God has anointed. Jesus, the Christos, is the one who has given us the charisma, the anointing. And he is the Spirit. Pentecost is where the church was formed and where the church was anointed with the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit instantly became the divine teacher in Jesus' absence, who had been their teacher up to that point in time. In Acts 2. 33, when Peter was describing the day of Pentecost, he said, Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured forth this That's a description of baptism, but also of pouring out like pouring out of oil, the anointing of oil in the Old Testament of priests and prophets and kings. So there's the description of the anointing. In 2 Corinthians, write this down. 2 Corinthians 1, verse 21, it says, God anointed us, past tense, and sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts. There it is. The anointing is the Spirit. We all have been given the Spirit of God as our teacher to guard us from error, and that is all we need, and it's a precious anointing indeed. How does the Spirit teaches us? How does our anointing work? Is there a voice of the Holy Spirit that comes to us apart from scriptures that tells us we don't need any other kind of a teacher? The answer to that question is definitely no It should be obvious to everyone that John himself was teaching the believers whom he was writing to in this very letter. He was acting as a teacher to them. The Holy Spirit himself specifically chooses certain men to teach and bestows upon them the gift of teaching. So says 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 28. The Holy Spirit gives that gift to teach, obviously. Well then what does John mean when it says, you have no need for anyone to teach you? Well, that means teach you outside of the way the Spirit teaches you. How does the Spirit teach us? Well, there's nothing mystical about this anointing in this context If you look around the context, look back at verse twenty-four, for example. It says, Let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. The anointing involves words that they had heard and were taught to them from the beginning by who? By the ones who knew, the ones who saw Christ. Those were the apostles In other words, this is talking about the teaching of the apostles that the Holy Spirit taught them, and now the apostles teach us today. I want to ask you a question: where does the teaching of the apostles come to us today? Only one place where? The New Testament. That's it. New Testament is the teaching of the apostles to us today So when you are hearing Scripture, you're hearing it preached this morning, you're hearing, as long as we're accurate to the text and faithful to the text You are hearing the words of the Holy Spirit. You are being taught by your anointing. And that teaching, ministry of the Spirit, working through His Word, as all of 1 John shows. That's all that we need. We don't need any Gnostic experience as they were being tempted with back in the first century, something outside of the teaching of the apostles. We don't need psychology. We don't need anything else We don't need anything else because we've been given an all-sufficient anointing teacher in the church. We have everything that we need to know. All of doctrine, life, and godliness, it's all in the Word of God. It's there already. And if it's not there, we didn't need to know it. 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scriptures inspired by God, right? What does that mean? It means it's the breath of God. It comes from his mouth. It's his word. It's his anointing. 2 Peter 1:21, no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will. It doesn't come from people, it's not their opinion. He's talking about the Old Testament here. But men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Then it's it's his speech to us. See? That early spirit-filled church, as we're going to learn starting next week in Acts 2. 42, they dedicated themselves not to some voice of the Holy Spirit. in their hearts, but to the voice of the Holy Spirit through the apostles. And there is a major difference between the two. We teachers just take the written voice of the Spirit and exposit it, open up its meaning, so you can understand it and apply it You are being taught the words of the Spirit of God this morning. A sixth ministry of the Holy Spirit. It doesn't let up, does it? A sixth ministry of the Holy Spirit, and just briefly, is the sanctification by the Spirit. We are also sanctified by the Spirit. Would you turn to Romans 8 a moment? Back to Romans. Romans 8. Well, I guess pass 1 Corinthians where we were. In Romans 8, 12 and 13, we have an amazing statement. He says, So then, brethren, we are under obligation not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. Verse 13 of Romans 8, for if you are living according to the flesh, you must die. But, listen, if by the Spirit, that is by the energy and power and teaching and ministry of the Spirit, if by the Spirit You are putting to death the deeds of the body, that is the sinful aspect of the body. Then you will live. You're living according to the sinful way, you're going to die, that's going to lead to eternal death. That's where that's heading. But if by the power and the ministry of the Holy Spirit in your life you are to process putting to death the deeds of the flesh, you're going to live eternally. In 1 Peter 1, 2, it also mentions the sanctifying work of the Spirit. That word sanctify, that's the verb hagiasmo. It's a beautiful word. The primary idea of sanctification is separation unto God. At home, you might have something that's very special to you, and you've set it apart to yourself. God has things that are special to him and he sets them apart to himself. Objects in the temple were set apart for him, they were sanctified, they were holy to him. Certain days in the calendar were holy to God, they were to be lived in a certain way God says he's taken you and he's sanctified you to himself. He's set you apart to himself. So there's really two senses in which sanctification is talked about in scripture. One is a positional sense in which he's already sanctified us. He already, the time we believed in Christ, set us apart from him. We're now his. We belong to him. We're even called by saints. Even the Corinthians with all their sin were said that they were sanctified in that sense. And we're saints by calling. But the sense in which we normally think about it is a process where day by day and year by year God is teaching us through his Spirit to shed the old man and to put on the new practices of Christ. That's a process. It takes time. The Spirit of God works with us. He's patient. 1 Thessalonians 4:3 alludes to this. This is the will of God, your sanctification. That is, that you abstain from sexual immorality. Romans 6. 19 also describes our part in the process. For just as you used to present your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, resulting in further lawlessness, So now present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. Sanctification by the Spirit is to affect all of us. We don't have time to get into this. It's to affect your mind, the way you think about your world, your life, your relationships, and everything. It's to be guided by God. It affects your will. You should learn to desire to do the will of God in your life, hate sin. It affects your emotions. That's what the joy of the Lord is about, and peace is all about. There's so many cheap thrills, don't you agree? So many cheap thrills that our hearts get entangled in. And we just we think that, oh, that's going to be the great thing. Particularly when we're younger. We think all these cheap thrills, all these cheap thrills, are exciting to our soul, and God has something that's so much more fulfilling. He wants to sanctify our minds and our wills and our emotions. This is where the leading of the Spirit is about. Quincy's talking about this in his class What does the Spirit of God lead you into? It's not a mystical leading where you try to figure out who to marry or where to get a job or where to go to school. He's leading you into Christ-like character. How can you tell if someone's being led and sanctified by the Spirit? It's very simple. He's looking more and more like Christ. It goes back to the fullness of the Spirit again, doesn't it? He's looking more and more like Christ. Alright, seventh and last, we are also gifted by the Spirit. You could also put in here equipped by the Spirit, equipped for ministry and service and work And this is in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. 1 Corinthians 12, verses 4 through 7. We're just going to highlight what spiritual gifts are for you so you can understand how the Spirit of God uses this. In 1 Corinthians 12, 4 through 7, Paul says, Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit, and there are varieties of ministries. And the same Lord. There are varieties of effects, but the same God who works all things in all persons. But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit For the common good. That is for the building up of the body of Christ. Well, there are four words for spiritual gifts in that context, and they're all talking about the same thing Look at verse 3, 1 Corinthians 12, verse 3. What is it called spiritual gifts? Well, the first word is gifts, the word charisma Clearly tells us gifts are given by God. They're not earned, they're not deserved. They're given freely by a gracious God, like salvation itself. That term charismaus where the charismatic churches derive their name, a charismatic is one who's been gifted by God's grace. Beloved, in that sense, everyone in here is charismatic. Everyone, because we've all, there's no such thing as a Christian that hasn't been gifted by God's grace. The second descriptive word telling us about spiritual gifts is in verse 5. Deacon, we get our word deacon from that. A deacon is a servant, ministries, services. The term refers to what we do on the behalf of other people and serving them, particularly in the body of Christ It shows that spiritual gifts are given to create ministries and services for other people. When you hear Alan and me talking about how much we want to improve and deepen and expand our ministries, it's because That's what the Spirit of God wants us to do. That's why He gifted us so we would minister. See? He gave us gifts so we would minister. And then there's a third descriptive word in verse 6. It's the word effects. And our gamatamatone. This actually refers to the working of the thing itself. It refers to what the gift actually accomplishes. This shows that spiritual gifts do work. They accomplish something. They energetically work out divine accomplishments. They do the work of Christ. Spiritual gifts are not human talents or human abilities. They are supernatural. They require divine energy. And the result of the working of our gifts is that God becomes at work among us. And then the last word is in verse seven. It's the word manifestations, phonorosis. That just means it's revealed. It's made clear, plain, or evident, it's seen. This word tells us that spiritual gifts are meant to be on display. They are not talents that are to be buried. They are gifts that are to be used and seen. The Spirit of God Himself is seen in what we do. Christ is seen when we exercise our gifts. See, we're the body of Christ. This shows that The Spirit wants to use these gifts to glorify Christ. People see your good works and they glorify who? The Father who's in heaven, right? We have so many needs in our church, so many areas where, particularly those of you that are newer, if you're wanting to get involved, you need to keep, you know, keep saying, where can I get involved? Where can I help? This is what I want to do because we need you We need you to do so many different things. We want to find the right ministry for you. What are you gifted in? How could God use you? You say, I don't know. We'll help you find that out You have been gifted. Every one of you have been gifted probably with some unique combination of gifts that God wants you to have and to use in ministry and service in the church. To build up the church. That's what spiritual gifts are. I just I feel like I should have been preaching a ten-part message from all of this this stuff. What the Spirit of God does for us individually and for us corporately. You can't even get your arms around it. It's so vast, it's so all-consuming. You might ask, what does the Spirit of God not do for the church? He teaches us, He indwells us, He corrects us when we need to. Even is said in Romans 8. 26 to enhance our prayers, to intercede for us. Acts 9. 31 says the Spirit of God comforts us when we're hurting. He's equipped us. He's sealed us for eternity so we have hope. The only question that remains is how are you going to respond to the ministry of the Holy Spirit in your life? How are you going to respond? Will you let Him fill you? Will you choose to walk with him day by day? Will you live in the temple of the Holy Spirit? Hope in your future inheritance through the pledge of the Spirit? Be willing to be taught by the Spirit of God. Get rid of your ideas and let God teach you. Be continuously sanctified. Use your gifts and service. In my dining room, there's a picture of an eagle soaring high above the mountains, its wings outstretched, and the wind just getting underneath the feathers, and he looks like he's having a good time. Ever dreamed of being a bird before? I think there's a way in which we can be birds. Soaring eagles indeed. We have to learn to let God have his way, to stretch out our wings, so to say. Say, God, undergird me, strengthen me, show me the greater power and fullness. Of what your Holy Spirit can do in my life. Don't think the way you've been living up till now is all there is. Be like that eagle. Spread your wings. Soar high. Even in tough times. See what God can do in your life. He's got great power. Great power. Great energy. We need his energy. We need his energy in every way. We need to learn to depend on his energy