I am thankful for an opportunity to just lead the discussion that we have today, continuing in the theme of a survey of apologetics, really with a mind towards What does our study of apologetics mean for our lives as believers? And not separating those two things. So before we get started, I'd like to ask the Lord just to bless our time and then we can sort of jump in. So A couple things just by way of reminder. My interest in us in these discussions, in learning together, is really a heart and a mind towards worship. It is one where we come together that we would study the Word, we would understand the Lord more, and that we would worship Him. And so this is a part of our worship together. The reason that I like to start with that, and you'll find that I end with that and I keep touching on that point, is because Um what we do not want to do is make an academic study of something that we walk away from and that we don't find that it impacts our lives. Particularly when we are talking about something that relates to the truth of Scripture and just the volume of evidence as to why Scripture is true. And then what does that mean for our lives? You cannot separate those things and you must not. So as we go through the discussion, what we are doing is having we're having a look at why Not only is God's word true, but because it's true, well what what then is the impact on our lives? Like how how are we going to respond to that So you should all have notes in front of you. Thank you to Jeff and Colleen for helping with the notes and printing. These are notes that Scott has worked diligently on. diligently on and we are going to sort of we're going to work our way through them in a logical way. As we're doing that, I I just want you to have this sort of exactly what I was just saying, right? We have the truth of scripture. We have a remarkable amount of evidence as to why scripture is true How then should we live? And this all comes under the idea of, well, how should we live anyway? Because that in many ways is the initial question that we all start with. Whether you're a believer or actually you're not a believer, that is the question that you start with. You always ask that question of how should I live? What should I do? What is the authority in my life. And actually to that end, I'm going to go back into um, Doug, I was going to do this to you, but I'm not going to do this to you, so don't worry. I'm actually going to go back into a little bit of a definition. So a few of us were in class last year and we had to go through and just learn definitions in a really discrete way. And there's something that I wanted to pull out because it came into mind. When we have something that we take as the absolute authority and we want to define that for people's lives, we define that as the highest authority in life. that cannot be appealed against by a higher authority. So I'm going to say it again. Absolute authority is the highest authority in life that cannot be appealed against by a higher authority. That is the maximum authority under which everything else comes. And for those of us that call in the name of Jesus as Lord and Savior, we would say that that is Wing Drew. Doug. He said Wayne Grudom because that's who gave us the definition of this. No, Doug. It is God. Can you say the highest authority? Yes, and I will and I will also I'll also write it out. It's the highest authority in life that cannot be appealed against by a higher authority. That definition is from Grutum's systematic theology. That's why if Doug's making that joke. It's God as revealed to us through Scripture. Closed. So in our lives we go to Scripture Because we know that is how God has revealed Himself, and that's the highest authority that we appeal to. And when I say appeal to, what I mean is, as you're living your daily life, you want to know What should I do here? What is my priority? What promises can I trust in? What is true? What is not true? Why do I feel this way? Take any aspect of your life And it falls under the authority of Scripture. And not only does it fall under the authority of Scripture, it falls under what I would tell you is all the attributes of who God is that we can trust in. God is loving, God is holy, God is righteous. All those things we trust to be true. Why do we start our conversation that? Because when we're talking about why scripture is true, why there's a lot of evidence for it The natural consequence of that is, if all of this is true, then I need to go to the Word. And Lord, I need to go to you Because you're the one I want to live this life with. And I don't want to live it separately from you. Because honestly, that's what we do, right? We live I'm sorry, I'm not going to use this term. I I mean it we live schizophrenic lives. There's probably a better way to say it, but we live lives where we want to claim one thing, but then we act a different way, and then we want to claim a different thing, and then we try to jumble it all together. And The maturing Christian is one who recognizes, Lord, it's to you I want to come. Lord, it's to you I want to yield. And so that is the heart of this conversation. So, if you look at the beginning of introduction, you'll see under the header illumination. In simplest terms, illumination is turning on the lights. Now, this was in the notes last week, and Scott touched on it some. But then I just want to, we're going to start there again. For us to get in touch with reality, and if you remember that idea about there's only one circle in life, right? There's only one reality. There aren't disparate realities. Getting in touch with reality storks with God, who illuminates our intellect, so we're moving from left to right. Who informs our emotion, who informs our volition. And it's all subservient. It all falls under that in that direction. When you try to do it in the other direction I I appreciate what this this concept. That's not only deceiving your le yourself, it's trying to live a lie. And what that means is if you take this idea of authority or this idea of truth, right? If something is true I want to follow that truth. I mean that that's the whole concept between truth and authority, right? If something is true, then I'm going to follow that truth. If I know I step out into a busy if I step out on a four ninety-five in the middle of traffic, right? I'm gonna get hit by a car. I just walk out into it. If I know that to be true, I'm not going to do that. Right? It's a that's a very simple, like cheap illustration, but in a lot of ways it's the Well, if I know that's true, then I'm I'm not going to do that. Or I'm not going to trust in that. Or you see all the way it plays out. So if you start with Your will or your emotion, and then you try to inform who God is through that, you deceive yourself So it only moves in the one direction. I recognize that my hands are going left and right, but the paper's all in one direction, so we'll just just bear with me as we go through that. So the sources of Lumeka, really the sources of what we would say can be revelation, are then broken down in figure two. And what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to ask a couple people to pull out these first sections. So we have it as a revelation in the natural world. So we say natural theology. We have a particular revelation, um which we would say through scripture, and then we have the Holy Spirit who as a person the Third person of the Trinity is working through and applying this to all of us. So can I get a volunteer to read Psalm 19, 1 to 3? Thanks for that. Um can I get a volunteer to read um John seventeen seventeen? Thank you, Chris. And can I get a volunteer to read 1 Corinthians 2, 6 to 16? Let's do it in that order, please. Psalms 19 and The one who agrees, the heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiness. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. John seventeen seventeen. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is true. Uh First Corinthians two, six to sixteen Yet we do not speak wisdom among those who are mature, a wisdom, however, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. the wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood, for if they had understood it, they would have They would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But just as it is written, things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard, and which have not entered the heart of man, all that God has prepared For those who love him. For to us, God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the deaths of God For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, the thoughts of God no one knows except the spirit of God. Now If we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things freely given to us by God which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself is appraised by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him I think so. If we start in the last reference and work our way backwards, Paul is making an argument He is laying it out that there is wisdom in what he is writing. There is wisdom in the truth that's revealed by the Spirit of God. It doesn't conform to the wisdom of the age He's not saying it's illogical, it's irrational. What he's saying is it's not the same way that in Corinth they are considering wisdom. He's saying it is a wisdom beyond that. It is a wisdom that's revealed only by the Spirit of God. It's a wisdom that is not irrational. It's not that it can't be understood, but it's one that God Himself reveals, because that's who God is. He is a God who reveals himself. If you take that and you lay that on top of what the Lord was saying, so in the passage from John, that's the Lord in John 17 talking about His disciples, and then extending it out towards believers, are set apart in the truth. His word is truth. They are and will have the Word of God to set them apart. So the Holy Spirit works and he reveals the mind of God. He reveals the mind of God through his word, which is true. And everything that is revealed there corresponds, yet still, to the natural world What do I mean by that? I mean, as demonstrated in Psalms, that first reference we read, and then also talked about in Romans 1. The natural world reveals that there is a God who is creator. His handiwork is evident. His handiwork is evident. It there's a there's an expression in there that essentially to all mankind, in in every word it can be understood. It's revealed to everyone And in Romans one we understand and we're all accountable to it. How does it all correspond? There is evidence of God readily available to which every person is accountable. There is the revelation of God to those that he loves, that we would understand even more who he is and the truths. And that hidden wisdom is applied by the third person of the Trinity. So when we're talking through all these things a and and just right to bring it back again, we're going to talk about how It is a rational, it is a logical way that we can understand Scripture to be true and why Scripture is believable and trustworthy. And then beyond that, we trust that, Lord, it's you who reveals it to us and you who love your children that you continue to reveal deeper and deeper. When I say deeper and deeper, what I mean is not you are going to find a new revelation that is not already understood, just to be clear, you are going to go into the depths further of who God is, as we all know. Does that make sense? So you are not exploring new revelation. You are exploring who God is as found in his word, and it all corresponds. Be careful in that space. I just, right, I want us to be careful in that space because God is trustworthy. His word is trustworthy. So we don't ever want to go beyond the bounds of that, and that's really important. So, as we go down through the notes, there is a reference in 2 Peter 119. And we're actually going to spend a little bit of time in that passage at the end of the lesson. But right here, we have something more sure, the prophetic word to which you would do well to pay attention as a lamp shining in a dark place. We're going to spend a little time in that passage. It actually came up in our small group because we were studying the transfiguration, and this is actually Peter referencing the transfiguration. We actually want to talk about that a little more and and and it's it's really sort of like an exciting uh it's very exciting to be able to talk to, so I'm excited to do that. But for now what we want to understand is, well we have this revelation, we have who God is in his word. So the encouragement from Scripture is pay attention to it. So when we talk about something being true, the word that we have right here is veracity, right? That is adherence to the truth, truthfulness. The challenge, so directly out of the notes, the challenge with defending the veracity of Scripture is not the scarcity of evidence, but rather the volume of evidence And so what we have in the notes, and we can sort of walk through in a little bit generally is actually it's a survey of the different areas of evidence that we have. But before we do that, we're going to do a little bit of an illustration that I hope works. And so here we go. Probably any um married man who is teaching runs some of the different ideas by by um his wife. And so I ran this by seeking. And I just want to be clear that what I said to her, I I kind of set her up. I said, hey, this is the illustration I'm really excited to do in clash So I need you to tell me that it's good. And then I told her that and this is I'm sorry like this morning I did this to her. I told her, oh yeah, no, no, no, this. So um so I hope this works. All right. Uh also for the record I was going to use one of you, uh, but I decided to just use myself. So one I'm breaking the rules of uh of homiladics who are like not supposed to use the cell But um it's not a it's not a moral or a good example or a bad example. It is just an example. So if I were to make this claim I overcommitted on size Here we go guys, we're doing it together. It's the church. There is forgiveness. There is grace. If I were to make this claim, I am Daniel Rafa Pedras Brago. Born December fifteenth, well, all right. In Obar. This is my child. All right. Inside poetry then. All right. Inside poetry. I know. After people were like, wow, you're young. like, oh you're not here. Think about yourself. I am Daniel Rothbard Pedro Strago. Born December 15, 1984, in Hobar, Saudi Arabia. And I'm going to make this as a truth claim to you all. Just in a simple logical sense, explain to me how we might just prove this statement. What would we do? Check the record. Sorry, sorry. Okay. Excellent. So you are going to check a birth certificate or a record. Correct? Okay. What else? Parents, you might you might find my parents in Egypt who will not open the door for you. What else? ID. Okay. You might check an ID. Okay? Uh might ask you or your wife. Okay. You might a witness. You might ask A witness or since I'm standing in front of yourself, although I'm making the claim, right? Well, did you have one? No? No. I want you to take that idea because you went for a different you went for You went for an analytical approach, right? Y detector. Can someone else give me a different analytical approach? I I know your character. Okay. You know my character Common sense. Common sense. Okay. Okay. You might say, is this reasonable? Is that fair? Colleen, did you have one? Okay. That's great. You might use the internet, which essentially is Secondary sources, right? And secondary and tertiary sources. You might use other sources. Okay. So let's pause here for a second. Alright? What did we do? We said, you have made a claim, and there are all these different ways that we might want to explore this claim. The ways that we might explore it, they might be historical, right? They might be can I find a record? Now I'm gonna add I'm gonna add a little complication to you. I was born in Saudi Arabia, so I certainly have a birth certificate But my verse is not in English. Can any of you reiterate? So you are gonna look at what? A translator. You're gonna lose it, okay. You will type ID yourself, right? But if you're able to, you're gonna try to find an original Or you're going to find a copy of an original. Or you're going to essentially go down and say, okay, how easy is it for me to get to the direct source? And let me be very clear. I'm a naturalized US citizen, so for those of you that work in the This is not work, don't worry. But I had to go through all the rigmarole to prove that my birth certificate was an actual original and that the certification of translation was verified, right? Because they wanted to know, I'm looking at this, prove the original is copied. What if there's a mistake in there? Daniel is not an Arabic name. It's a Hebrew name, right? So it's not spelled in Arabic the natural way. So in the translation, sometimes it comes out like that because of the way that our vowels work. So sometimes it comes out with a YA instead of an IE. But that's okay, because I can just go to the original and find what it says. Right? I can I can or figure out where's that train of copy. So we said, okay, well there's a historical plate. You could do uh sounds funny because it's myself and it's not It's not long ago that I was born, thank you all. Um you could do an archaeological find. You can go to where I live and you might be able to find other records from that place That demonstrate there are yearbooks in the school that I went to that show who I was, right? You can ask my parents, you know what else you can do? You can culturally understand that the way that we do names and lineage in the Middle East and particularly in Egypt is that is my father's name. And that is his father's name. So not only can you figure out who I am, but when you meet my father, you will realize that his name is Rafa Pedros Raggat. And then all of a sudden you say, oh wait, well now I can connect with them. Because historically, culturally, you can understand all these things. It's not that hard to find. If you wanted to ask or interview people that know me, you might be able to verify other things. You might be able to know, oh well, it's not a person that lies, or yeah, well, we have these other records That's an exit character. Um what I was trying to pull and uh uh I probably I probably wouldn't have gone for lie detector, but that's okay. Um I I don't know that that's funny. Stay upright. Oh ooh. There we go. That's the FBI. Um what uh what you might go for are fingerprints or if for instance my parents are easily verifiable maybe you would do a DNA test. Maybe you would say, oh you know what I can prove that via a DNA. I might use Scientific evidence. So I might use an argument that's based out of so if you look at your notes for a second, I might use a historical argument I might use an archaeological argument. I might use a scientific argument. And then that last one is that stematological. That is talking about variance of copies. So that is how we know scripture is transmitted properly. And so if you were digging in on sort of like the birth certificate record, for instance, that would be where that is. This is a simple example. I'm not even making a claim to a truth that has particular impact on any of your lives. That's just who I am, right? The body of evidence, the body of evidence for the truth of Scripture, answers this. Ten times, a thousand times more than the simple little claim that I make here. And not only does it answer it, it has a dramatic impact on life The approach that we have towards the truthfulness of Scripture is the approach that we consider anything when someone makes a claim. When I made this claim, it wasn't that hard to pull it out of the room and so like, well what are the different things we do to figure out is this do the lie or up in front of us and should we talk about the gate? That's not the annual at all. You know what I mean? Like like you might if you find a lie in here you then want to quickly follow up on that. The point I want to make here is when we're talking about the truthfulness of Scripture, it satisfies all the ways that we try to drive for claims in truth in this life that we live in already. So what we have on a series of the next pages are essentially a litany of those resources, and we're going to talk about a lit of them an example. Um years and years and years ago, hundreds and hundreds, thousands, um they did not have all of this these waves to verify the crate was it is who we said he is. Correct? No DNA, no Google, no logic testing tests, all that right? Uh I mean I wanna I wanna be careful in terms of what you're saying because did they have those specific exact tools? Right. No. So all I'm asking is if the main isn't it that as time has progressed and as they've gotten better and better and better and will still get better schools that I think what we want to be clear on, so the heart of what you're saying I absolutely agree with. The tools that we have reflect an advance in technology that is not Indicative of an advance in wisdom or wisdom in a rational, like rationale of approach, or um logic. Like all that we have are actually aggregations or different ways to support things as to how we explore truth already. Because it's funny as you were saying that it says, well, I mean when the Lord was there, they were, and it's in scripture, they were working through lineage. They were working through testimony. They were working through witness. They were working through well, I know this to be true, I know that to be true, I know this is here. They were working through sources that are even extra biblical that are sometimes confirming what is said. So you're right, Google didn't exist, DNA didn't exist, but the logic of If this is true, let me check all these sources. That existed. Or what can I confirm scientifically? Or what can I confirm by evidence? So the tools advance, but God's truth remains constant. So I told I'm totally with you, and I think Doug and I were talking about this at one point. The the one of the and I guess actually I mentioned in this class, one of the beauties of sometimes our areas of work can be that we can understand something be like, oh Lord, we designed that so well. It's just we didn't know that little facet of it, but we know you did it. And it's always been like that and we just discovered it, if that makes sense Um and that that's amazing to give him that glory. Does that sort of Yeah. So I I know you were pointing towards yes, it's totally it's It's even more amazing and and I totally agree. Um so um one thing I want to point out. Um We're going to just do uh it's really a brief survey of some of these, and I'm just going to pick out like a couple of them as we walk through. And then really where I want to go is that the last section, which is the getting in touch with reality. Um so there's a couple um not a disclaimer but something that I want to always r remind you of. Um Scott is Scott is um careful in how he picks resources that he's willing to point out and share with people. So I there's a confidence of that. But even as Scott and I were chatting and sort of like prepping for for a class One of the encouragements that I always want to give is, even as you might go to a resource to understand or to see this line of evidence Guard your heart and your mind the scriptural truth. And the reason I say that is you can have two people that both agree that this piece of evidence is incredibly true. for you know for the Lord like living and dying and being raised in the first century. But they might interpret something differently out of scripture from that. Be careful. Does that make sense? So when you go to a source, you are carefully assessing what they have and not being pulled in a different direction theologically. Does that make sense? The the clearest example that I sometimes give is that um Muslims are creationists also. Muslims do not, like a like a hardcore Islamic scholar, does not believe that it is a godless creation. But who God is to a Muslim is dramatically different from who God is to a believer and who God is in truth. Does that make sense? So I that's why there's not actually like a reference to Christianism out of a like Islamic source here, but that is my warning, if that makes sense. So a Berean approach, right? You take everything and you go back to scripture and be like, is this true? Do I believe this is this true? In the notes, we have some historical evidence, archaeological. The scientific evidence is not actually in this. I think Scott is actually going to dedicate two to three classes in that specifically So he's going to expand on that more. And then there is the um stematological evidence. So that the study of sort of like transmission of scripture. And then we're going to end, like I said, in that Getting Touch reality. So the other thing I wanted to mention is that these are a lot a lot of these are clickable links. So the notes are already in the class on Hopebook, and so you should be able to just click a link. It will take you to a few places. So anything that has the um I think the color and the underline is a hyperlink, just so you guys know. Archaeology itself, in a very simple way, right, is so history is the idea of a written word of testimony, something that you can find in a library or a manuscript. Archaeology is something that you might be able to dig up and study. It there is not that necessarily like um incredibly hard line of that definition of like history versus archaeology. But that for the sake of the conversation is how we're going to use it, if that makes sense. Scientific is something that is observable in the created order, and really that is the idea of it's a hypothesis, can I test hypothesis, can I observe it? in front of me. And that is a a very sort of clear thing in terms of science. And then we talked about semithological is the idea of multiple surviving versions of the same text with the aim of reconstructing the lost original. So history. There is a caution in the exploration of history that you have to have because history is transmitted by and and and people would hear um People that are subject to their own culture, philosophy, biases, prejudices, and self-interests. So um There are some useful uh references here. There's that call uh Carl Truman's History and Fallacy, which is a particularly good reference. And it's just a way essentially to look at some of the some of the evidences that you find in history that have been either influenced by sort of people of the time or the age versus um versus contradicting ideas. A very clear example I will give to you all is this, which might not have any relevance to all. There was a war between Israel and surrounding um nations in the Middle East in the early seventies. Does anyone know what that war was called? Okay, so that was the late 60s. Well done. That was 1967. In nineteen seventy-three there was another one. So you are correct. Everyone agrees on that name. 1973 there's another one. Anyone know what that was called? It was called you probably heard of it the Yom Kippur War. Does that sound familiar to you all? Middle Eastern textbooks never call that the Yom Kippur War. That is called the October War. It's called the October 6th War. And in fact, my my father was in that war, and we have entire like museums dedicated to whatnot, blah, blah, blah. In terms of Western history, uh I'd like to be very clear. I'm not making any sort of political or ideological statement with relevance to what it's named. Uh uh my point here is more the framework of how certain countries or certain civilizations describe the same conflict is very different. The Yom Kippur War is named that because it was an attack on a high holiday in Israel. And that was a very jarring thing for them. For the Middle Eastern countries that were essentially in that war is the October 6th war, because that's when the offense was launched and they were doing something else It was the same conflict. The perspectives are different, and the perspectives are translated through civilization. And so whenever we want to interpret something, we need to be very careful as to what bias is behind this, what assumption is behind this, what is the thing that you're not going to be I'm going to say honest, and when I say that, what I mean is I don't know that they're purposely being dishonest. But they're tainted by sin. And they're tainted by I think and they're tainted by a bias that might not be committed to a truth above all else. I could a cheap illustration, but just so you understand the difference. What do you got? I think I can make another illustration, I think. For instance, A E Ano Domini, the year of the Lord, to like C E common Air before B C E before common air. Right. Right. Yeah, and it's a right, it's a it's a a movement to sort of uh rem it's a movement to remove the context which was was placed first by the church. That's why they say history's written by the winners, right? You know, and everything. It's always it's often the perspective of the the common or dominant society of the time that it's That's right. And yet, God's truth prevails. And God's truth remains constant and there. And the reason that's particularly interesting if you walk through this section down below is because the references under non- and that was a really great segue actually the non-biblical historical records of Jesus points to a number of references That corresponds to and confirm the biblical account from sources that are in no way favorable to who the Lord is. and what the claims are made of Jesus. And so if you go back to this like the the simple illustration of who am I and how do I prove evidence, it's it's ten times worse because there's not someone who's trying to drive that I know of against who I am and the claim of my name. But there are tons of people trying to drive against who the Lord is, and yet the evidence stands and remains. So if you, for instance, are to look down at these you will find um we we reference in a lot of in a lot of Christian um commentaries and literature um flavorus josephus is referenced quite a lot um Um yeah, it's funny. I yeah. Sometimes I hear it in the in the Arabic how sometimes it is like, oh yeah. Um He was I I I like this is Scott's commentary. Not a Christian and frankly not a good guy. Um but his history corroborates a tremendous number of facts from the Bible and there is not a significant redaction or criticism of his history. Referenced in Calvin. So that doesn't mean, and and I again I want to bring back to you, that doesn't mean that you'd be able to go into his writings. And apply that as if it's scriptural truth. That's not the same thing. What it is saying is, oh, I can find a reference outside of scripture So a common argument that people might have is like, well, did Jesus even really exist? Is really, was there actually a Jesus that lived in that day? Maybe maybe it's just sort of like a a myth that has come up or a myth that Christians have tried to propagate and apparently die for for centuries and centuries. And the fact of the matter is that there is more evidence for Jesus than a number of historical figures that we would ever say, did you really exist? And not only that, that the original copies of Well, actually I'm going to save that for the next section, so let me not jump ahead. Um moving down through that, uh again, I I'm not going to read each one of these. I just want to point to a couple, but If you move down through this, you'll find that there are a number of different references and different sources that point towards The biblical account in both Old Testament and New Testament that just correspond as to these different truths And sometimes there are things that sort of, oh, it wasn't understood as to like where um you know where where was David in history, and then there is another reference to it. So um there is a really useful list, including the book that was originally mentioned in the class. for that historical um and in sorry, it's a it's the historical Jesus from Geisler and Turret in chapter nine. The encouragement to you all is you and and let me be very clear. As believers, we stake our entire our entire lives on this. There is not something in Scripture that if you dig and dig and dig, you are not going to find correspondent. That doesn't mean that everything is corresponded everywhere extra biblically. What it does mean is every word of Scripture is true. And there is no undoing that. And that's, we predicate our entire lives. Our entire worship service is predicated on the truth of God prevails forever. I'm not putting pressure on just the worship service. I mean it as this is what we come to do on a Sunday, right? So if we transition from the idea of historical accounts You can also do what is that's traditionally sort of like the archaeological walkthrough and evidence. I've known Scott for such a long time that I appreciate his comments and notes. This small this sample is so small that it's almost silly. And his point there is There is a lot of evidence. Um I went through and spent some time on that um crossway article from the ESB archaeological archaeology study bible, that's actually a really nice article. So I I highly encourage you to go to that one. Again, it's hyperlinked right there. When you go through um the different evidence that's been discovered over time and as they continue to do work, you find references towards um in the Rosetta Stone evidence for the Old Testament. The Dead Sea scrolls, which Both corresponds to transmission of the manuscript, but also archaeology, because they're literally found and incredibly intact. An inscription that records the house of David, which they were looking for in historical references. Biblical texts that are cited in Hebrew. You get the point, right? There's there's evidence upon evidence upon evidence. And again, I want to make a little point here. If someone talks to you and says, I want to talk to you about the philosopher Plato, and I want you to really interact with what Plato has to say about something. Do you find people questioning who Plato is? Plato in in some of in some of his writings, I mean in some of the references to him There are claims on life, right? If you take it in terms of any religion's claims on your life, the question becomes Well, were they really there or did we do that? But it's not an honest push against the evidence for that. And the reason I say that is Because it's not nearly as satisfying as actually the volume that's there for scripture. But we don't question it and we'll say, oh, not there. But the Lord Himself, the claim that Jesus makes gets attacked all the more. Now um I don't know how to say this, so I'm gonna say it. I uh I think what I want to convey is Um the Lord told us that we would be hated because he was hated. Right? Yes. The jarring reaction that you can get from someone from the claim that Jesus makes About himself, about life, about salvation, is a good thing. Because if you aren't jarred enough by who Jesus is and by his truth. then you're not paying attention and you're numb to it. Does that make sense? There's almost a there's almost a part of when we go through this, I find it incredibly satisfying for all the evidence there is for who the Lord is But I'm also in many ways expecting the battle in the conversation. I'm expecting the pushback. Because what you are going up to someone is saying Jesus is saying he has a claim on your life, and you are warring and raging against the God of the God of all of life. You are raging against the Creator. You are raging against the Lord. You are his enemy. And he's making a claim in your life. And that is offensive. And it should be offensive. Because I would rather someone was offended and there's a battle in this that the Lord would do his work and illuminate their mind, that they would worship him, because that's what happens. Left and right that's what happens. People want to war and fight against this, but the Lord is so good he reveals himself. Um in my parents' church in Egypt, there are a um husband and wife who are um They live lives under aliases now. The husband was an Islamic extremist. And he was a um he was a scholar with them, but part of a very violent extremist group. And he was given the task to study the Bible, um, to be able to refute it theologically. And Guess what happened? Because the Lord does his work, and that's not necessarily the story in every person's life, but the Lord's truth prevails in all in all areas. And I remember my parents telling me this story and they told me this story before I had become a Christian. And my response was like, can you just stay away from him? That sounds scary. That's weird. I hadn't become a Christian yet. And then and then now, I mean, right, this is a bunch of years later, I recount that very fondly and almost emotionally because I recognized Lord, your truth stands against everyone. There is no aspect of your truth that does not stand. So I want to move very briefly into that last section. And this is really around the idea of Okay, if there is historical evidence outside of Scripture or that confirms towards what Scripture claims, because Scripture is not Again, just a document that talks about your life and is not a historical document. It is all those things, right? It's not a document that is it's not a it's not a collection of books that we just say is about your life, but you get to ignore the historical thing. Nope. It's true and it's believable in every aspect. So then the question is, well do we even have the right scripture in front of us. Now I will say that there's an entire class dedicated to how did we get the Bible. I think it's going on right now, right? Is that there's an entire class going on about that and it's a really good it's a really good study. So that's not going to be sort of the time here. But the question becomes, well, do we actually have the original copies and whatnot? And there have been a series of studies that lay out from This is where you blend a little the archaeological evidence of all the manuscripts and then just how copies are transmitted and how many versions of copies there are with so little error to point out as to why it is believable that we have something that is That we have the inerrant word before us. We have a w we have the word the we have sorry a translation from the inerrant word before us. Does that make sense? So in their original manuscript we know that they are completely without error. And not only that, we have a complete confidence that what we have before us is the word of God. So there is that work through here. There's one thing I want to point out. There are confused theories that came about just in the last century. And it is redaction, the redaction theory and documentary hypothesis. And it's just this idea that, well, maybe things were sort of like altered along the way to fit what we have now. But that's a particularly illogical hypothesis because there are no copies of those middle ground idea texts, right? So it's the idea of like, well maybe someone sort of like edited copies and kind of like like morphed it into something. But there's n there's no there's nothing in the middle. What do you got Steve? And they never question that. And now even I see I can't help my daughter on that because I don't know how they do it. But it's it's changing, but yet it's never questionable. Yeah. I mean it's a it's a great point, right? It's sort of we're we're we're willing to accept claims that we don't need to Um we're willing to accept claims that we don't question for something that we're teaching and whatnot, but when it comes to this, all of a sudden there's like a million conflicts around it. Is that is that your point, sir? Yeah. Yeah, it's a it's a good point. And even beyond that The copies of writings that we have are so many more. So there's an example here. There are For the New Testament, there are five thousand copies of the manuscripts The number of and actually that um Sean McDowell's website and then the the josh. org, which I think is is Josh McDowell's um reference as well. has a really nice walkthrough of the number of copies of writings again that we would like attribute directly towards the author. And then scripture is orders of magnitude more. There are so many more copies. Because it was important. Because people wanted to copy it and they wanted to copy it diligently. Because One, the Lord keeps his word, and he is faithful to his people, and two, people who are People who love the Lord and want to follow him faithfully want to keep his word and spread it. And that that testimony rings true over and over. None of us, I mean uh uh I mean I guess I I don't know, but um there are people that are still working on translating scripture to languages that are not um currently translated, right? And that's an incredibly important work that they do. And I am it is not something that I have a a study, a discipline, or a talent for But it is people who dedicate their lives to reaching the unreached in languages that are their own. And there's a faithfulness that they bring to that in trying to honor who God is, that other people would know him. We may not be doing that in terms of that outcome of a new translation in a new language. But we are faithful and should be faithful in how we approach it ourselves. And that's where I want us to end in terms of the time this morning. So this is this is um Scott's getting in touch with reality. And so what I'd actually like you to do is I'd like you to turn to 2 Peter, please. We started the class. We started the class and sort of like just that that's very good questions, right? Well how how are we gonna live? Who who are we? How are we gonna live? What does it mean to have authority? What does it mean to have absolute authority in our lives? And and how do we submit ourselves to it? We've spent our time in the class talking about there are rational approaches that we all accept in terms of how do we learn and understand something, and scripture itself has a large body. In a in a very brief survey, right, has a large body of evidence around why it's true and it core not only corresponds to reality, but has evidence around it, and also has been transmitted faithfully and truly that we have it here. And that's great. But you can do an entire academic study, and you can agree with each one of those statements in each one of those blocks. But are you submitting to the Word of God? If you're willing to accept the truth as to How scripture corresponds to reality, how we get it, how it's reliable. Are you willing to submit to it in your daily life? Are you willing to come to it and say, because we know this thing is true, well Lord, then then I want to trust in your promises. I want to trust in your truth. I want to have you as the highest priority in my life. And that's a little bit about what Peter's talking about in these passages. So I want to go there very briefly. Can I get someone to read? So we're in 2 Peter chapter 1. Can I get someone to read Verses um three to eight, please? That'd be great. Thank you. His divine power is granted to us, has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence, by which He has rendered to us the precious and very great promises, so that through them we may become partakers of For this very reason make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-consuming Control and self-control with steadfastness and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from Thank you. Ineffective and unfruitful in the knowledge of Jesus Christ. They keep you from that. The truth that we have in Scripture, as we talk about apologetics and talk about these evidences, it is not about external evidence for external people. Does that make sense? It's about, as I study this, well, I know it to be true. So when I when I am struggling in my week. And I am in uh whatever, a a very difficult meeting at work, and it feels like The walls are sort of closing in because of stress and timelines and personalities and sinful desires and all these things. It has the walls through the coming in, it's so it, oh, career blah blah blah. Am I holding fast to the truth? that God has laid out? And my understanding, wait Lord, who I am is in you. My identity is in you. My character, my witness, that's the important thing right now. It's actually not about what the world is trying to put in front of me or even what in my brain I'm getting mixed up. Remember I mentioned that thing a little bit? We can sometimes live a schizophrenic Christian life. I'll on a Sunday agree. Jesus, you are Lord, Jesus, you are God. And then Wednesday morning I'm in a meeting going, I'm really stressed about this. How are we going to get this done? This is going to make everything crash, blah blah blah. I'm not really saying those things out loud, but I'm certainly thinking them in my brain if I'm being as honest and confessional as I'd want to be this morning. Does that make sense? I I do not say that as if it's a good thing. I say that as a confession And I thank God for his faithfulness and his grace in Jesus Christ. Is that you like the point and I was gonna really just get this really what you're saying about the B he transformed by the new. Um because I think like he's saying once we step away from Sunday worship or Whatever we're doing. If we go back into the small world, conference is just pumping this continual lie of a non-reality that's not real Saying that God doesn't exist. Yep. And he doesn't care about you. Yep. Or if he does care about you, he doesn't care about you intimately like this. Yep. So it's it's always that constant Looks for real. That's right. Who's God? That's right. Thank you. Skip down in 2 Peter. Go to verse 16. For we this is this is Peter, right? For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain Pause for a second. That is Peter referencing, and we can tell that from the quote, the transfiguration of Christ. So one of the references in Luke 9 in the other Gospels as well. Okay? So he's referencing that He's referencing that where none of the rest of us were there. Okay? But he's referencing it and saying, we were eyewitnesses to this. We heard this voice. This is true. Now continue. And we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed, to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place. Until the day guns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Knowing this first of all, then no prophecy of scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. We've seen this thing. This was a glorious thing that the Lord allowed these disciples to apostate. Right? We have something confirmed even more in Scripture that you all are able to have, and it's confirmed by the third person of the Trinity, by God Himself. And that's what we have, that's what you have That's what we all have right now. That is the Wednesday morning confirmation. That is the truth that we have that we do not need to let go of. So what's the encouragement to you? Encouragement to you is dig deeper into your study of who God is. Dig deeper into trusting who he is through his word. That the Holy Spirit would bless his word to you and that you would be obedient to it. I gave you that definition of um Absolute authority, right? It was the it was from systematic theology. The next one that we had to learn and memorize was the authority of scripture. Scripture is the Word of God. To disbelieve or disobey it is to do so to God. Say it again. Scripture is the word, I'm insidian, sorry. Scripture is the word of God. To disbelieve or disobey it is to do so to God. God, your word is true. God, we believe you. God, if I go anywhere and I need it to be tested, I know it will come true. Lord, what does your word say? Lord, let me trust it. That's it. And it's for each of you, because I don't know the room, right? I don't know the room at all. And I certainly don't know even though I don't know the room, I don't know your hearts. And even beyond that, I don't know your hearts that are the quiet pains or needs or whatever it is that in the still of the night or the early morning or wherever it is that you have that anxiety or that question or that doubting. I don't know what it is, but the Lord does. And he is faithful, and he is true, and he simply asks you, I say simply, he asks you and he tells you to come to him that you would be do do do do do do do kept from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's it? Alright, I'm gonna pray for us.