You know, it takes work, hard work, to become a dynamic body of believers. There's no way around it. There's absolutely no way around that. It takes work, it takes sacrifice, it takes commitment. We just sang that we love Jesus. We love Jesus. We work for Jesus. Because He is worthy of our hard work. There's no way around hard work in the body of Christ if you want the body of Christ to be what Christ said it ought to be. Nor should we want there to be a way around the hard work. We should love the work. Listen, in 1 John 5, 3, John promised us that the Lord's commandments are not what? Burdensome. He said that. He gave commands, but they're not burdensome to us. In Matthew 11, Jesus said, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. He said that his burden was not heavy. He said it was light. The result of commitment to Christ and hard work is not loss, it's not misery. We don't have to be complaining about that. We don't receive a burden or a weight on our shoulders. The result of working hard for Christ is joy, corporate joy in the church. The finding of the abundant life that Christ talked about, not just that we possess, but that we all share together. This is what Acts chapter 2 is about. Acts chapter 2, that spirit-filled, Christ-focused, word-driven. Early church. It illustrates all this for us. They were committed. No question about that. We can't read I just read the passage and say they were committed, and you immediately understand that. It's what it says They were committed, and that's why they were the dynamic church in action with the Spirit's power Now last time in part one we saw that the first thing that these disciples of Jesus in his first Christian church dedicated themselves to was what? Thank you. Someone was listening. The word of God, the teaching of the apostles, the dedique, the doctrinal instruction of authority from the apostles of Jesus Christ. They loved it, they listened to it, they dedicated themselves to it. That's what their church was driven by. Twelve apostles, handpicked by Christ. The rest of the thousands were told, sit at their feet and listen to them. They're going to instruct you how to live. They were devoted to that. They did that. And that dedication to the word acted like an engine to drive everything else that we're going to read about in that community of believers, from their worship to their discipleship, to their outreach and evangelism. But listening to the Word of God was not the goal. It was only the start. What good is an engine without the rest of the car, without the wheels, right? It was only the beginning. If they listened and heard the word but did nothing about it, still there would be no Dynamic church in action. And that's why second in Acts 2. 42 we saw that they devoted themselves to the fellowship, the quinania, the common life in every aspect of that life. They were driven by the word, yes, and as they heard the word, they heard, love one another, Christ reigns, he's coming back, live for the kingdom, and so they did. They were dedicated to the church, to the fellowship of people. They devoted themselves to that. And of course, the focus, the dedication that they had was all to Jesus Christ. They partake of the breaking of the bread, part of the meal, and also the Lord's Supper. And as they broke the bread, as they took the Lord's Supper together, they were reminded Christ died for us, just as we sung, He died for us, He's coming again, we proclaim that until He comes back This is the beginning of the description of the early church in Acts chapter 2. And those are the things that we covered last time in part one. Today we continue our investigation of this early church And we're going to look at four more descriptions from Acts 2, 42 to 47. You can open there if you haven't already. Acts 2, 42 to 47. Follow along as I read, please. Just note all the things that were happening in this early church. And these are new converts, brand new converts, most of them. Verse 42, they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. Everyone kept feeling a sense of awe, and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. And all those who had believed were together and had all things in common. They began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need. Day by day, continuing with one mind in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they were taking their meals together with gladness and sincerity of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord was adding to their number day by day those who were being saved. Now John Pole Hill is a professor at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Kentucky, and he summarizes this passage about as well as anybody could. He writes this. These verses give an ideal portrait of the young Christian community, witnessing the Spirit's presence in the miracles of the Apostles, sharing their possessions with the needy among them Sharing their witness in the temple, sharing themselves in the intimacy of their table fellowship. Their common life was marked by praise of God, joy in the faith, and sincerity of heart And in it all they experienced the favor of the non-believers and continual blessing of God-given growth. It was an ideal, almost blissful time, marked by the joy of their life together and their warmth of the Spirit's presence among them. It could almost be described as the young church's age of innocence. The subsequent narrative of acts will show that it did not always remain so. Sincerity sometimes gave way to dishonesty. Joy was blotched by riffs In the fellowship and the favor of the people was overshadowed by persecutions from the Jewish officials. Luke's summaries present an ideal for the Christian community which must always strive for constantly return to and discover anew if it is to have that unity of spirit and purpose essential for an effective witness. What a great summary. That's why we're studying their example. That's it. I mean, I said last time I asked, do you want to be a part of a fellowship that is at least somewhat like that? And I hope the answer is yes I do because I my answer is that I want to be a part of that. I've always wanted to be a part of that. That's what I want to see, and I know I have to do my part, and you have to know that you have to do your part as well, or it won't happen. What are you willing to change to make this more of a reality at Hope Bible Church? That's really the question. What are you willing to change to make this more of a reality at Hope Bible Church? To discover what God would have us to do, we have to move from interpreting the historical text to application. Remember not everything that's written in history We're just supposed to imitate immediately. It's written in history, it's scriptural history, so that we will read it and be challenged in our faith and in our obedience from their example, but we don't just adopt everything that they did. We analyze it, compare it with the doctrine given to us in the epistles, and then we apply it appropriately in our situation. So we're moving from descriptions to prescriptions. We're moving from understanding what they were really like in that early church. This is the first church. I mean if you want to model what church is like, here it is. And then move to our own application. And that we're going to follow that same pattern this morning as well. Now we left off at the very end of verse 42. We didn't get very far last time, did we? We started in verse 42. We ended in verse 42. Notice at the end of verse 42 it also says that as part of their fellowship that they were dedicated fourth, this is the fourth description. They were diligent in corporate prayer. That's number four. They were diligent in corporate prayer. The end of verse 42. It says again Those who had received his word were baptized, and that day there were added about 3,000 souls. They're new converts, verse 42. They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship to the breaking of bread and literally to The prayers. The prayers in plural. Prayer is plural and it's marked by that definite article, and so it's pointing to something specific. The specific prayer times. They were diligent and dedicated to that. There was some formal prayer times on the part of the community of the believers there in Jerusalem in the first century, and they were diligent to that, dedicated to that. Many of them likely took place in the temple. I'm sure they prayed individually. I'm sure they were dedicated to their individual prayers. I'm sure they had rich prayer lives at home, but this was not referring to their individual prayer life. Much praying by believers is to be taking place together. And that's what Luke is highlighting here. John Calvin even wrote, It is certain that he speaketh of public prayer. So there you have it. Five hundred years ago we have the authority. You glance forward, by the way, if you want more proof, look at chapter 3, verse 1. It talks about the hour of prayer that Peter and John were heading up to the temple to do. There were definite times of prayer, even in the temple. These believers, remember, are all Jewish. Every last one of them is a Jew. The Jews still expressed their understanding of Christianity, and it wasn't even called Christianity at this time, in some form of Judaism that they understood, and so they engaged in the prayers in the temple, but more than that, they had their own Christian prayers, their own prayers centered around the Messiah of Christ In other words, their understanding of prayer was founded both on what they had practiced from their learning in the Old Testament and also what they'd been learning from the teachings of the Old Testament. And they brought it together. Some think that they were reciting the Lord's Prayer here in a formal way. Jesus never said to recite the Lord's Prayer. He didn't condemn you if he did, but he never said to do it either. He said, Pray in this way. It's a model for us to learn how to pray. We have no record of Jesus and his disciples or any of the early church repeating the Lord's prayer. That's not the point. In Matthew 6, 1 through 14, we are told not to use prayer in a rote fashion. Just memorize and say it. Just memorize and say it. So repeating words doesn't do anything. God is up there, he wants to hear from your heart, and he wants you to be praying to him. He wants your mind to be filled with truth. He wants you to be broken before him in praying. And they were relying on him and they were committing themselves to prayer. Probably the men were leading in times of prayer. And they all were forming this formal time of prayer and praying together. Some of it in the temple, some of it in their homes as well. The formal liturgy is not what is in view, but strong commitment to fresh and vibrant group prayers. That's what spirit-led praying is. Not where one prays without their mind. Not what not where you can't even understand the words that are being said if they're words at all. That's not given by the Holy Spirit. That's not spirit-driven, a spirit-led prayer. The Spirit wants to grip your heart, your mind, your thoughts, teach you truth in your innermost being, and from that reception and faith and belief of all that truth in Scripture, then to speak to God That's spirit-driven, spirit-led prayer. Their minds were engaged and they lifted up praises and requests to the Lord in one accord. And again, it was their devotion to the teaching at the front end of this list which resulted in this diligence in corporate prayer. You think they had plenty to pray about, surrounded by all the unbelievers in Jerusalem, thinking that Christ would be coming back at any time? They didn't know two thousand years of church history was ahead of them. Soon persecution would break out against them. They had many who were in need, who had traveled because of the Feast of Pentecost and were there in Jerusalem. More people were coming to know the Lord. They had to testify boldly You think they have something to pray about? You betcha. And they were praying and they were dedicated to praying together. They prayed together. Not just separately. That's an important thing for us in such an individualistic society to hear. They prayed together John MacArthur writes this the first fellowship was eagerly and persistently engaged in the critical duty of prayer. Prayer is the slender nerve that moves the muscles of omnipotence Sadly, prayer is much neglected in the church today. Programs, concerts, entertainment, where the testimonies of the rich and famous draw a large crowd Prayer meetings, on the other hand, attract only the faithful few. That is undoubtedly the reason for much of the weakness in the contemporary church. I agree with that. The importance of prayer is stressed throughout Scripture, both privately and corporately. Jesus promised to John 14 when he was about to go away from them, he said, Truly, truly, I say to you, He who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also. And greater works than these he will do because I go to the Father. He went to the Father, and then he sent forth the Spirit, remember And then he gave this promise. This is John fourteen, thirteen. Whatever you ask in my name that has to do with uh is in his name, meaning for his glory and for his purpose That will I do, he promised, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. They did that. In Jesus' absence, they claimed that promise, and they were diligent in their prayers. I want you to turn a moment. Just keep your finger in Acts 2, because we'll be coming back and turn to the book of Ephesians, chapter 6. One verse on prayer I want to highlight for you. This is in the context of spiritual warfare and all of the parts of the the equipment that we're to put on as we fight in the spiritual realm. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 18 6. 18 instructs the church this. With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit. And with this in view, be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. Now there was one key word there used four times. Did you catch it? It was the word what? All. The word all. We have in Ephesians 6. 18 God's full prescription for prayer in his church. We have here the four alls of prayer. All prayer and petition, praying at all times with all perseverance for all the saints, every believer. Not praying to the saints, by the way, but praying for the saints. That's you and me. Now I don't have to tell you that with all those alls, this verse is meant to be a total summons to prayer and dedication on the part of a congregation. Yes? It tells us what prayers to use, every kind. It tells us when to pray all the time. It tells us with what attitude to have, all perseverance. That's where many of us fail right there. We get started, we have a good request, we cry out to the Lord, and then and then what? It just fizzles Well God didn't hear that one. It wasn't answered within my timetable. I give up. You know, sometimes I prayed for things and then I looked back and then an answer came later and I already had my mind going on other things and I forgot all about the thing I prayed about and boom it was answered and I didn't even stop to what? To give thanks. God hears. God answers in his right time. It also tells us who to pray for, all of the holy ones, the saints, believers. Paul was clearly putting heavy emphasis on prayer in the church and for the church. And while you're there, flip over to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Very familiar, but let's just remind ourselves of these things. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 Verses 17 and 18. That's just a few books to your right. 1 Thessalonians 5, 17 and 18. He's giving a series of exhortations to the the church at Thessalonica. He says, Rejoice always. And then in 517 he says, Pray, and here it is. What? without ceasing. That doesn't mean you go around muttering all the time to God. You have to sleep and all the rest of that. It means never should there be a period of time in your life where prayers stop. Every single day we're praying. We're constantly praying. And he's telling the church to do that. Yes, that could could apply to their private prayers, but it also should apply to their public prayers. The church corporately should never have a time where it's ceasing from prayer. Oh, let's do one more. Let's go to 1 Timothy chapter 2. Again, just two books to the right. 1 Timothy 2 and verse 8. The men in particular were told to lead in public prayers. You see this in 1 Timothy two, eight Therefore, I want the men, that is the males, in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands. Why? The Jewish man would stand with his hands raised up to God. Why? Because his hands were empty and he was in need. And he was basically crying out to God and God would fill the hands. Nothing wrong. You don't you don't have to take on charismatic or Pentecostal doctrine to raise your hands up to God That's a wonderful thing. I want you to lift up hands to God, he says in 1 Timothy 2 8. Don't lift up your hands towards one another in fighting in fists. Lift your hands to God. That's what he's really saying there, men, without wrath and dissension. That's what that's about. The church is to be engaged in praying in every location, every single place that the church meets. There it is And you know we won't turn there. Philippians 4, 6 and 7, right? Be anxious for what? Nothing. You wish you could say, be anxious for the thing that you're anxious about right now. You wish it said that and commanded that and exhorted that, then you'd feel good. But it says be anxious for nothing. And Paul knew all about the somethings that people could be anxious about, but he said be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Don't forget that part. Let your request Be made known to God. Don't hold them in. Bring them out and let them be known to God. What happens? Verse 7 The peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension. Paul said, I still haven't figured out the peace of God. I've thought about it. It's so powerful it surpasses anything I can comprehend. That peace will guard Like a centurion will guard your what? Your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Or Colossians 4, 2, don't turn there. Devote yourselves to prayer. He commanded there. Keeping alert in it. That's why you have to pray always. Because when you're praying, you're what? You're staying alert. What's going on? What's the devil doing? What's God trying to get us to do? What does the scripture say? What's going on in the church? I'm alert I'm looking out for other people. I'm aware. And I'm praying. And we're to devote ourselves with that. By the way, that devote yourselves to prayer was not written to pastors, elders, church leaders, or whatever. It was written to the whole congregation. To us Be diligent in prayer. Now let's go back to Acts 2. And let's try to apply this. Just a few prescriptions. We can apply it in many ways. Let me just bring out a few for you. First, we need to be dedicated to the corporate prayer times of the church. The corporate times. When we get together to pray, we need to have diligence in that as well. So I ask, when do you pray? Not for the church only, but when do you pray with the church? Say, well, when I bow my head when you're praying up there, Pastor. So okay. You got one. That's the pastoral prayer. Are you really praying during that time or is it just me up here talking and you're checking out thinking about other things what's gonna come next? How long is that guy gonna pray up there Oh my, it's getting hot in here. Why is the kid in front of me wiggling too much? What are you thinking about during that time? Are you praying? That's a good time for corporate prayer, but that's not where I mean that's what is that? Five minutes? That's nothing Outside of that, I'm not sure some of you really do gather with the church to pray. I think nothing illustrates the weakness of the modern church more than a lack of joint prayer. I mean, probably wouldn't need to go any more than that. People could claim to praying at home, but where are they where they are gathering together to pray with each other? You know, I I find my prayer life, I don't know about you, I find my prayer life strengthened when I stand shoulder to shoulder or sit with other people and hear them pray. Hear what's on their heart. I'm like, oh yeah. Yeah, pray for the Middle East. I forgot about that one this morning. Yeah, pray for the Middle East. Oh, that person who's hurting, yeah, I remember that. Yeah, and they probably are hurting. That should be on my heart too. And I hear other people praying and exhorting. And then I hear the sincerity of a broken prayer, and I'm reminded I'm talking to God I'm not just, you know, just spouting off whoever, like I'm talking to my buddy. I'm hearing someone else talking to God Almighty and I'm reminded. And I bring that into my own private prayer times as well. It edifies me, it strengthens me. It should you as well. The second use or application of this would be being committed to our own prayer meeting on Sunday morning. You know, I see a lot of you young people out in the hallways when I'm coming in here. I was late this morning, I have to confess that up Up front. I was a little late, got the prayer meeting late this morning. But I see a lot of the young people just in the hallways just talking with each other. Why can't you come down to the prayer meeting? Can't you use your time? Better that way. Come on down to the prayer meetings, back in the library, gather together with the others, stand shoulder to shoulder with them, pull out the prayer sheet, and what? And pray. We need you praying also. If you're here early, you've got your setup done, come on down and pray. That's our weekly prayer meeting. It's only 15 minutes long. It's nothing. It's only 15 minutes long. Come on down. Be exhorted. Come on down. Say I don't get here early enough. Get here early enough. Just get here earlier. Come on down and pray. Nobody's gonna make fun of you. Don't you have to say anything first time you come, just come and listen to others. Just stand there. You don't know what to say, don't say anything. Just say quietly in your heart. Just come on down and pray It just encourages me, someone's praying for the preaching, and I'm like, who's preaching this morning? Oh that's me, I'm preaching this morning. Okay, they're praying for me Good, so someone's praying for the worship service, someone's praying for the classes, someone's praying for the needs of the church, people they're hurting. I'm there, they're there You be there also. Come and pray. That's what Alan and I would like to see happen. More of us doing that. The third use. I think some of our strongest corporate praying really occurs during the week in our small groups We have flock groups. One of their three main goals is to focus on prayer. We also have other specialty small groups like a family discipleship group, where they set aside 30 minutes for worship and prayer in that design. And we're going to have other kinds of small groups in time as well. We're trying to grow our small group leaders. We would like every member of the church, particularly but those that are thinking about becoming members as well, to get in a small group, that's where we focus on prayer. It's great to be around with 10, 12, 14, 16 other people, sharing your prayer requests, getting to know them, and then praying not only for those in the group, but also for the rest of the church. Be diligent in corporate praying. Some of you need to really think about this because it's not part of your Christian life yet. A fourth use is just use the prayer list. We have that as well. Rhonda Jones, she writes it out every single month. You have a prayer request, send it into the church office, it gets recorded, gets put on the sheet, everybody has it, and now even when we're not gathered, we can be corporate praying in a sense. at home using that sheet as well. We need to all be praying together. And that's the point here. Alright, be diligent in your commitment to times of praying. That was fourth. The fifth description here is that they had divine awe They had, as a congregation, as a community of believers, they had a sense of divine awe. That's verse 43. It says, everyone kept feeling a sense of awe. And many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. They had awe of God. That word awe, by the way, is phobos. It normally is translated fear. We get our word phobia from it. But it was a it was not a phobia, it was a divine awe. God was among this community of believers and was doing something powerful and special, very displayed because of the miracles in particular that the apostles were doing. And divine worship and all was not just in the community, but it says everyone, and that's contrasted with all the believers, and so I think it was everyone Even those that had not yet believed were looking in and seeing what was happening in this community, and they had some fear of what God was doing in the time Christ had just been crucified and there were miraculous signs that even in the sky, the darkness had happened while he was be crucified. He was raised from the dead. Matthew twenty eight tells us that there must have been stories of of people who were raised from the dead, Old Testament saints, walking around in Jerusalem, testifying to Christ. All of that had happened, and then there was the day of Pentecost, the speaking in all the languages from around the world And then people were being healed, and then the preaching that Peter gave on the day of Pentecost and the teaching was powerful, and it created a sense of seriousness and awe of God around their community. So many churches lack that today. A sense of awe. And it's so sad. They want to be relevant, but they have no sense of divine awe in their presence. Luke makes it clear that this awe was related to the miracles that the apostles performed. You know, once Jesus raised someone from the dead in Luke 7, 16, and it says this: fear gripped them all. That's what was happening. Fear gripped them all. And they began glorifying God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us and God has visited his people. You have a sense that God is there. Yeah, you get afraid. And if you don't, you know anything about God. Later in Acts 5. 5, there are two people that said that they gave A whole track of land to the Lord, and they sold it, and they gave all the money to the church, but they really kept half to themselves secretly. And Peter had them come in. Remember their names Ananias and Sapphira, what happened to them? They dropped dead. First the husband, then the wife. It says fear gripped the whole congregation. People say, are you going to join that congregation? No way. People die in there. People die in there. Please notice the miracles were taking place through the apostles only, contrary to what many hear today. That's because these were not just miracles. They weren't done just to show off, they were sign miracles. The word sign is often used with them. Same on sign. They were to authenticate the apostles' doctrine. Their doctrine was just mentioned in verse 42, and so that's why They were devoting themselves to the apostles' doctrine, and the apostles were performing signs. You see it right in this context. Please notice back in verse 22 of Acts 2. Even Jesus was attested this way. Verse 22, in Peter's sermon, he says, Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, listen, a man attested to you by God With miracles and wonders and signs, which God performed through him in your midst. See? How was Jesus known to be a prophet of God, a man of God? Miracles and wonders and signs. God did them through him, and God attested to Signs authenticated Christ. When they were debating, was Jesus really the Messiah, way back in John 7. 31, it says many of the crowd believed in Jesus and they were saying, When the Christ comes, he's not going to perform more signs than those which this man has done, is he? You see all the miracles they do, you think the Messiah's coming? This guy's got to be the Messiah. That's how the Jew thought. And that was in the Jewish mind from the beginning because Moses, their first prophet, was attested by Signs. And Joel said when the age of the Spirit came, there would be signs. And so the Jews were always, according to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, looking for signs. So the signs were particularly for the Jews Through the apostles, because they were giving new information, new doctrine. Remember those apostles had some pretty unique qualifications They were special in the church. They were unique. There was no one like them. If you remember back in Acts 1, we talked about that briefly. There were some qualifications for being an apostle. They had to have been with with uh Christ and his ministry since John the Baptist all the way to the resurrection and be a an actual eyewitness of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. They had unique authority in the church. They spoke as prophets. Their speaking was when it was spoken as a prophet was infallible. So God was testifying through them. We see this in other parts of Scripture. Just jot these verses down and study them later Acts fourteen three, it says Paul and Barnabas spent a long time there, this is among the Gentiles, speaking boldly, with reliance upon the Lord, who was testifying to the word of his grace Granting that signs and wonders be done by their hands. Why the signs and wonders? Testifying about the word that those apostles were speaking. 2 Corinthians 12 12. 2 Corinthians 12 12. I'll get that out. The Apostle Paul said, the signs of a true apostle were performed among you. With all perseverance, by signs and wonders and miracles. Hebrews 2. 4. God also testifying with them that is the eyewitnesses of Christ both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his will. So the miracles were not taking place through others at this point, only through the apostles. Acts 5 says, Great fear came over the whole church and over all who heard these things. At the hands of the apostles, many signs and wonders were taking place among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's portico. The only divergence from the apostles doing the signs is when the apostles laid their hands on someone particular and commissioned them into ministry like Stephen and Philip that you read about in Acts 6 and 8. Now we have to extract principles from this, and one principle we're not going to extract from this is that I'm going to hold a healing service. Because I can't do signs and wonders and miracles. Disappointed? You can leave now. I don't think Alan has that gift either. I've been watching him for a while. I haven't seen anybody healed through Alan. Does that mean God doesn't heal? Of course not. God can still heal. He heals through our prayers. Does God still do miracles? Of course he does. These were authenticating miracles through the very hands of certain people. So people would look at them and say, wow, what they're saying is true. It was new revelation. We didn't have a New Testament back then. It had a design and a purpose. So that's not one application we're going to make. I'm not going to, as a leader in a church, do signs and miracles. But I do think that we ought to be known as a church where God is at work, don't you? Is God at work here? Do you sense God being at work here? I see God answering prayers that thrills my heart. I see Him changing lives that excites me and keeps me motivated to keep teaching and preaching. I see God rebuilding families that warms my heart. I see genuine worship. I listen to you all as you sing and as you pray, and that warms my heart too. God is working You know, it's not that we can't have fun. It's not that you can't go playing paint uh play paintball on Saturdays, guys. It's not that you can't go have some some frivolous and fun time together, but it there should be a sense of weight and seriousness to the gathering of the Saturday And if there isn't, I don't think that those saints know what they're really doing on a Sunday. They're coming to give honor and glory to Almighty God. And things are pretty weighty in heaven around the throne room. Things ought to be pretty weighty in here. Things ought to be serious. Things ought to be sober. Yes, joyful. But we ought to have a sense we're in the very presence of God Almighty. Where is the trembling before God that there used to be? Where is the confessing of sin? Where is that sense that we serve A God who is a consuming fire. That's Hebrews 12. Since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service service with reverence. And awe. For our God is a consuming fire. Especially these worship times are not to be light or man-focused, but heavenward and focused on Christ in The entirety. All is to be done, even our announcements to bring glory and honor to Christ. Alright, a sixth description of this early church is that they were demonstrating unity. Number six, demonstrating unity. Focus on the first part of verse 44 only, and then we're going to bounce a little to the first half of verse 46, verse 44 and 46. It says, and all those who had believed were together. And then you jump to verse 46, it says, day by day, continuing with one mind in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house. They were taking their meals together. And I'm going to stop there because we've got other things to look at So verse 44 says they're all together. Physically, they're all together in Jerusalem. I tried to figure out how that can happen. I mean, there was no home that could hold over 3,000 people in Jerusalem. How did that happen? Well, verse 46, notice they were daily together in the temple. The temple was massive, it was large enough for them. So they were together in the temple, and in the temple they witnessed for the Lord Jesus Christ. In the temple they had their corporate prayers. The expositor's Bible commentary adds a note here, as Jews who were Christians, and also as Christians who were Jews, they not only considered Jerusalem to be their city, but continued to regard the temple as their sanctuary. So in the temple, they had a facility large enough to hold all of them every single day of the week. Isn't that neat how God provided for that right at the beginning? Verse 46 also tells us they had fellowship from house to house. Now they're all together in close proximity, so this was somewhat easier for them, right? You could walk down the road. Turned a corner, down the street again, and there is another believer's home. And so that from house to house they were together, and that's a joyous thing. It tells us that in the homes they were sharing their what together? Their meals, right? And breaking bread. Again, I think a reference to taking the Lord's Supper. As we said before, the Lord's Supper and the meal were likely joined at this early date. They had an agape feast, a love feast. These meals that they had in their homes were their normal family meals. Supper time probably after the work was done. And they were full and substantial meals. And they shared them. They shared them with the other believers. And this was going on daily. This was happening constantly here. Daily they were around the table talking with each other, sharing what was happening in their life, reclining there, getting to know each other better, sharing the faith, enjoying each other Practicing what 1 Peter 4. 9 says to be hospitable to one another without complaint. That guy eats too much. Oh, is that guy again coming over? No complaints. They were birds of a feather. They flocked together. Wherever you saw one disciple, you saw another. They enjoyed being together. They were magnetic in their attraction to one another Each believer was associated with the other believers. There were no little clicks. Well, we're the higher echelon of church, you see. Please go on over to that group. There's nothing like that in the church. One associated with another. It didn't matter what kind of a home you lived in, how much money you had, we were all brethren. And Sicerin, I know that's not a word, but we're all together and we cared for one another. There were no elite groups. Everyone was willing to associate with the others. And then verse 46 adds notice that they were of one mind. This just blesses my heart. There was genuine unity in this fellowship of believers. They had one mind. Why? Because they had one purpose. They were focused on Christ. They wanted to learn from Christ and worship and obey Christ. That unity of mind, that unity of purpose is stressed not only right here at the beginning of the church age in Acts 2, but all throughout Acts as well. A couple of samples. In Acts four twenty-four it says that they were praying and they lifted their voices to God with one accord. In Acts five twelve it says they were all with one accord in Solomon's portico, part of the temple. The unity of mind, of course, was only possible because of the first description we heard of the church at the beginning, and that is that they all were dedicated to listening to the same source of truth. They didn't have another Bible, they didn't have another philosophy of life, they didn't have another source, they didn't have another teacher. It was the twelve apostles, it was Christ's doctrine, they were all focused on it, and of course that gave them unity of mind. Can't get unity of mind any other way. Well, let's apply this. What are some prescriptions for us? Well, I think first of all we should desire time with other believers. We should really want to be together with other believers. Young people, let me talk to you again. You shouldn't want to be with other believers. Your best friends should be people who share your heart. Why was Jonathan's heart knit to David and David's heart knit to Jonathan? Because they shared a same vibrant faith in the Lord their God. They were courageous and they loved doing things for God out of faith. Do you have friends like that? Are you someone? like that, that someone else could have as a friend. Do you desire strong Christian friendships? Are you nurturing strong Christian friendships? Are those the kinds that you want more than anyone else? If you're around unbelievers more, you enjoy being around unbelievers more, you need to ask yourself, what's going on in your heart? Why is that so? Why do you want that That's not right. That's not how these believers were. For adults, we have to look at the same thing. What about social time? Do you enjoy the social time with your unsaved family, for example, more than you do with your church family? I'm not saying you don't have a duty to them. I'm saying do you enjoy it? What's going on in your heart? Do you really love being around the people of God? Do you look forward to it? I know some people complain that church takes up too much of their time. Certainly are unnecessary meetings at times, aren't there? We know we all need to be dedicated to our families and make sure we give them the the singular time that they need often. But we ought to love to be together with the saints. These people were meeting together daily. We're not meeting together daily If you're out three or four times getting together with the saints, do you say, oh man, another meeting? Oh I have to get together with them again. Or is your heart looking forward to that? You know? I really look forward to being with those people, even with all their imperfections. I love being with them because they they stir me up. I think if uh we don't enjoy that, we haven't figured out yet, we're an eternal brotherhood You know, and we ought to bring our families along with us and not make it family versus church. Bring the family along. The family needs to learn to serve in church as well. Listen, spending time together daily was not viewed here in Acts as going overboard. You'll get a little comment from Luke that says, they were a little bit wacko here. They just met together too much. I mean, you know, hey, a little religion is fine, but let's not get carried away. I mean, in like a cult or something. They were diligent and devoted. They demonstrated unity. They got together. They loved it. The NIV application commentary has an interesting note here. It says, more and more people are retreating into a private world of pleasure through the use of videos. Must have been written a while ago. We've got to throw in DVDs now. Videos, cable TV, video games, and the internet. But human beings are by nature gregarious. When people taste the beauty of joyous fellowship, they will be confronted with a more pleasurable source of joy than their private world of media. Pleasure. He writes. Where are you on that? Are you a retreater? Are you a headphoner all the time? Are you retreating back? Do you kind of just come to church and stand in your little corner? Do your duty, slip on out to the car, ah, turn on your stuff and go. Or are you developing relationships with others? You see how society doesn't number us? We've got to really think about that. Our home is one of the happiest homes. We we don't we we we sometimes grumble and complain. I just want to be honest about that. But our home is really one of the happiest homes, and you know why? Because there are always believers coming by. Always. Every day of the week. I don't know what day though there where there isn't someone coming by. And you know, even the kids sometimes will complain, but then later they're like, who's coming over tonight? They want to know. It's wonderful to have believers around. It constantly reminds us Who are we? What are we doing here? Who do we belong to? Where do we fit in? What is it all about? You can easily get lost in a matter of hours and days. Just kind of get lost in your own thoughts, and being around other believers helps. so much. Well, another application we could make is to take meals together. There's no reason that that principle doesn't fit our society as well, taking meals together Doesn't have to be a fancy meal. Every home is different. They have their own traditions in each home. But what you normally eat, share that with other people. Open up your home for others. Say McDonald's works too. Whatever would work for you. Wherever you'd go. You know we have twenty new families I mentioned in a prayer already, or singles, who started attending this church this very year. How many of them have been in your home the last six months? How many of them? Is your home open? Are we sharing meals together in this church? That's why I instituted this thing called home lunches on Sunday afternoons. I really want you to get into these. I want you to think about your home. You say, well, I don't have a large home. I had people over when I was in a condo. I uh when we were in California and we were all swooshed in the apartment, we had people over. There was a Bible study in our apartment When we are in a townhouse, I was a fourth grade teacher, we had tons of people over. We didn't have any matching furniture. When we are in a small house, we had people over. Still nothing matched, except for the stuff my mom bought. Then we we had a big house and and and it wasn't well done. It was big but it wasn't well done and still nothing matched. We had we had tons of people open. Now we have a big house and some things finally do match And we have more people than ever. You you don't say, whoa, you know, you know, people aren't gonna want to come over to my house. Who cares about that? Do you really care about that? You really care I'm only gonna go raise your hand, you're only gonna go to the best homes if you're invited. Only the best homes. I hope we're on anybody like that. Speak to me about this. What's happening? Are you inviting people into your homes? Leaders, are you leading? Are you saying my home is open? Alright, if it's a little messy? Go out to eat, clean it up, invite them a little later. How about your home this week? The point is what? The sharing together. That's the whole point. Not that it has to be this or has to be that, but to share together with other people. Togetherness, interest in other people, asking what's going on in their life. There's no substitute for that. Another one is just be of one mind. You know, we have a very detailed doctrinal statement and a very specific philosophy of ministry and we preach expositionally here. All of that helps to ensure we have one mind in this congregation. We're not going different directions. People step forward to leadership training. I don't ask them how they would like church to be done. I tell them this is what the New Testament says. Alan and I have worked very carefully on this. This is what Scripture says. We're not deviating from that. If you like that, you can support that You can join us. We'll train you. You can't? That's the this is not the church for you, at least not in terms of leadership. This is what we're about. We know what we're about. We don't have an identity crisis. We know exactly who we are. But it takes you too to listen, to learn, to implement, to understand, to serve, to share with other people, to try to bring it around and understand why are we doing this and doing that? What is expositional preaching? Why do we do it Some people say expositional preaching is when you go verse by verse. It's not topical preaching. Listen, every single expositional sermon is about a topic. It's just handling the scripture well and not jumping over the parts you don't like or that are too controversial. You are a mouthpiece for God in the pulpit. You don't share what you like, you share what God says That's a divine command. It doesn't say preach part of the word. Preach the parts of the words that you think are relevant. It says preach the word. There it is. It's pretty easy. I don't need to be creative. I don't need to invent anything It helps with being one mind. We know what we're about. Number four, we need a facility. You knew I was gonna stick that in somewhere, right? We praise God for Robert and this school. We need a facility, but since I'm going to talk so much more about that later, I'm just going to leave that at that. Stay tuned. My last application has to do, I'm sorry, the last description has to do with distributing care funds, and I'm gonna have to summarize this because of time. They were seventh distributing care funds. Wow. Look back at verse 45. We hopped over that. You thought I was hopping over the hard part. Oh, here it is. They had, well, even the last part of verse 40, they had all things in common. And they began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need. No, this was not communism. This wasn't forced sharing. They were, the verb is continually selling, so it means as the need came up, they said, here's a piece of property, here's a possession Costly jar of perfume, whatever it is, sell it, get the money, distribute it, help those in need. It was a generous heart that was on display, not a forced communism from outside. This was something that came from abundant and uncommonly generous hearts. They were investing in eternity They no longer were about amassing material wealth for themselves in life. They were not about trying to find, quote, financial freedom. They were not about piling up their investments so they could sit on that and retire at age 65. None of that was in their mind. They were about treasures in heaven. They were about giving up what they had on earth for the sake of the community and real needs. These are not false needs. Sometimes people will not work. False is if someone will not work, neither let them what Eat. We're not just going to pass out funds in the church to anybody who says, I would like a better lifestyle. That's not going to happen. Those who are genuinely in need. The church looked around and those that were richer said, Well I have three of these. I'm giving up a couple for this. Here goes one, here's some clothes, here's some clothes, here's some possessions. That Plot of land I had for burial ground, ah, I'm gonna get raised anyways, I'm gonna sell that thing, and I'm gonna take the money and I'm gonna give it to these people who've come from around the world Pentecost and they're poor and they they they now committed themselves to the to the congregation and some of them are going to lose their livelihood, their job because of their association with Christ. They're going to be kicked out of the synagogue. They're going to have trouble and we're going to take care of them. We're going to take care of them. And that's what we're about. You know, we are commanded to do and to be involved in the care ministry. Amen? We are really commanded to care for one another. We ought all to be involved in the care ministry. There's an application. What are you about? Are you about storing up for yourselves treasures on earth where moths and rust do destroy and where thieves break in and steal? Or storing up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroy, and where thieves do not break in or steal. And I think the next verse is the most important. For where? your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Is your heart in ministry? Is your heart in caring? For the beloved, for the saints, for the congregation, or is your heart in your ease and comfort and career and belongings? You know, uh One way this could be applied, someone who's rich enough and has access to some money, maybe they have a plot of land that they didn't know what to do with. Sometimes God moves people to sell. Just like here, to sell and to give, so that a church can flourish and grow, so that it can take care of people, so that it can outreach with the gospel, so it can have a facility. As I'm reading this, I'm thinking how much we have to watch out for greed Jesus said in Luke 12, 15, beware and be on your guard against every form of greed. For not even when one has an abundance does his life consist of his possessions. And of course, we're told in Acts 20, 35, that Jesus also taught it is more blessed to what? Unfortunately, we often make excuses for our lack of giving. Christ says, beware of every form of greed and covetousness. It's hard because you see We're not greedy. We're not covetous. We're just taking care of responsibilities. Well, I I've been waiting a long time for that. Oh, well, everyone has those. And the way our heart goes is we we bury the truth, and that is that we're not investing in the kingdom. You look at our Checkbook, we look at our statement, we look at it, and there's the proof. Are we investing in the kingdom? Yes or no? It's all right there. And so The uncommon generosity that is here was motivated by the work of the Spirit of God in their hearts to give And not grudgingly. There was no requirement of a tithe. Many of these people gave well beyond ten percent, I'm sure. They gave in abundance. They gave because they saw need. They gave because they were about the kingdom. They were seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And they didn't worry about what was going to happen tomorrow, right? Isn't that what Christ taught? Isn't that what they heard? Isn't that what he expects us to be? To live by, to not worry about tomorrow, to give today, and to trust God. Well, they were into the things of the eternal kingdom. And they found, I think, you want to know what true financial freedom is? You don't need to go to a seminar. There it is right there. Acts chapter two. They had financial freedom. See, I'm not even charging you for this lesson today. How to have financial freedom. They were free. They were not owned by money. They were not owned by treasures. They were not owned by belongings. Their hearts were free. They had financial freedom in the truest sense of it. 1 Timothy 6, 17 and 19 says, Instruct those who are rich in this present world. You say, That's not me, I'm not rich. You're more rich than most people in the world. Instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited. Or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches. You can't have financial freedom with riches anyway, because they're uncertain. But on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy, instruct them to do good. To be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, storing up for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future. So that they may take hold of that which is life indeed. You give away and you take hold of life indeed, Paul says in 1 Timothy 6. And your future's fine. You're storing up for the future, he says. You're okay if you're giving by faith. You're fine. God will take care of you. God will richly supply for you. Your security is found in God who richly supplies all things to be enjoyed. These people in Acts chapter 2 are our model. May God help us to imitate that example. Let's pray. Father, we're challenged by the togetherness of this congregation, their diligence in corporate prayer Their sense of divine awe that you were among them and working in a unique way, we're humbled, Lord. We recognize how far short we fall How much we need to sense your power among us to give, to be loose from the things that bind us, our unbelief, our weakness of faith. our commitment to the things of the world. We pray, Lord, that you will accentuate the examples of giving among us. Those given even the gift of giving might be a true example of a heart That all of us would watch and see and understand and learn from. And we pray now too, Lord, that you will be among us in a mighty way as we come together for a congregational meeting to give you honor and glory. And we praise you in Christ's name, Amen