Let's open with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have made, this Lord's Day, where uh we have the privilege of gathering as uh the body of Christ here at Hope Bible Church and worshiping you together. We thank you for this opportunity right now to study your word. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the way you have revealed yourself uh as the sovereign almighty creator of the universe and how you have revealed yourself through history from the very beginning to the very end and uh now that you and now here in this book of Revelation you reveal the things that uh will take place in the future. Uh we thank you, Lord, for who you are, but also for what you've done. We thank you for the love and mercy and grace that you showered on us in sending your Son, Jesus Christ, to die. We ask, Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds as we study your word, and through your Holy Spirit, we pray that you would help us to understand what you're trying to teach us. us from your word and also that we would be able to apply these truths and these principles to our lives so that we would be better followers of Christ. We thank you, Lord, for all the things that make up your character. We thank you for the people that you've brought into our lives such that we can uh work together, uh, the way that you've designed the body of Christ with different gifts and abilities So that we can fit together and we can encourage one another and love one another and and build one another up We thank you for all of that, Lord, and we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. uh Journey Through Revelation is a thirty nine part series and it's in three quarters. And so the first quarter is thirteen parts and we're up to page uh part twelve. So we've got this week and next week and the first uh quarter, uh essentially the first one third of what we're gonna go through in the book of Revelation. Um I will not be here next Sunday. Uh I have um my My nine to five Monday through Friday job is gonna have me uh on a business trip to Japan. So I'll be in Tokyo um next week. Um I'll be back just in time for the class. So when did this class end? So this class nine months. So next week is the the the twenty sixth is the last last one in this quarter and so you have to re register for another quarter if you want to keep going in Revelation. Um and so the the actual study on Revelation is gonna go three quarters. So this one, the next one And the one after that. And they're all thirteen weeks, so it's thirteen, thirteen, thirteen, thirty-nine. So thirty-nine uh Sundays. But I won't be here next week, and so I'm working on getting somebody to uh to step in. I don't know who that's gonna be yet, but somebody will be standing here. Uh somebody not is somebody not me, 'cause I'll be in Tokyo. Um but I have my notes and I'll whoever's going to teach will have my notes. They can use my notes if they want or they can do it do their own thing. It'll be uh Revelation chapter five uh next week. So chapter four this week, chapter five next week. Um so I'm I'm searching for my replacement. I hope to have that nailed down soon. I hope by the end of the day today. So um so here's our our schedule. So uh we've been through the letters Uh we finished the last letters last time. Uh now we get some uh additional visions. We get a trip to heaven, a vision of heaven that John uh has, and that's really gonna be uh a single vision that goes chapter four and chapter five. And then we get into the tribulation after that. So um yeah, so so this chapter four and chapter five is kind of the transition from um The things that have been, the things that are, and the things that will take place. We're transitioning from the things that are to the things that will take place in chapter four and five. Okay, so what we're gonna learn, we're gonna have a trip to heaven. Heaven, a vision uh he's gonna go in the spirit, John says, to heaven. Uh we're gonna see the throne there. That's really the emphasis of chapter four, the throne of God. We'll see who's on the throne. We'll see what's around the throne, we'll see what's coming from the throne, we'll see what what's before the throne, we'll see what's in and around the throne, and we'll see what's being directed toward the throne. But the focus is the throne of God. But before that, let's do a little review of where we were last week. So we have these seven messages to the seven churches. And just as a summary, John has a a vision of Christ, the risen Christ. And then there are seven letters from the risen Christ to the seven churches, but they are given via seven messengers. So we have seven messengers, taking seven letters to the seven churches. Now, it doesn't tell us in this in the text exactly how what the mechanics of that are. But the the commentaries that I read that seem to be the most th most faithful, uh, do what I think is a reasonable speculation to say that these seven messengers were seven human messengers most likely the leaders, the elders of each one of those churches. And so Since John could not leave Patmos, he was exiled there, he couldn't leave. The only way for those letters to go off Patmos was for these seven messengers to come to Patmos and get the seven letters and then take them around. And we saw the route from Ephesus. This this is the first place they landed, and then they go all the way around, uh, and the very last one is Laodicea. But most likely the seven messengers, like the guy from Ephesus, he has his letter, he reads his letter. header out to his church. He most likely didn't then continue on the circuit. He stayed with his church. And so uh that's I think pretty good informed speculation that you had seven messengers at the first church. Second church it was down to six because the guy from Ephesus stayed and so on all the way around to the guy from Laodicea ends up at his own church and that's it. Um that's what um I think is how the mechanics worked. Although those kind of specifics of course are So the Lord Jesus Christ introduced himself in each one of those letters at the beginning. In this letter to Labasidia, he introduces himself as the Amen. Uh and that Amen is a Hebrew word translated alliterated into Greek. It means truth or affirmation or certainty. Uh fixed and unchangeable. He also describes himself as the faithful and true witness. So not only is he the Amen, but he's also uh a witness. Whatever he speaks is true. He's the faithful witness. And then he also introduces himself as the beginning of the creation, and that Greek word or he me translated beginning. It means uh the origin or the source, uh in that sense, beginning as in the origin or the source. So the origin or the source of creation is what that Greek word means there. As with the last several churches There is no specific information in the New Testament about how this church was founded. Paul did not found it because uh in the book of Colossians he says he has never been there And he's hoping to go. Um Paul's co worker Epaphrus founded the nearby church in Colossae and so he may have founded it, but we don't know for certain. Uh the city itself uh is in the Lycus uh valley and it's the southeasternmost of the seven cities. It's very close to Colossae and Hieropolis. So it was a three city, kind of three sister cities there. Uh it was vulnerable to attack because it had to it didn't have its own water supply. It had to bring in water by aqueduct and so um the aqueduct could be blocked and then the enemy could come in because you could uh everybody was dying of thirst. Uh but that idea that they had to bring water in by aqueduct comes into the letter later on. Uh it was also uh a very wealthy financial and banking center, uh famous for soft black wool that they had and also famous as a center for medicine. In particular, they made a special eye salve that was much sought after in the Mediterranean world. And so Jesus used all three of those Things that made the city famous, banking and finance, the wool, and the I salve, in the letter. So he rebuked them first of all for not being cold or hot, but being lukewarm. Uh that's a meta from the water supply which had to come by aqueduct so it was uh kind of tepid and dirty when it came in. Um as oppos as opposed to the sister cities Hieropolis was famous for hot springs. Colossae was famous for a cold stream, but Laodicea had lukewarm tepid water. So the the Lord uses that um uh well-known fact at the time uh to form part of his uh the analogy, the spiritual analogy that he makes, it's rooted in something physical, and he did that all the time in his earthly ministry. Uh he made parables based on farming and things like that that people knew. Uh and then he gives them this sharp rebuke, because you're lukewarm, I'm gonna spit you out of your mouth. Um and so he talked about this kind of people in Matthew 7. uh people that would say Lord, Lord, and he would say, I never knew you, depart from me. Um they also had a quite a bit of self deception. Uh they believed they were rich But Christ's assessment was different. You're wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Similar to the rich young ruler in Matthew nineteen, he was he was spiritually self-deceived. He could have, Jesus could have instantly uh judged and destroyed this church. Uh there are instances of instant judgment in the Bible, like um uh well Sodom and Gomorrah in the Old Testament, um Ananias and Sapphirah that just dropped dead. when they uh when they lied to Peter. Uh there are instances of instant judgment, but he didn't do that in this case. He advised he he uh he gave them a gracious offer of genuine salvation. He said, Buy from me and the things that He he said buy from me are the things that uh were kind of um tied to things that were familiar to the city. Uh gold, buy from me gold, not the kind of gold that you have from your banking and finance, buy from me white garments, not the kind of garments that you have from your fine black wool and buy from me I salve, not your uh eye salve that's so famous that you think is so famous. You need real eye salve from me to open your eyes so you're not so that you can see. Uh then he goes on to um to talk about um the discipline, uh discipline referring to to punishment, um and the fact that they need To repent. If you're saved, you have to be zealous and repent. And so he follows this call for repentance with an invitation in verse 20. He talks about the he stands at the door, Christ stood at the door of the loud. to see in church and he knocked and if anyone would hear his voice and open the door, they could come in and dine with him and he uh with Christ. So there's a a call to repentance and an offer um of invitation, uh an invitation for what would happen if they repented. Uh and then there's a this um Uh each of the seven letters have at towards the end something about uh what the what the um what the a promise to those who overcome, promise to those who are true believers. Uh he who overcomes is the way it is. And in this letter he says he'll grant them to sit down with him on his throne as he also overcame and sat down on his father's throne. So that's the promise. There's a promise like that in the other letters. So as we've gone through these seven letters Uh the overcomers are promised the privilege of eating of the tree of life, promised the crown of life, promised protection from the second death, promised the hidden manna, a white stone with a new name written on it, authority to rule the nation Promised a morning star, promised white garments, promised the honor of having Christ confess their names before God the Father and before the angels, promised to be a pillar in God's temple, promised to have written on them the name of God and the new Jerusalem. So all these promises piled up, one after the other, after the other, after the other, for he who overcomes. Those who are true believers that persevere to the end, this is what you get. This is what's promised from Christ. And there's these promises if if we read them out from all seven letters, they're just a staggering promises to believers here. So and at the end, of course, of this letter, like all the others, he has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. So it's not just, of course, for that church. The Holy Spirit made sure that this was recorded in Scripture so that we can read it too. Uh so that all believers for all time have been able to read uh what the Spirit says to the churches, not just the members of those churches. Um and so the call is obvious, repent, open uh open the door to Christ before the judgment falls. Um so that was what we did last time. Uh any questions about that? Any questions about that letter or any of the other letters? So um so the the physical analogy was it was a little tricidiary with Laodicea and Hieropolis and Colossae. And Hieropolis was famous for hot springs. And so that's really nice, the hot and night, hot spring water. Colossae was famous for a real cool uh kind of mountain stream cold water. Labosia was f famous for having this lukewarm, tepid, kind of nasty water that had to come in by aqueduct. And so Christ is using that physical reality to make a spiritual point. And his spiritual point is hot is a true believer. Cold is somebody that's outright rejected the gospel and and is not a hypocrite that just said they've rejected. Lukewarm in the spiritual analogy analogy is somebody who is uh a fake believer, someone who pretends that they're a Christian and are not And uh his point is that person is a lot more danger. You you you still um y you know, you c still there's a still a possibility to evangelize that person that has rejected up to this point. This this person is lukewarm Doesn't think he needs the gospel because he thinks he's already saved. He's the person who goes to Christ in Matthew 7 and says, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And Christ says, I never knew you Um and so that's the spiritual analogy there. So it's hot, cold, and lukewarm. It's still Yeah yeah. Yeah, so so as with any kind of analogy, it's it's not perfect. I mean you can't Take it too far too far. Yeah, that's right. So yeah, the people that were cold, they're not in good shape either. Uh in the spiritual analogy. Uh but in some ways the people that are lukewarm are worse because they think they're saved. Um we have the in Matthew seven, we have the rich young ruler in Matthew nineteen who um he he came to Jesus. uh saying, How do I earn salvation? Jesus said he rattled off commandments and the rich general said, All of these I have kept. That's what he said to Jesus. When Jesus rattled off the law, so he in his mind he had perfectly He kept the law. That's a dangerous place to be. He thinks he's in good standing with God and he's not And so um that was the the the point I think being made the spiritual point being made by the the lukewarmness. Yeah. Uh we're gonna go into Revelation chapter four now. Um so open your Bibles or your devices. and uh turn to Revelation chapter four. Uh we're gonna do the we're gonna go through the whole chapter. It's only eleven verses. Uh so the whole of chapter four today. So this is the word of the Lord. After these things I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I had heard like the sound of a trumpet speaking with me, said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after these things. Immediately I was in the Spirit And behold, a throne was standing in heaven, and one sitting on the throne. And he who was he was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance, and there was a rainbow around the throne like an emerald in appearance. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones And upon the thrones I saw twenty-four elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and golden crowns on their heads Out from the throne come flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder. And there were seven lamps of fire burning upon before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was something like a sea of glass, like crystal, and in the center and around the throne four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. The first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like that of a man And the fourth creature was like a flying eagle. And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes around and within And day and night they do not cease to say, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God. the Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come. And when the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits on the throne, to Him who lives forever and ever, The twenty-four elders will fall down before him who sits on the throne, and will worship him who lives forever and ever, and will cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things. And because of your will they existed and were created. Wow. That's the vision that John sees. He he's taken in the spirit and he's that's what he sees. He's written down, he's trying to explain what he sees in words that are intelligible to us. Um and so uh before we launch into the verse by verse, I just uh uh plucked a little part of uh John MacArthur's commentary. Um and he John MacArthur says this in contrast to the fanciful, bizarre, and often silly fabrications of those who falsely claim to have visited heaven. The Bible records the accounts of two people who actually were taken there in visions. In 2 Corinthians 12, the Apostle Paul wrote of being transported to the third heaven, the abode of God, but he was forbidden to speak of what he saw there. So he uh Paul saw something, but he wasn't allowed to speak and write it down. John saw something and he's allowed to write it down. The apostle Paul John also had the inestimable privilege of visiting heaven. Unlike Paul, John was permitted to give a detailed description of his vision, which he did in chapters four and five of Revelation. In those two chapters, John recorded the second vision he saw, the first being his vision of the glorified Lord Jesus Christ in Revelation 1, 12 to 17. The Bible refers to heaven more than 500 times, and others such as Paul and Ezekiel wrote descriptions of it, yet John's description in chapter four and five is the most complete and informative in all of Scripture. Escorted by the beloved apostle, readers are carried far beyond the mundane features of this temporal realm to behold the realities of eternal heaven. Through John's vision, believers have the privilege of previewing the place where they will live. forever. Amen. So, uh, let's take a look at this vision that John had. It's it's actually two chapters. Chapter four, which we'll do today, chapter five will be next week. Um but here's how he starts out in in chapter four. So uh verse one, after these things I looked, and behold a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I had heard, like the sound of a trumpet speaking with me, said Come up here. And I will show you what must take place after these things. So the first occurrence of the phrase after these things, right at the very beginning there, verse one, relates to John's personal chronology. So this is for John. Um it notes that this second vision followed immediately after John's vision. of the risen Christ in verse one and the letters to the seven churches in two and three. So verse uh chapter one, God has a vision of the risen, glorified Christ. Then in chapters two and three we have the letters that we've just been through. So these letters are revealed and written down. And then in John's chronology, after these things, so after that has happened, This is what happens next for John. After these things, I looked. So I John looked. So this is John's chronology after these things. The phrase after these things used throughout Revelation to mark the beginning. Why did he use the word vision when he's actually there? So it says in the spirit, so it's not Um it's not physical. Uh it's not a physical thing, uh uh time, space, matter, energy. It's in the spirit. So it's a little bit different. Uh I think that that's why the distinction is made, in the spirit. So That's so there's twice after these things occurs though. So after these things, John's chronology. Uh but when Jesus says it, Jesus says what must take place after these things, that's God's chronology See the difference there? After these things I for John, but then Jesus says, I will tell you what must take place after these things. Now we're talking about God's chronology. Three basic divisions, the things which are, which things that uh uh things that have been, things that are, things that will take place after these. Um this is the next step in that. So uh we've seen the things that uh that have been Then we've seen now the things which are in chapters two and three. Now in chapters four and five we're making the transition to the things that uh will take place after these things. So uh the things which will take place. place, the future. So we're and so this is the kind of the prologue to those future events, the transition of you will from the present to the future. Chapters four and chapter five. Chapter six begins the the description of those future events, but four and five is kind of the setup and prologue and transition from the things which are to the things which will take place. And so that's what Jesus is saying here. Come up here and I'm going to show you This is the this is m the introduction to the things that are now gonna be uh I'm gonna reveal to you future events. Uh that's what Jesus is saying. Uh so yes, we're we're we're embarking on the transition to the third of those um series of events, things which have been, things which are, things that will will take place. Uh the scene shifts from matters concerning the church, which we've had in uh uh chapters two and three with these letters And then the church is never mentioned again in chapters four through nineteen. We're shifting um on uh from this the things concerning the church on earth to a dramatic scene in heaven. Um that scene centers on the throne of God here in in chapter four and forms the prologue to future historical events. The tribulation, the millennial kingdom, and the eternal state is what we're gonna get from chapter six to twenty two. Yes. I I think so. Uh it's an argument from absence of course, which is uh which is not the strongest kind of argument. Uh the fact that the church is not mentioned uh is not the same as saying as a as a direct quote saying and the church is not there uh but it's an it is an argument from absence that the church is not mentioned from 4 to 19. yeah Um so we ha we're gonna about to embark on chapter six through twenty two in this uh description of the tribulation periods of millennial kingdom and the eternal state. And here we have in four and chapter four and five the prologue or set up to be able to do that. So it's also considered, you know, uh the end of the turkey? So it's the end of uh of the description in the book of Revelation of things that are and it's marks the translation to things that will take place. So It's the book of Revelation is uh as uh chapter one, verse nineteen tells us, has kind of three things that it talks about. It talks about things that have been, it talks about things that are, at the time John is writing, things that are at the time of John. John's writing. And then it talks about things that will take place in the future. So that's the three kind of different uh uh sets of uh issues that the book of Revelation deals with. Yeah. uh Ezekiel first chapter select uh reason uh he had about as similar to one thing. Oh absolutely. Yeah we're gonna we're gonna go uh go back and forth between Ezekiel and here. Uh that's that's absolutely the case. There's lots of parallels between the vision of Ezekiel and the vision of John. Uh absolutely. Uh so in keeping with the Lord's uh promise to spare his church in the hour of testing, uh the church will be raptured before the time of tribulation and we'll talk about that as we get into Chapters 6 through 19, we have uh the most detailed description of that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Um so John looks uh as he looked after these things I looked and to his ascending. Astonishment indicated by his exclamation, Behold, so that word is a uh is a uh uh a sharp exclamation kind of word, behold. Um he saw a door standing open in heaven. We also have a door in Ezekiel 1. We have a door in Acts chapter 7. The open door, in this case, admits John in the Spirit into heaven, uh to the very throne room of God. Um it was heaven to which Christ ascended after his resurrection, and where he has since been seated at the right hand of God. We see descriptions of that other places in Scripture are mentioned Of it in John chapter 14, Acts Chapter 1, Acts Chapter 3, Acts Chapter 7, Romans Chapter 10, Colossians Chapter 3, 1 Thessaloni in chapter four. The this idea that Christ um lived a life um as a man Then he died, was buried, rose from the dead, and then for a time, uh, as a resurrected person. walked around on the earth, but then he ascended. And where did he ascend to? He ascended to heaven and sits at the right hand of of God. And we have many scripture passages that uh that mention that. And so now heaven becomes John's vantage point. for most of the remainder of the book of Revelation. So he comes up here in the spirit, uh not in the physical body, but in the spirit it says to heaven and that's his vantage point for the the vision uh for the rest of the book. So John notices this open door. He's astonished Uh and he also hears the first voice that he heard. And so this is uh referring back to Revelation chapter one, that he had heard this voice that sounded like the The sound of a trumpet, and it was the voice of Christ. It's very clear from Revelation 1. It's the verse of uh the voice of Christ. And John says, and now I'm hearing that same voice again. This is the one I had heard before. First voice John had heard was the familiar voice like the sound of a trumpet that had spoken to him in the first vision. Revelation Chapter 1 verse 10. And so here's that voice again. He hears the voice of Christ again. Sees this open door. Hears the voice. of Christ again. The voice of the risen, exalted Lord Jesus Christ. Um any questions about this setup before we move on? Yes, Scrap. I'm not sure if here or later on but Contrasting John's vision of God and Sebah versus Moses, where Moses was don't allow to see God in his glory, is John seeing God in his glory in the sun. I believe that's the case. So uh Moses is in his physical body and he's allowed to see the glory of he's not really allowed to see the glory of God. He's you know God puts his hand over him, passes by, he's allowed to see his back. But John is going in the spirit, actually to heaven, to the throne room. And so he's really seeing it. Um and you can tell as we as we go through, you'll see more and more. Um, John struggles to find words to describe what he's seeing. I mean he's seeing something that's really indescribable. And he's trying to put words to it the best he can. Um there's nothing like it on earth. Sufficient words to really describe God's glory. He's doing the best he can. Uh and it comes through, I think. that yes, that both those things come through. Wow, the glory of God and he's probably not able to really explain it all. Um yeah. Uh yeah, so that's what he's seeing here And the Lord specifically orders John to come up here, that is to heaven. So that's where Christ is. This door's open. The voice of Christ says, come up here, where I am in heaven. Uh John was not swept away into some mystical fantasy land, but transported spiritually into the reality of heaven, the spiritual reality of heaven in the spirit. Not physical body, but in the spirit. Physical bodies and patmas. And of course the central theme I mentioned this before, but as you read through you'll see the central theme of John's vision is the throne of God. So here's the throne room with the throne in the middle of it and the one who's on the throne. Uh That's the center of everything here in verse chapter four. The throne of God is mentioned 11 times in 11 verses. uh in chapter four. So that's pretty clear. That's the the focus uh this vision. All eyes drawn to the throne. Uh the features in this chapter can be outlined and how they relate to this throne of divine glory. Uh John describes the throne, tells us who is on the throne, what's going on around the throne, what comes from the throne, what stands before the throne Who's in the center and around the throne, and what is being directed towards the throne. Um so the throne is the center of this vision. So verse 2. Verse 2, John says, immediately I was in the Spirit. So he hears the voice of Christ saying, Come up here, and immediately He's in the spirit. And behold, a throne was standing in heaven, and one sitting on the throne, and he who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance and there was a rainbow around the throne like an emerald in appearance. So let's talk about what all that is. Um so ha have you heard of some of these heavenly tourism kind of books and things where uh a person says I went to heaven and this is what it was like. Um there's one by a little boy and he later recanted and said, No, it it was I made it all up. Um stuff but not all of them have recanted, but there are these stories. And they they don't sound like this um from the excerpts that I've read. They don't sound like y y um you're overwhelmed by awe and fall on your face in worship. That's not what these heavenly tourism books sound like. They tend to emphasize things that are kind of trivial or bizarre, but John's vision is focused on the glorious throne and the one who's on the throne. Um that's what a real vision of heaven looks like. Um not I saw my grandpa there and w we you know, we roasted marshmallows around a fire. Not that sort of thing. That's not the sort of thing that we see here in a true vision of heaven. Um we get majesty and glory of the throne and the one on the throne. Uh that's what we get in a true vision of heaven. So as he was taken out of the familiar dimensions of space and time and into heaven in God's presence in the Spirit's power, John was amazed and astounded by what he saw, causing him to exclaim, Behold, again for the second time, behold in the first verse. Behold in the second verse a a word of exclamation. And the cause of John's amazement was the throne of God and what he saw there standing in heaven in the throne room of God, all of it. Uh not a piece of furniture of course, but a symbol of God's sovereign rule and authority. Uh we see in Psalm eleven and one oh three in Isaiah sixty six this mention these uh mentions in the old testament of the God's throne. Uh located in the Temple of Heaven, uh, which is mentioned in many places in Revelation in chapter seven, chapter eleven, chapter fourteen, chapter fifteen, and chapter sixteen. Uh the temple of heaven um is uh a common phrase in Revelation that we'll see over and over and over again. And of course of course according to Revelation chapter twenty-one, the heavenly temple is not an actual building Uh the the Revelation chapter 1 uh 21 says, the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb are the temple. They are the temple. According to Revelation chapter 21. The use of the term temple symbolizes God's presence. God is there. God is there in heaven, and he is the temple. in heaven. He doesn't need a physical building to be in. The throne was said to be standing Here. The throne was standing. See that in verse two? Because God's sovereign rule is fixed, permanent, and unshakable. Uh a vision of God's immovable throne reveals his permanent, unchanging and complete control of the universe. That throne stands permanent, unshakable. It's a fact. That throne stands. That's why we see this that symbol. And that's of course a company really So this is a prologue to the events of the tribulation, starting in chapter six. And so it's very important to lay out at the very beginning that that throne stands. Nothing is going to shape. that throne because there's about to be a lot of shaking going on. Starting in Revelation chapter six. Revelation chapter six. But this thing, this throne of God is not to be shaken, will not be shaken. stands. Um that's the same way Isaiah was comforted during a traumatic time in Israel's history by his vision of God's glory. Isaiah chapter six, Isaiah has a a vision of God's glory at a time of uh great tribulation for the nation of Israel, uh about to go into um uh be c uh captured by uh the Assyrian Empire and seven twenty two BC. Yes. Um so um the reference to Revelation twenty one? Yeah. What wouldn't that be looking forward to the new new test and John Writers think that it is no longer Yeah, yeah, so that's that's true. Um that's true. And there is um a distinction between the fact that in on in the earthly realm God had a temple. First he had a tabernacle Right, he had a tabernacle, then he had a temple, but now he doesn't need a temple. Um and these visions that John has, of course, in the spirit are um it's kind of the prologue but it's really looking forward to future events. Um starting here. There's no time stamp of course in Revelation four and five about exactly when this is. Uh but I think it's pretty clear that we're making a transition towards things that will take place after this. So that's what Jesus says in in verse one. Chapter four verse one is, uh come up here and I will show you the things that will take place after this. So uh from that point we he's pointing forward Um and so I think we're already at this point where we're we're pointing forward. Starting right here in this prologue uh to these events. There's a description of events, but it's pointing forward I think. But yes, so I I think it's appropriate then to look all forward all the way to Revelation chapter twenty one that says that um makes it clear that there's no temple, uh no need for a temple. Now we have all sorts of events that are described in the Millennial Kingdom, for example, about a temple. And so but that's an earthly thing. The Millennial Kingdom is an earthly um a kingdom on earth. So I think there's a distinction between heaven and earth. And in Revelation 21 we're talking about of course the new heaven and the new earth. Um but I think the key point is that God doesn't need a temple. in heaven. And what we have here is a vision of heaven. Okay. Does that make sense? No? Mm well, not quite. Okay. I don't I'm trying to I'm trying to like frame it out and maybe it just be a matter of like uh you know with so like there's a lot of simple imagery throughout the rest of Revelation and the angels coming out of the temple right and things like that. So it's just hard to kind of put together that and also the idea that everything that was Right. Yeah, so it's a good point. And so yeah, we'll I think we'll walk through that a as we go through the imagery that is in chapters six through nineteen in particular. Uh because you're right, there is a lot of temple imagery. Um and there There is descriptions of things that are in heaven, which we have right here, and then there are descriptions of things that are happening on earth, which we'll see. in the description of the tribulation and this the description of the millennial kingdom. And then we'll have things that are happening or descriptions of the new heavens and the new earth So there there are, you're right, there are some uh there are some differences here. There are some different locations and different times that we're going through. And so maybe it's best to just leave that alone. what the t what the um the description of the temple as we get to each one of the descriptions of the temple and we'll we'll talk through those. That's that's fair. Yeah. Um in this first uh chapter Speaking of the throne being the very person of of God. So um the throne is um kind of a symbol of his authority. Um so a throne what is a throne for in the physical world? It's for a king to sit on and it's a symbol of his authority. The one that's sitting on the throne is the one that's in authority. And so that's the symbolism of a throne, God's authority. Um and so that's what we have here. Yeah. I tend to agree with Matt. I'm I'm looking at chapter eleven, verse nineteen. It says and the temple of God which is in heaven was opened and the ark of his covenant appeared in this temple. Right. And then but that's a heavens because later on it says then he destroyed the heavens. and the earth made a new heaven and that new heaven is what's mentioned in trinity twenty two. Yeah, I think that's fair. So we'll we'll go through what the temple there's a lot of temple symbolism and we'll try to go through those as we as we go. Um th the word temple of course is not mentioned here in this verse. Um it was um uh let me see, where was that going here? Let me back up. Um Um how d how did that bring Templet in the first place? Um let's see. We'll go back to Amazement of the Thrones standing in heaven Um oh the temple comes in because of Old Testament um Old Testament uh mentions of the throne also mentioning the temple. So that's how um that's how I brought temple. So um the the throne and the temple are both uh uh talked about in Old Testament um um mentions of the throne, and then we have also the temple in heaven mentioned in uh seven, eleven, fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen. Um so this idea that uh the throne will be the temple will be done away with is in Revelation twenty-one and um that's not yet. So let me put let me put it that way. That's not yet. So yes. There are there will be many references to the temple and temple imagery all the way through Revelation until we get to Revelation chapter twenty-one. when we're the temple is done away with and we have actually the Lord Almighty and the Lamb are the temple. Uh let's put it that way. Okay. Um so symbolizing God's presence, uh the temple and the throne Is a symbol of his authority, his sovereign rule, fixed, permanent, unshakable. Uh complete control of the universe And uh that's good because we're about to go into this time of this period of great tribulation where everything seems to be shaken, but the throne of God is not shaken. Um and so when we look at uh the state of Our modern society and the beliefs, the the basic belief system of our culture. The basic belief is, by most people in our society, is that mindless, purposeless forces of random chance control the universe. Um that's what's basically taught in most uh K through twelve schools, the theory of evolution. Uh there was no creator, everything was an accident, from goo to you via the zoo. Um and that random chance rules the universe. Um but that's not the story or the picture that we get from scripture. Uh that's not not what uh rules the universe. Instead the sovereign, omnipotent creator The universe is sitting on his throne as its ruler. And so that's really the picture that we get here. And it's a sharp contrast to the story that our culture and society tends to believe. Uh a description of sitting in Hebrews, uh chapter 1, 10, and 12. It depicts Christ's posture of sitting, uh, and it's really talking about rest there Uh posture. The term sitting here indicates the posture of reigning. The thought is not resting because of the work of redemption has been completed or accomplished, but reigning because judgment is about to take place. And so John. does not give a name to the one sitting on the throne, but it's obvious who this is. He's the one Isaiah saw in his vision. I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, lofty and exalted, with the train of his robe. filling the temple. Isaiah 6 is Isaiah's vision of God sitting on his throne. This is John having a vision that's very similar. The prophet Micah also saw uh the glorious throne of God. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne and all the hosts of heaven standing by him on his right and on his left, first Kings twenty two. Psalm forty seven, God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. Uh Daniel also saw a vision of the heavenly throne room. Daniel chapter seven I kept nooking until thrones were set up, and the ancient of days took his seat. His vesture was like white snow and the hair of his head like pure wool, his throne was ablaze. with flames, its wheels were a burning fire, a river of fire was flowing and coming out from before him, thousands upon thousands were attending him And myriads upon myriads were standing before him. So that's Daniel chapter 7, with Daniel having a vision of God on his throne. And then we get to Ezekiel. And so Richard brought up Ezekiel, and the vision The vision from Ezekiel is uh in many ways very similar to what we have here um in Revelation chapter four and five. So Ezekiel chapter one, uh just a little portion of that vision Uh Ezekiel says, Now above the expanse that was over their heads there was something resembling a throne, like Lapis Lazuli in appearance and on that which resembled a throne high up was a figure with the appearance of a man. Then I noticed from the appearance of his loins and upwards something like glowing metal that looked like fire all around within it, and from the appearance of his loins and downward I saw something like fire And there was a radiance around him, as the appearance of the rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day, so was the appearance of the surrounding radiance. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. So there's there's a lot of more details in Ezekiel and we'll talk a little bit about this as we go also, but Ezekiel is obviously seeing a similar vision to what John saw. Um and so um uh one of the points here, this is a sharp contrast with the casual accounts of those who claim to have visions of God, this heavenly tourism thing that has spawned all these books. the people that saw these visions, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and now John, are terrified and humbled uh by these visions. They're not um it's nothing like what what we see in these these heavenly tourism books. So John then describes he was sitting on the throne as being like a Jasper stone stone and a Sardius in appearance. So what is that about? So it's it's reminiscent of the description of the blazing fire and vivid colors from Ezekiel's vision. Um Revelation 21 also describes Jasper as crystal clear. Therefore it's probably best to identify this stone as a diamond, a crystal clear stone, all the shining and flashing facets of the glory of God compared to a diamond brilliantly reflect ref refracting all these colors of the spectrum. A Sardius, from which the city of Sardis got its name, is a blood-red ruby. Um and it expresses the shining beauty of God's glory and may also symbolize God's blazing wrath about to be poured out uh starting in verse uh chapter six. So we have these two stones. Um And we see the w and that's a description of the one sitting on the throne. It's compared to these two stones, Jasper Stone and Assardius. Um there's a possible other uh bit of symbolism there. Um this this was in some of the commentaries. These two stones in particular, Sardius and Jasper were the first and last stone on the priest's breastplate. So they had twelve stones in extra. Exodus 28 on the priest plate, the first and the last were a Ruby and a Jasper, representing the firstborn Reuben and the lastborn Benjamin. of the twelve sons of Jacob. Uh it may be that those stones depicts God's covenant relationship with Israel. His wrath and judgment will not abrogate that relationship. In fact, it is during the tribulation that largely through the zealous evangelistic efforts of the 144,000, Revelation 7, all Israel be will be saved, Romans 11. And so that could be part of the symbolism, uh that those particular stones were chosen, those are the first and last stones in a preventation. So John's vision of God's throne is not one of peace and comfort. Its flashing, glorious magnificence reveals the terrors of God's judgment that are about to take place. So this is uh the prologue to the judgment uh coming in the tribulation and that comes through. Truly our God is a consuming fire, Hebrews twelve. And then he moves away from a description of what's uh the one on the throne to what's around it. Uh he just first says that there was a rainbow around it. So we've got the throne, then we've got the one on the throne, and then we've got what's around the throne. And he starts with a rainbow like an emerald. Um so his description being like an emerald. Uh an emerald is green, of course, so you got a rainbow, that's many colors, but I guess the dominant color must have been green, or that's the way it appeared to John in this vision. Uh according to Genesis chapter nine, a rainbow symbolizes God's covenant, faithfulness, mercy, and grace. And so uh we've got this magnificent vision of this one on the throne, a sovereign, but a rainbow in Genesis chapter nine is um a symbol of God's faithfulness, mercy, and grace. And so God's attributes, all of his attributes, always operate in perfect harmony. His wrath never operates at the expense of faithfulness, his judgments never abrogate his promises. So all of his aper attributes are always present all the time in God. Uh so His wrath and his mercy and grace always exist together. His power and holiness would cause us to live in terror were it not for his faithfulness and mercy Uh so those are all things are all present. Uh and I think that's what comes out when you talk about a rainbow being present there as well. Uh and then he goes on in verse four, he says, Around the throne were twenty-four. So we've got a throne in the center of God's throne room, and then we've got twenty-four thrones around the one throne of God. And upon the thrones I saw twenty-four elders sitting. clothed in white garments and golden crowns on their heads. So that's what he sees what God John notices next. So first he notices the throne, then he notices who's on the throne. Now he's noticing what's around the throne. Um it's a rainbow, and then it's also these twenty-four thrones with twenty-four elders with white garments and gold crowns. Uh the identity of these twenty-four elders Has been much debated. Some see them as an order of itelic beings. It seems best to view them as human representatives of the church, and several lines of evidence point to that conclusion. So let's take a look at those lines of evidence. First, the reference reference to the twenty-four thrones on which the twenty-four elders sat indicates that they Will reign with Christ. Nowhere in Scripture do angels sit on thrones, nor are they pictured ruling or reigning anywhere. And so um that would be a difficulty of saying that these must be angelic beings, because the angels are never depicted as sitting in God's presence um or on thrones or reigning in any any way Their role is to serve as ministering spirits, sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation. That's what Hebrews chapter one says. That was what Matthew chapter 18 says. The church, on the other hand, is repeatedly promised a co-regency with Christ. Um we see that here in the book of Revelation several times. We see it in Matthew nineteen and Luke twenty two in First Corinthians six, second Timothy two, to be co-reigned to to be co-regents with Christ uh is a scriptural teaching. But nowhere do we see the angels reigning or ruling. Um so I think that makes sense to say that it's uh um not angelic beings but uh representing human beings. Uh the Greek word here, Presbyteros, um elders, uh never used in scripture to refer to angels, uh, but always to men. Uh is used to speak of older men in general, uh presbyteros or elders that That word in Greek in general just means older man. Um that's the general term. Uh but the rulers of both Israel in the church are referred to with this word, Presbyter as elders. And so um we have, of course, uh the Old Testament is written in Hebrew, but we have a Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament called the Septuagint. And so when um the um the the Greek Old Testament refers to the rulers of the people, uh the elders Uh it uses this Greek word presbyteros in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. Um so both Old Testament and New Testament, we have this word elders used for the rulers of the people, for human beings. Um angels do appear Here in white in John chapter 20, Acts chapter 1, uh white garments are commonly are the dr are the dress for believers. As uh someone who's a believer uh this white robes is a common symbol. Uh particularly true in the immediate context of Revelation, Christ promised believers at Sardis that they would be clothed in white garments in Revelation three five. He advised the apostate Laodiceans to buy from me. white garments so that you may clothe yourself. 318. White garments symbolize Christ's righteousness imputed to believers at salvation. And so uh it fits, I think, more um human being, representative of human beings, rather than uh angels, because of all those things. Uh they have golden crowns on their heads, uh further evidence that they were humans. Crowns are never promised in scripture to angels. Nor are angels ever seen wearing crowns. Uh this word uh Stephanos crown uh in Greek is the victor's crown, won by those who successfully endured the trial, those who competed and won victory. Uh Christ promised such a crown to loyal believers in Smyrna, be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life. Same word Stefanos in Revelation 210. Everyone who competes in the games exercises self-control in all things, wrote Paul. Uh, they then do it to receive a perishable wreath. Actually the same Greek word, Stephanos. Uh, but we in imperishable, first Corinthians chapter nine. Uh so this word uh f this word for crown is uh used over and over again of somebody who's gets a victor crown um after competing. So Paul wrote of this imperishable crown also in 2 Timothy 4. 8, in the future there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, Stephanos, which the Lord, the righteous Judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all those who have loved his appearing. And so this is a standard picture of believers receiving this crown. And that's the same crown that we have here in Revelation chapter 4, verse 4. James wrote of the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to those who love him. James chapter 1. And Peter, the unfading crown of glory, 1 Peter 5. All these are that same Greek word, Stephanos. And so this is clear that this Is something that's been promised to believers. Crown. And so here are these human believers in heaven, and they've got crowns. Assuming then that the 24 elders are humans, the question remains as to which humans they represent. represent. So step one, they appear to be humans. Step two, uh what humans are what what happened there? Yeah, that is different. Something happened. I don't know what that is. Okay. Um so what's human humans do they represent. Um first it should be noted uh that the number twenty-four is used in scripture to speak of complete uh completion and representation. Uh there were twenty-four officers of the sanctuary representing the twenty four courses of the Levitical Priests, uh, first Chronicles twenty four. As well as twenty four divisions of singers in the temple, first chronicles twenty five. Um so we have that symbol of twenty four being uh complete representation, representing all the people with these 24 priests, 24 singers in uh in the Old Testament. So some believe that the elders represent Israel. Uh but while individual Jews have been and will continue to be redeemed throughout history, at the time of this vision, the nation as a whole had not yet been Redeemed. Their national judgment and salvation uh comes during the tribulation. So not yet, not at this time of this vision. Uh so it comes during the tribulation, Revelation six to nineteen. Largely as a result of as we said of the So when the twenty-four elders are first introduced, those events have not yet taken place. So it doesn't seem to fit that they would represent Israel. Similarly, the elders cannot uh be tribulation saints since the tribulation hasn't happened yet so they haven't been converted yet. So it can't be Israel, it can't be tribulation saints saints. The elders are already in heaven when the tribulation saints arrive. We see that in Revelation 7. The elders are also seen in heaven when When other momentous events of the tribulation take place, such as when the kingdoms of the world become the kingdom of Christ, Revelation chapter eleven, when the hundred forty-four thousand gather at Mount Zion in Revelation fourteen, and when God destroys the Babylonian economic and religious system in in chapter 19, the the elders are already there for all those events. Some would split the elders into two groups, one representing the church and the other Israel. uh twelve and twelve. Uh there's no exegetical reason to do that, however, um to divide them. Uh in all their appearance in Revelation they appear as a unified group of twenty four, never as two groups of twelve. So it's unlikely then that the twenty-four elders are angels, or that they represent Israel, or the tribulation saints, or a combination of Israel and the church. So we've eliminated a bunch of possibilities. So what's left? That leaves one most acceptable possibility that they represent the raptured, glorified, coronated church, which sings the song of redemption in chapter five, which we'll see next week. Um they have their crowns and live in the place prepared for them when they have gone to be with Jesus. John chapter fourteen. Um so that's The 24 hours. Then what else do we see? What else does John see in this vision? Verse 5, out from the throne come flashes of lightning. And sounds and peals of thunder. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne which are the seven spirits of God. So next he sees what's coming out of the throne. Flashes of lightning, peals of thunder, there's burning lamps there. Blowing out from God's presence symbolized by the throne, John saw a precursor to the firestorm of divine fury about to burst on the sinful world. So the thunder and the lightning are coming They're building. They're going to be unleashed in the world in chapter six. Flashes of lightning, sounds of peals of thunder associated with God's presence in Exodus 19 and Ezekiel 1. They're also associated with God's judgment during the Tribulation. So in Revelation chapter eight, for example, the angel took the censer and filled it with the fire of the altar, and threw it to the earth, and there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning. So this exact same imagery is going to come. Come in the tribulation in Revelation chapter 8. In Revelation 11, the temple of God which is in heaven was open, and the ark of the covenant appeared in his temple, and there were flashes of lightning And sounds and peals of thunder. So we're gonna see this. This thunder and lightning are building. John sees it in in chapter four, it's going to come out in chapter six to nineteen in the tribulation. When the seventh angel pours out his bowl, there will be flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder. Revelation chapter sixteen. So So John is seeing a preview of the divine wrath from Revelation six to nineteen. As he looked at the scene, John saw two things before the throne Um first there were seven lamps of fire. Unlike the lamp stands in uh chapter one. So the the lamp chant stands in chapter one were the seven churches. Um This is a fierce blazing light of fire, and it's the seven spirits of God. So not the same seven lamps. Uh John identifies them as the seven spirits of God. We get an immediate tr uh uh translation, a immediate uh exposition of what those things are. We don't have to wonder. That's the seven spirits of God. Um that and of course that describes the Holy Spirit in all his fullness. The seven spirits of God is the Holy Spirit. The sevenfold representation of the Holy Spirit in Isaiah speaks of wisdom, understanding, counsel, strength, knowledge, reverence, and deity. Zechariah of power, Revelation 1-4 of grace and peace, and here of fiery judgment. So the Holy Spirit is there. So God the Father, God the Holy Spirit, we'll see in in uh Revelation chapter 5, we'll see the Lamb as well. So we'll see all three persons of the Trinity here in this vision. But we've just seen God the Father on his throne, we've seen the seven uh uh fiery lamps or torches as the spirit we'll see the lamb in uh chapter five. Uh torches are associated with war and Judges 7 and uh um Naam two and John's vision depicts God as ready to make war on sinful, rebellious mankind, and the Holy Spirit is his war torch. Uh the comforter of those who love Christ will be the consideration. So this is a depiction of judgment about to be unleashed on the earth. We've got this prologue to the judgment in chapter 4, chapter 5, and judgment unleashed in chapter 4. Chapter six. And then we seven in verse six and before the throne there was something like a sea of glass, like crystal, and in the center and around the throne four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. So uh we've Got this sea of glass and creatures. Uh sea of glass like crystal. The sea is metaphorical. What John probably saw at the base of the throne was something like a vast pavement of glass shining brilliantly like sparkling crystal. And here we have to say, John's trying to describe describe things that are indescribable. And he's describing them in the best possible human terms that we can try to understand. So there's something like uh like he says like a sea of glass That's what it looked like to him. Exodus 24 records a scene with Moses and Aaron and the elders of Israel saw the God of Israel and under his feet, there appeared to be a pavement of sapphire as clear as the sky itself. So it's not a heavenly world of mists and indistinct apparitions, it's a world of dazzlingly brilliant light refracting and shining as through crystals and crystal in a manner beyond our ability to describe or imagine. So next we're introduced the four living creatures who will play a significant role when events unfold. So we see these four creatures, they're going they're going to be involved. in uh what happens in Revelation 6 to 19. Uh they are uh both in the center and around the throne. Uh uh an un unusual description, in the center and around the throne. So they're moving. These creatures are moving around. But their station is the inner circle nearest the throne. Ezekiel one also mentions um these uh creatures in constant motion. Um the living creatures, um they're of course they're not animals. Uh the phrase derives from a single Greek word in the text, call zoon. Um it's a noun for uh noun form of the verb zou which means to live. So a living creature. Uh Ezekiel gives a description of these creatures, a very long description in uh Ezekiel one, four to twenty five. Um since we're very close to being out of time, I won't read it. I'll let you read it yourself. But there's a detailed description of these four creatures in Ezekiel chapter one, verses four to twenty-five. Uh we don't have time to read it now, but please re read it on your own. So uh specified the Ezekiel has a s a specification of these four living creatures. Uh the the cher then the cherubim rose up, they are the living beings that I saw by the river Kabar. So they're specifically in the vision by Ezekiel identified as cherubim, uh a kind of angel. Uh so they they're thus angels. Those four living creatures are very specifically identified as angels. angels in Ezekiel's vision where he he describes them in great detail. And so an exalted order of angels frequently associates associated in Scripture with God's holy power. And they were the kind of angels that were uh stationed at the Garden of Eden after Adam and Eve were expelled from the garden. Uh there were two carved cherubim uh placed in the Holy of Holies um symbolically guarding God's holiness uh in the tabernacle in 1 Kings chapter 6. Satan before his fall was the anointed cherub Who covers? His duty was to attend God's throne, Ezekiel chapter 28. So John, like Ezekiel, struggled to find comprehensible terms to describe the scene that's going on before him. Uh the first creature he says is like a lion, the second is like a calf, the third is like a face of a man, the fourth like a flying eagle, uh full of eyes. Uh front and behind. This is very difficult for us to imagine what this thing looked like. And so God John is describing these things uh the best way he can. Ezekiel's description of the angels notes that each one possessed all four facial features. John says each one looked like a certain face. Ezekiel said they looked kind of like they were four faces together. So obviously something very difficult to describe. in human language here, uh these creatures. Um but from John's vantage point, the first creature is like a lion and a calf and like a man. and like a flying eagle. Um so there's is a relation to the created world, a lion wild creatures, a cat domestic animals, eagle a flying creature, and man the pinnacle of creation. Um so let me the Let me continue here. Um the four living creatures, uh like angels in general, are deeply involved with the coming judgments and the tribulations. So that's why um the Holy Spirit has these this uh this description here before the the tribulation because we need to know uh some of these creatures that are going to be involved. So six wings, uh oh we've kind of run out of time. I I apologize. Um let me um let me skip to the end here um because we are really out of time. So this is going to continue in f in chapter five, but there are five great hymns of praise. There's a choir that Gradually increases in size as it goes along. The hymns of praise begin here with four living creatures. And then in verse 10, it's 24 elders. And then in chapter five were added harps and vocal praise and in at chapter five verse eleven the angels come in. In verse thirteen, uh all created beings join in. So this is a crescendo of praise for the Lord that's starts with the four living creatures. By the end of chapter five, it's the entire creation uh praising God. Um all right, let me uh let me stop there. I apologize. Um and we'll pick up uh We'll continue with this and go on to chapter five the next time. Let me uh let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this wonderful description we have of your glory in heaven. What a wonderful thing it is to think about your sovereign glory, your sovereignty over all your creation, and the fact that we will be with you in glory for all eternity one day. What a what a wonderful thing to look forward to, Lord. Uh we thank you for that promise uh that's throughout your scripture. Uh we thank you for the opportunity we have uh to to to worship you. as a body of Christ in corporate worship, and we pray that that worship would be acceptable in your sight. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.