Um I told you that I started studying apologetics as a freshman in college after a period in my life that was marked by an amazing degree of hyp hypocrisy. Talk about Christ, live how you want. And I certainly hope that my life's testimony is different today than it was when I was, I guess, 17 or 18 years old. But as I just confessed in my prayers, it's too close. It's still too close for my liking. And I suspect that the Lord will show me how too close it is one day. But I don't know, ten, fifteen years ago, when did the amazing grace movie with about William Wilberforce come out? It was a significant introduction to me uh uh of William Oberforce. I knew the name, I was familiar with him, of course, for various reasons, but didn't know much about him and the movie uh provoked me to do a little bit of research on him and I ended up picking up his book called Real Christianity, which is where I stole the title from. It was published in uh seventeen ninety seven. Uh republished in two thousand Well, 1982 is the reference I gave you, but m more recently, I think in 2012 again, just because of the need to put more copies in circulation. It's not an easy book to read, I'm not gonna lie to you Two thousand six. Two thousand six is when the movie came out, is that what you're saying? Okay. Um it's not an easy book to read. Um But I loved it. And it's funny, it's I have it on Kindle and uh it's always toward the top of my list and it's because I I almost always having a free moment in an airport or on an airplane or sitting, you know, waiting for something, I'll open my phone and and do some reading. And I always find myself clicking on that book. Just reading a paragraph or two out of it or checking some of the highlights that I did from it. But it's effectively um a polemic against m modern Christianity. He he's writing about his frustrations. And anybody has seen the movie? It's about his work and investment to try to get rid of the global slave trade and uh how instrumental he actually was in ridding that uh f for all the European nations. It took us a little longer to catch up. But uh for much of the world, as a result of the British influence on trade in the world, uh William Wilbur Force was phenomenally instrumental. in uh stopping the slave trade. And um he it cost him a lot It cost him a lot because he was a sick man uh physically. It cost him a lot because there was a lot of conflict associated with that, because he was challenging people's pockets And it cost him a lot because he ran into a lot of people that he also saw in church in a political office in a political forum And he was appalled at the distinction, the dichotomy between what they professed in Christ and how they lived. How they spoke, how they interacted with people during times of conflict, what it is they called Christian charity. And so he writes this polemic against modern Christianity and and he covers all the topics And I was just so impressed by that article that doctrine, orthodoxy is not enough. I I love it, right? I I made sure that you knew that I loved it. I brought in all my theology books and set them on the sideboard there so that you could see that my money and my mouth go the same place I study hard to know it and to know it rightly. But it is not enough And we put our theology books in front of us and we talk about our degrees and doctrines and theologies and homiletics and hermeneutics and keep filling in the other words that nobody actually ever uses outside of a church. And we act like those things themselves are supposed to keep us warm and help us to live life in a way that manifests the goodness of God. And we use words like faith and grace and hope and charity and all these other words. And they're empty. When you're sitting at your desk on Monday, they're empty when you're sitting across from your children in a homeschooling or a school environment. They're empty When you're busy trying to figure out how you're going to unwind the stress of the day, they're empty when you're wondering why you feel the way you do about your own identity as a woman or a man or a mother or a child or whatever it is. And frankly, he says with fear and trepidation in front of the pastor of his church. I am tired of simple orthodoxy. Not because it's not true or because I want to change it, but because we've acted like it's sufficient. The truths of God were always intended to ignite our lives into usefulness for the glory of the Lord There's a beginning, there's a foundation, there's the anchor, there's a concrete of our source. They are the words and truths that fuel the expense of our lives. They are the treasure with which we buy value from the Lord. The only place there is real value. And they should be played out in every aspect of life: gender, sexuality, husband, wife, father, son, daughter, mother. Pastor, elder, teacher, student, employer, employee Engineer, architect, musician, scientist, mathematician, linguist, carpenter. I wish Isaac was in the room. You know, HVAC guy. Where's the reality of your Christianity? And will you finish these 13 weeks? Or frankly, the amazing work that Pastor Gabe has been doing in John. Right? What's the the the grade school example, right? All the gospels have a main theme. What's John's? One word. To believe. Thank you. Good job, SLP guy. Believe. You know what that word means, right? It means take all the orthodoxy, all the truth, all the knowledge, all the stuff, and then go do it. You don't believe anything as long as you just get an A on the test. Answering the questions in the class is not believing. Standing before a review board by which you become an elder or a pastor in and of itself is not believing. Becoming a member and making a profession in and of itself is not doing it. Doesn't undo the value of what you did last week. So please don't take that to heart. That was amazing. Praise the Lord and thank you very much. Amen. That's not believing, people. Everybody in the world has a worldview. Good or bad, thought out or not thought out, there's no person in the world that doesn't have a worldview of some sort. It doesn't make you special or good or noble or righteous in and of itself. We heap condemnation upon our heads when we study God's Word When we hear it so richly said, as it is in this church, by the way. There's no critici uh in case you're missing it, there's no criticism for what we teach here. I love it. I love what the Lord has been doing in this church over the last couple years. It's been hard, there's been conflict, there's been well, fill in the blanks, right? I don't have time for that But I see the Lord doing something here. And it's good in truth and it's good for belief, that thing that goes past the truths into our lives But we heap condemnation upon our heads when we affirm the truths and then do not walk in them. Do not change. Do not become increasingly conformed to the image of Christ. All those words are important. Increasingly conformed to the image of Christ Christ. Nobody's calling for. Right? I'm fully baked, fully righteous. I'm fully mature. I'm fully right. That's not going to happen. God is patient. And he forgives, he forgives, and forgives, and forgives, and teaches, and brings in Christian community. Let's just sit in in worship services where we're ministered to in prayer and in song and in preaching and in teaching and an exhortation from brothers and sisters in Christ and to hear testimonies of how God recreates people, rescues and redeems them from the hardship of their life. Perfect example of this last week. But will you walk out of this room from these studies and change nothing? Be braver in the conflict God has called you to. Not because it's in you, but because you just know that that that That thing that hurts, that thing that challenges you, that thing that frustrates you, that thing that leaves you feeling cold and empty, whatever it is, where you're at right now. is where the Lord has you. Say, well what if I screwed up? Well then you're there because you screwed up and that's where the Lord wants you. He's going to teach you what he needs you to know in that place and lead you from there to the next thing Well what if I'm in the 40 year wilderness? Praise the Lord. Your shoes won't wear out. I don't know. Well wouldn't it have been better to cross the Jordan? Yeah. I think. I don't know. That history wasn't written. But the Lord didn't leave his people, even though he killed them all in the wilderness, he walked with them for 40 years and expressed himself to them in ways that I wish I could see. Now it'd still probably be too stupid to appreciate it, just like they were. Confess to that in my prayer. But man, wouldn't that be awesome? So I never finished my notes. I didn't even started my notes yet. I mostly wanted to do a review. If you looked at lesson one from March 3rd, which I've got on the right here The a lot of what I have on this is some review. And it's not intended to re-chew the same things. I just want to make sure you keep perspective on where we've been. And I'm hoping that the perspective on where we've been will change where you go next. And is the is the intention here to make everybody feel guilty? Absolutely not. I cannot tell you how difficult sometimes it is for me to stand up here and teach when I'm looking around the room and I'm thinking about you individually. I'm thinking about what I know about you and what you shared with me about hard things that you're going through or disappointing things or discouraging things or hurtful things or whatever it is. And I I'm so busy wrestling with how do I How do I bring the truth of Christ in a way that lifts that one person up without telling their story to the class or without shaming them or without making them feel persecuted? There's nothing I want to do more than to encourage you in Christ. Ignite you for the glory of the Lord Make you victorious in the midst of the difficult circumstances that the Lord has called you to walk in. There's nothing that I want more than that. But I truly, even for myself, I have no idea how to do that without having an appropriate diagnosis of how poor I am walking in Christ. How much unbelief is in my life. And so I call you to walk with me in that. So what's apologetics? We get the mandate from 1 Peter 3. 15. It really is the reason that I'm whooping back like this. This is not some random ranting because you didn't uh give me questions and I'm gonna punish you now. That's not the point here. I'm actually kind of excited about uh about this. I didn't actually get to teach my own notes the first week. Uh I heard Daniel did a phenomenal job, but to prepare notes and not to be able to teach them, that's It's like building a rocket you never get to launch. It's not not nice. Um and uh so I'm a little excited to be able to touch on some of the things that were in that first week, but I'm mostly Just loving how God was merciful to me, and He does this a lot with me. So merciful to help me build something that I honestly just believe is so glorifying to the Lord And it ties back in here to our 1 Peter 3. 15 passage, which is where we get the apologetics mandate from. But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason, for the hope that is in you. You do it with gentleness and respect. And that word defense there is that apologia or apologia from which we get apologetic or uh apologetics So there it is. That's the mandate there. And the traditional definition for apologetics, Scrutom provides a nice one, providing a defense of the truthfulness of the Christian faith for the purpose of convincing unbelievers. I have uh I take some exception to that, and I've already shared that with you, and so I presented a modified definition which is more toward the bottom of your page. The exception I take to it is that the normal apologetics effort Allows for, even encourages, a separation of ideas and consequences It allows us to sit around and warm our hands before a fire of orthodoxy, a fire of right answers, with no apparent change to our own lives. And it is inconsistent with the entirety of what First Peter well Peter in general is trying to do in those epistles. Kriegs puts it well. Christian apologetics is weak today because it usually takes one of two incomplete forms. If it is orthodox In its content, it is usually naively impersonal in form. In other words, it's winning an argument. The ring! Boom! I've done apologetics. Have you? Mm-hmm. And and that's that's not only rhetorical, it's wrong. You have not. You have not Orthodox, but useless While if it is psychologically deep, and by that the author means it interacts with us and the way we think and our worldview and how we act It gets inside our heads and creates a mechanism of behavior, a mode of behavior. If it is rich in mode of behavior, it is usually theologically shallow. And I don't have time to develop that, but I think I think you know what I mean about that, right? A lot of the churches, a lot of the groups, a lot of the ministries that try so hard to relate to you in your life are theologically shallow. It's just all love and grace and peace and it it's just theologically shallow. Just as a reminder, if Christ is the only model that we use for our Christianity, his glorification came after the cross. His crosswork is what enabled the grace, the love, the mercy, the peace. The restoration of us to Christ, to God Don't forget it's on the other side of the cross. Anytime you hear somebody talking to you about the sum total of God's work in scripture and in history as only Things that feel good to you emotionally. A rough wooden beam. Hewn nails, a crude hammer, and a drunken bunch of soldiers. Creef's argument is that our approach to apologetics is not consistent with God's word. It is an assembly of facts that doesn't have an effect on our lives. It is not an increasing persuasion that we grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord. And live lives of increasing holiness and godliness We teach and learn apologetics to win arguments without any apparent change in our own lives, but this is never the picture of a Christ follower in the Bible. The truth of God His creation, works, and word transform lives. And that transformation is so supported by reality and reasoning about reality, that we have a strong message to share with others Right? Your life is so transformed that people are provoked to come ask you why? How? Like, I see what you are going through. I see what you are. I see what has been done to you. I see what is being done to you. How can you be like you are? Calm, quiet, wise, patient. Happy, thankful, servant-hearted. Who wants to serve when they're hurting? They want to be served. And we don't have some esoteric nebulous response. We get to point them to the image of God written large in all creation. And in his word, with an historical veracity and reliability unparalleled, unparalleled in the written word. How amazing! It's unstudied ignorance that would impugn the veracity of the scriptures. So many books that we make you learn in school, we have no copies of it for the first thousand years that it was written. And here, forty years, sixty years, maybe, within the lifetime of an eyewitness. Our response is so rich. How can you live conspicuously differently? Differently? Conspicuously differently? To be wise in that sense, obviously. Because reality talks to you about a God who created all things, controls all things is infinitely involved in everything, everywhere, at all times And while accomplishing the terribleness of his sovereignty, because that's how I feel about God's sovereignty. It's terrible in its unstoppableness, in its grandeur, and in my inability to capture the nuance or substance or end of all that God plans. That's terrible, fearful to me, to me. You do what you want with it. But in its terribleness, it is uniformly good. There is no aspect of it that is not good. And the same scriptures that speak to the terrible sovereignty of God speak to the Replete goodness of God. And that's an answer that we have. Not small, not philosophical, not weak, not limited, not one-dimensional. Not impoverished in any way. There is no aspect of logic or reason or science or philosophy or language or art or music that we cannot avail ourselves of in giving an account. For why it is we live conspicuously transformed lives before the glory of the Lord. We are so good at making excuses in our lives. Yes, Scott, but That sounds great from unfair Scott. But you don't know where I come on people. Really? That's your best effort Weak excuses based on your own circumstances and experiences? Let me tell you what that is. And then I hope you'll, well, at least some of you. you that have a some I hope some of you will show up to the next class where we talk about how to deal with this. That's idolatry. You know who the idol is? It's you. That's you saying my circumstances are what gets it define my reality. Well you don't know how it feels. You don't know what was done. Trust me, I don't stand up here until I'm home thinking really hard about the ramifications of some of my thoughts. And the one that I keep coming back to, I don't know what had happened I'm sorry if this bothers you. I'm just sharing my thought with you here, right? The one that I keep coming back to is when somebody violates the dignity of a woman's body without her permission. For some reason that is such an evil to me that I have a hard time I I would I would not say to that person And you should understand that God did this. That would not, it's not that it's not true. But I feel so angry at the injustice. And so desirous to bring comfort and peace, to undo what was done wrong. I would have a hard time in it. But even yet, the truth is All the things we said for are short on time, right? And if it's true, in that extreme case, that one that bothers me the most, and it's just me, right? Make your own But if it's true in that extreme case where it it offends me the most and bothers me the most, your conflict at work, whether you were promoted or not, whether you have a six-figure bank account or a six-cent bank account. How you were treated as a child, how you grew up on the streets, whether you're black or white, and how society has interacted with that. Whether you're a manly man or an effeminate man and how society has interacted with that, whether you're I'm staying away from the woman once I Fill in the woman example there and make it flow. I gotta go home with a woman and I'm afraid of her. So uh last time actually I got two two ladies today, so I I wouldn't survive a a misstep there. So fill in the blank. Oh gosh. God is in control and he is good and he should be transforming every one of those circumstances. And if you come into this church and yet harbor some spot in your life where God's transformation is not effective, it's not good enough. It's not real. You're not willing to expose that area of your life to him. You be clear on this. He is not your Lord. You are filling that role. You have set up a domain and said, I'm willing to let you control all of that, but this I will remain sovereign. If you remain sovereign over any area of your life, You say, well, I don't think that's happening. Take them all one by one, just like we talked about before, and put them in your hands before the Lord in the morning prayer time and go, Lord, this is what I am as a father. These are my sons. They're yours. I gotta train them, I gotta teach them, I gotta clothe them, I gotta feed them, I gotta do all this stuff that I gotta do. But they're your sons. This is your marriage. This is your company. This is your property This is your stinking lawnmower. I fixed a blade the other day and ended up having to do major surgery on the stupid lawnmower. Told Angela, I was like, No wonder I never get to enjoy the land. I'm never out of the barn. This is your stuff, Lord. And I have the tools and some ability to fix the thing. It's all yours. And even in that stupid example, do you see it's supposed to cover all your life. It covers the lawnmower. And it covers my sons. Which to me are the very opposite ends of the spectrum. I can watch the lawnmower explode. I cannot think about how unbearable it would be to watch my kids explode in a euphemistic sense. We teach apologetics to win arguments. instead of having transformed lives. And yet Hebrews 3, 12-14, says, watch out, brothers and sisters, so that there won't be in any of you an evil Notice what he calls it. Evil, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God. But encourage each other daily. He's talking to brothers and sisters in Christ. He's talking to believers But encourage each other daily while it is still called today, so that none of you is hardened by sin's deception. For we have become participants in Christ if we hold firmly until the end the reality that we had at the start. Francis Schaefer picks up on that very thing. And he writes, as I rethought my reasons for being a Christian, before this time he was immensely involved in uh world ministry, worldwide ministry. He was involved in a conservative group, they they I mean he was just very active and he came to a place where he saw this dichotomy between orthodoxy and transformation What is true and what is what I'm believing to a degree that changes my life. It ignites my life, right? All the kindling is said. In the realm of orthodoxy, but where is the ignition? Where is the consumption of my life As I rethought my reasons for being a Christian, I saw again that there were totally sufficient reasons. That's apologetics. to know that the infinite personal God does exist and that Christianity is true. And going further, I saw concerning Sorry. I saw something else which made a profound difference in my life. I searched through what the Bible said concerning reality as a Christian. Gradually I saw that with all the teaching I had received after I was a Christian, I had heard little about what the Bible says. about the meaning of the finished work of Christ for our present lives. And he goes on to talk about a transformed life. A light that reflects the reality that we say we hold true. And he started this Labri Institute, and a little tie-in to, again, the next quarter is that Nancy Pearcy is one of the authors that wrote the book we're going to start with, Finding Truth. And she got saved at the Labree Institute. She got saved when somebody was willing to engage her Having a conspicuous life for the glory of the Lord, she didn't, they did, was willing to engage her in the apologetic exercise and say, this is the reason And then to expand the scope of that out to science and literature and history and philosophy and government to give her good reasons in all the realms But reality, and she became so satisfied and so eager for the richness of who God is that it transformed her life. And she has done her best, as near as I can tell, to do the same over and over and over again in other people's lives. Psalm 1717 was in the original notes. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth, and uh we'll come back to it a little bit, but that word sanctify is actually Uh also the same word that is in Hebrews three fifteen. Um in the ESV, it's translated Regard or honor as holy, depending on what date your ESV was published. It was originally uh I think regard And now I believe it's on, or you can double check me if you've got old and new or whatever. But it's that same word In the Revised Standard Version, it's reverence, and in the KJV or NASB, it's sanctify. So we'll come back to that one in a minute. How am I doing? Not great. So our modified definition based on all of that. Is that apologetics is the rational defense to the unbeliever and our own skepticism and secularism of our total confidence in the sovereign God leading us to a life increasingly transformed. into that which Christ demonstrated, Christ himself demonstrated during his life as a result of the truth revealed through his creation, his word, and his work through the Spirit. Said more simply, apologetics is passionate truth-seeking, first in and for our own lives, and then so that we can give an answer to others that still do not know and believe the truth. You have to look at the context of 1 Peter. In verse 14, he says, Have no fear of them, non-Christians, nor be troubled, but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. And if you want a good, I don't I just don't have the time for it, but if you want a good kind of long explanation of what it means to sanctify the Lord, to make him holy, to regard him, or to reverence him, read Hebrews. 1 through 4. It does a phenomenal job talking about what it means. It even starts. Hebrews 1 is the holding up of a Holy Christ. And setting him above all other things, there is it's a comparative thing, right? There is nothing that is good as good as Christ Prophet, priest, or king, none are as good as Christ. And as a result of his preeminence, as a result of his merit in being reverenced, This is how you should live. And it's specific, it's practical. You could spend time on each of those attributes that are called necessary in the context. Use is a little scary how necessary they make the attributes, the characteristics of Christ in the lives of Christians So if you want to know better what it means to sanctify Christ, read those first four chapters of Hebrews. They will call you to a transformed life. Peter goes on to write in 1 Peter 3. 16, you, notice the emphasis, having a good conscience So that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may may be put to shame, right? So be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asks you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear That's our apologetics mandate. And here it says, having a good conscience. And if you want to slightly I mean we think to ourselves, well that just basically means I don't feel guilty about anything. That's not what that means It literally means in my soul I know That I had an opportunity for good or for evil. I almost screwed that up. For good or for ill, for good or for evil, whether moral or practical or in whatever sense I have an opportunity for it, and in every place, meaning in every day's decisions, I have done my best to pick the path That most honors God. That most edifies his people Paul gives you some sense of it in Acts when he's being called to give an account for his actions in teaching and preaching about Christ, and he says, I always strive To have a clear conscience toward God and men. Do you understand the active nature of that? It's not, well, I don't feel guilty about anything because as far as I know, I didn't do anything wrong today. It's striving So identifying each moment, each step, each word, each look There's an opportunity to capture good here. Glory for God, to be obedient, to step off the throne of my own life and make sure that God is magnified in His rule over my life. And in each of those, I have done my best to make sure that God is magnified on the throne my life so that I get an opportunity to say well why would you do that? Why would you step off the throne in your own life? Hey let me tell you how let me tell you why. What what area do you want to talk about? Science, literature, philosophy, art, politics? History, language, which one? Which area of those things? Pet peeves? Disregard if you like I am so tired of Christians when you talk to them about how you worship and how you study and how they walk before the Lord in daily obedience. and what their regular discipleship lives are like, what their entertainment uh palette looks like. I'm so tired of them going, well, can you tell me why that's wrong? What How does that activity maximize the Lord's glory on the throne of your life? In truth and in beauty, and in goodness We are not. Is it okay if we did we get a passing rate? That is not what you are called to. You are called to walk striving for a good concept So that you may be given opportunities to glorify the Lord in testimony. But also, and even before that, so that you are given opportunities To fully appreciate His goodness, to value it to a point where it overflows in thankfulness Not foolish psychological battle. Oh, I'm thankful for, I'm thankful for, but real thankfulness. One of the uh uh ladies in the room Keep this a high level so I don't embarrass them. Sent uh just a brief email this week. And uh it's just a little bit about the class and how it's been helpful to her. It doesn't happen very often. And it doesn't need to happen by the way. Panthering for support. Doesn't need to happen. They were so honest and honest and so simple that I I was just like Lord Thank you. Thank you for using a shwag. If there's something good for one of your sisters, one of your daughters. I I was overc overwhelmed with thankfulness. And then I went out to land and had to work on the lawnmower. It wasn't thankful. anymore. So I told you I'm a broken person. But I I do because of that experience I had a a very present realization of what it feels like to be truly thankful. Just just to go, Lord, I know that wasn't me. I I know I'm not good enough. I know I don't deserve to even be a part of what you did. Because unlike you, I know all the sins I did this week. Well, I say unlike you, I mean you don't know my sins. I'm not saying I don't know you Scott. Yes sir. Sometimes I do wish that scripture were was more explicit aga explicit prohibitions toward against certain sins that are pervasive in our culture so that there could be some teeth in And you know, don't do these things. And yet scripture is uh putting on the character of Christ, and then you will uh as we grow in holiness, we won't want to do those things any anyway. We won't want to be the dog that returns to its vomit. But it when I look back at the Old Testament, it was very explicit on what to do and what not to do. And I realized that was a tutor and it was not uh guiding from the heart on on various matters of life and daily living But that that desire is still there s on on some occasions where I want scripture to be very explicit about don't do certain things so that people are they have no excuse. I I thought about that a lot. Um I love the Old Testament law and I am frustrated with how dismissive I feel like modern Christianity is about it. And I'll leave that one there. But I think some of it is me desiring just to have a a concrete list like that, right? I also know that it is so much more terrible not to have it And by that I mean that if you had a list, you would check it off, wouldn't you? Check. And move on to another stand. Yeah, I'm good enough. I'm good enough, right? I check. What do you say, right? We would become Pharisees. What must I do, Aaron? Right? We would become Pharisaicals. And yet Christ calls for all of them. All of us in every way Right? And uh so I totally agree with you that it would be nice at times. I've desired it myself many times, but I also know it's more fearful the way the Lord set it up. And uh Yeah, well, enough said on that one I guess. Peter is saying that we are first so convinced of the truthfulness of God's word and work and the lordship. I know that's a dirty word for some, but sorry, it's right here. And the Lordship of Christ that our lives are conspicuously different from that of the rest of the world 2 Peter 3 makes this even more clear. I am stirring up your sincere mind. Knowing this, first of all, that scoffers were come in the last days with scoffing. Therefore, what sort of people ought you to be? In lives of holiness and godliness. Holiness and godliness Those are funny words that we don't use in a regular sentence. And therefore they don't have the richness of meaning that they need to have. But that's not the word's problem. That's your problem. You need to get a hold of those words. You need to study them in the scriptures and see how the Lord uses the words holiness and godliness. You need to see how big or small those concepts are. You need to see how costly or not those concepts are. And then you need to go, Lord, if you are calling me to holiness and godliness, in what way can I begin that walk? What today could I do to walk with a better conscience, conscious, sorry, in godliness and holiness You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability. But you grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Had that come from Paul It would have had a wholly different impact on me. Paul the theologian, Paul the academic, Paul the teacher, Paul the weird guy. It would have had a totally different effect on me. Here. It just means more to me somehow. A rough fisherman with probably poor education Who God just changed, transformed, from a traitor that couldn't even stand next to Christ at his greatest hour Or most meaningful hour is then restored. Who knew better How hurtful it was to not walk worthy of the world. Lord. Lord. Butcher bad, sorry. To not walk worthy of the Lord. And who knew how good it could be, even in the midst of trouble and persecution? To walk with the Lord. To let him fill up what we couldn't figure out how it could ever be filled. To him for him to God to be able to complete. Well we couldn't We couldn't get over the devastation of, right? The thing lays before my feet in destruction. The church is done. Christ is dead What did God do? Pentecost. Right? Resurrection. Ascension. Graves open. Hearts set afire. All words directly out of the scriptures, even though I'm paraphrasing. You grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Read 2 Peter Peter must be assuming this is a quote from Grutum. Sorry. Took me a second. Peter must be assuming that the inward hope of Christians results in lives so noticeably different that unbelievers are prompted to ask why they are so distinctive. Please notice this. The inward hope of Christians results in lives so noticeably different that unbelievers are prompted to ask why they are so distinctive. The essence of the exercise of apologetics is a life transformed conspicuously for the glory of the Lord and provoking questions about the reason for that conspicuous transformation. But I still, it's not strong enough for me. Gerudem took a soft approach because he's too charismatic. That's what we heard about earlier. Hope is too vague. And just not faithful to the text, Peter's use of Isaiah 12 in verse 14 of the passage we're reading, 1 Peter 3. 15 Uh Peter's Peter's use of Isaiah twelve and first Peter three fourteen was what I was trying to say, should instead direct our thoughts to a dominating reverential fear of the Lord that puts all circumstances of our lives and the thoughts and actions interacting with those circumstances in a context of striving to obey him and demonstrate his control over them. You say, What does Isaiah eight twelve talk about? The Assyrians are looming large, and Israel is either trying to appease them or trying to defend themselves against them. And through Isaiah, God says, stop fearing the circumstances of your lives. Fear only me. And you will feel the judgment of God. You will see the judgment of God upon you and upon your children, because you have Set your hope. You have set your regard. You have set your sanctity or sanctification. You know, sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always. You've set the honor, the reverence, the regard. of your heart on men and circumstances and not on me. That is the context for the passage here. Not must be assuming that the inward hope of Christians. That's too hearty Too emotional. He says, Reverentially fear me, and walk so that I am the centrality of your thinking. Not not work, not children, not identity, not gender, or sexuality, or socioeconomic status, or I don't know, fill in the blank. Not any of those things. Those are idols. My prayer, for me mostly, but for you as well. I thought of this just while I was working on these notes the other night. And I spent this morning praying through it again I want to be like the servant of Elisha in 2 Kings 6, 15 through 17. When the servant of the man of God rose early in the morning and went out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was all around the city. And the servant said, Alas, my master, what shall we do? Circumstances were not good. And there was a desperation, a profound desperation. What shall we do? And Elisha said, Do not be afraid of those who are with us Excuse me. Do not be afraid, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. That's like me standing up here in Sunday school class and going, let me tell you all these great truths about the Lord. We are surrounded by this infinite Lord We are surrounded by the supernatural. All these things are true, by the way, but they they must sound dumb to you sometimes, or empty, or academic, or I don't know, dramatic, or emotional, or I don't know, literary. Fill in some words. They must sound that way to you. When they're banged up against the experiences of your life, the very real circumstances of your life And that's what Elisha did to his servant here. What are you talking about? We're surrounded by a heavenly host. And he's like, hey, those guys have metallic spheres, not ethereal wings. Right? I don't need to be terrorists. I need somebody to defend me against that ugly bunch out there. Mm-hmm. And I love this part. Getting in touch with reality. And then Elisha prayed and said, Oh Yahweh, please open his eyes that he may see. And so Yahweh opened the eyes of the young man and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elaisha. Do you know that? I could not believe more that that is not a unique experience in time, that that is our experience. That is your experience right here, right today. I have the privilege of having some friendship or relationship with many of the men that lead this church. And I I could not tell you how unqualified my respect for them is. That needs to be said first And one of the things I respect about them the most is that they're willing to enter into a real dialogue with me and say, these things hurt, these things are frightening, these things bother me. I feel too weak for this I'm not sure how I keep going in this. I don't know how to answer this. From bottom to top, we struggle being able to see the imminence of our good God all around us. And so we turn to distraction We turn to entertainment, we turn to amusement, we turn to a false philosophy, we turn to excuse-making, we turn to an idol of our own making. We create the way we want him to be, and we serve in how we see things How it seems most appropriate given our circumstances. You didn't expect me to end early, did you? Real Christianity. Real Christianity is about orthodoxy, about truths, ideas, by the way. Those are ideas. Ideas are such powerful things. Truths That have consequence. That have consequence. What consequence has the opening of your eyes to the ideas, the truths of Christian apologetics had or is having? What consequences or consequence has the opening of your eyes as a result of these studies And it's funny, you're kind of left with a decision there, right? You can say, well, nice. Okay, I'll just let that commentary stand where it is. Or you can say, well, I've got this one thing. I I I do have this one thing I've learned, I've been convicted about it, I've taken on. And if you're like me, it'll wax and wane Right? That's why we stay in Christian community. That's why we stay under the teaching of the Word. That's why we stay With our hands in the soil of God's word, constantly digging for the new treasure, for the new day, and for the new challenge. But do you have something today? Something of consequence? It's Sunday It's a day to be refreshed in the Lord. It's a day to put off the work and the tyranny of the imminent. circumstances and put on the lordship of the imminent, Paul Caps, God, in your life. Therefore, preparing your minds for action. Hmm excerpting from 1 Peter 1. Therefore, preparing your minds for action. Minds for action. Not for more thinking. Not for a phrenological exercise. That's reading the bumps on your head if you Don't know that word, right? Not for a phrenological exercise. You shall be holy, conducting yourselves with fear. having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth And you just have to see how practical Peter's teaching is, as it would be. As it would be. Because of what you know about who that man was. 1 Peter 3, the same verse that takes on this lofty pursuit of apologetics that should launch you into real study. of history and science and literature and language and art and all those other things so that you can explain Christ through those pursuits The very same chapter starts off with how do women in the home and marriage live and act in such a way as to glorify God? How do men in the home and in marriage live and act in such a way as to magnify the glory of the Lord? How do all of us live in Christian community? How do we live in good conscience concerning our tongues? How do we live in good conscience concerning our actions? When Wilberforce wrote Real Christianity, do you know what two things he opened with? Infinitely practical. School or education and career. He says, you want to know what two domains make it most evident that we are a people that do not live real Christianity? Look at how we educate our children. And look at how we pursue career. Here's Christ and Sunday and Orthodoxy and Truth. has absolutely no consequence on how we educate our children and how we pursue career, how we do career. There is no part of the study of apologetics that is not meant to reach into your every single day month. Inaffect it. The celebration of God's goodness before means the early hour that you get up and deprive yourself of a little extra sleep, that you could spend preparation on your for your day with the morning. The earlier hour that you go to bed, because the sun is down, the day needs to be You need your rest in Christ. You don't need entertainment and relaxation in front of a distraction. You need rest and peace. The words that you speak to people and the face that you wear when you walk through the door at work, the way that you interact with kind of at home, at church, at school, at work. The way that you regard your annual reviews and your performance reviews and your salary reviews. It just I can't fill in the blanks. I'll close with my prayer again. Then Elisha prayed and said, O Yahweh, please open his eyes that he may see. And so Yahweh opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Will you live real Christianity with me