If you've got your Bible, please turn with me to 1 John chapter 3. As we continue to work our way Through this wonderful little epistle, we want to begin to look at verses 4 through 10 Now, just to uh be clear and transparent today, I say begin to look at because in all honesty, it is going to take a couple of weeks to work through these verses. I was thinking that we might be able to get through all of them. That is not gonna happen. And so we are going to begin today by looking simply through verses four through six. In a couple weeks, then, we will then finish up with verses 7 through 10. This is a very significant passage. You know, I I say that almost on every passage. And that's true. But this one is very important. By way of introduction to our passage today, as far back as the Old Testament God's desire for his people has always been for them to love him with all of their heart, soul, mind, and strength. In fact, in Deuteronomy chapter 6, this principle of love is set down by God as the greatest commandment ever given to the people Israel. As we know this, because in Matthew chapter 22, when asked a question regarding which is the great commandment of the law, Jesus quotes Deuteronomy chapter 6. Jesus said that it is for us to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, and with all our mind. He said, This is the great and foremost commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Well, in Matthew chapter 22, verse 40, Jesus makes this profound statement. He says, On these two commandments hang the whole law and the prophets. In other words, if you were to go through from Genesis to Malachi, everything in there, principally speaking, regarding the law Can be boiled down to this one commandment. Love God and your neighbor. In fact, if you want to boil it down to just one word, it is love. Love. In other words, the greatest commandment of all is to walk in love. Well, in Deuteronomy chapter 6, I want you to listen to what Moses commanded the people of Israel directly as a command that was given to him by the Lord. Moses writes in Deuteronomy 6, verses 1 through 3, now this is the commandment, the statutes, and the judgments. which Yahweh your God has commanded me to teach you that you might do it in the land where you are going over to possess it. So that you and your son and your grandson might fear Yahweh your God to keep all his commandments, his His statutes and his commandments, which I am commanding you all the days of your life, that your days may be prolonged. O Israel, you shall listen and be careful to do it, that it may be well with you, and that you may multiply greatly. just as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has promised you in a land flowing with milk and honey The question here is: what was the Lord's commandment to be given to Israel through the prophet Moses? Here it is, Deuteronomy 6, verses 4 through 9. Moses said, Hear, O Israel, listen, Israel, heed Israel, obey Israel. Yahweh is our God. Yahweh is one. You shall love Yahweh, your God, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. These words which which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your sons, and you shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand. They shall be as phylacteries Between your eyes, which you shall write on the doorposts of your house and on your gates In other words, God says, this is how important the commandment ought to be to you. And so great was the commandment to love God that it was repeated many times over throughout the entire Old Testament. For example, just in the book of Deuteronomy alone, this commandment was repeated several times over. Deuteronomy 7. 9. You shall know therefore that Yahweh your God, he is God, the faithful God, who keeps his covenant and his loving kindness. to a thousand generations with those who love him and keep his commandments. Deuteronomy 11, 1 You shall therefore love Yahweh your God and keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments all your days. Deuteronomy 11, 13. And it will be that if you listen obediently to my commandments, which I am commanding you today. to love Yahweh your God and to serve him with all of your heart and all of your soul Deuteronomy 30, verses 15 and 16. See, I have set before you today life and prosperity, death and calamity, in that I am commanding you today to love Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments that you may live and multiply And that Yahweh your God may bless you in the land where you are entering to possess it. Well, if we go on into the book of Joshua, Joshua chapter 23, verse eleven. Likewise, Joshua reaffirms this commandment by telling the nation of Israel, so keep your souls very carefully to love Yahweh your God. Love him. And the implication is that if you do this with all of your heart, all of your soul, all of your mind, all of your strength. All of this to say, if you take this meticulously, conscientiously, attentively, thoroughly, and painstakingly, and you heed this commandment Then you will love God and you will be blessed by God. Over and over again in the Old Testament, this is what God has purposed for his people Israel. That they are to be diligent, to love God, and to keep his commandments always, to walk in his truth. Well, this commandment was so essential to the law of God that by the time we get to the New Testament, we discover that the reason the Jews are condemned by Christ was because they failed to keep this one commandment. In John chapter five, verses thirty-eight through forty-two, Jesus says to them, You do not have God's word abiding in you, for you do not believe in him who whom he sent. Jesus then goes on to say, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. But Jesus says, it is these that bear witness about me. And you are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. And then in verses 41 and 4 2 of chapter 5 of John's Gospel, Jesus says, I do not receive glory from men, but I know you. That you do not have the love of God in yourselves. The reason sinners are condemned Jesus says it's because they fail to see that true obedience to God comes through a loving heart. A loving heart. That loving heart is the evidence of how much we truly love God above and beyond anything else. And if I could summarize what true eternal life is, I would say that beyond anything else, eternal life Is living in a loving and sanctified relationship with the Lord of glory To love him with all of our heart, all of our soul, all of our mind, all of our strength. And again, by the time we come to the teachings of Christ and the apostles, this theme is just pervading every page of the New Testament. This same theme of loving God with our entire being is what is clearly demonstrated by one's obedience to keep Christ's commands. We don't obey Christ's commands because we are being forced to do it, because we are obligated to do it. We do it because we love God. And because we love God, his commandments are not burdensome. In other words, Jesus said, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Jesus put it this way in John fourteen twenty-one, he says, He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will disclose myself to him. If you love God with every fiber of your being, again, not perfectly, but if you love God with every fiber of your being, If you love him with your heart, your soul, your mind and strength, then here God says, I will disclose my love to you. I will love you. Christ will love us. And again, who God is will be revealed to us. The principle of equating true love and obedience to Christ's command is at the very heart of what it means to truly live an authentic Christian lifestyle. And to put it clearly, just as John does here in his epistle, you cannot love God without also loving Christ's commands. God made it clear that the people of Israel in the Old Testament that loving him is in fact the greatest expression of the commandment given by God. Jesus made this absolutely clear to his disciples. And this is what the New Testament then teaches us concerning the nature of true saving faith. Before we hated God. Now we love God. Before we were rebelling against God and His Word. And now we see what wonderful joy there is in obeying His Word. And again, the entire Bible reminds us that the one who loves God will be obedient to God. And how we live the gospel will be determined by whether or not we are truly a child of God. Again, when it comes to the epistle of 1 John, this principle of loving obedience is one of the most important themes in all of John's writings. And that's because loving obedience to Christ is what characterizes a truly authentic Christian life. And given the background, given this background, I want you to then listen to how John expresses this principle back in 1 John 2, verses 3-5. Again, turn back if you want to to 1 John 2, verses 3-5. John says, and by this we know. that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. The one who says, I have come to know him And does not keep his commandments is a liar. And the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word truly in him, and look at this, look at the phrase that is given. The love of God has been perfected. It's been brought true to completion. I love this because this is so good. This is so clarifying. This is so encouraging to those who love God. And it is also so clear, a true love for God will always be the determining factor in terms of our faithful obedience to Christ. And like a beautiful piece of tapestry, this golden thread of loving God will be woven in the way that we live and move. And again, every aspect of our life will be shown to love God and to be obedient to Him. John goes on to say in chapter 5, verses 2 and 3, he says, By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and do his commands. And this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And I love this. His commandments are not burdensome. Why? Because the internal motivation is to do the commandments. In fact, we do it instinctively as Christians, and then we look back and we read about it, and we find out that that's what's happening in my life. And again, that's what describes and defines a truly authentic Christian life. And if that were not enough, John goes on to write: in 2 John verse 6, he says, and this is love. What is love, John? How do we know what true love is? Well, here it is. Godly love is this, that we walk according to his commandments. So the question is that we need to ask ourselves is: how do I know what a true Christian is and isn't? Here it is, John says: a true believer is one who loves God. And that love then is made manifest by obeying Christ's commandments How do we do this? Is through prayer and power and strength that the Holy Spirit does in us. And by living each and every day according to God's Word, we not only demonstrate the fruits of true repentance, but we begin to demonstrate the very character of God Himself in our lives. We live different from the world. We live distinct from the world. However, those who refuse to keep Christ's commandments are those who then Fall into the category of being liars, false teachers, deceivers, impostors, apostate believers, and ultimately antichrist, God says. And so here's John's point. Those who refuse to keep God's word have never really experienced what it means to have a true and loving relationship with God through the person of Jesus Christ and Him alone. As we have learned earlier in John's epistle, they walk in the darkness because they do not know God, John says in 1 John 1, verse 6. In fact, they never experience what it means to have their sins forgiven and to be cleansed by the blood of Christ, chapter 1, verse 7. They deny having a sinful nature, chapter 1, verse 8. And because of this, they do not confess their sins to God, nor acknowledge that they are even a sinner, chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. And John goes on to say in chapter 2, in verses 1 and 2, that they have no idea what it means to have Christ as their advocate, or for him to be the propitiation for their sins They do not know what it means to have the truth of God coursing through their soul. Chapter 2, verse 4. They live a life of animosity toward other Christians Chapter 2 verse 9. They continue to stumble in the darkness of their sin, and they do not know where they are going because the darkness has blinded them. Chapter 2, verse 11. And again, they do not know what it means to have their sins forgiven. Chapter 2, verse 12. And as John then goes on to say, they do not know what it means to know him who is from the beginning. They have never overcome the evil one or know the Father as a true child of God. Chapter 2, verse 13. And in chapter 2, verse 14, they do not know what it means to be a spiritual young man who is strong in the Lord, nor do they have the Word of God abiding in them. Instead, John says they love the world and the things that are in this world. Chapter 2, verse 15. They have no self-control or restraint when it comes to the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, or the boastful pride of life. Chapter 2, verse 16. And they refuse to believe and obey the will of God for their life. Chapter 2, verse 17. And what is so Absolutely tragic about this is that in chapter 2, verses 19 and 20, they demonstrate their o their disobedience. to God by forsaking the fellowship of God's family. They live and lie and deceive themselves having no idea what it means to know the truth about Christ. Chapter 2, verse 21. And the bottom line is that they deny Jesus as Lord both with their words and with their works. which in turn is the ultimate denial of both the Father and the Son, chapter 2, verse 22 and 23. And they do this. by trying to deceive other Christians. And in so doing they prove that they do not have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. Chapter 2, verses 26 and twenty-seven. And again, tragically, above all else, they have no true knowledge of God, no assurance of eternal life, and no hope, as we learned last week in chapter two, verse twenty-eight. through chapter three verse three. This is just a summary in one epistle of how tragic a sinful life can be In accordance with God's word by expressing no love for God Today, John is going to take it even one step further. And he's going to characterize how inconsistent sin is to the Christian life. He characterizes those who disobey God as lawbreakers. And he tells us that they are nothing more than children of the devil. That's the one step further. A sinful lifestyle, an empty confession of faith, hostility toward the church, all of this demonstrates that those who think themselves to be a Christian are are not because they do not love God and are obedient to His Word. In other words, they do not walk in righteousness. This is just an amazing statement by John. And the sharp contrast To a true believer or to a false believer is that a true believer is someone who loves God and obeys his word because that person has been born from above. That person has been born of God. And as a result, John says, those who love God will practice righteousness. And here's the key phrase in verse 6 that I want you to see. No one who abides in him, in Christ, sins. Now I know that that stating it that way raises a lot of questions. Because if you're like me, you're sitting here thinking, but I sin every day. I stumble every day. John's going to explain that. Verse 9 actually puts it this way. Everyone who has been born of God does not sin because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin. because he has been born of God. What differentiates the believer, the child of God, from the child the children of the devil? Is that they have the seed of eternal life, of the righteousness of Christ abiding in them They do not sin in the way that sin characterizes the unrepentant nature of an unbeliever, and this is because they are a new creation in Christ. Amen? And again, as a believer, they know that sin is now inconsistent with a Christian life. And just to reinforce that principle, in our passage this morning, John is going to give us seven reasons why. Sin is inconsistent and incompatible with a truly authentic Christian life. And every single one of these principles is representative of a truly born-again life. of a truly repentant lifestyle. Now, as I said from the beginning, there's no way that we're going to get through all seven of these today. So to begin, we're just going to look at the first three, and I'm going to go them through them pretty quickly. And then we will leave the remaining four for our next time together. John tells his readers that the Christian life is inconsistent with the practice of sin. It's inconsistent because of what sin is. And because of who we are in Christ. In other words, there's a very clear distinction between who the child of God is and who the children of the devil are. And we're going to take here or talk about here the difference between a true believer and a false believer. between a child of God and a child of the devil. And the key to all of this is verse 10. That by this, John says, the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. And I love John because he is so clear. There is no ambiguity with him. If you want to know what the difference is between a believer and an unbeliever, between a child of God and a child of the devil Then here it is right here. John says it is obvious. How obvious by the principles that one's life demonstrates what one believes and then how he lives Again, John says that anyone who does not do or practice righteousness, and again, the key verb here is do or practice But anyone who does not do righteousness is not of God, as well as the one who does not love his brother. That takes us right back to the greatest commandment It's love. Love. John is describing the child of God as someone who habitually practices righteousness. Conversely, the child of the devil is one who does not practice righteousness. And as John puts it in verse six, no one who abides in him And again, the verb here is practice presently ongoing sin. Ongoing sin This doesn't mean that Christians are completely without sin. It simply means that as a lifestyle, believers do not habitually practice sin. That's what makes us distinct from the world. Instead, believers live a righteous lifestyle. A Christian is someone who does not engage in a continual, habitual pattern of unrepentant sin in their life. Why? Because a true a truly repentant life is a transformed life. A truly born-again life is a life that is devoted to loving God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And again, how that is lived out is demonstrated in a righteous lifestyle. Believers in Christ do not live in opposition to God. Instead, they profess their love for God and demonstrate it with their works They recognize their need to confess their sin, 1 John 1:9. And because of this, they then recognize that a sinful lifestyle is inconsistent with their new life in Christ. As a child of God, they not only believe the truth about Jesus as Savior and Lord, but they also manifest that truth in how they live their life on a daily basis. They obey God's word because the love of God has been made manifest in their hearts And John says, a person who is in true fellowship with God, who is truly born again, who is spiritually a part of God's family, and who has a new nature with an ability to overcome sin. That person also has the desire to steer clear of sin because they recognize sin for what it is. It is an offense against a holy God. They find it repulsive and abhorrent to what it means to love God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength. And so they run from sin rather than embrace it. And their desire now is to do what pleases God and not what offends him. They are law-keepers, John says, rather than lawbreakers. They are like the psalmist in Psalm 119, verse 72, who says, This: the law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. Or verse 97, oh how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. In verse 163, I hate and despise falsehood, but I love your law. In contrast, the unbeliever opposes God's law, they disregard God's law, they reject God's law, and they refuse to follow God's principles for their life. They are a lawbreaker because they practice lawlessness. And this is exactly John's first point here in verse 4. The very first inconsistency the believer recognizes is that sin is inconsistent with the law of God. Sin is inconsistent with the law of God. John writes, everyone who practices sin also does lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. Literally, John writes, whoever is continually doing sin is doing lawlessness And that's because this word lawless is a word that means literally without law. Here, John is not just referring to someone who accepts the law and then breaks it. He is actually referring to someone who lives as if there is no law. They are a law unto themselves without any accountability. That is such an important distinction here to be made because there are many definitions of sin in the Bible Romans 14, 23 says, Whatever is not from faith is sin. That's one definition of what sin is. Sin is to doubt God, it is to act without faith. James 4. 17 says, the one who knows the right thing to do and does not do it, to him it is sin. There's another definition of sin, or another aspect of defining sin. If you know what is the right thing to do and you deliberately do not do it, then the Bible says you're guilty of sin. And in 1 John 5, verse 17, God's word says to us, all unrighteousness is sin. But I believe one of the best definitions for sin is found right here in chapter 3, verse 4. Because here John defines the very nature of sin. Sin is living as if there's absolutely no law from God To the person who lives as if there is no law, no divine precept from God, that person is guilty as living as if there is no God at all. God, I don't recognize your law, and therefore I do not recognize you either. And a Christian who a Christian cannot live this way because Christianity is always All about living in a saving relationship with God. That's why in Psalm 138, verse 2, the psalmist says, You've lifted your word to your name. In accordance with your name. Because his law, his word is representative of his very nature. In following his precepts and understanding as the only one who has the right prescription for life, John says that a pr a Christian is one who does not habitually practice sin. Why? Because living as if there is no divine standard for living, which is what the law of God teaches us, would violate the very night nature of God Himself. As believers, we are to be ever so mindful of displeasing God when it comes to this issue of sin, because when we sin, we deny Him. And again, when a person sins, that action constitutes open rebellion against God. It is violating the very nature of God because the law is a reflection of God's nature. And that's huge. God Himself is the standard for perfection, for righteousness, absolute righteousness. And his law is a reflection of his righteous character. So when we enter into a saving relationship with God, he gives us then the capacity to know him, to desire him, to love him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and as a result, we obey his law. And when we find ourselves giving in to sin, we instinctively know that sin is wrong. And therefore we confess our sin to God Literally in the words of 1 John 1 9, we agree with God that what we have done is in fact sin. And by agreeing with him, we are reminded that Jesus Christ is righteous And He is righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Again, if we are made a new creature in Christ, Then the promise is that when we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us. And that is such good news given the fact that we battle daily with the temptation of the flesh. But that is not what happens with the unbeliever. They live as if they are a law unto themselves. And so their lifestyle demonstrates an open denial to the very nature and existence of God, even though they may claim to believe in Him. The point of John's definition here is that an unbeliever living as if he is a law unto himself lives practically as an atheist. even though they may be the most religious person on the outside. Can you imagine a person doing the works of the law without loving God? Denying God? Again, you can be the most religious person on the external, the outside, and you can be as far away from God as humanly possible and spiritually as possible. Again, the life of an authentic Christian person is a life that is loving God. A person who is an unbeliever is living a life not loving God, and it's all about loving self. Like Jesus said earlier, if you love me, then you will keep my commandments. That really is the bottom definition of an authentic Christian in the Bible. John says lawlessness is a type of living that is inconsistent with the law of God. And so the truth is this: those who love God's law are truly lovers of God. Well they know that sin is inconsistent with their new life in Christ. And so what John is saying here is that if there are those who claim to be Christians and yet sin characterizes their life You can be sure that they are not the real thing. It's because their lifestyle proves the reality of who they are. Not so with God's people. Yes, Christians sin, and sometimes we sin very badly. Consider the life of King David. But the difference is this, while they delight in the law of God, a believer does, it grieves their heart that every time they stumble into sin. And this is the point that Paul makes in Romans chapter 7. Paul recognizes this ongoing struggle with sin, and yet his delight is always in the law of God. Paul says, I do the things that I do not want to do, but those things are not the things that characterize my life. And though a believer's life may be scarred by those occasional lapses into sin, unrepentant sin will never be the pattern of a true believer's life. As King David did, they will grieve and deep deeply grieve over and lament over their sin. They will feel the intensity of the guilt, the shame. And the grief having dishonored God. And like David in Psalm 32, 4, they'll say, For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, and the vi my vitality was drained away as with the heat of a summer If you've ever been out in the heat, um in fact I was reminded this past week of a of one of you being out on the roof when it was 95 degrees out, you know what it means to have your energy sapped away from you That is exactly the picture that David is painting here with the life of an unbeliever. He is saying that my vitality, I'm sorry, with a believer who is recognizing their sin And so here David is saying, my vitality is drained away because I feel the burden and the weight and the shame and the guilt of my sin. That sin which he committed, David did against God, then drove him down until he freely then confessed and repented of it. And those who recognize this inconsistency will then live for the one who came into the world who did what he did in order to take away our sins. Who is that person? Jesus Christ. And this is why Christians must preach the gospel to themselves on a daily basis. We must confess our sins to God on a daily basis. Not because Any one of our sins would rob us of our eternal life, but that they remind us of why Jesus Christ came into this world in the first place. And that then brings us to the second reason, John says, why Christians do not practice sin. It is because sin is not only inconsistent with the law of God, it is also inconsistent with the person and work of God. of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 5. 1 John chapter 3, verse 5. And you know that he was manifested in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin The pronoun him here is a direct reference to the person of Jesus Christ. And to continue in sin, John says, it is inconsistent because of who Christ is and why he came into this world. When a person lives in a pattern of unrepentant sin, they openly declare that Christ's death on the cross is pointless and irrelevant to their life. Christ's first coming was for the very purpose, in order to take away sins. And the word translated, take away, is a beautiful word in the Greek. It literally means to remove by listing. And it's the same word that John then uses in the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verse 29, when John the Baptist declared, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. When Jesus died on the cross, he lifted our sins from us, and he then imputed it to himself. He lifted it from us and deposited it upon himself. He freed us from our sin by redeeming us and purifying us from each and every one of our sins. Get this. past, present, and future. All our sin was laid on the person who was the Lamb of God who would lift away our sins. Titus 2, verse 14 teaches us that Christ gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all lawlessness. and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds, good works. And this is the reason Christ then lifted our sins from us. It was so that we would no longer have to bear the penalty of any of our sins for eternity. If just one part of the law was broken, we'd be guilty of eternal damnation. Why is that? Because God's law is eternal It's a reflection of his eternal nature. And so, therefore, any breaking of God's law against him deserves an eternal punishment. John says Christ died in order to lift your sins away from you, to take away your sins. And then he adds this phrase, and in him there is no sin. Why no sin in Jesus Christ? Because Jesus had to be the sinless sacrifice. He was the only one who could. He came into this world to take upon himself our sins, all of our sins. Why? So that as Paul puts it in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21, we might become the righteousness of God in him. That is that that's the gospel. That is good news. That is great news. When God saved us through Jesus Christ, He made the promise that we would then live righteously with an occasional sin, rather than living sinfully with no occasion for righteousness. And that's the distinction that we live with today. Sin is living inconsistent with the person and work of Jesus Christ. And the reason for this is because, as Paul puts it in Galatians 2:20. I've been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. Now, some would look at that and say, Paul, you're being a little schizophrenic here. You're saying I don't live because I died, but then I am living. Yes, that's what he says. Because I'm a new creature in Christ. My old nature has been crucified with Christ. It has been dead and buried with Christ. But I have now been raised in newness of life. And guess what? How it is that I'm able to live a righteous life is because of Christ living through me. And now all praise and glory and honor goes to Christ, because now any righteousness in me is his. and his alone. And that is why I'm desperate to have the righteous life of Christ imputed to me. So that I would be freed from not only the penalty of sin, but I would be freed from the power of sin that had previously dominated my life. Well let me just give you a little highlight here. There's come a day, there's going to come a day when we're glorified and we will be freed from the presence of sin. Oh, what a glorious day that will be. Well, sin is inconsistent with the law of God. It is inconsistent with the person and work of Christ. Thirdly, it is also inconsistent with the knowledge of Christ. And that then brings us to verse 6. John says, no one who abides in him sins. And again, we're looking at the habitual practice of sin. No one who sins has seen him or has come to know him. As a believer, if you have been united with Christ and you're abiding in him, you're not going to habitually practice sin. And again, the reason for this is because what we know about Christ is going to transform our life practically Let's remember that John is not talking here about living a sinless life. He is talking here about living in a pattern of righteous behavior. And so, do Christians sin again? Yes, they do. They sin deliberately at times. But again The one who abides in him will also be grieved about their sin to the point of confession and repentance And one only needs to go to Psalm 32 and Psalm 51 to see how David then responded to his own sin, because that's the kind of confession that a believer truly makes. When a child of God does not uh live, well, when a child of God is living in righteousness. An unrepentant or m or um remorseless lifestyle that will become abhorrent to them. And again, it is because the pattern of lawlessness will not be characteristic of the true believer. Instead, John says they will abide in him. Again, what does it mean to abide? John 15, 10 says, If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. It is keeping his commandments. It's walking with him, daily making ourselves at home with him And Jesus said, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. It's basically looking like Jesus Christ. Those who abide in Christ are those who keep Christ's commandments out of a love for God, just like Jesus did. And God's love then cleanses us from all sin. Now, what I love about what Jesus is saying here to his disciples is that the word keep is a present-tense word. So it literally means to be to keep continually. Christ's disciples keep commandments, his commandments, continually. And by way of contrast, John says in verse 6, that no one who sins continually has seen him or come to know him Therefore, if a believer is living a righteous life, they are demonstrating with their life that they have come to know him. But not just that, they've come to love him, to love him. And this implies again that our faith allows us to see Christ and to know him as if he were physically walking with us each and every day. Indeed, having the fullness of the Holy Spirit dwelling in us, we can know that Christ is with us each and every day. Every time we open our Bible to read and to pray, we're reminded that God has turned his full attention toward us. And he is right there with us. Hebrews 11, 27 tells us that by faith Moses left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is unseen. It was as though God were walking with him every single day, and that's why he did what he did. And Hebrews 11:6 reminds us that without faith, it's impossible to please God. For he who draws near to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him What does this mean? To live a truly authentic Christian life? It means to walk by faith, trusting that God will work his perfect will in and through our life, and that the knowledge of Christ Will be given to us by faith in Jesus Christ alone. Hebrews 11:1. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for and the conviction of things unseen. This is the knowledge of God, the knowledge of Christ. And Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4:18 that we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And it is one of the reasons why we are commanded to fix our eyes on the author and protector of our faith. Because when we set our eyes above to heaven, we will not then become like the pattern of this world and have our mind dwelling on things that are not of God. The Christian faith knows experientially the person of Christ, and the language here in verse 6 is that we are strengthened in our experience of knowing God personally and savingly through Jesus Christ. When we live in obedience to his word. Now, as a believer, growing up spiritually in God's family, sin should be increasingly more and more inconsistent in our life. And the only way to ensure that this takes place is that we walk more consistently in obedience to God's word. To read his word, to study his word, and then to apply his word to our life. This is what it means to love God, to know God. And to again walk in obedience to God and to love him with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. If you love me, Jesus said, you will keep my commandments. Not because you have to or are forced to, but because you truly want to. The truly repentant person is the one who has come to know God through the person of Jesus Christ, through his work on the cross. And then to love him completely. I know, I know this, that we often struggle with doing this on a day-to-day basis There are many times that I myself feel like such a failure in this. But let me encourage you with this thought: feelings are not the measure of true faith. It is the Word of God and His Word alone that reassures our faith, that dispels false faith. How we judge the authenticity of a genuine faith is by reading, studying, and again taking God at his word. And seeing how God's word then begins to manifest itself in our life. If you are growing in your love for God's Word, If your life is changing because of your faith in Jesus Christ, if you have a desire to grow in the grace and the knowledge of Christ, then you will begin to see the Sin as an inconsistency in your life. If you have a desire again to grow in Christ, you will be encouraged to live a life that is pleasing to him. And this is what God tells us. This is the hope, the encouragement that we have. Because again, like John said earlier. When Christ manifests himself, we'll truly see him as he is because we will be like him. Well, in the next couple weeks we'll pick up the last four of these principles. But as we reflect on these first three, let's just pray that Lord you would give us. The eyes to see how inconsistent sin is to the believer's life. Father, I pray that you would help us to understand that your truth is what keeps us from. becoming like the pattern of this world. In fact, you told us to offer our bodies as a living sacrifice, to not be conformed to the to the pattern of this world, but be tran to be transformed by the renewing of our mind in Christ Jesus so that we would know and be able to test what is good and pleasing and what is your perfect will. Father, that's the desire of our heart. We want to know you in such a way that we are growing and living to become like Christ. Because we love you like Christ. Because we want to honor you like Christ. Because we want your will to be accomplished in our life as it was in Christ. Father, thank you for your wonderful truth. Thank you for the principles that John gives us here. May they constantly come to our mind. Reminding us that a truly authentic life is to love you with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, to then be obedient to your word To see sin for what it truly is, a repulsion against you. Father, help us to have the same attitude about sin that you have. But do this as you are continuing to make us and conform us to the image of Christ, so that we would be holy in all that we do. For Lord, you're the only one that can do this. And so we pray and ask that you would grant this to us by the work of your Holy Spirit, by truly the gospel, which is the good news of salvation in Christ. And by your Holy Spirit, who continues to sanctify us each and every day. Thank you for all of this. In Jesus' name, we pray. Amen.