You can't live a successful, vibrant Christian life relying on yourself and your own resources. It can't be done. You will try and you will fail and you will be frustrated because the Christian life is not a normal life It is a supernatural life that requires supernatural power at work inside of you to make it possible. You can't handle life in a godly way by sheer self-determination. It won't happen. You might accomplish many things in life through sheer self-determination, but you cannot live godly that way. When trials and trouble are hurled at you, you need something greater if in the midst of that you're going to live pleasing to God. You need the divine presence. You need the presence of God in you, with you, presently working on your behalf. You need that. I need that. We desperately need that. The Christian life, as you have come hopefully this morning to learn something more about, is about a relationship. It's not a mere ethic or a list of things to do or to avoid. The Christian life is about a relationship. And that relationship is to our Savior, to our Lord, our shepherd, our guide. And let me tell you how that relationship works. It works like this. You are the weak one, and he is the strong one in the relationship. You are the one who can't, and he is the one who can. You are the one in need of divine grace. He is the one who supplies ample divine grace. And so your most important duty in the Christian life and in that relationship is to trust in him, believe in him, hold firmly to him. To believe that he not only can do things through you, but that he is willing to do things through you. If you don't really believe that, and you don't really rely on him, you're not going to live the Christian life in power. You may be able to do a number of things in the local church, you may keep yourself busy. You may appear to be religious to people on the outside. There's nothing supernatural about religion. But you will not be able to live the Christian life God wants you to live. You will not be able to obey God's will. You will just experience frustration. You will experience disillusionment over time because it just won't work for you. And so, brothers and sisters, let us open the scriptures this morning. And let's open them again to the Gospel of John, chapter 6, verses 16 to 21. And may we listen to God this morning as he teaches us to put our confidence in his power. John 6, 16 to 21. Please follow along as I read. Now when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, and after getting into a boat, they started to cross the sea to Capernaum. It had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. The sea began to be stirred up because a strong wind was blowing. Then, when they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and drawing near to the boat, and they were frightened. But he said to them, It is I. Do not be afraid. So they were willing to receive him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. In this small portion of divine tutelage, we are assembled once again in the school of Christ to learn lessons. We are invited to join the Twelve Disciples in their Academy of Jesus to learn some things, to put into practice some things, which at the first reading of this small section may not be too apparent. But they are lessons that our master teacher wanted to teach them and wants to teach us as well. Last time, if you were with us, we left off with the disciples high up on the hills next to the Sea of Galilee. As they beheld and participated in that supernatural feeding of the 5,000 men, and probably a crowd of somewhere near 20,000 people. We read there of their amazing reaction to this one man who could create food out of nothing, and then we're not sure. five loaves and two fish and feed the masses. They saw it. They s they had a sensual experience with that miracle and it greatly and deeply impressed them. But these dear men, these twelve disciples of our Lord, incredible as it may sound, didn't learn the lesson Jesus wanted them to learn from the feeding of the 5,000. That just seems impossible. But that's exactly what happened. They were fed, they would learn of God of Jesus' resourcefulness, and they really didn't learn that lesson They failed the test. They failed the test that Jesus laid before them when he first told them back in verse 6, you feed the 5,000. They didn't know how to do that. They didn't know how to draw on God's resources. They failed that, that initial test But they also utterly failed to learn what the provision of the food itself meant. Jesus wanted them to grow in faith in his ability to provide for them, in his sufficiency in the relationship, but they're slow of learning, slow to get it Slow to avail themselves of Jesus' capabilities, slow to latch on to what that relationship would mean for the rest of their lives. So today, in this very next occurrence in their lives, just hours later, we see Jesus teaching them again with a similar test. I don't want you to be too hard on these men. Okay? It's easy to read Scripture and the follies of believers and the troubles that they went through and to judge them and say, man Those guys just didn't get it. They didn't get the lesson. But aren't we a little bit like them, don't you think? Aren't we a little slow of learning the lessons that God wants us to learn as well? Doesn't God do things for us when we kind of amen it, but we don't go off and live it? And so again, I say, let's step into the school of Christ and let's really learn what God wants us to learn from this text and from the previous one as we tie them together. Let me ask you, are you living your life day by day, hour by hour, aware of the presence of Jesus Christ in your life? Do you live your Christian life that way? I don't mean just once in a while thinking of him. I mean that you're aware he's present with you. And that you stand in his presence and live your life that way. If you are, then are you calm when the storms of life are hurled at you? Do you handle it with inner calm, not external calm, inner calm? I know sometimes I don't. And it's hard getting up here preaching the message when I know sometimes I'm going to fail this lesson too. Are you operating on Mondays and Tuesdays and Wednesdays joyfully empowered by God's truth? Or does it just seem to bubble up on Sundays and fizzle out the rest of the week? Are you functioning in a semi Christian way Letting God have a little part of you, that's the religious part of you, but not really knowing how to walk with him throughout the whole week. All of life. Do you treat the Bible like an ethics manual that you try to live up to, but find that if you're honest, you constantly are failing? Bad attitudes, lusts, pride. Are you limited in your vision as to what God can do through you? You've tried something in ministry and couldn't do it. And now you've concluded God can't do it. You have something that you're trying to accomplish Some attribute you want to see in your life, something changed in you, but you just doubt it because if you're honest, you're doubting God's power at work in you Is there anything specific in your life you can say right now that I see, I maybe even feel, I sense that God is working not just in those other people's lives, but in my life He's doing something there, and I I have a testimony. I want to share it and tell other people about it. I know nothing is impossible with God, not simply because I read A Bible passage and saw a miracle and said I believed in it, but I can tell in my own life nothing is impossible for God to change. Is that true of you? Then again I say, dear disciple of Jesus, step into the school of Christ and learn because you have not yet passed the test. There are three phases to this account. It's such a short account, but it teaches a powerful lesson. Three phases to it, and we're going to learn the lesson as we work through the phases of the account here. It's the first we learn the place, then the predicament, and then the presence. The place, the predicament, and the presence Look back to verse 16 in the beginning of verse 17 for the place. Now when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea. Verse 17, and after getting into a boat, they started to cross the sea to Capernaum. So he spent the 5,000, right? And the Lord's crowd has been dismissed by Jesus. And now evening has finally come. It's uh not too long after that supernatural meal that they ate, since uh it was already late in the uh afternoon when the disciples wanted to disperse the crowd. when that miracle happened. But now it is dark. The sun is setting or has set here, and they are still way off in that remote place on the other side of the sea There are no towns over in that area. It's a desert wilderness-like area. They're way over there. They're away from the lights of the towns. And the disciples descend down that grassy hill. It's called a mountain. It's a very large hill. Down to the sea, they get into the boat. All twelve of them get into the boat. And though the text does not say this, each of the twelve were carrying something with them. What would that be? One of those baskets, remember, from the leftover pieces of bread that each one of them be carrying around their little basket to remind them of God's provision that the leftovers were even more than what they started with. They had the object lesson there carrying it in their hand, but they haven't learned the lesson yet. It's kind of comical. And though the text doesn't say it here either, there are some other things that come about That we're going to learn as we study, as we bring Matthew and Mark and Luke, their accounts into bear here as well. We want to give a fuller picture from the other gospel accounts as well. So they go down to the boat And we learn from the Gospel of Matthew that Jesus had to tell them to get into the boat. He made them get into the boat. He made his twelve disciples get into the boat. That verb made in Matthew actually is a strong verb. Anankadzo, it means he f he forced them, he probably very forcefully told them, Now get in the boat. There was something about getting into the boat they didn't want to do. And we're not really told By the way, if you have the King James Version, it says he compelled them or constrained them to get into the boat. What was the reason for this, for this action on Christ? Well Verse 15 of the Gospel of John here likely has the answer, and that is the enthusiasm for Jesus' ministry after the feeding of the 5,000. This was at an all-time high. He was more popular here than at any point in his entire ministry. Right here they were ready to make him king. Take him on their shoulders or whatever, march him up to Jerusalem. It was the time of the Passover, anyways and have him be crowned king, throw off the Romans and get on with all of the prophecies that needed to be filled that the land of Israel was waiting for. They were very impressed with a man who could feed 5,000. There was a frenzy, probably of this. They were amazed at what had happened. And I think the disciples were probably thinking, hey, this is a good idea. This is a really good idea. Now, you have to get into their minds a little bit. You remember the first time Peter heard anything about Jesus saying he was going to go to Jerusalem to be crucified. We read about that in Matthew 16 Peter takes Jesus aside and says and starts rebuking Jesus. You're going to go to Jerusalem and what? Be killed, crucified? Bad idea, Jesus. And then Jesus had to turn to rebuke back on Peter. Remember that? They were thinking this whole deal is going to work out sometime in Jerusalem with him becoming king, and they want to do it now. What's wrong with him? Makes perfect sense. What's the big deal? Let's go. Let's do it. Jesus was King of the Jews, but he was not to be crowned in that way at that time, without repentance on the part of the people of Israel. He still had a cross to bear, another scripture to fulfill. So they seem for whatever reason, I think this is the best reason, to be reluctant to get into the boat, small boat, small fisherman's boat, they're used to those kind of boats. But he tells them to get in, they get in. They launch off They launch off to cross to Capernaum. So they're going to go from the northeast corner of the Sea of Galilee over across to the northwest corner. On that northwest corner was the village of Capernaum, that means the village of Nahum. Archaeological remains are Quite a bit there and have confirmed not only Capernaum is there, but many of the structures that were there in the first century. Now, on a regular evening, this would have been a fairly short trip, an easy trip for them. They're experienced fishermen As far as we know, when they got into the boat, it was relatively calm. Nothing is said about that. So far, so good. Twelve disciples on a route routine trip across the sea, even though they didn't want to go They're following the master's orders. They're doing what he told them to do. But Jesus stayed. He stayed alone. Not with any of his disciples. That's interesting, isn't it? He's alone there on the dark mountain on the far side of the sea. He didn't keep any of the disciples with him this time, not the inner three, none of them. Why? Well, again, the other gospels tell us that his express purpose was to be alone, to pray. He wanted to be alone with the Heavenly Father and commune with His Heavenly Father and to pray. He wanted to pray deeply. He wanted to pray seriously. He wanted no distractions around him. So he sought solitude. Away from man to commune with God. Wonderful picture of the Lord Jesus. I wonder how many of us in our busyness of life seek to be alone with God for an extended period of time, not just five, ten, fifteen minutes, catch it here or there. But to really develop our relationship with God. He wanted to be away from worldly men with their worldly plans. Away a little bit from the disciples who didn't understand and commune with the one who knew him and he knew the Father. No interruptions. Full concentration on God the Father. Isolated prayer is often seen in the life of Jesus. Mentions it in Luke 9, 28, and also in Matthew 26, 36. After a busy and a full day of ministry, when I'm sure he was physically tired, he didn't slump down on the couch, so to say, like we would do after a busy day. But he said, My day is not yet complete. I need to go and I need to pray. And so he did. Mark that down. Particularly those of you in ministry. When the ministry work is done, the work is not done. The prayer work still needs to be done. And that's a lesson for us. Now, the second phase we learn is the predicament, and that's in the latter part of verse 17 through verse 19. It says there in verse 17 in the middle, It had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. The sea began to be stirred up because a strong wind was blowing. Then, when they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and drawing near to the boat, and they were frightened. So it's definitely dark. The distant glow of light from the far shore is not much guidance when you're out in the middle of the sea. There are no headlights on a first-century fishing boat. So they have little lanterns and that's about it. Maybe the no moon was breaking through a little bit, but it may have been cloudy also, may have been very, very dark. There's not much to illumine their way, except they knew the lake. They were familiar with it. By the way, if you've never really been out in the country somewhere, it's good to do that sometime, getting way out in the country, away from city lights and be outside at night and see just how dark it can get, so you can begin to understand the way people would sometimes feel in this circumstance No city lights, no glow. It's dark. I mean, it's real dark. It's not only dark, Jesus isn't with them. Now, remember, this is a different account from the time that Jesus stilled the sea. In that account, Jesus was in the boat, and he was doing what? He was sleeping in the midst of a storm, and they had to rouse him and say, Master, Master, do you not care that we are perishing? That's a different account. This time, they are alone. Even Mark 6. 46 underscores that. After bidding them farewell, he left for the mountain to pray. So he's not with them. So they're out there on the sea rowing, rowing hard. Jesus is up in the mountains, away from them, they're rowing hard. The disciples are working. They're working on their own, they're working in their own strength They're using the only resources that they think that they have. They're using their own know-how, their own experience to guide them. I think Jesus purposefully put them in this very circumstance to teach them. He wanted them in this situation. He wanted them alone. He wanted them in the dark. And of course, in his omniscience, he must have known that strong, strong wind was going to arise and was going to be a force against them to frustrate what they were trying to do. Verse 18 again, the sea began to be stirred up because a strong wind was blowing. This is not a thunderstorm. This is not a hurricane. This is uh well there's no record of a storm at all. It's just a strong continuous contrary wind pressing them back from the way they want to go. In Matthew 14, 24, it records the boat was already a long distance from the land, battered by the waves, for the wind was contrary. That term battered there, basanazzo, literally means their boat was tormented by the winds and the waves. They were being battered against and possibly a little bit off course, trying to stay on course and having a hard time. Now, fishermen would not normally head out in a storm or with a strong wind. They would understand when to go out on the lake and when not to. So it's likely this wind caught them off guard. They didn't know it was coming. The wind in that sea basin, by the way, can can turn up pretty uh quickly. Because uh the Sea of Galilee is an amazing six hundred feet below sea level itself. It's way inland and it's part of a big rift in the ground and it's a it's a sea that rests below sea level, six hundred feet below sea level, and so the wind will come rushing down out of the mountains, either from the west or from the east depending on the season and what the different air temperature is, and it'll spin in that little basin in there just churn the water up. And so it can be quite, quite dangerous. Even today there are uh posts that are put up that the boats that are motor boats will not go out on the lake at certain times. It can have some very, very strong, strong squalls that will descend upon The lake. Well, all they had was a wooden boat, their little sail, and men rowing, and they're out in the midst of all of this. I don't know if you've ever been out in the midst of water when it's beyond your control. It could be a very frightening thing I think that they thought they possibly could lose their lives out there. And in the dark it made it treacherous as well. It appears mostly, though, that they're not. Feeling life-threatened as they were in another account being out on the sea during the time there was a storm and Jesus was asleep in the boat. But it appears mostly that they are exhausted from rowing. They've just been rowing and rowing and rowing, and they are exhausted. They're not getting very far. They were straining at the oars, according to Mark 6. 48. They're rowing against the wind, and they've rowed for three or four miles. Just moving one mile in a strong wind is hard. Literally that Roman measurement, there's a stadion. The stadion was uh 606 or 607 feet, one eighth of a Roman mile, but they had gone three or four miles in mini stadion. The lake, by the way, its longest part is 13 miles long and eight miles wide. Across the northern end, it was probably about five miles across. So they are three to four miles across, which means they're a little more than halfway across. In Mark 6. 48, it adds another bit of important information. It says Jesus did not come until the fourth watch of the night. The fourth watch of the night. Do you know when that is? Well the first watch starts at sunset, six to nine PM we'll call it. The second from nine to twelve, midnight. The third from 12 midnight to three in the morning, and the fourth watch from three in the morning until six. So they're still rowing three or four in the morning. That means they've been on the sea at least six hours. They must be utterly exhausted. Six hours to go three and a half miles. One can only guess what they were thinking at this point. Maybe they're confused. Why did Jesus make them get into the boat? Run into this windstorm. Maybe they're frustrated. Trying hard. Maybe they're determined and then frustrated because it can't it doesn't work well for them. Maybe they're hopeless. Who knows what they're thinking? They've gone from the heights of joy about to crown Jesus as King with the crowd, witnessing a great miracle, passing out the food and laughter and fun with all of that And now they're in utter exhaustion. It's dark. It's fruitless labor. Nothing they're doing is accomplishing anything. And it just all happened in a few hours. And then things momentarily get worse, not better. Because they see Jesus walking on the water. You say, why is that worse? Because they don't know it's Jesus. They think it's a ghost. They don't know it's Jesus. Mark 6. 47 says, when it was evening, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and Jesus was alone on the land. Seeing them straining at the oars, for the wind was against them, and about the fourth watch of the night he came to them walking on the sea And intended to pass by them. I think he's actually planning all of this. He's testing them to see how they would respond to his presence as he walks by. But it shows us that Jesus had never forgotten his disciples at any point in time. They're out there, they're straining. Jesus is on the mountain. I don't know if he used divine power to see them or whether there was enough light from the moon where he could look out and he could see that they were still at that spot. But he sees them, he knows what's going on. And he looks after them as he would look after us as well. He keeps our faith and he is faithful to us. But at times it just doesn't seem that way, does it? Because if we just stop before Jesus gets to the boat there and before they have this encounter and think about that situation, that in one way or another is where many of us will be at different times of our life. Where we are exhausting ourselves trying to do what we believe is the right thing to do, what God has told us to do, but we're doing it in our own strength, and we're running into the lack of resources that we have. But he knew exactly their situation. He didn't rush to help them. My goodness, he must have been watching them for a while while he prayed for them and letting them row and row and row. Do you ever feel like that? That God is letting you row and row and row. Where are you, God? I need help. He allowed the windstorm to worsen. He allowed the circumstances to become grave. And then he comes. Then he came. And he didn't have any need of a boat. He just did what nobody else could do. He just decided: no boat, no big deal. I'll just walk across the lake. This is a deep lake. This is a sea. Yes, this was a miracle. You see all of the liberal people trying to figure out what happened in a way that would be rationally acceptable to a modern man Maybe he was walking along the shore and the disciples just didn't know how close they were to the shore. Yeah. Experienced fisherman. Maybe he found a sandbar and it was easy. Mm-hmm. Professional fishermen who worked on the Sea of Galilee didn't know what was going on. And if Christ walked on the shore or on a sandbar, what did Peter sink in? He stepped out of the boat, the others tell us, and he uh actually walked on the water before he sunk as well. That's not told in John. Jesus was walking on water. He's a man that walked on water, literally. And it was deep water. And it was churned up moving water. I don't know how that worked exactly. He wasn't floating over the water. He was walking on the water. Maybe he had to step up and over the waves. Maybe some of it was splashing on him, but it wasn't that big of a deal. He just was walking on the water. He's not in a bubble Uh he's not floating, he's walking on the water. We know apart from divine intervention, that's impossible But the picture here of Jesus walking is a picture of him making progress. He's calmly coming across the water. He's not driven back by the storm. He's not tossed about by the waves The wind's not pushing him back to the shore, throwing him off course. He's just walking as if he had a hard surface underneath him, no problems at all. Walking where you can't walk. Here, gravity has no consequence to him at all. We're taught in this very gospel, the Gospel of John, that Jesus is no ordinary man, that he is the unique, only begotten Son of the living God, he is the eternal Word of God. made flesh. And here we have a little peak that comes out into his divinity. Here we see a little bit of his divine nature. Walking on water, for God, no problem. Well they're struggling and sweating. They're limited. They're humans. They're rowing and rowing and rowing and their muscles are bulging and they're tired. And he's just calmly wrapping the little thing around him, walking across the lake towards him. Quite a contrast in power and ability. They have a boat. That's easier to get across. They have their invention. They have a sail. They're experienced fishermen. They have know how. They know how to deal with this situation. But one little windstorm comes up and they can't do anything about that. Jesus has no boat. He's not a fisherman. He says, I'll walk across the sea. Quite a contract. This is the difference in the relationship that I was telling you about. This is what God wants us to understand. And this is how God works in our lives. He lets things get hard for us. Yes, he does. He purposefully puts us into his school and lets things get hard for us. Now, if I had a vote in heaven, I'd vote against that. You might join me in that. We'd be like the disciples. We'd be foolish. We wouldn't have the wisdom of God to know why He is making us do these things. And then when it gets hard for us and we pray, sometimes it seems like he not only didn't answer, but we prayed and it gets harder. And then hard this. Why does he do this? Not because he doesn't sympathize. Not because he's sleeping on the job and forgot about us. Oh, I forgot about the disciples on the sea. Not because he's unable to help us, some demon is holding back his hand. Not because he's against you, like he wants to ruin your life, like he invented Murphy's law. He's not like that. That's not how God is. That's a messed-up picture of God. That's not a clear picture of God or Jesus God loves his own people. He's committed to his own. He knows who his own are, and he wants to help them. He wants the very best for you. But for us to have the best, listen, for us to have the best, he knows we have to see ourselves the way we really are. We humans have a hard time with that. We're so busy esteeming ourselves, thinking about how great we are, we forget we can't even keep our heart pumping. We forget we couldn't even cause our own existence. We didn't start the world, we can't end the world, we're not really in control of anything in between the world Some of y'all have a personality out there, like you have to be in control of everything. You've never been in control of anything your whole life. You just think you have And that's the problem with us. We think we're in control. We think we have enough resources. We think we don't need all of that stuff. Or we don't need God all the time. Maybe once in a while we do, but not for most of our lives. And that's how we live. We just enter into our own strength, and we live that way. But God wants us to see need. He wants us to see weakness. He wants us to see exactly how helpless we are. He wants us to see limitations. He wants us to know our inabilities. He wants us to thoroughly perceive how inadequate we are for any of the things he requires us to do. He gave us the law of God, and we can't even keep it. The only reason we have the law of God is to show us we can't keep it. It's a mirror that shows us how unholy and blemished we are. We can't keep the Ten Commandments much less the other 600 and some. God desires to humble our spirits To bring us to low thoughts of ourselves. Because when we have low thoughts of ourselves, we are then in a position to understand who we are and to avail ourselves of Him and His resources. I love Isaiah 57:14. For thus says the high and exalted one, who lives forever, whose name is holy, I dwell on high in a holy place. And also with the contrite and lowly of spirit, in order to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. God is opposed to the who proud, but gives his grace to the humble Why do I not see God working more in my life? You're too proud. I'm too proud. Our pride needs a lesson. Lesson on helplessness. People say Christianity is a crutch. No, it's not. It's a whole life support system. The other person's dead and he's mocking us for being on a life support system and he's dead. He's dead to God, he can't do a thing for God What were these dear disciples supposed to learn? What you and I are supposed to learn. Do not be anxious for your life as to what you shall eat or what you shall drink. For your Heavenly Father knows that you need these things, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. God is able to make all grace abound to you so that always having all sufficiency in everything you may have an abundance for every good deed. He wants to have you empty yourself, that he may fill you with himself so that you can spill over and benefit other people. By giving, by serving, by loving, with a power you don't have. Sometimes we turn inward in our lives. And we have our troubles and our problems, and they seem overwhelming, and how can I take care of my own problems much less anybody else's problems? And at that point in time you're looking at yourself and you're looking at your lack of resources and you're forgetting that you're not alone in the relationship. God wants to bless you so that you'll spill over by His power and energy to be a blessing to others. Well, they're struggling because Jesus wanted them struggling because they didn't learn the lesson and he knew their hearts. And that's how we are so often. That's why God takes us through the events that He does. We think we learned it, and then there we are, right back to self-sufficiency again, feeling pretty good about ourselves, moving through life. Everything's jazzed up again. And just slowly becoming proud there again. Maybe not so slowly. Maybe it happens fast And God's saying you can't do it. You can't live the Christian life that way. I can't use you in ministry that way. You can't be a blessing to other people that way. You've got to learn this lesson if you're going to learn how to care for other people If you're going to learn how to live in your family the way I want you to live in your family, if you're going to learn how to teach other people, if you're going to learn how to overcome sin, if you're going to learn how to pray the way you need to pray, you've got to learn this lesson So God says, trust me, I'm divine. I'm unlimited. You're not. If you're sitting in your seats and you just hate hearing that every single time I say, God is God and you're not, you've got a big lesson to learn. You don't like it because of your sinful flesh. You're not God, contrary to what the Mormons say, and you'll never be God. Ever, ever, ever, ever. You're a thing created that if God didn't will you to exist, you wouldn't exist Now back to the glance at Jesus. At first glance, they're frightened. They don't know who he is. They have great fear. And it may not have been a glance. He may have been moving towards them for a while there, you know. If they had a little bit of light on the lake, a little bit, they might have seen it reflecting off of his white robe. So so the dark and the wind and the waves is bad enough, but now they think they're seeing a what? Just they they're not breaking out in the boat Matthew 14 to read that to find out, oh don't worry about that. That's Jesus coming across the lake. They don't have that. Men don't walk on water. That thing's walking on the water. That thing's a ghost. And so they're terrified because there are even beliefs that from the sea, those who would drown in the sea, their spirits would come back up on top and would go around, and sometimes that was an omen that you were the next to go It's coming for you. I don't know if they were thinking that or not, but that was frightening. A night spirit One drowned out at sea. Matthew uses the uh Greek term phonatazma, a phantom, we get our word from that. Well Matthew says when they saw Jesus, thinking it was a ghost, they cried out in fear. Cradzo. They shrieked. Oh here. So now they're just, now they're at the weakest. Now they're at the frightened, struggling, unproductive bunch of disciples. So now we come to the third phase. The presence. Verse 20 and 21. But Jesus said to them. It is I. Actually in Greek it's egoemi, I am, which may have some bearing upon, because in the other places in John that statement has to do with Jesus' deity and divinity. Reflecting the terms and words that God spoke to Moses on the mountain, I am who I am. Jesus says, I am. Do not be afraid. Jesus was testing their faith, but he certainly knew of their frailty. Jesus was aware of their fear, so he reassured them with his words. And with his presence. Beloved one, we need reassuring. We need the word of God and the presence of God. That's how we're reassured. So they immediately recognize their master's voice and it floods them, I'm sure, with comfort. In fact, this is where Peter gets says, if it's really you, call me out of the boat that I can walk on the water. And you have a second man who walked underwater, and this one wasn't God. He was upheld by God. And just that little moment of faith, he saw that he could do the impossible And then he looked around and said, This isn't possible. And so he started to what? Sink. But we're like that too. God starts to do something through us, and we say, What am I doing? I can't do that. And you're right, you can't, but the focus is wrong. He can through you. So God's word comforts them in the middle of their fears, in the middle of the sea. Just like a parent reassuring a child, I'm here. I'm here. And so he says, do not fear. Jesus doesn't want us afraid. He puts us into fearful situations knowing we will be afraid, but then exhorts us, now put your trust in me and don't be afraid. Faith dispels fear the same way that light dispels darkness. Faith grabs hold of the divine presence and the divine resources and says. I can now, because God is with me. He tells them not to fear. It's an imperative. Don't fear. Fearing is not believing. Fearing is the result of weak faith. Fear is because of the small view we have of God, or, more importantly, the small view we have of God with us. You can think of God big out there, but is God big around you and in your life? I see or not. We foolishly think the storms of life are bigger and badder than the one who rides the winds of the storm. Dr. MacArthur writes, the lesson for the disciples is the lesson for us. There's no reason for God's people to fear, there's no reason for anxiety, no matter how hopeless and threatening our problems seem to be Life is often stormy and painful, often threatening and frightening. Some believers suffer more than others, but all suffer at some time and in some way. In spite of that, the storm is never so severe, the night never so black, and the boat never so frail that we risk danger beyond our Father's care. So the fear was turned into relief because of faith. And it was also turned into an awe towards Jesus as they think about this one who can walk on the water. Here is the human and the divine one wrapped together in one body. Jesus our Lord. And so verse 21 it says they were willing to receive him into the boat. And immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. Yes, that was a miracle, too. They received him into the boat. Maybe an incidental comment there, but I think it has some symbolic meaning. I think it's meant to illustrate faith. It's not enough for you to see Jesus out there and recognize that he is Jesus If you have never received Christ into your life, he doesn't help you until you receive him in. Once he got in the boat, everything was fine. He gets in the boat and whoosh, somehow, a mile and a half, boom, they're docked at the other side and the storm is over. Now, for we as believers, there's a message there for us as well. We have to constantly be aware of Christ's presence with us and avail ourselves of his resources. He helped them once he got into the boat. They received him into the boat. They believed them so as to receive and come in and help. The boat was immediately then transported to the other side. No more rowing, no more struggling, not even one more stroke. No more weakness, just instant transport. We're not given any description as to how that happened When the Bible presents miracles, it's not to embellish it like someone made it up, it's just to say this is what happened. This is an historical account. He gets into the boat, the wind stops, the storm is over. It's divine control of nature. It's God's protective hand. Set aside the laws of nature. They're not needed. God is here. He made nature. Of course he's above the laws of nature. We make something, put it together, and we're in control of it. God makes something, puts it together, and we think he can't be in control of it. He just gets in the boat and and we don't even have a command where he said this time, hush be still, as he did in the other account. He just gets in the boat and it's all over with. The tempest raged until he stepped into the boat. You know, people don't usually even count this one as a miracle when they're counting the number of miracles in the Gospel of John, but it was. It was a miracle. It was a class A kind of miracle. Class A means it stopped the laws of nature. It was divine intervention. And so their problems were taken care of. The dark and dismal mood is gone, and a sense of awe has entered into the little fishing boat. Jesus took care of things how? Just with his presence. Before, back on the mountain, he taught them they had all of heaven's resources at their disposal when they're ministering to people, because through that they will be sufficient in ministry. Now, he shows his disciples that his presence with us is enough for us. You may never see a miracle like this in your life. You don't need to. God was working in Jesus Christ in a unique way in the first century. Yet God works in providential ways now. If he doesn't change nature, he still controls nature. He still can turn the twists of your life in any direction that he wants. He can ease the pain, he can take you through the pain. He can ease the struggle. He can strengthen you through the struggle. He's sovereign over all aspects of your life, all of the contingencies, the things that happen in your body, the things that happen in your relationships, the things that happen in the work world, in the economy, the things that happen when you drive around town. He's in control of all of it, and he's there with you in every situation. We need to learn to derive strength from the presence of Jesus Christ, who said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So that we may confidently say, I will not be afraid of man and what man can do to me. In the Great Commission, Lo, I am with you. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is perfected in your weakness Your weakness is no problem for my power. In fact, it's a perfect stage to demonstrate my power Call to me and I will answer you, he told the nation of Israel, and I'll tell you great and mighty things which you do not know. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, yes, and forever, and Jesus Christ is with you. And that doesn't even say well enough. Because the Word of God says he is in you. He lives and resides in your body, your body, and this church as a collective church is a temple of the Holy Spirit And the Spirit is the Spirit of Jesus. He's the Spirit of Christ. He is Christ's presence living and dwelling and active in our lives and in our church's life. He's with us, he's around us, he surrounds us. More so, he indwells us, he lives inside of us. God wants us to know and be convinced of his presence with us. Daily we face struggles. Daily we minister to people who face struggles. Things don't go well. We feel Weak and like failures and unsuccessful and unable to start things, and we need to think on the great Presence of Jesus Christ always with us. Listen, that's what separated David from every other soldier in Israel when Goliath stood down there in the valley of Elah. And David saw a nine-foot man and a 12,000-foot god standing over his head, ready to chop it off. The presence of God was on the battlefield, and David said, just somebody give me a sword, I've got to get down there and kill that guy. We're not like that. We don't see God with us. We don't perceive his presence inside of us and walk that way, and we need to, by faith. He working in you can do it. He can help you love the unlovable one in your life. He can energize your spirit, give you perseverance through the trial. He who abides in your body can change your very desire to lust, and he can kill those deeds of the flesh in your body. He who lives inside of you can illumine your mind so that you can understand the scripture and grow in your understanding of God. Walking on the water, walking on the water is only a small demonstration of God's power. It's nothing from his perspective. So let us receive Him well. Welcome His powerful presence. Quit trying on our own, we can't get it done. Give way to His leadership For he can. He can. And the good news is he will, if we believe. Let's uh have a hymn now and prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper.