This morning, we're going to be looking or beginning to look at John's first letter, 1 John. If there was a theme throughout that letter other than the tests of a living Christianity or an authentic Christian life, I think it could be summarized by showing us Christ. We need to be pointed to Christ, do we not? That's what we're going to do this morning. If you have your Bibles, turn to 1 John chapter 1. Before we jump into the text of Scripture, before I read it for you and we look at the details. I want to begin with a quote, a quote from an English preacher named Martin Lloyd Jones. In his book Life in Christ, Studies in 1 John, he wrote this: The Church of God has a message to the world To the unbelieving world, it is an evangelistic message. And one of the great functions of the church is to preach that message. But that's not her only message. For she has one for people who have been converted. She must build up the believers. She must talk to the saints. Establish them in their faith And give them greater knowledge and understanding. As I think about what Lloyd Jones has written, immediately I am left with the impression that indeed this is why 1 John was written. John wrote this first epistle not only to proclaim God's gospel to the world. But to do so in such a way as to build up the body of Christ and to establish us in our faith He wrote this epistle in its most basic sense to give us an even greater knowledge and understanding of what it means to live the Christian life. Well, John's message is not only important as an evangelistic message to those who need Christ, but in the words of Martin Lloyd Jones, it is to talk to the saints. To establish them in their faith and to give them greater knowledge and understanding of what it means to truly be a child of God. Here at the beginning of this first chapter of this epistle, John lays the foundation for faith in Jesus Christ. In fact, he gives us four very encouraging statements about the Christian faith. These encouraging statements are given not only to strengthen and to clarify what it means to live the Christian life, but they are meant to give us the assurance of our Christian faith. To fill us with absolute joy as we consider our fellowship together with God the Father and His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. What are those encouraging statements? Let me give them to you in just a rapid fire way to begin. First of all, the message of the gospel is absolutely true. The message of the gospel is absolutely true Second, the incarnation of Christ is undeniably real. The incarnation of Christ is undeniably real. Third, that Christ is central to genuine Christian fellowship. And then finally, that Christ is the only source of our complete joy. Today I want to let all four of those statements just sink down into your heart in detail. That even though these truths span the entire breadth of this epistle, each one has a foundation found right here in just the first four verses of this letter that John wrote. My outline basically is going to be very simple. It's simple because I want it to be easy for you to remember. Today, for our time together, I want us to examine the proclamation, the person, the purpose. And finally, the principle that John gives for us to be encouraged in the faith. That everything that John writes in these first four verses Not only lays the groundwork for understanding the gospel, but that when it comes to our fellowship together, it is all about Christ. It is all about Him and Him alone. Show us Christ But with your Bible in front of you, please follow along as I read the text for you. 1 John chapter 1, beginning in verse 1. John writes what was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we beheld and touched with our hands, concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us. What we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also, so that you may also have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we are writing, so that our joy may be made complete. What a great way to begin an epistle! What a fantastic way to just lay it all out. As this epistle begins, John immediately launches into what he has heard, what he has seen, what he has touched. Concerning the word of life. He dispenses with any kind of customary greeting, which is what we would usually see at the beginning of a letter like this. But he does this, as most scholars agree, because he knows his readers intimately. He knows them, and most assuredly, they know him. Well, what seems appropriately true is that John has a very urgent and important message for his readers. And let me just say this morning. Not only does John have an important, urgent message for those who were the original recipients of this letter, likewise there is an urgency and an importance to this letter for us today. Without hesitation, he immediately dives into the reasons for writing this sincere and intensely theological statement about the truth concerning Christ. Namely, that eternal life, the eternal life, has been made manifest in the incarnate Son of God. Now on the surface, that may not seem so urgent and important, but given the content of this letter, it makes absolutely perfect sense. If you consider that false teachers and false teachings had already begun to infiltrate the church. For this reason, it is because the gospel has everything to do with us knowing What is true joy and what is the true fellowship that can only come from those who have a right relationship with God through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ? And this is why this message is so critical for us today. Consider the importance of these first four verses. I love how John Piper introduces this. He says, the spring from which the river of this text flows is Christ. who never had a beginning, but he has existed eternally with the Father. And the ocean To which the river of this text flows is the joy of our fellowship with each other and with the Father and with the Son. This morning, I want us to follow that river. I want us to begin where the apostle begins himself. I want to follow it as it leads us to the ocean of pure joy, which is the manifest presence of our Savior and Lord here in our fellowship at Hope Bible Church. Amen. Well, if you would, please look with me in detail at this passage as we begin with verse 1. The very first encouragement that John gives is to proclaim that the gospel is true. In fact, John says, I know it's true, because I was one of the original disciples to whom this message was given. And what I proclaim to you now is that I know that the person who is the word of life is absolutely true. Well, let's begin with the proclamation, verse 1. Notice again what it says. He says, What was from the beginning, what we have heard. What we have seen with our eyes, what we beheld and touched with our hands concerning the word of life. This is the proclamation of the truthfulness concerning the gospel itself. In other words, God's message of salvation through Jesus Christ is absolutely true. John explains the reasons right here, right here in verse 1. As you notice it here, John begins his epistle with four very important phrases. concerning his witness of the word of life. These four phrases are what was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, and what we have looked at and touched. with our hands. The word what here at the beginning of each of these clauses is literally the pronoun which And so rather than addressing the what about the person of Christ, he is actually addressing the apostolic message concerning the person of Jesus Christ. He says, that which you have heard from us about Christ and the reason why he came, this I'm proclaiming to you is absolutely true. It is without error. It is absolutely trustworthy. It is trustworthy because we have heard him, we've seen him, we have touched him. And there's no denying that his manifest presence is absolutely true. In other words, God didn't just reveal this truth to us through the spoken word. We literally experienced that word when we were with the word of life ourselves. John says this isn't some kind of abstract message about Jesus Christ. This is the comprehensive reality. of the historical manifestation of eternal life in the incarnate Christ. We touched him It is a revelation that came to us through a person, which is now God's message of truth that has been passed down to you. by those who were the eyewitnesses of the incarnation of Christ Himself. John says, that which was revealed to me, I am now passing on to you as the truthful word of life. And he begins the letter this way, in essence, to destroy any false teachings that might have infiltrated the church and begun to corrupt people's understanding of the Lord Jesus Christ and why he came. This false teaching that is that which denied the incarnation of Christ, John says it has no substance to it, no truth to it, no reality to it. Because we were there. We saw it. We heard it. We touched him. John says we are the living confrontation of that false teaching. And that's the message he proclaims right here in verse 1. The focal point of that false teaching came actually through a man named Cyrinthus. who was one of the most influential false teachers in Ephesus at the time that John wrote this letter. Cyrinthus tried to raise serious doubts about the physical appearance of Christ. He said, though the spirit is good, matter or physical substance is inherently evil. He tried to teach that the true Christ did not assume a real body, but only appeared to have one. And apparently some were beginning to buy into that message that essentially the Son of God never truly became a man. The incarnation itself was a hoax, he declared. God never manifested his presence in human flesh. And John here in his epistle is saying that is an absolute lie. And that's because the incarnation is central to the gospel message Had Christ never come in human flesh, there would be no salvation from sin. Well, Cyrinthus, who was this first-century heretic, tried to teach that the man Jesus was not the second person of the Trinity incarnated. He only received the Spirit of the Christ at his baptism. And then that Spirit then left Jesus just before the crucifixion. As he proclaimed his message, he deliberately tried to destroy the apostolic teaching of the incarnation of Christ And ultimately he sought to undermine the atoning work of Christ on the cross. Well, here in 1 John, John decimates his argument. He decimated that false teaching by announcing in verse 1 with apostolic authority that the message of the gospel is absolutely true. He says people like Cyrinthus have no idea what they're saying. Here's the truth. We heard Christ with our own ears. We saw him with our own eyes. We touched him with our own hands. And that is why we know the message he proclaimed is absolutely true, because he lived it. In fact, the message which denies the incarnation has no truth in it whatsoever. And here are the reasons why. And John gives us four of those reasons right here in verse one. Keep in mind the very first verse of this epistle is a direct indictment against those who would try to destroy the gospel message and say that it isn't true. When John writes what was from the beginning, he is directly pointing back to the very beginning of Christ's incarnation. In other words, that which began at the revelation of Jesus Christ is exactly what we have seen, heard, and proclaimed to you. as that which is consistent and consistently true with the promise of God going all the way back to the book of Genesis. No amount of false teaching can deny the reality of Christ's incarnation. And so in the next three clauses, John describes his own experience concerning the manifestation of the word of life One commentator puts it this way: these clauses, these three clauses, declare that the fact of the incarnation is firmly grounded in historical reality. And that is precisely John's point. These words are the words, what we have heard, are an unmistakable declaration from John, along with all the other apostles. That the gospel which came through Jesus Christ is absolutely true. That Christ did indeed exist in a physical body. He proved himself to be the eternal Son of God. And that is what we received as a revelation from him. We not only heard it from him, we understood it. And it's the same message that we are now proclaiming to you. In other words, the message to which the apostles bore witness was presented in a very tangible way by an historical person. A historical person. John says we heard that message from with our very own ears. And now John says what we heard from him about him and concerning him, this is exactly what we are passing down to you as the absolute truth. Not only did we hear the message, John says, but we actually saw it. In living tangible form. The phrase, what we have seen with our eyes, implies a comprehension of the significance of Christ based on who he was and what he had done. In other words, our eyes did not betray the truth of what we heard coming out of his mouth and what was consistent with his deeds. It was consistently true throughout the three and a half years that we spent with him. His work was absolutely genuine. It was not a hallucination And to prove his proclamation, John goes on to say that it was what we beheld and touched with our hands. Not only did we see his works, But we scrutinized him so thoroughly that we had no doubt concerning his physical reality John says, in essence, we heard, we saw, and we experienced every aspect, every angle of Christ's life. And it is absolutely true. And there's no doubt about who this person was and still is. And this is because we experienced the very reality of God's bodily presence. And no one can deny that fact. I would imagine us sitting here this morning, we would love to have been in John's shoes or his sandals. We would have loved to have been able to hear with our own ears, see with our own eyes, and touch with our own hands. But remember what Jesus said to Thomas. Blessed are those who believe and have not seen. In John chapter 20, verse 27, John gives us an example of that conviction by telling us that he was right there when Jesus asked Thomas to look at him and to put his hand into the spear wound that was in his side. In John chapter 21, verse 20, he says he was there when when I was there when we ate with him. I was there when I leaned on his side when we shared our last meal together And in Luke chapter 24, we're told that all the apostles were present when Jesus made the statement, see my hands and my feet. That it is I myself, touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have. John says, I was there. I heard that. John says, is saying here that that's the message that we're proclaiming concerning the word of life. And that proclamation is absolutely true. No matter what those false teachers are trying to tell you, the truth is I was there and witnessed that physical presence along with all the other apostles. And here then is the principle that we need to have settled in our minds: that the very physical life of Christ is what makes the gospel true. It makes the gospel true. The very fact that God took on flesh and lived a perfect life died a perfect death, and rose physically, bodily from the grave. This is what makes the gospel true. Amen? Without the incarnation of Christ, there is no eternal life. In John chapter 1, verse 1, in Revelation 19, 13. John declares emphatically that Jesus is the word of God. And here in 1 John 1, verse 1. John takes that truth one step further by declaring that Jesus, who is the Word, is now the source of eternal life itself. In other words, Jesus is not just the person of the gospel, he is the power of the gospel as well. Now, I don't want you to be confused here, but what John is saying about the incarnation of Christ is that Jesus is the physical embodiment of what the gospel is being proclaimed. He is the gospel message. He is the good news revealed from God above And that good news came down out of heaven for an express reason. And that reason was to save his people from their sins. Without the physical reality of Christ, there would be no true eternal life. And so John opens his first epistle by saying explicitly that Christ Himself is the proclamation of eternal life. And that proclamation is absolutely true. Why? Because there's no denying the reality of Christ's physical presence. Both the Messiah and the message are intrinsically inseparable. You cannot have one without the other. In other words, the gospel message cannot be separated from the very person itself or the person himself. As John says it here, Jesus is the living word of life, the living word of God. And the reason that this is so urgent and important is because some may have welcomed the message without ever having submitted to the m to the Messiah himself. That is not the gospel message. This is exactly what the false teachers would have us believe. You just need to believe our message. You don't have to submit. John says when it comes to the incarnation, there is one, this is one of the absolute cornerstones to the Christian faith. And so what John is emphasizing here in verse 1 is that Jesus was made physically alive for the purpose of our salvation. Without his physical life, his physical death, his physical resurrection, there would be no true salvation And that's because the message of the gospel is crystal clear, John says. It is understandable, it is authoritative, it is absolutely true. And that's because the eternal second person of the Trinity is the life Who became flesh and then dwelt among us as a man. So when we proclaim the gospel to others, we show people Christ. That's our responsibility. And it's his physical sacrifice that saves us and ultimately gives us eternal life in him. Be encouraged, John says. The gospel is true. We heard it. We've seen him. We physically touched him. And that's the message we're proclaiming to you. Now, the second reason John wants to encourage his readers is found in verse 2. Verse 2, in a sense, is a parenthetical thought, interrupting verses 1 and 3. And this is why most translations have the M-dash before verse 2 and after verse 2. Because here, John inserts a statement concerning the reality of the gospel message. In other words, not only is our proclamation true, but the one who is the source of eternal life is absolutely real. Therefore, we have just proclaimed to you as the Word of Life the one who is ultimately the person of the second Trinity. Here, John tells them that that person of Christ is very real. How do we know that the word of life is real? Look at verse 2. The life was manifested. And we have seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us. John says the life was manifested. He was manifested to us. That means that just as the very humanity of Christ is so crucial So also is an understanding and again reception of the deity of Christ as well. John Wolbert, in his book, Jesus Christ Our Lord, put it this way. Though the doctrine of the deity of Christ is generally recognized as the indispensable fundamental of our study of Christ, the doctrine of his true humanity is equally important. on the fact that his humanity depends on the reality of his death on the cross, his claim to be Israel's Messiah, his fulfillment at the as the promise of David as the descendant who would sit upon the throne and his offices as prophet and priest. And then he says this Those who deny the true humanity of Christ are just as effective at destroying the Christian faith as those who deny the very deity of Christ himself as well. He goes on to say that those who deny these aspects of his incarnate person would necessitate a denial of the scriptures themselves. And this is why this issue of the humanity and the deity of Christ is so critical and important to our Christian faith. You cannot be saved without believing in the truth concerning Jesus Christ. Here in verse 2, John says, and that life was manifested. What life are we talking about here, John? Just this, that God Himself, God Himself, made known to mankind who he was the moment Jesus Christ came in the flesh. Not only have we seen that life, bore witness to that life, and proclaimed that life to you, John says, we know without a doubt that he was with the Father. And now he is manifested to us. And this is what distinguishes the biblical gospel from all other religions in the world. What is so amazing about this is that the the grammatical construction of the phrase which was with the Father suggests that Christ The eternal life was continuously existing in a face-to-face intimate relationship with God the Father long before the incarnation ever took place. And John reaffirms that in his gospel in the first chapter as well. And so, as the eternal second person of the Trinity, Jesus continues in that relationship as the eternal God-man. And yet, as God, he is not the Father. In other words, these two persons are separate and distinct. And yet, along with the God, the Holy Spirit, they are the eternal Godhead. One God, three persons. And here John says, we saw the manifestation of the second person of the Godhead. John is making it absolutely clear that the one who is the subject of this proclamation is the same person who has always existed with the Father. And now he has been made physically real to you and me. That's the one who is manifested to us, John says. He is God. And again, here is what is so profound about that statement. John says, we've seen him. We've testified to you about him, and we've proclaimed to you that he is the eternal life. You want to know what eternal life is? Look no further than the person of Jesus Christ. He is eternal life. Now, after the parenthesis, of verse 2, John returns grammatically to finishing off the sentence that he began in verse 1. And this is what he proclaims to his readers. Not only is the proclamation true, not only is the person real, but the purpose for making this announcement to you is that it significantly impacts our relationship to one another as a Christian community. And that's because the gospel has eternal implications for you and I as his church. Even more importantly, it has eternal implications concerning our relationship with God. And this is what brings us to the third encouragement here in verse 3. Christ is central to what it means to have genuine fellowship together. We've looked at the proclamation and the person and now we come to the purpose for which John writes this entire letter Notice verse 3: what we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also, that you may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. In verse 3, John repeats two verbs that he already used in verse 1. These two words are seen and heard, but this time they're in reverse order. He emphasizes through the use of repetition the authority of his own personal experience as an eyewitness of Jesus Christ. And his life. And here he says, what we have seen and heard, this again is what we proclaim to you also. This is the revelation that we received. We've seen it, we've heard it, we proclaim it to you also, and the reason is for this very purpose, so that you may have fellowship with us. In other words, without the incarnation of Christ as the foundation of our faith, and without the apostolic message being proclaimed, there is no fellowship that we can share together. There is no fellowship between us and God. The word fellowship here is a beautiful word. It's the word koinania. It's a very significant theological term. It means more than just social relationships. It is a word that has to do with participation, partaking, and partnerships. in the gospel. It is a word that stresses an intimate friendship, a binding together of familial relationships centered on the person of Christ Himself. And it's a word that occurs three times in this chapter alone. It occurs here in verse 3, then in verses 6 and 7. And the point of referring to this fellowship that John speaks about. It is that this is how you distinguish the reality of a person's faith. Why is this true? Because in Acts chapter 2, verse 42, this was the word that defined and described the early church. This is what it meant to be a Christian. If you were a Christian, you were in Koinania. You were in fellowship with God and with the family of God. In Romans 15, 26 and 2 Corinthians 8. 4, it was used to speak of fellowship with other fellow believers in an act of tangible living out the Christian faith. They were tangibly living out what they believed. And it came as a result, it sprang from deep within them and how they related together and shared among each other. And again, it's a word that defined and described the reality of living out what it means to be a true disciple of Jesus Christ. Here in verse 3, it's also a word that not only defines and describes our horizontal relationships with other believers, but it defines and describes our vertical relationship with God. And that's because John says, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Believe in who Jesus Christ really is. And you will have fellowship with God because of who Christ is. This phrase, and indeed, is used to underscore the importance of describing the significance of our fellowship with God. True fellowship most significantly is a reality that determines our eternal destiny and our eternal relationships. You cannot have true fellowship with other believers. By denying the reality of who Christ is. Equally so, we have fellowship with God and with other believers because we affirm that we have fellowship in the person and work of Christ and the reality of who He is. We cannot have fellowship with God without loving others the way God loved us. In fact, John will go on to say this at the end of his, near the end of his epistle, that we love because what? He first loved us. This all has its root, its basis, its foundation in Jesus Christ. And this implies that believing the truth Is really what it means to be a Christian. And this is really important because sadly we live in a time when relationships seem to be defining what it means to be the church. They're redefining what it means to be a part of the body of Christ. And more often than not, the truth about Christ is being left out of the equation. Technically speaking, believers do not have do not worship at a church or participate in a church. We are the church. Amen? And this is because of who Jesus Christ is. We likewise are a member of the body of Christ. And we need to be careful about acknowledging our individual identity apart from the corporate body of the church. If you've put your faith in Jesus Christ, you are part of the church. When you fellowship with the rest of the body of Christ. Please understand what John is saying here, because this is so critical. The quality of the church is not measured by the condition of its building. It's not again measured by the appeal of its services or its programs. It's measured by the fellowship of the saints. It's measured by the koinania that we share together. And true-saving faith is the foundation of our fellowship with one another. This is why, as we read this morning, the Bible tells us that we should consider how to stimulate one another toward love and good deeds. Because the only viable way that you and I can consider how to do this Is if we not forsake the uh the assembling together as is the habit of some, but encourage one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. As a Christian, Christian fellowship should draw you in. When can I get back to worshiping corporately with the body of Christ? When can I meet with other believers to stimulate them toward love and good deeds? As a Christian, we should have that desire. Drawing us, moving us into relationship with each other. You want to know the real reason why we gather on the Lord's Day? This probably is no secret to most of you here, but it's because we need to be reminded that one day Christ is coming back. And let me tell you, he's coming back physically. Physically. As believers, we need to be ready for that day. We certainly need to be uh we need the kind of encouragement that the writer of Hebrews gave to those he was writing to. And we need this kind of encouragement as John is writing to his readers. But what is so critical for us in living the godly life is that we need Christ even more each and every day. Show us Christ. And that's because Christ must be at the center of our relationships. Christ must be the definition of our fellowship together Christ must be the glue that binds us together as a family. And John acknowledges that right here. He says, you and I cannot have true fellowship without genuine ru without having a genuine relationship with God the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And in order for that to happen, the church must be the assembly of true believers. Fellowship means nothing without a genuine relationship with the God of the universe. And the reason John is so concerned about getting the gospel right is because God Himself defines and describes what genuine Christian fellowship really is. I love the fact that here in verse 3, John does this by making this clear distinction between the Father and the Son. Because along with God, the Holy Spirit, it is these three persons who experience perfect unity as God and likewise bring unity into the body of Christ. Perfect fellowship And as believers, we participate in that unity through a saving relationship with Jesus Christ, who again is the eternal life. The Christian fellowship that we enjoy is not just for you. It's not just for me. It is for everyone who has eternal life in Christ. That the eternal life is for every member of God's family. Well, quite frankly, it's unimaginable to describe the comprehensive distinctness and equality that God the Son shares with God the Father without understanding the good news of the gospel We cannot even fathom what that is like until we enter into a relationship, a saving relationship with Jesus Christ. And here John pulls these two together in one verse as the object of our God Word focus and fellowship. When we receive the proclamation of the gospel as true, when we respond to the reality of the person of Jesus Christ as being real, incarnate And being the Son of God, this is when we begin to enjoy the unsurpassed fellowship we have with God and with other believers. And we demonstrate the authenticity of that fellowship as we begin to live out our Christian faith. Well, finally, we come to the reason why John writes these things. The proclamation leads to the person. The person determines our purpose. Now the purpose is lived out in principle. And the principle is this: Jesus Christ is the only source of our complete joy. John says in verse 4, these things we are writing so that our joy may be made complete. Naturally, these things here refer to those statements he just made in verses 1 through 3. And that's because John is writing about the reality of Christ. and the truthfulness of the gospel message. He writes out these things because he wants our joy to be made complete. What joy, Paul or John, that you're talking about? What joy are you speaking about? Well, let me defer once again to Martin Lloyd Jones. He does a great job of explaining this. Joy is something very deep and profound, something that affects the whole and entire personality. In other words, it comes to this. There is only one thing that can give true joy. And that is the contemplation of the Lord Jesus Christ. He satisfies my mind. He satisfies my emotions. He satisfies my every desire And his great he and his great salvation include the whole personality and nothing less. And in him I am complete. I love that. Joy is the response and the reaction of the soul to the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that's John's principle here. This is the bottom line for us. Do you have this kind of joy in your Christian life? If so, how can you excel still more? If not, will you acknowledge your sin? Repent of it. Come to Jesus and bow the knee to his lordship What did he say in Matthew 11? Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you what? Rest. John knew that the only way he could consummate his joy was to share the truth about Jesus Christ with his beloved children in the faith. The same applies to you and me. The proclamation of the gospel is absolutely true. Do you believe it so? The person of Christ is absolutely real. Do you know it so? The purpose of the gospel is unimaginable fellowship with God and with other believers. And the principle is to believe the gospel now, so that our joy together may be made complete. Every time a person comes to saving faith, it increases our joy. Increases our capacity to be thankful to God. And my encouragement to you this morning is this. Believe the gospel. Believe it Believe that he came, that he died, that he physically rose from the dead. Why? So that you may have life in his name. Trust the living word, and make our joy complete by submitting willingly, fully, and wholeheartedly to the one again who says, Come to me. all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Then your joy will be complete. There are a lot of implications bound up in these first four verses, are there not? Many questions to challenge us spiritually. This is just the beginning of his epistle. This is just the beginning of our study. He's going to go into much more detail as we begin to work our way through this text. By way of application, let me draw it down to this. Let's never forget how important it is to point people to the person of Jesus Christ for true salvation. Show them Christ. Don't show them your testimony. Don't talk about yourself. Don't talk about others Talk about the one who is the author and perfecter of our faith. Show them Christ. He is true. He is real. He is the center of our relationship together. He is the source of our complete joy. And in the words of the good doctor, He satisfies my mind, he satisfies my emotions, he satisfies my every desire. He and his great great salvation include the whole personality and nothing less, and in him I am complete. Are you complete? If you name the name of Christ this morning, you are complete in Him. Wonderful text of Scripture. Let's close in prayer Father, we thank you for the wonderful message that John has given us. We thank you that the message is really the Messiah. It is a person. It is the person of Jesus Christ in him alone. We thank you that he is life. That in him is life. That through him we have life abundantly, eternally. We thank you that He is objective, He is historical. He is a real person. He has a true message. And we thank you that by believing in him, Receiving his message, believing it to be true, that we then are complete in him. We then have salvation for our souls. And we have pure joy. We thank you that Christ is who brings us together. We thank you that Christ is the one who makes gathering together on this day. Absolutely critical. Corporately for the body of Christ, individually for the encouragement and persevering of our souls. But we thank you that in coming here, that we can be reminded, encouraged, exhorted, challenged Held accountable for this wonderful gift of salvation that you've given to us in Christ Father, help us to go out into the world and proclaim the word of life. Give us boldness to proclaim the love of Christ, to call sinners to repentance. To plead with them to put their faith in Him alone. And help us to do this so that our faith is strengthened, so that we know we must submit. So that we know that most assuredly, the promise you gave is yes and amen in Christ. We thank you now for this time of worship today, the opportunity that we have together to sing with joy. And now we give you praise in Christ Jesus' name. Amen.