Well, I would invite you to turn in your Bible to John chapter 12. John chapter 12 as we return to our study of the glory of the cross. Our text once again is John chapter 12, verses 20 to 36, where we learn that the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified at the cross. And then we are called by him to join in that glory At the marriage conference, we concluded the conference with a QA, and one of the questions that was submitted was presumably by a single person. And the question was: what should one do to prepare for marriage? What can a single person do to prepare for marriage? We have a lot of single folks here, of course, and so maybe that's a question you've wondered. What can you do What can you do to prepare for marriage? Um The answer that I gave at the time that I and that I would give to you now is the same answer I would give to someone who asks, what can I do to be a faithful husband? Or what can I do to be a faithful wife? Or what can I do to parent my kids well? Or what can I do to submit to my parents well? What can I do to be part of a church family in a way that's pleasing to the Lord? What can I do in the context of a workplace to honor Christ? What can I do in the community as I just live life in this world and faithfully follow Christ? The good answer to all of those questions is sorry, I'm not sure what that is. Just in case I'll put this back. If you need to switch that. The answer to all of those questions is the same, and it happens to be the very same answer to the question: what do you need to do to follow Christ? And the answer is simply this. You need to die. You need to become adept at dying to yourself every day That's what we're going to see in our study of this passage. Follow along as I read John 12, verses 20 to 36. John writes, Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee. And asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew, and Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life If any one serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. If any one serves me, the Father will honor him Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered Others said, an angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him: We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light among you The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light. That you may become sons of light. Last week we put this passage in a theological context. That is the theological context of the glory of Christ. Let's now put this in its biblical context here in John's Gospel. John 1 through 11 records the life of Christ through the lens of seven signs that Jesus performed, which John uses to prove, make his case, and prove that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And now John 12 through 19 records moments from the final week of the life of Christ As we've seen, John 12, verses 1 to 19, record a moment on that first day of the week when Jesus is welcomed into Jerusalem by the people as the Messiah And then chapters 13 through 17 record Jesus' final hours with his disciples as he prepares them for his departure. And then chapters 18 through 19 record his arrest, his trials, and his crucifixion. And then with Chapters twenty and twenty one recording his resurrection and his final days with his disciples Our passage here, verses 12 to 36, takes place sometime between Monday and Wednesday of this final week of Christ's life And though we can't say for sure, it would seem that this may be the final public words that Jesus makes. In verse 36, I didn't read the second half of it, which in some of our Bibles is split into the next section. It says, When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. That statement that he hid himself implies more than that he went home for the night, or that he went to Bethany for the night, as he often did. But rather it seems that this was the end of his public ministry. Now, if you look down at your Bible, you see that at the end of this chapter from verses 44 to 50, John records a final appeal that Jesus makes to the people to believe in him, but those words may well have been made prior to his departure and hiding of himself. All that to say, this is in the final week of Christ's life and seems to be the final statements Jesus makes publicly for the people or to the people to call them to believe and follow Him. The Jews, as we've seen, have been waiting for their Messiah. They are desperate for the Romans to be cast out of the land. They are desperate for the promised one to come. And establish his kingdom and rule over Israel forever, reestablishing the throne of David. They want to see the dominion and the glory and the kingdom that was foretold by the prophet Daniel And since the return from exile centuries before this time, there have been a number of potential messiahs that have come along. There have been uh religious leaders and political leaders and uh civic uh rather military leaders and some who were a combination of those three And some of them had measured success in bringing the nation together to follow after a particular leader. Some of them were had measured success in restoring independence and defeating the uh those who were occupying Israel and establishing peace But all those that came before were limited in their success in terms of time and spread No one brought sustained everlasting peace, obviously. And no one brought the entire nation together under one king. And so the people are desperate. Onto this scene comes Jesus, who doesn't act or talk like a military leader or a political leader His life, his ministry is more like a religious leader, but not like any other religious leader they've ever seen He did not identify with any of the rabbinic schools that they were used to or traditions of man that had been handed down. He taught the Scripture with authority. Instead of creating a religious structure around Scripture uh religious structure around Scripture, he revealed the heart of God that was in the law. His wisdom and insight repeatedly put the Israel's l leaders to shame. The power of his teaching was so captivating that those who ultimately were sent to arrest him were themselves arrested by his teaching and couldn't bring themselves to bring him into custody. Add to that, he had divine power over the body, which he demonstrated through healing and restoration and resurrection. He had divine power over the spiritual realm, which he exercised by uh removing demons, casting out demons from those who were demonized. He had power over the material realm where he calmed storms and waves. He created food. He turned water into wine. And all of those things were not just one-off theatrics that he did on occasion for show. They were things that he did time and time again among all people, believers and skeptics alike, such that his enemies could not and did not deny. his power. And though they did not have the internet to spread the news about Jesus, because of the constant flow of Jews into Jerusalem for their various feasts throughout the year? And who would then go back throughout Israel and ultimately the diaspora, the news about Jesus spread quickly and far and wide And so after two years, Jesus was the talk of the nation at this Passover. Jerusalem was so saturated by the talk of Jesus that after the resurrection, when Jesus appeared inconspicuously to two of his disciples on the road to Emmaus, he pretended not to know anything that had been going on that week, and those disciples Responded to him, are you the only visitor in Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? It went further to say that it wasn't just the death of Jesus that everybody knew about, but the the life, the teaching, and the power of Jesus that everybody had been talking about. This popularity, this saturation of talk about Jesus is why in Mark 14 we're told that the Pharisees, the religious leaders, the elders, uh, as committed as they were to killing Jesus. They knew they couldn't do it publicly. They said to each other, not during the feast, let there lest there be an uproar from the people. So when we come to our text, we need to keep in mind that Jesus is at the peak of his ministry in terms of public interest and attention. Everybody is talking about Jesus. Now, in some ways, what Jesus says here is not new. There's no new revelation, there's no new instruction in these words by Jesus. He has repeatedly told his disciples about his coming death. And he has repeatedly talked about the cost of following him But in saying these things on the eve of his death, the significance is elevated as these are his final words to the nation. Unlike everyone else, Jesus was not ignorant of the fact that he would die on the cross in just a matter of hours or days. So if you want to know what Jesus would say if he had one last opportunity to speak to the nation, this is what he would say. He makes a final appeal. Now, we began last week by working through this passage under ten headings, ten signposts, if you will, as we walk through the progression of what Jesus says in this passage. We covered the first two last time, so we'll review those to get a running start and then spend most of our time looking at the third signpost for today. The first signpost that we saw here is the interest in glory. The interest in glory. We see that in verses twenty-one around twenty and twenty-one. It says, Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. The final appeal that Jesus ultimately makes to the people to believe in him and follow him is prompted by this interest in Greeks who want a private meeting with Jesus. These Greeks are God-fearers, which means that they are Greek-speaking Gentiles who worship the God of Israel, but who do not follow the Mosaic law. And their apparent desperation to meet with Jesus is driven most likely by the fact that they live so far away that this feast is their only opportunity to interact with Jesus They knew about him from all of the talk of the people. In limited ways they had exposure to his teaching as he taught publicly during this feast, but this would be their only chance to talk to him personally And whatever their questions were, they had the right response. They had the right response of hearing about Jesus, observing Jesus, and saying, I want to know more. I want to know more about Jesus. I want to talk to him. I want to understand Him and what he says about God. Their desire was good, but the time for them to meet with Jesus was past. Now that's not to say that Jesus had nothing to say to them. It's unclear if what Jesus says starting in verse 23 is directly to Philip and Andrew, who of course had brought their request to Jesus. Uh but based on the broader context it seems as though Jesus is speaking openly such that all of those who were around could hear what Jesus is saying. And it may be that these Greeks were watching Philip and Andrew take their request to Jesus and they were looking to see how Jesus would respond and themselves hear his response. And they would hear as Jesus spoke that he would use words like whoever And any one such that what he said was not just a message to the Jews, but a message to them as well, a message to all who had ears to hear. Now, to their disappointment, I'm sure, Jesus declined their request for a private audience because his public ministry has now come to an end. And that's what we see then in the announcement of glory in verses 22 and 23. Verse 22 says, Nat Philip went and told Andrew, and Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus, and Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Jesus announces that the time for the revelation of his glory has come He has shown glimpses of his glory through his teaching, through the displays of of power, through his uh even allowing Peter, James, and John to get a glimpse of his resplendent glory on what we call the Mount of Transfiguration. But these were just glimpses of his glory. These displays were really preparing the world for the ultimate display where the Son of Man would manifest. the perfections of God's being in a way that would radiate beams across time and space. The rays of God's glory would extend from the present to the past and the future. And from the earth they would shine down to hell and up into heaven It is to this glory of God, to this display of the glory of God, to which all humanity of all time will be held accountable before God. And it is to this display of glory that would determine whether you spend eternity in the presence of God, forever in his glory, or forever in the lake of fire. The hour has come for the cross of Christ from which the glory of God would shine. The glory of God is the visible manifestation of his being, as we said. You might remember that back in Exodus chapter 33, Moses pleaded with God as he was Engaging with God after the people had sinned against the Lord. And Moses says to the Lord, Please show me your glory. And the Lord responded, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name. Yahweh, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy, on whom I will show mercy, but you cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live. So as the narrative goes on, the next day Moses goes up to Mount Sinai to the place where the Lord directed him, and it says this in Exodus 34, 5-8. The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. Yahweh passed before him and proclaimed, Yahweh, Yahweh, a God merciful and gracious slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And it says Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshipped Moses pleaded with God to see his glory. And God presented him with the most magnificent display of glory that he could handle. In words, he revealed the splendor of who he is Well Jesus said in Matthew 5. 17, I have not come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have come to fulfill them. The word fulfill means to bring to completion, to fill out what was lacking. The self-revelation from God in Exodus 34 were were not empty words. God had been putting his glory on display all throughout as he engaged with his people, as he forgave them time and time again as he was patient with them and and and blessed them and yet also uh judged them for their idolatry But Jesus, when he came on the scene and when he went to the cross, he took each of the beams of light that God declared there in Exodus 34. And he shined them all simultaneously at the cross. Now last week we walked quickly through seventeen attributes or qualities of God that radiate from the cross. But just using those six qualities listed there in Exodus thirty-four, we can say that at the cross God demonstrated that He is the eternal Savior by being the gracious, faithful, and just God he had declared himself to be thousands of years earlier And at the cross, God demonstrated that he is the gracious Savior by giving his only son to deliver his enemies At the cross, God demonstrated that he is the faithful Savior by fulfilling his covenant promises to save and redeem and forgive his people. At the cross, he demonstrated that he is the extravagant Savior in that he doesn't just save a few, but he saves many across time. At the cross, God demonstrated that he is the forgiving Savior by sending the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of his people. And at the cross, God demonstrated that he is the just Savior by propitiating for sin. He satisfied the wrath of God through Jesus Christ, our substitute. The cross glorified Jesus by revealing who he is, that he is, in fact, the Son of God. And did you know that the first one to recognize that was a Roman soldier? The moment Jesus breathed his last, Mark 15, 39 says, and when the centurion who stood facing him saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, Truly! This man was the Son of God. He may not have understood all of the ways that Jesus proved to be the Son of God on the cross. But he had seen enough to know that this man must be the son of God The Greeks who wanted to see Jesus were no doubt disappointed that they couldn't get a private audience with him. But they would soon hear the news about Jesus' death and resurrection and ascension And they would come to understand that the reason Jesus declined their request is because he was preparing to give his life for them. And in giving his life for them, he was putting on display the glory of God so that they would know him in a way that they could not know him otherwise, even if they had met with him in person. You know, it's when you see the glory of Christ on the cross that salvation has come into your life. That's the sign that you have been saved when you see the glory of Christ. And that's why the devil does everything he can to prevent people from seeing That glory of Christ on the cross. 2 Corinthians 4, 3, and 4 says, even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Salvation takes place in the soul when God overcomes that blindness and unveils the glory of Christ on the cross That passage goes on to say, For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Jesus came to go to the cross and manifest his glory. That is the hour that has come. Now sometimes people ask, was that the only way? Was there any other way for God to accomplish his saving purposes? Was there any other way for God to reveal his his glory in saving people, other than sending Jesus to the cross? Well, on the one hand, it would seem that the humble response would be, from our vantage point, to say Well, in the infinite wisdom of God, there must have been some other way that God could have come up with. He is infinitely wise and he knows all things, and we don't know all things, and so maybe there was some other way. But to answer the question that way is not actually humility, it is in fact pride, because it denies the very question, that very question which God answered when asked. by his own beloved son. As Jesus lay prostrated in the garden moments before his arrest, he prayed, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And then a second time he prayed, My Father, if this cannot pass, unless I drink it, your will be done And the full knowledge of all that would be involved in giving up his life, Jesus asked the Father, Is there any other way? Do I really have to go through this? And the silent answer from the Father was loud and clear. There is no other way. Not only was that true for Jesus as he accomplished the Father's plan of redemption, but that is also true for us if we are to follow Christ. Just as there is no other way for Christ to manifest the glory of God than for him to die on the cross So there is no other way for us to follow Christ than for us to die. That's what we what we see next. With a third signpost, the path to glory. The path to glory. Look at verses 24 to 26. Jesus says, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him The path to his glory required death. And that is the path we must follow if we are to join him in glory. Notice how he begins here with the phrase, truly, truly, I say to you. Jesus uses this phrase to kind of hit the pause button in the flow of his speaking to effectively say what I'm about to say is of greater importance than you can imagine. So make sure that you sit up and listen Truly, truly, I say to you. And then he goes on to use an example from creation which every man, woman, and child can understand to teach the path to glory. Again, he says, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit Built into creation is this picture that self-preservation leads to death And death is the path to a flourishing life Now we understand this on its own a seed is inert in that it cannot do anything, it cannot grow, it cannot change, it can't do anything except stay in its form It is lifeless and useless, and in that state it is alone. It is unproductive. But when you put it in the ground and you water it, it dies. It dies in the sense that it no longer exists as a seed. The seed has died and it has become something altogether different. A plant that produces fruit. And that fruit produced by the plant themselves have all kinds of seeds as well. A seed that dies reproduces exponentially. And so Jesus uses this example to say from the lesser reality of a seed I point you to the greater reality that the cross is the path to glory. Before the creation of the world, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit Existed in perfect unity and harmony and love. They lacked nothing. They needed nothing. They weren't lonely. They had infinite joy sharing and enjoying together the perfections of their goodness and power. And though they needed nothing, and they needed no one they determined to share their glory and their joy and love with others who could delight in their glory, and in some measure share in their glory. How do we know that this is the case? Well, because this is the result of Jesus' work on the cross. If you turn over to chapter 17, just a few pages. You can see Jesus' prayer to this end. Look at chapter 17, verses 20 to 24. Jesus says, I do not ask for these only, meaning the specific disciples that are in the room there with him, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. So this is his prayer for all of us who have believed, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them that they may be one even as we are one, I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. And we'll unpack that when we get there in more detail. But had Jesus not died on the cross, we would all be justly condemned in hell. And in that sense, yes, Jesus would uh your God would be glorified, that we would be vessels of his wrath, putting on display his justice. But God would have no one reveling in his love and in his grace and forgiveness and mercy and patience and kindness No one would be able to see the fullness of his glory. No one would be sharing in his love. No one would be dwelling with God in joy and unity forever. It's only because of the cross, where the glory of God shine most brightly, that there are vessels of mercy and recipients of grace, that there are forgiven saints and citizens of heaven and ultimately children of God. Because Jesus gave his life to ransom sinners, and because the Father accepted the sacrifice of his son. The kingdom of God exploded from just God and his angels to include myriads upon myriads of redeemed and glorified bearers of his image. Death is the necessary path to glory because death is the wages of sin. And if anyone is to live forever with God, there must be The death of a divine man who can serve as a legitimate and sufficient substitute. And once his death is applied to you, a sinner, You are forgiven of your sin. You're clothed in the righteousness of Christ. You're united to Him and one day with a glorified body and soul. You will be utterly free from the curse of sin, such that we will be in the fullest experience of the image of God as any created being can be. And in that way, we will share in the glory and unity with God In the words of Ephesians 5. 27, there will be a day when the curse of sin and all of its consequences will be no more, and the bride of Christ will stand before him in splendor without any spot or wrinkle or any such thing, we will be holy and without blemish. And having been glorified, we will be glorious because we will reflect the glory of God in Jesus Christ. It is only the cross that can produce such glory. This was the path of glory for Jesus, and it's also the path of glory. for us. Look again at verse twenty five. Whoever loves his life loses it. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. What is true of the seed and what was true for Jesus is universally true for all people. The path to life is through death. Now, if you're familiar with the teaching of Jesus, you know that this itself, what he says here, is nothing new. He taught in Matthew chapter 10 Whoever does not take up his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it There was another occasion when Jesus told his disciples about his coming death that he would be to betrayed, crucified, and rise again And then Jesus says in Luke chapter nine, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me, for whoever would save his life will lose it. And whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed when he comes in his glory, and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels Notice there in Luke that Jesus uses the word daily. Let him deny himself and take up his cross daily Taking up your cross, dying to yourself to follow Christ is not a one-time experience. It is a daily repeated activity. The path to glory here is through dying to self. Now let's consider exactly what Jesus says here in verse 25. Notice that he says, whoever loves his life, whoever loves his life, loses it. Whoever loves his life. I wouldn't be surprised if there's someone who's thinking, Love? My life I'm off the hook. I don't love my life at all. I don't love anything about my life. I I would much rather have somebody else's life Well, that's not what Jesus means. The reality is if you feel that way, you love your life just as much as somebody who has the kind of life you think would be loved. To love your life means to think that you know what a good life should be, and to think that you deserve that kind of life. In fact, you might even have the right to that kind of life. You might have the life that you want and enjoy it, or you might not have the life that you want, and so you envy others who have a different life Either way, you are the one who is defining what life should be, and you are striving for it with varying measure of success or failure. And here's Jesus' point. If you strive after your own definition of the good life, to whatever degree you achieve it, it will come crashing down sooner or later. And for sure, at death. If you love money, you will lose it. If you love health Your body will break down. If you love possessions, they will rust and break and disappoint. If you love your career, you will get to the place where you won't be able to work anymore If you love your relationships, whether your spouse or your children or your friends, at some point or another, for one reason or another, you will lose them all. Everything that pertains to this world and this life will come to an end at death No matter what you love about your life now or what you want your life to be, if that is what defines real life to you you will lose it one way or another sooner or later. And sooner more than later you will realize that your idea of what the good life is will not satisfy you. Jesus says, whoever loves his life loses it. And then he says, whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. When you see this language of love and hate used in this way to contrast with one another, don't take hate as meaning hostility, but rather as preferring over in a strong way. For example, when the Lord said, I have loved Jacob, but Esau I hated, he means he chooses Jacob above Esau. He set his love on Jacob and disregarded Esau. Or when Jesus says in Luke chapter 14, verse 26, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his father And mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters. Yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. He means That you must choose to love Jesus more than every other relationship in your life and always choose Him, no matter what, above them. Choosing Christ above all is to choose to love him no matter what, even if it means losing those relationships which can be perceived as hating them. So here, Jesus means that rather than choosing your own definition of life and striving after what you think will make you happy, Hating your life means loving Christ and embracing his plan for your life, even if it means hardship or suffering or loss. But here's the beauty of this reality. What you find on the other side of hating your life is real life. Eternal life and ultimately everlasting life. The phrase here, we'll keep it for eternal life, has the idea of reserving it for the experience of eternal life, which you remember in John 17. 3, Jesus defines as knowing God now and forever. In other words, we exchange a life of disappointment and disfac dissatisfaction and death for a life of transcendent joy and satisfaction and peace with God and everlasting glory When you love your life in such a way that you live for yourself You will find yourself living in opposition to God. And therefore you will be cut off from the life of God But if you hate your life such that you give up your self-rule and submit to God's design and authority, you will be reconciled to the source of life. And you will find that his life generates the greatest joy and peace and satisfaction because You were made to live by him and for him, and only in him is true and everlasting life. Daily dying to self is uh dying to self and living for Christ rather leads to a life of power. Daily dying to self and living for Christ leads to a life of power. This is the life that Paul describes in Philippians chapter 3. Verses three eight to ten when he says, Indeed I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ, my uh Christ Jesus my Lord For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ And be found in him not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ The righteousness from God that depends on faith. Listen to this: that in order that I may know Him and the power of His resurrection and may share in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. Dying to self, which Paul describes there as counting all things as loss, Causes us to know Christ and experience the power of the resurrection. Now, what is this power of resurrection? It is simply this divine power that flows to us that enables us to live for God in this life It's divine power that flows to us, enabling us to live for God in this life. Resurrection power is what enables us to deny the flesh and walk by the Spirit in obedience to God. Resurrection power is what gives us joy and peace that surpasses understanding. Resurrection power is what enables us to love our enemies. It's what empowers us to forgive those who sin against us. It's what motivates us to give up our comforts for the sake of spreading the gospel of Christ. Friends, if you struggle to live as God, as you know God would have you to live, if you struggle to love as God would have you love, If you struggle to be pure as God would have you be pure, to serve as God would have you serve, to be content and humble, to be forgiving. If those things are a struggle for you, it is because in some way you are trying to hold on to your own life But if you would die to yourself, you would find the freedom and power to live for Christ. The power of the resurrection is the life that God gives us when we let go of our designs for our life and embrace His design for our life. When we let go of our preferences, our hopes, our expectations, our standards, our comforts. And we orient our hearts around God's ways and His will, His strength will be made perfect in our weakness And only then will our souls flourish, and we will bear much fruit for God's kingdom. This is what it means to hate your life and keep it for eternal life. Notice then verse 26. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. The principle Jesus teaches in verse 25 of hating your life to keep it for eternal life is not optional. His life and his death did not set an example of one way to live. No, there is only one path to glory, and it was paved by Jesus Any other path is the way of destruction. You cannot say you serve Jesus and love your life and pave your own way. Those who say they love Jesus, but they don't really like Christianity. Those who say they are spiritual but not religious Those who say that they accept some of the teachings of Jesus, but not everything. Those who say they believe in God, but they draw from multiple religions. All of those kinds of paths where people mark out their own way, it are the paths that lead to hell. The only way to live. Is to follow Jesus. And the only way to follow Jesus is to take up your cross daily. There is no other way. But again, the good news is that when you follow that path and you die to yourself, you are promised not just eternal life, knowing him now, but everlasting life, knowing him forever. Notice how he says here, and where I am, there will my servant be also Before Jesus ascended into heaven, he said, I will be with you always, even to the end of the age That is a promise of his perpetual personal presence And we experience the fulfillment of that promise by virtue of the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Jesus, who dwells in us who believe And Jesus, over the next few chapters here, will spend the next few chapters comforting the disciples in preparation for his departure. Their greatest sorrow is that he will no longer be with them. But Jesus comforts them with the reality that their greatest joy is that his personal presence will be with them through the Holy Spirit In that sense, Jesus can say, My servant will be with me wherever I am. But more than that Jesus will say in chapter fourteen verses two and three in my father's house there are many rooms if it were not so I wouldn't I would have Uh would I have told you that I go to a prepare a place for you? If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am you may be also Jesus promises that we will be with him forever wherever he is. At death, we will go to be with him in heaven, right? To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And when Jesus leaves heaven to return to earth and establish his kingdom, We will be with him. Revelation 20, verse 6 says, Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. So we'll be with Christ in heaven when we die, and then when he leaves heaven, we will go with him to return to earth, to reign with him for a thousand years And then when Jesus brings an end to all wickedness and evil, and he brings all into judgment, and this universe is destroyed, and he creates a new earth and a new heaven, we will be with him even then Revelation 22 says, No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. That's us. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more. They will need no light or of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. For the one who believes and knows Jesus, there is no greater promise Than that we will be with him now and forever and ever Beloved, I know that we fear dying. This is true for all of us. We fear dying to ourselves because we fear the loss that comes to us. But in truth, death to self leads to life with Christ now and forever. Well to conclude this section, Jesus says, if anyone serves me the Father will honor him. This is really a summary statement that serving Christ doesn't lead to loss. It doesn't ultimately end in death. It is always rewarded by the Father. Just as Jesus' death was rewarded by the Father with exaltation, so our service to Christ, which requires our death to self, is rewarded with glory and honor. You may rem remember the parable of the talent in Matthew 25 when Jesus speaks of the end, the judgment at the end of time. And the master in that parable says to those who were faithful. Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over over a little, and I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master That parable communicates that when we die to ourselves and we live for Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit, God honors us With his grace of blessing and rewards and joy with him. And God does not honor based on numbers or size or impact He honors us based on faithfulness. So whatever the Lord has put in your life to serve him Serve him faithfully, and he will reward you. At the end of his last letter, just weeks, maybe months before he died, Paul wrote this in 2 Timothy 4. 8 Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing. The path of glory is to die to yourself and serve the Lord out of love for Christ. Death is the only path to life, and we do it because he first died for us. And so out of love. We joyfully die to him, for him. So do you want to live freely? Do you want to experience the divine power to live and serve and love? Do you want the power to resist temptation? Not begrudgingly, but joyfully Do you want to be free from the anger and bitterness and envy that consumes your soul There's only one thing you need to do. You need to die. You know, there's a familiar trope that's used in some stories in our culture where a person Either fakes their death or they miraculously survive some peril and everybody thinks they are dead. And they come to this realization Everybody thinks I'm dead. I can go anywhere I want to go. I can do anything I want to do. I can be anybody I want to be There is this freedom, this sense of new life, invigoration, a reset on life, if you will Well, that's what happens when we believe in Christ. The old has gone away. We are now new creatures. We can consider ourselves dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus But we have to consider ourselves dead so that we can live for Christ. Let us follow our Lord Jesus Christ on the path to glory. Let's pray. Jesus, we thank you for your example that you don't call us to this, not having died yourself. You set the example. You pave the path. And you simply call us to follow you. And so we can look at you. We can see you exalted in glory, sitting at the Father's right hand. We can see you magnified and praised. And we can be confident that when we die to ourselves, we will be with you. Lord help us. You know our weaknesses. You know our tendencies to hold on to our sense of life and what we think is good. Help us to think rightly and to see the things of this world in the reality of what they are, temporary, passing, unsatisfying And empower us to die for the sake of living for you, that you might receive all the glory and all the praise. For your sake we pray. Amen.