Jesus was born in Bethlehem, right? Wrapped in swaddling clothes, laid in a manger. Picture the nativity scene surrounding them. There is the Virgin Mary and Joseph, the cows and sheep, a few of the uh gazing shepherds. Later, the wise men would arrive from the east, following the starlight from above, to worship the Savior King. You may think you know the Christmas story pretty well. It's even sung in Walmart these days, you know It's been told and retold for centuries. Every nativity scene has it. Yet the story of Christmas begins much earlier in human history. Yes, much earlier If you could draw the whole story out on a giant mural, you'd find that the nativity scene is really just the focal point or center. There's quite a bit that happened before and quite a bit that happens afterwards as well. We need to widen our vision out a little bit and contemplate the whole story, the continuous story. What happened leading up to the Christ child and why that? What has happened following the Christ child and how does that affect us? The angel proclaimed to the shepherds in Luke, today in the city of David there's been born for you a Savior who is Christ the Lord. There's some history to that. This is not a quaint religious sentiment for greeting cards alone, but a far-reaching reality, vast in meaning. I wonder if we are aware how vast in meaning. I don't think a lot of people really get the bigger picture. But those who do will find their faith enriched. They'll find their faith enlarged. This Christmas we're going to venture backwards. I mean way back, before Bethlehem, to the book of Genesis, to a time when only two humans lived on this planet. In the Garden of Eden, not Bethlehem, they were given a rudimentary and basic promise that actually leads to Christmas. The text I'm talking about is Genesis 3, verses 14 and 15. Why don't you open to that? It's not too hard to find Genesis. It's the first book of the Bible Makes it easy. Chapter 3 is very early on. It's 50 chapters in that book. We'll just read verses 14 and 15. I'll talk a little bit about what surrounds it as well. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life. And I will put enity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head. And you shall bruise him on the heel. I know some of you may react to these two verses by thinking something like, You're kidding, this is Christmas Sunday. And you're talking about an old myth with an ancient snake and some primeval woman, and you're gonna tie that into Christmas? Now I'm not going to tie it into Christmas. It's a verse that's been tied into Christmas actually for a very, very long time. In fact, before there was ever anything called a Christmas, this was the announcement of what would become Christmas There's much more here to the thoughtful observer. Leopold writes this. He says, Some interpreters see in the word before us nothing more than that in the war between men and serpents, the former will crush the head of the foe, while the latter can only wound the heel. Such a trite platitude would not have been worthy of recording. It stands about on the level of the astute observation that a man will slap at the mosquito that bites him. Such commonplace self-reactions are not worthy of Scriptures. He is right. Rather than a mere etiological myth explaining the source of hostility between women and snakes, this scripture is foundational to all the rest of Scripture in meaning It's so foundational, Bible scholars have labeled it, calling it the proto-evangelium, the first proclamation of the evangel, the good news, the gospel By God to the human race. That is a proclamation, yes, even a promise, which would tell the entire human race what would happen. Now that man, and you may have picked up on this already, had sinned and was about to be expelled from the Garden of Eden They had violated God's commandment. They had sinned and there were consequences for that. They had fallen out of favor with God. There was strife and enmity between the male and the female already. There was deception that had entered in and division. There was going to be death and disease and destruction and natural disasters. What was going to happen to man? Now, they didn't know We know because of all the things we get to read now. But from their perspective, they needed hope. And thus this little promise unveiled the very meaning of human history. That's quite a statement, isn't it? Now you won't get told that in your school history class. But God loves you too much not to tell you the meaning of human history. He wants you believing. He wants to lay it all out for you, and that's why He's told you right here If you were reading your Bible from the beginning, you'd begin where? You'd begin in Genesis 1, correct? And you would read that God created the heavens and the earth in six days, and that he did it merely by speaking, and everything that exists came into existence out of nothing. That whatever processes God used to bring the entire universe into play, he's not using those processes today, and science can't study them. Science knows nothing of those processes. The idea that the present is the key to the past is a philosophical mistake. It's not science at all. It's an assumption. The key to the past is what God says that we have before us. God made everything. God made man and the woman, put them in a garden, gave them a commandment, gave them paradise, showed his generosity to them. Even provided for each other intimacy and marriage, but they blew it. They sinned. They listened to the tempter. All of that starts to come about in the very next chapter in Genesis 3. And it's all to be taken as history. It's all to be taken as literal history. That's how it was written. Do you know that even Jesus himself believed in a literal Adam and Eve at the beginning of time? In Genesis 3, these two disobeyed God's command. And we read about all the disease that follows: the death, the disaster to the planet. What a horrendous fall. All of that is laid out in Genesis 3. Genesis 3 is a crucial passage There is judgment that is pronounced in Genesis 3. In verses 14 and 15 that we read, the judgment is first pronounced on who? Who gets it first? The serpent, right? Boom! Took him out in the first blow. And then it's because he did the tempting to Eve. He's the one who lured man into sin. And so God starts with the serpent. Everything else that you would read in your Bible if you're reading it in order would flow then from verse 15 of chapter 3. Everything When you go on to read about Cain and Abel, it's because of chapter 3 and verses 14 and 15. When you read about Noah and the flood, it's there also. And you go on and you read about the call of Abraham in chapter twelve of Genesis, and you keep moving forward and you read about his children, and you go into the law of Moses in Exodus and the nation of Israel That's born, the prophets of old, the Psalms, all of that, even Jesus and the apostles and the New Testament church flow out of this one verse here in verse 15. That's why Martin Luther wrote, This text embraces and comprehends within itself everything noble and glorious that is to be found anywhere in Scriptures. Wow, that's quite a statement. Until the details of God's plan for the ages would emerge later in prophecy, this declaration here told early man, albeit in a little nutshell The entire gospel of Jesus, including, yes, his birth. The expositor's commentary says: more is at stake in this brief passage than the reader is at first aware. A program is set forth. A plot is established that will take the author far beyond this or that snake and his seed. Another commentator writes that this promise establishes the trajectory of salvation history. So it may look like just a tiny little verse, a tiny little nut But you know what happens to little acorns in time they grow into what? Mighty oaks, right? That's the point. Expand your horizons here a little bit and think about the big picture of Christmas. Believing in Christmas is not about a cute little infant and mommy. It's not about that alone, but an ancient promise that was delivered to mankind right after they fell that would let them know what was coming up in human history and how it would all lead to one person One child, one hero of humanity Now, there are two basic truths that we learn about this Savior hero here. The first is that he will come because of God's judgment. This Savior has to come because of God's judgment. That's the first thing we learn And the second is that when he comes, he comes to win. He comes to triumph over evil. That's pretty simple, right? He had to come because of God's judgment, and when he comes, he will triumph over evil. Let's look at this Look at verse fourteen and focus on that for a minute. Field on your belly, you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life. So if you go back a little further in verse 1, the tempter came into the garden and he tempted, and man disobeyed God, as you see, starting with a woman and going out to Adam. The woman being deceived. And now God makes the pronouncement of judgment on this serpent who is the instrument of leading man into sin. And goes on in the following verses to pronounce judgment on mankind. We're not going to get into that pronouncement, but there's a pronouncement also upon the woman and the man and his work, and even death is pronounced on the human race. I know that some people are angry at God for all of the evil in the world, the destruction and the despair and disease and death. And division. But God already told the human race long ago that man deserves it. We get what we deserve. We are the posterity of Adam and Eve. We can't cut ourselves and our lives off from them and act as if we had nothing to do with that. We are part of Adam's race. The God who made everything and rules over all and gave everything wonderfully to man is good and he's just and he's right. The problem isn't God, the problem is us. The only reason people object is they hate being judged. But this is God's righteous judgment. It falls where it should. Now please notice that this judgment is said to the serpent. God is talking to the serpent. Did you catch that? But since a serpent is an animal and a serpent can't really understand, then you have the first hint that there's something going on more here than just God talking to a snake. It is also said I believe for the sake of Adam and Eve, and for the sake of their children, even us One of the ways that you can tell this is true history and is not some fable is that the words fit the very way that God would have had to have spoken to a recently created man and woman who knew absolutely nothing of human history These images they would understand. A seed, they saw that in plants, the serpent and the cattle, they got that. The head and the heel, they understood that. After all, a literal serpent of some kind had come into the garden and had spoken to the woman without the woman realizing that serpents don't talk. So, what did God say to the serpent? Because you've done this, cursed are you? The serpent gets it first. Why? Because he's the instigator of the temptation. You may have noticed earlier in the chapter that when God asked Adam and Eve what they had done, give an explanation, he let them give the explanation. When he talked to the serpent, he never gave the serpent any opportunity to explain anything. Just boom, he got it. Why not? Why didn't he get to explain something? Well future revelation confirms that this serpent was not just the animal. If you go to the very last book of the Bible, Revelation, and to chapter twelve and verse nine, it kind of makes clear who this serpent was. Future Revelation always shines light on earlier Revelation, and it says this The great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old, who is called the devil and Satan Who deceives the whole world, he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him Satan, who is a spirit being, mighty in power, with many fallen angels to do his bidding, decided that he wanted to mess up God's plan and enswell this crafty kind of an animal. Get into the physical body Get into this reptile and come and lure Eve into sin. And when God pronounced judgment, at that time, maybe even a little before that, Eve had figured it out. That this serpent was no friend at all, no wise counselor to follow. She should have listened to God and not the serpent, and she now knows that. Notice too that the serpent is directly cursed. Do you see that? Do you know that never are Adam and Eve directly cursed? They were punished, but they were not cursed. But this serpent was directly cursed. What is a curse? Well, a curse is the opposite of a blessing. A blessing are words that states something wonderful and good that would land on the person being blessed. God blessed He blessed male and female, and he sent to them to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. God blessed Abraham and said, I will make you a blessing to the nations, and I'll bless those who bless you. I'll curse those who curse you. So blessings and cursings are opposites. A curse is what? It's words spoken to invoke harm and pain and shame and some evil upon people. Men say curse words We say curse words, but we don't have the power to carry out the curse. You know, rum rum, rum, rum, rum, but whatever we say that's wrong, we don't have the power to do that, right? But God can. When God pronounces a curse, it's not because he's lost his temper. It's not because he has a foul mouth. It's because he is a righteous judge, and what he has cursed will be hurt. He's all powerful. This serpent was doomed. From this point, this serpent was doomed By the way, the serpent went from being crafty in Hebrew, that's Arum in verse 1, to cursed arar in verse 14. Little play on words for this guy. Arum to arar, he's gone. Notice how bad it is. Cursed are you more than the cattle and more than every beast of the field. By the way, that didn't mean that God hates cattle and that they also got some kind of a curse on them. All the world was under a curse Because of the because of Adam's sin. All of it was under death. There was even a curse on the ground. The point is that the serpent's curse is worse than what everyone else is going to get. The serpent is going to be assigned the lowest place How low can you go? He's gonna go the lowest. Even mice and rats have legs. Even a sloth gets legs. Please notice the two consequences of the curse on the serpent. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life Some people have wondered and conjectured if this curse actually changed the very structure and arrangement of this reptile so that once it walked upright and now it slithered on its belly. Everybody knows now that the way a snake is designed is for the ground, all of its movements and eating and structure are designed for its life like that. So if there was some early creature that had been on four legs or two legs prior to this, the change would have to be supernatural and it would have to be quite Altering and dramatic. The language seems to indicate that this serpent was given a change in locomotion. Dr. Merrill Unger writes this. From what was apparently the most beautiful, upright, highly intelligent creature among the denic animals, the serpent was degraded into a loathsome, crawling reptile. Becoming a graphic warning in nature of the effects of sin. In other words, every time mankind sees the snake, they're to remember the fall and don't listen to the serpent. They're to remember that. It's a picture lesson all throughout history, a constant visual reminder. Don't listen. It leads to judgment. Just look at the snake crawling on its belly, eating dust. Now we know snakes don't actually eat dust, but they find what's on the ground, and that's usually covered with dirt and dust. What it really means is that this serpent was totally defeated. Abject humility, lowest of the low And the curse was permanent all his days. See here 2014. Snakes are still crawling The judgment continues. John Calvin wrote of the serpent. It had before been so gentle that the woman did not flee from its familiar approach. Now When the sight of a serpent inspires us with horror, the memory of our fall is renewed. That's what it's all about. Remember the fall of man into sin. There it is. In the serpent that slips up there in your back. I remember once I was in my old house, you know, and uh every once in a while a neighbor who loved gardening, this lady over there, just let out a screech, you know, just bah I knew she'd spotted a snake out there. So all this Ivy was covering the ground and uh once in a while that fella would come over to to our yard as well, kind of come up on the deck and uh And um, you know, it kinda kinda makes you think when all of a sudden you see a snake, doesn't it? To alert us, you're like, wow. And here's a theological meaning to it. Pretty interesting. Henry Morris calls the snake a secondary pictorial parallel to what God is really doing with Satan behind the scenes. By the way, some people get all sympathetic toward the snake when they read this story, you know. I don't know what's up with that. They say, oh, he's just an animal. Talk to Henry Morris again. Lest anyone complain that God's injustice, since the serpent as an animal is not to blame for Satan's corrupt possession of its body, he should remember that the potter hath power over the clay. Enough said? Romans chapter 8 and verse 20 makes it clear that the entire planet, including the animal kingdom, suffers because of mankind's sin. Even the pigs suffered because Christ cast out demons and they entered into the swine, rushed headlong down the hill and drowned. Remember? Man who rules over the animals when he sinned, the animals suffer. John Chrysostom in church history explained this this way. God destroys the instrument that brought his creature to fall. And so even the literal snake serpent was hurt. Now notice how God moves into human history next in verse fifteen. I will put enmity between you and the woman. Again. It is God who's doing it, God's judgment. God is the one who puts the enmity. Enmity means hostility. Enemies fight. Enemies are at odds with each other. They don't like each other. Enmity in Hebrew is ebbah. It's derived from the verb to hate or to treat as an enemy. This is the second hint that God is not speaking about the serpent primarily, since enmity is a word that speaks of moral creatures at odds with one another, like men. or angels. Animals surely fight viciously for survival, but they don't carry grudges. They don't have hatred the way humans do. Here the hostility is stated as between the snake and the woman, and then also between your seed and her seed. What is that all about? Sure, women hate snakes, right? If I were to ask how many of you women would want a snake as a pet, I doubt too many. And sure, snakes bite. We know about that. But women hate spiders too, usually, right? Creepy, crawly things. I dare dare say that uh some would scream uh if a snake came in here today or at home. But this pronouncement is meant to extend beyond just that scene and beyond just Eve's lifetime, beyond the snake as well. to the seed. The seed in Hebrew is the is the word zera. And it's used to mean a number of things in Hebrew. It can mean a literal seed. It can mean a figurative seed. It can even mean a collective seed, a posterity. Now again, it would be trivial if all it was referred to here were future snakes that were unhatched. Why do that? It would do absolutely no good to the human race at this juncture for God to rail against the serpent and its babies. How would that help mankind in any way? Mankind who's facing death and hopelessness and loss of paradise to live in and doesn't know the future at all. What a horrible future they faced there, in shame as they stood before their Creator, wondering what's going to happen. We were told we would die. This was a critical moment for the future of mankind on earth. Talking only about snakes doesn't fit the context. No, rather, it is against the evil Satan himself, the adversary, the devil, the slanderer, which indwelt that animal and spoke out of it The pulpit commentary writes, Here the curse manifestly outgrows the literal serpent and refers almost exclusively to the invisible tempter. MacArthur Bible commentary says, after cursing the physical serpent, God turned to the spiritual serpent, the lying seducer, Satan, and cursed him. Oh, God's main anger is not against the animal, please, but against the devil. And so the seed means more than the snakes. Your seed in both cases is plural in Hebrew, the snake of the children uh I'm sorry, the children of the snake and the children of the woman, all of that is plural. And of course the literal seed are included in that in a lesser sense, but it extends in meaning to the conflict that would happen between these seeds, those who would end up being followers of Satan himself, and those who would be born of a woman and believe this very promise here and thus be children of God In other words, the conflict will continue between the people of God as the seed is spread in the earth and the people of Satan who align themselves with Satan's purposes. Jesus knew very well that those who did not believe in God were of the devil. He said in John 8:44 to some of the Jews who resisted the truth, You are of your Father the devil. You see, the seed of the devil. You want to do the desires of your father, he told them. In Acts 13, 10, Paul said to a false prophet, you who are full of all deceit and fraud, you son of the devil. The devil seed. Cain killed his brother Abel. Why did he do that? You say he was jealous. Yes, but why did he do that? First John three twelve, Cain was of the evil one and smoot his brother. Cain was of the evil one and slew his brother The seed of the serpent would be those humans who took on the belief and meaning and life of the devil, living his way, not God's, thinking his thoughts, not Scripture. And there would be ongoing conflict between the people of God and the people of Satan. And there has been throughout all of history, even to today, some of you have faced it. And that explains an awful lot of human history. That also presents a very bleak and ongoing struggle: judgment from God, curse from God. Ah, but it is Christmas, beloved. And we said that the hero child came because of judgment, but secondly, the hero child comes to triumph over evil. Look at the last part of verse 15. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. Beloved here is where we have good news. That line is a wonderful statement, if you understand. God would send a deliverer to smash the serpent God promised the human race before even started having babies, so they would have it from the beginning. So they would have this promise from the very beginning. A deliverer is coming. Yes, Eve and her husband made a mess out of things. They messed up paradise. They would not be the solution to the problems they caused. You know, people try to fit a little religion in their life, and with a religion try to make things good with God. They couldn't solve it. They couldn't fix this. They couldn't get themselves out of judgment. If it weren't for God doing something, they'd all be doomed. We all would be doomed. God would have to fix it. And God would fix it. From the first day of sin by man came immediately a ray of hope from God. The outcome of this conflict was never in doubt. You know, you watch Star Wars and you wonder who's going to win, you know, evil or good. There's never, never that question with God. Never. Good was always destined to defeat evil, always. And it is amazing that the very first Annunciation of the gospel, long before Gabriel told it to young Mary, was cradled, if I could put it that way, in a warning about conflict and judgment. Indeed, the gospel made its debut in the form of a judgment pronouncement against the devil. By publishing the gospel, God was declaring war against the devil. Not just war, victory. Satan would always oppose mankind. He would always oppose whatever God would try to do to save mankind. But the human race, whom Satan lured into sin with him, would not be destroyed. It would be saved. Satan would fail miserably in his attempt to ruin God's work. Notice all of a sudden that the plural seed of the previous statement is now referred to in the singular in the last part of verse 15. And not as an it if you have the King James Version, not an it, but a he. If you have the NASB or the NIV or the ESV, they have it right. He shall bruise you on the head. It is a singular, masculine gender. And the U is speaking of Satan through the serpent. This other he then stands in contrast to him, to Satan. Now you would think if God were keeping the parallels that uh the seeds are going to be in conflict and so then the plural seeds would crush the uh the plural seeds. But that's not what happens. This points to one seed, a he, crushing not the seed of the serpent, but the serpent himself. He gets it in the head. The one doing the crushing is singular, and he is the seed of the woman. So this refers to one seed of Eve. Who would represent all of mankind and smash not the seed of the serpent, but the serpent himself By the way, the Latin Vulgate wrongly translated this as she, ipta. She shall crush him, you. And so over time the Roman Church came to believe that Mary would deliver the crushing blow. But Mary was not the Savior. Mary was the mother of the Savior. And Mary was not the seed of whom God spoke. The Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, has it correctly as autos, masculine, he, the hero, would be a man-child. And he would deliver the fatal blow against the serpent. Yet, how significant it is that God passed over the seed of the van. Did you see that? Not Adam's seed. No. What's fascinating is that ancient Near East countries defined their family line by the male, not the female But here it is the female, her seed, her boy. Her seed, that does not teach the virgin birth explicitly, but it leaves a little crack open to understand that that is eventually what is being talked about. How do you get her seed and not His and her seed. Or some statement like that. Later Revelation will piggyback on this prophecy and fill in some of the details that they did not get back then and couldn't Because they couldn't understand it. Matthew 1 23, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. Don't let anyone ever say the virgin birth is a small and minor doctrine. The point is that Eve's seed carried the fate of man's future. Wow. The woman's seed, not the man's seed, would bring deliverance to mankind through a boy. when we call the Messiah. And since the sin nature is passed on through the man, that is through Adam, Romans 5 teaches us that This seed of the woman would be uncorrupted by Adam's sin, a pure and holy child. Indeed, that's exactly what was told Mary. Your child will be holy. The conflict and the seeds, victory, is described right there in the bruising of the head and the bruising of the heel. Bruise in Hebrew is an interesting word. It's a little hard to translate. It's shoof and it means And sometimes it means to lie in wait, and other times it means to strike out suddenly or to smite it. So it kind of carries that be laying in wait and all of a sudden the way a serpent would just launch out and grab what's at his level, the heel, and just bite onto it and strike and bruise the heel. That's what's pictured on the basic physical le uh level, the slithering snake coming up behind the human and all of a sudden the human is bit. and is amazed and he turns around with his club and smashes the head of the serpent. That's at the human physical level. The head, of course, contains the creature's life. Snakes invariably and instinctively recoil quickly to preserve their head from any trouble at all. But this guy is going to get that head. Now this is how Eve would have pictured it. This is how Eve would have understood it. But more is going to happen than Eve could possibly know at this point in time. She and Adam knew nothing of future things: crucifixion, resurrection. What are those? Words? Redemption? What's that? They just knew of a conquering seed that would get them out of the predicament. Who was this hero child? Well, the prophecy about Eve's seed is vague here, is it not? You have no way of knowing who this seed will be coming out of this. It's vague. It's vague enough for her to know someone is coming But not know who, when, what circumstances, which one. By the way, not only did Eve and Adam not know that, but there's someone else who wouldn't know who that Savior child would be. The serpent. The serpent wouldn't know either. He'd be kept in the dark. I like Leopold's quote here. He says, By leaving open the question of by what woman the Savior was to be born, God mocks the tempter. Always leaving him in uncertainty. Which one would ultimately overthrow him? So that the devil had to live in constant and continual dread of every woman's son that was born. It appears that even Eve thought in chapter 4, verse 1, that her firstborn son was the deliverer. For she says when she gives birth to Cain, I have gotten a man-child from the Lord. She got the understanding of the prophecy correct. Her seed would be a boy, and that boy would deliver mankind, but she got the wrong seed. And the way Cain turned out, she pretty soon figured that out, is going to be another seed. And he's going to come a long, long time after that one. Way beyond her lifetime, even though that was long. Prophecy became more narrow and more definitive as time went on. God told the story in little bits and pieces through the centuries. The line of this child hero would be traced Through Eve's son Seth, Abel was killed, and then through Shem, son of Noah, and then to Abraham, then to the tribe of Judah in Israel, finally down to the house and the family of David. Born in Bethlehem, David's hometown. Thus the scripture defines this hero child For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, eternal father, prince of peace There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. This hero child would come into the world through the painful delivery process that would be described to Eve in verse 16. But he would be a mighty victor. He would be the hero boy. We find out later he would sit on the throne of David. He would rule forever. He is indeed God with us. The whole New Testament tells us, and specifically Galatians chapter 4 tells us that the seed of the woman was Jesus Christ. Verse four of Galatians four, When the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son born of a woman. History waited for Christ. History predicted Christ. History foreshadowed Christ. And then the decisive Christ event took place. In the fullness of time, God sent forth the Savior, the hero child, and he had to be born of a woman The strike to the heel of Eve's seed would be troublesome. It would be painful, but it would not be decisive. The devil would put Christ on the cross, so to say, strike out against him, bring all of his anger and cruelty when he was nailed to the cross and seemingly done away with. But Jesus would not stop there. To him that would be a blow to the heel. He would rise victorious, and he would turn and crush the head of the serpent. Wounds would be struck on both sides, sure, but only one would come out of the battle victorious. 1 John 3. 8 says, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came into this world to destroy the works of the devil. And this is why Satan, I think, finally figuring out who it was inspired King Herod to go with his soldiers to Bethlehem and slaughter every single baby boy, two years old and younger. to kill that hero child that he had been waiting for millennia to find and to gobble up and destroy. Satan had waited and waited and did what research he could do from behind the scenes And then the wise men came and he trailed it and figured it out. Ah, it's there. I will bring out my vengeance there. I'll eliminate that hero boy. You say, does Satan have that kind of audacity? Well, if the scripture in Isaiah is speaking of him, he certainly does, for he said, I will be like the Most High. In Hebrews 2. 14 it says Jesus himself took on a human body so that through death he might render powerless him who had the power of death, that is the devil. By Jesus' death on our behalf, by his resurrection, Jesus paid the penalty for sin. That is death, and he rose from the dead to defeat the devil. All of this was in the works from the beginning, to defeat the devil. Eliminate the power of death over the human race. That's why it says in Isaiah, seven hundred years before Christ came. He was pierced through for what? Our transgressions, right? He was crushed for our iniquities. By his death we live, by his resurrection we conquer. Jesus struck The devil with the smashing blow and destroyed his head. He destroyed him and destroyed his work. Charles Wesley wrote the familiar Carol Hark the Herald Angels sing. We sung it. One of the verses that's included that's not sung as much is from Genesis 3. 15. Come, desire of nations, come, fix in us thy humble home, rise the woman's conquering seed, bruise in us the serpent's head Hark the herald angels sing glory to the newborn King. We sing, God rescue merry gentlemen, let nothing you dismay. Remember, Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day. To save us all from what? Satan's power when we had got astray. Oh, tidings of comfort and joy. You know, the final capture and destruction of Satan is guaranteed by the resurrection of Jesus, but the time of it is still future. First, the book of Revelation tells us that Satan will be captured and he will be cast into a pit and he'll be locked in there and shut there when Jesus comes back in his full glory to reign over all the nations, as Psalm 2 predicts. Then Satan will be released for one last brief rebellion. And then he will be gathered up and thrown into the everlasting fire called the lake of fire in Revelation 20:10. A lake of fire that was prepared in the beginning for the devil and all of his angels. Beloved, that is the serpent's doom. That is where Satan goes. That's where rebellion against God goes. Where do you and I fit into this mural, into this picture of all the meaning of history? Well, if you believe in Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior, Then you conquer along with Christ, you win out over evil, you will share in that victory that was promised to the human race. Believers are even promised in Romans 16 and verse 20, the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. Illustrating or looking back to this very image from Genesis 3. 15. Believers in Jesus participate in the victory of Jesus over the devil. We participate in that. Unfortunately, many people today follow the devil still, do they not? They don't know they do. These are intelligent people, well educated, but they think the way the devil thinks. I will think for myself. I will do as I want to do. I will be independent of what God says. I will not listen. That independence is not to be commended. It is the very essence of rebellion. When someone is in rebellion, they are independent from authority, right? That's Satan. I will do. Here's my agenda. That's what he talked Eve into. Go ahead and eat. You're not going to die like God said. And she started to think independently of God's word. And it brought shame. What a silly place for us to be as human beings to think that we can understand truth and reality out from under the umbrella of God's truth and revelation, of God who made us. God who made this planet and gave it to us to bless us. Too many in the world today follow the ways of Satan and don't even know it. They're blind. They think that they're uh masters of their own destiny. They think they've got it worked out. They think they know better. They're going to go their own way. They're not going their own way. They're going the devil's way They're a pawn in his hand. They're going to lose. They're going to be destroyed. They'll never escape. There's only one escape And that's the one who conquers, the one who crushed the head of the serpent. All of the other seed of Eve, all of the other seed of Adam are corrupted by Adam's nature. We're sinful. Our sin is evident all the time. Too often we look to the right and the left and say, Well, not as bad as him, not as bad as her. I don't do that. Yes, but you still sin. One sin drove Adam and Eve out of the garden. One sin. But we all sin in many ways, James says. Whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles even at one point with the law of God is guilty of breaking the entire law. Did you know that? If you break one commandment of God, God views it as you breaking his entire law because it's a standard. Either you keep the entire law and stand perfectly before God and don't get judged because you're entirely innocent, or you are a criminal in his universe and you will be judged It's not really much of a decision if you would just think humbly about this and bring God into your thinking. Why would anyone ever turn down the offer of everlasting life? Forgiveness of all their sins, pardon and peace, and even more. Why would anyone do that except foolish blind pride just like the devil? He can't win. You can't win. Oh, beloved, we pray that you would respond in your heart to God, that you'd understand Jesus Christ is the only way to the Father. He is the only one that wins. He's the only victorious one. Only Christ is victorious. All of us are born in sin. He was born holy to save us. You must turn from your willful unbelief and believe in him. This is the good news. It's good news, but it's only good news if you believe Why did Christ come into the world? He came because of God's judgment. God's judgment is here already in a certain measure. That's why there is death. That's why there is disease. That's why things don't work out. That's why it's frustrating to live in this world. That's how life is. There's judgment of God on the ground, for goodness sake. It's on the ground that was cursed that we walked on and try to get stuff to grow. The world is cursed, the world has fallen, the world is in darkness, the light of the world has come in. That's why we put lights up at Christmas time. He's the light of the world. He came to show the way. But you have to repent. You have to turn from a life of sin, a life of rebellion. You can't live things your own way. You can't follow other guys. You can't follow your philosophy. You have to say no to that. You have to say no to yourself. Jesus said, whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. But whoever keeps his life will lose it. You try to hang on to something, you can't keep it. Why would you not be saved? Why would you not come? Why would you not turn and realize this is meant for you? It was meant for the human race. Aren't you part of the human race? No aliens in here, right? They're all part of the human race, right? There's not two and three races. There's one. There's Adam and Eve's race, and it's fallen. Christ is making a new one. You can be part of his race. It's not black, white, Hispanic, Asian. It's in Christ We're following the ways of the devil. Those are the two choices that God gives. That's how God views it, that's how God looks at it, and that means that that's true. So you there in your seat, or anyone who's listening, I appeal, why would you not come to Christ? Why would you not want this Christmas to have Christ living in you and to have your sins forgiven and have new life, everlasting life? You know the verses, many of you know them. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have what? Everlasting life. What is everlasting life? You know, I'm not a rocket scientist, but I think it means everlasting life. It goes on forever and ever. Meaningful life, good life, life from heaven, fullness of life, joy in life. Jesus said, I've come that you might have life and have it abundantly in John 10. Come to Christ, that's where victory is Victory over the devil, escape from God's judgment, new life in Christ, it all can be yours this very Christmas. Jesus is the Son of God. He is also the son of Mary. He is also Eve's seed. He is all of that. He's called the second Adam to start a whole new race. He's called the resurrection and the dead, the resurrection and the life because he defeated death. He's called the Good Shepherd because he guides us in the way to life. He is everything we need him to be. Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. Amen. I'm going to pray for you. I want you to call on Christ and invite him into your life. If you are not sure Jesus Christ is in you, if you are not sure you have turned from a life of rebellion, would you just pray in your heart? I'm going to pray for you. You can even pray these words. Father in heaven, Thank you for this story of Scripture that starts from early Genesis and goes all the way to Revelation. Thank you for the gospel stories of the wise men and the shepherds and the birth of Jesus. Help us to put it in the framework. Of the whole story from beginning to end, that we would see you've always had a plan to destroy the devil and his works Oh Lord, we would pray that there would be none here who would want to be part of a serpent's seed, the doomed serpent's seed, to walk in blindness. To be so stubborn that they would face eternal damnation, but that they would turn and believe and turn from their sins. Lord, we pray that you would open hearts to do that. And we know we can't do that. We pray you'd soften hearts, that you'd help them see the light of this truth in their mind, that they might turn in their thinking, they may see how it's coherent. Lord, we know that there's so many lies that are thrown in the way of those who might come to believe the Bible these days. So many false things have been said. That life can come from non-life, the evolutionist says, and though it cannot, life can never come from non-life. Science even tells us that. And either all life comes from you or it comes from nothing. There's no other choice. Lord, how reasonable and rational your word is when it's taken as a whole. Bless people. Help them to understand, to believe. And for those of us who do believe, Lord, strengthen our understanding of the complete story. Help us to remember to explain all of that. Guide us and deepen our faith as we deepen in your word. For so we have asked that this Christmas Sunday, blessing you for our Lord and Savior, and all God's people said, Amen. Endless