Let's start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day and the the wonderful opportunity we have to gather as a body of Christ and worship you. We thank you for your word, which we're about to study now. Uh we thank you for the way it reveals uh who you are and your plan of redemption through history. We thank you for this particular passage of Scripture where we get to you have a glimpse of what the end times are like. We thank you for all the wonderful promises contained in your word and your faithfulness to your promises. We thank you for your great love for us demonstrated by Christ's death on the cross for our sins. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Alright, here we are in part thirty-six. We're almost there. Uh we're we're almost ready to land the plane on the the book of Revelation. Um and so today we're gonna look at two things. We're gonna look at the End of chapter 20 and the beginning of chapter 21, we're gonna look at the great white throne judgment, and we're gonna look at the new heaven and the new earth. So to those two things. So the great white throne judgment, we're gonna see the scene and the summons, we're gonna see the standard and the sentence at that great white throne judgment. Then we're gonna see the new heaven and new earth. We're gonna see its appearance. We're gonna see that it's the ca uh we're gonna see the capital, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven. We're gonna see the supreme reality of this new heaven and new earth, we're going to see the changes that are wrought. We're going to see the residence of the new heaven and new earth and the outcasts. who are not in the new heavens and the new earth. But first let's take a look back at what we did last week. So last week we did the first half of Revelation chapter twenty, which was the millennial kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. So uh we had an angel and the angel came down from heaven to bind Satan. So the angel had a chain, he bound Satan, he also had a key. Uh he laid hold of Satan, the key was to the abyss, so he was able to open the abyss, toss Satan in the abyss. and and sealed the abyss after. Uh and it was for a thousand years, and then during this thousand years we have Christ reigning, we see thrones, we see Christ on the throne and uh others on thrones uh that are judging along with Christ, the believers judging along with Christ. Those um there's a first resurrection of those who were uh who were slain, uh that were believers. Uh they take part in this first resurrection, and of course the second death has no power over them. Uh they're gonna reign with Christ Uh so the first resurrection, those will reign for a thousand years. And and then it specifically says that the rest of the dead don't rise then. And so we're going to see in today's lesson what happens to the rest of the dead. Those who were unbelieving dead. They the scripture specifically tells us that they don't rise for this millennial kingdom, and they do rise for this great red throne judgment we're going to talk about today. Uh so at the end of the thousand years we see Satan released the final rebellion. Deceives the nations once more from the four corners of the earth we have those who during the millennium were born um and were unbelievers. Uh and they rebel and then fire comes down from heaven and and devours them. And so the devil then uh is thrown into the lake of fire. So previously we saw that the Antichrist and the false prophet were thrown into the lake of fire, and now Satan is thrown into the lake of fire. And we're gonna see Today that all the other unbelievers uh are thrown into the lake of fire as well. Uh and the lake of fire is a place of torment day and night, forever. and ever. And so that's what we saw last time. Any questions about what we s what we went through last time with the Millennial Kingdom? Okay, so today we're gonna do the the the rest of chapter twenty and the first few verses of chapter twenty-one. So if you'll open your Bibles or your devices and turn with me to Revelation chapter twenty, starting with Verse 11. So Revelation 20, starting with verse 11. This is the word of the Lord. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who sat upon it, from whose prince presence, earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged from the things which are written in the books, according to their deeds. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it And death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. And then continuing in chapter 21, then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there is no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be among them, and he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there will no longer be any death, and there will no longer be any mourning, or crying, or pain. The first things have passed away. And he who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. And he said, Write, for these words are faithful and true. Then he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega. the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without cost. He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son But for the cowardly and the unbelieving, and abominable and murderers, and immoral persons and sorcerers, and idolaters and all liars. Their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. This is the word of the Lord. So let me give you a few paragraphs. As per usual, from John MacArthur in his commentary. I'll give you a few paragraphs on his commentary on the Great White Throne Judgment, and then a few paragraphs on the new heaven and the new earth. So uh here's uh MacArthur in his commentary about the great white throne judgment. This passage describes the final sentencing of the lost and is the most serious, sobering, and tragic passage in the entire Bible Commonly known as the Great White Throne Judgment, it is the last courtroom scene that will ever take place. After this, there will never again be a trial. And God will never again need to act as judge. The accused, all the unsaved who have ever lived, will be resurrected to experience a trial like no other that has ever been There will be no debate over their guilt or innocence. There will be a prosecutor but no defender, an accuser but no advocate. There will be an indictment but no defense mounted by the accused. The convicting evidence will be presented with no rebuttal or cross-examination. There will be an utterly unsympathetic judge and no jury. And there will be no appeal of the sentence he pronounces. The guilty will be punished eternally with no possibility of parole in a prison from which there is no escape. No one at the Great White Throne judgment will have the slightest. Grounds for complaint about his or her sentence, the unrepentant sinners will experience God's justice at the great white throne judgment. And then about the new heaven and the new earth, the chapter 21 verses, throughout the history of the church, God's people rightly have been preoccupied with heaven. They have longed for its joys because they have been only loosely tied to this earth. The Bible makes it clear that believers are to focus on heaven. In Philippians 3 20, Paul notes that our sins Citizenship is in heaven. To the Colossians he wrote, Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above. not on the things that are on earth. Colossians 3. A heavenly perspective is vital since everything connected to believers' spiritual life and destiny is there Their father is there, as are their Savior and their Comforter. The myriads of their fellow believers who have successfully run their earthly races are there. Believers' names are recorded in heaven, they are citizens of heaven, their inheritance is there, and their reward and treasure are there. In short, everything of lasting importance to believers is in heaven. It is their home, and they are strangers, exiles, and pilgrims on earth. So, thus John MacArthur about the great white throne judgment and the new heavens. in the new earth which we're about to take a look at. So let's uh let's break this down verse by verse and take a closer look. So verse eleven says, Then I saw a great white throne, and him who sat upon it, from whom Whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. First of all, where is God's presence? Let me turn around the other way. Where is God's presence not? Where is he not present? Nowhere. And so the old heaven and the old earth have fled to where God's presence is not. Which is no place. So no place was found for them. So it's gone. Gone. So the familiar phrase kayedon, we've seen that many, many times in Revelation, then I saw and it introduces a new vision. Uh a new vision to John. Uh so this vision is the great white throne judgment, and it follows in uh the there's the second coming that we saw in the end of chapter. Chapter nineteen. We saw the new millennium in the first half of chapter twenty. Now we see this great white throne here in the second half of chapter twenty, and then we'll see the new heaven and the new earth in the first half of first half of chapter twenty-one. So that's the sequence of these visions, each se kayedan. The first thing John saw was a great white throne. We see fifty times in the book of Revelation a mention of a throne. So thrones are a common theme here in Revelation. And now we see this great white throne, the judgment seat. It's the seat of God's sovereign rule. We've seen that a number of times in Revelation. It's great because of its significance and its authority. It's white symbolizing purity. holiness and justice and then the judgment that's about to be handed down from this throne is absolute And it's righteous and it's just. So m even more in uh awe inspiring, of course, than the throne itself is He who sat on the throne, him who sat upon the throne. So the judge, of course, is Almighty God. Um and that's uh there's a description we've already seen in Revelation chapter four of this throne room and of this one who sits on the throne. Um it's all Almighty God. Um yes. So that's That's John chapter 5. So John chapter 5 says, not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. Uh and then further along in that same passage, verse twenty six and twenty seven, just as the father has life in himself, even so he gave to the son also to have life in himself, and he gave him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. And so uh Um so uh uh typically we've seen God the Father on the throne. We've also seen the Lamb on the throne, and so uh w w what do we make of this? Who is it that's on the throne Um so but well what does the father what does the Bible teach about the Father and the Son? I and the Father are one. One. And so from a perspective of the Trinity, what we are taught in the scriptures of the Trinity, there's one God on that throne, the Father and the Son on that throne. But in in the in the instance of judgment, what what are we taught in in John chapter five? Who's doing the judging? It's the sun. And so we have a judge on the seat, God Almighty. And after describing the vision of the judge, we have this reality that um the presence of the earth and heaven has fled away, fled away from uh the presence of him who sat on the throne. Um and so this is describing the uncreation of the universe because There is no such thing as a place where God is not. So if they have fled from the presence of God, that means it it no longer exists. Um and so that's uh we see a glimpse of that, of course, in 2 Peter chapter 3 a description of the uncreation of the first heaven and the first earth. But what this passage is telling us is that's happened. By the time of this great white throne throne judgment. The the first heaven and the her first earth has been uncreated. So the presence of the earth in heaven will not merely be moved or reshaped, since John saw in his vision that no place was found for them. will go totally out of existence. So the uncreation of the first heavens and the first earth. And then chapter verse 12 says, And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another And the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books according to their deeds. So yes to you. So where is the throne? So this is kind of in the void. There's nothing there. Uh Um the old heaven and the old earth have the uncreated. We haven't gotten to the new heavens and the new earth. So there's there's no new heavens in the new earth. There's no old heavens and the old earth there's just this throne. Yeah. Yeah. So it's very difficult for us to imagine in our uh in our finiteness what it means. So uh for example, where was God before he created that first heaven and the first earth? Well, that question is difficult for us to conceptualize. He existed, but there was no universe. So where was it? Um that's the same kind of question as we have here. Where is this? If there's no old heaven and old earth and there's no new heaven and new earth, um still everywhere. But but where what but what do we mean by everywhere? Where that's a very difficult concept to wrap your mind around. For those of us who are trapped in time and space, we don't understand eternity We don't understand the concept of w w where God was before he created the first heavens and the earth. And where where this is. Same kind of question. Yeah. It's a very yeah, it's a very difficult concept to wrap our minds around. Where where is this? So uh the setting is the void, the nothingness between the end of the present universe and the creation of the new heaven and the new earth But first we have this judgment. So the prisoners before the judge are all physically dead Uh nothing could possibly have described d s uh uh s have survived the complete destruction of the whole physical universe. The the the full the whole using universe has been unmade and so they're obviously dead, not alive. So th so it says the dead the dead. So they've they've died. So the last living unbelievers will have perished in the rebellion at the end of the millennium, and then the universe is unmade. Um the last living believers, of course, will be translated uh transformed to their eternal body somehow Enoch was, Elijah was, the raptured church was, believers that are still alive before the final destruction of the universe will evidently be too. Uh the dead pictured here are standing before the throne. There's a divine judgment coming. Uh and of course it's not just the millennial re rebellion that we've just had, but includes all the unbelievers who have ever lived. Um and so the and there are books. Um and so We have books opened containing the record of every thought, word, deed of every unsafe person who ever lived. And so notice that they're judged by their deeds. Very interesting. So evidently God has kept a perfect comprehensive record of every person's life. So God knows everything, he's everywhere, he's omnipresent, he's omniscient, so he knows everything that every person has ever done, said, thought every person has ever lived. lived and so the books are a representation of that. The fact that God knows everything we've we've ever done. Um and their the judgment then is based on what they've done. So, what's the standard? So, the standard is God's perfect holy standard. Jesus defined it in Matthew 5 this way: Therefore, you are to be perfect as your Your Heavenly Father is perfect. So the same perfection of God is the standard. Peter wrote, Like the Holy One who called you, be holy yourself also in all your behavior, because It is written, You should be holy, for I am holy. Uh we've also got the standard in Galatians chapter three, in James chapter two, and Romans chapter three, and Ephesians chapter two. Uh the standard is perfection and deviation from the standard Um the punishment is death. And so that's the final judgment that we see here. The standard of God's perfection applied, and everyone who comes before the throne, based on the deeds of their lives recorded by God in his books uh does not measure up to that standard. Um so God's justice demands payment for every person's sin. And so every person's sin, every sin of every person that ever lived, will be paid for. And it'll be paid for once. Once and only once. Um and so All the sins of every believer, past, present, and future, are paid for by Christ on the cross So every sin for you and I paid for once and only once at the cross. Every sin that every unbeliever commits will be paid for by them In the lake of fire forever and ever and ever. So do you see how that accounting works? Every single sin ever committed by every single person is paid for Once and only once. And so um this is the best explanation in in my opinion of the doctrine Doctrine of grace called the limited atonement says that Christ's sacrifice on the cross paid for all the sins of believers But not the sins of unbelievers. And the reason why that has to be is when these unbelievers show up at the great white throne judgment If Christ had already paid for their sins, what is God judging at the great white throne judgment? What would be left to judge at the great white throne judgment if, in fact, their sins had already been paid for by Christ? There would be nothing for God to judge and nothing for him to punish if the atonement was universal. But in fact it's it's not. There are sins that haven't been paid for yet when we get to the great J throne judgment. Um and so that's what's happening here. In in the accounting, God's perfect justice, God's perfect righteousness, every single sin has to be accounted for, judged, and punished. For believers That occurred at the cross. Every one of your sins, yours and mine, past, present, and future, were paid for, judged at the cross, judged and punished at the cross. But for unbelievers, Those sins have not yet been judged and paid for until the great white throne judgment. And then every one of those sins is judged and paid for by the individual unbeliever by eternal suffering in the lake of fire. Everybody see that? This is a really important theological issue that has been argued over millennia. But this is really the answer to that dilemma uh about the the atonement, the limited atonement. Um yes. No. No. Because these are only so what does it say? Um i it says only those whose name were not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, not lit written in the Book of Life are judged here. So if the name is is written in the Book of Life, they're not judged here. Um yeah, and so uh we've already had the the dead that were redeemed raised at the first resurrection. And then we had at the first resurrection this uh this preview that there was going to be a second resurrection and that that's this is it here at the at the Great White Throne. That's a good question. Where is it in the timeline? It's not here. But we did have a first resurrection already. Um and my my guess is that the first resurrection is where that occurs. Now um that that first resurrection is the the the dead, those who had died in Christ, but not the church who's already been Raptured. And so, um, although the scripture doesn't say, um, my guess is that that judgment happens for the church at the rapture, and then happens for everybody else that wasn't raptured. who died after that during the the tribulation um is the first resurrection that we got described in the first half of chapter twenty uh chapter twenty verse five talks about that first resurrection. So I Yes that's where it is. Uh we have other scriptures that tell us that that will happen. Um but we don't, as far as I can tell, have a specific timeline for that. And I think probably the reason for that is it happens in two phase. Phases Rapture and then the first resurrection. That's that's my guess. Anyone else have any other ideas about when the Bhima seat judgment occurs. Okay. Okay. Diff theological issues to wrap your uh wrap your arms around. Um but uh the The the point here at the Great White Throne judgment is every sin judged once and only once. Um okay. Um so the books containing the prisoners' evil deeds are open, but there's another book, which is the book of life. And so this is the image of a book. There were in ancient times there were registries of citizens kept in ancient cities. And so this is essentially the the registration of of the uh the residents of heaven, if you will. Uh it contains the names of those whose citizenship is in heaven. Um and it's referred to several times this book of life in Revelation. We had it in chapter three, chapter thirteen, chapter seventeen. And we'll see it again in chapter uh the last half of chapter twenty one. Uh so we have this book of life as uh uh not just appearing here, but several times throughout Revelation. Uh so it's the record of God's elect and we have mention of God keeping a record of his elect and Daniel and Malachi and Luke and uh and Philippians and Hebrews, uh all whose names are not recorded in it. will be eternally damned. And so those who are being judged here at the Great White Throne judgment are those whose names are not recorded in the book of life. If you're in the book of life You don't get judged at this great white throne. And why? Why don't you get judged at the great white throne? Because your sins have all already been judged the judgment fell on Christ at the cross. Um and so there's no there would be no reason for believers to come when their sins had already been judged. Um yeah. Where are the believers? So where are the believers? Yes, we do. And so the text doesn't tell us where the believers are. And and we and we can't even understand where this is Uh uh so w yes, we we're not told where the believers are here. Um yeah, we we get the believers in the new heaven and the new earth coming up Uh, but we don't know where they are now. So they of course the church has been raptured and the church came back with Christ, ruled in the millennial kingdom, uh, but then the the whole universe is uncreated And so where are the believers when they're well the whole universe is uncreated? Uh, left unsaid. Left unsaid here, yeah. So so this is the the record of these books is the deeds of the unbelievers who are about to be judge. Now so it's remember that the book is a analogy. It's a vision that represents God's knowledge of everything. And of course God has a knowledge of all of our deeds as well. But for the purposes of judgment, this judgment seat, which is the scene here, it's a courtroom scene that John is seeing, these books that are being brought to this courtroom scene are the deeds of unbelievers. Now the Bhima Sea judgment is different. It's not it's not a judgment in the same sense as this great white throne judgment. It's an evaluation more like of our works. The works that we did, Ephesians 2. 10, we're saved for good works that God has ordained beforehand. We're being evaluated. for our faithfulness and obedience to the works that that God um God laid out for us when we were saved. And there are rewards in heaven. That's the way the the the scripture puts it for those who have faithfully done works on behalf of Christ and his kingdom. Um and so that's that's different from a the judgment, the kind of judgment that's that's here. So that's Christ's evaluation of his servants. Yep. And s uh some will be saved as if through the fire. Yeah. Uh yeah. Some's works will be burned up. And so Evidently there will be rewards in heaven for those who have been faithful. Um what that looks like, I I don't think we get much of an idea of what that looks like. Um unless I'm mistaken. Does anybody have any um any scriptural references about what the rewards are in heaven? Yeah, described as crowns, and so that's a that's another analogy uh described as crowns. Yeah. So but what so what does that mean for practical purposes? What do I get? when I'm in in heaven if I've if I've been faithful. I I don't think there's much of the Rex. There's uh a reference to rules in different portions during the millennial kingdom believers that they will based on on their faithfulness they will have her rule in life. So yeah, and so the and the apostles are are promised thrones in the millennial kingdom and um yeah so I don't think there's there's real specifics and um and so um r remember that there are many cases in Scripture where where God God reveals what He wants us to know, but not as much as we would like to know in many cases. Boy, I'd really like to know what those rewards are in heaven. And for some reason for his own purposes, he's chosen not to um not to specify exactly what those rewards look like. Um yeah. And and I don't know why, but I I don't see an inscription Scripture a a a very detailed description of what the rewards are uh in heaven. Uh but we can let our imagination run with the fact that uh how good a god i uh good God is and um when he says even you sinful men like to give good gifts to your children, how much more your heavenly father will give good gifts uh to th his servants that have uh that have been obedient to him, we can imagine that the the gifts are gonna be pretty spectacular. Um but we don't know what the what they look like. Yeah, and so that I mean that's all has been my understanding that particularly people that suffered for Christ, you know, those who were tortured and martyred uh for their faith, um mm that's the kind of person that I have always imagined are gonna get the best rewards. Um, you know, somebody like Vermbrand that was tortured for year after year after year after year. Um and of course many that nobody's ever heard of in North Korea. or other places that have been tortured for their faith and nobody's ever heard of 'em. Um, but there reward will be rewards in heaven for people like that. Um what those rewards look like, I don't know. Good, good discussion. Um so uh and their course their names are not in the book of life, th those who are being judged here at the Great White Throne. Uh they were judged every one of them according to their deeds. And of course we get a glimpse of this judgment day, uh Christ in Matthew chapter seven said, There will be some who say, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles? Um, but Christ says they're gonna hear the chilling words, I never knew you. Um and so evidently there are gonna be people that get to this judgment. Remember this is all the dead from all of time and so, uh, for example, people that died during Jesus time, um, or any time between now and then, for example, um, who think that they're Um in the book of life and they're not. Um Jesus is gonna say, I never knew you, though you're not in my book of life. And they're gonna be evidently surprised here. Uh that's hard to imagine, but it's Sounds like that from what Jesus says in Matthew chapter seven. You have to be written in the book of life. And it doesn't matter what kind of human works you did if your name is not written in the book of life. Yeah, I I think that's probably true, and it's probably been true of all of history. There have been people uh sitting in church pews that were um proud of the things that they did. Um and those they were according to Jesus, it sounds like some of those people at least will be astonished when they get to this this judgment. Yes. Yeah, and so, um my guess is that they're not really doing it in the name of Christ. Um, if they're not sincerely saved, they're they're not really believers, um You know, y Jesus asked one time um if um who in what name are you casting out demons? Uh um so evidently there were people that were performing tricks tricks. Um, I'll put it that way. Um and there have been throughout hi there's many there's instances in the Bible, um that Pharaoh's magicians, for example, were able to do things that kind of imitated what Aaron and Moses were doing. Um Simon and Acts was was doing uh magic tricks of some kind. Yeah. So uh of course Judas was one of the twelve um and he was not saved. Um so he was with Jesus and he was uh who uh the the Bible's not really specific about any I don't think any particular miracle that Judas did. Uh Christ gave those apostles. Well he did, and there's a general description of the apostles doing signs and wonders. Um but of course Judas was not saved. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Um yeah, so there's some um um some things to wrestle with there. Um the next thing we got is uh verse thirteen says, And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. And so this is once again uh the the the universality of this judgment. Everybody who died in the ocean, everybody who died on land, really that's what this summary is about. Um All of them come back to life. Every one of them come back to life and are judged here. Uh so it's not a matter of how or where they died. All unbelievers appear before this great white throne judgment uh for God's justice. Um so evidently this is so before the sea is uncreated Um actually at the judgment there is no more sea anymore. But before that happened the sea gave up the dead which was in it. Um it's maybe singled out because you might think it would be really tough to resurrect all the people that had died in the ocean and were eaten by f fish and uh every single particle of them was undone. Uh but God can do that. He can resurrect bodies even if every particle circle of them was eaten by the fishes. Um and so every every dead see, um God will summon them from the sea throughout human history. Those who uh Millions drown in the flood, uh those who went down with the Titanic, every ship that's ever sunk, everybody's ever drowned at sea, everybody's ever been washed by a flood into the sea and died. Um millions and millions and millions and millions. millions and billions um coming up out of the sea. Death probably symbolizes all the deaths on land, like we had all the de people raised out of the sea, all the deaths on land as well. Uh we get this word Hades. Uh it's the Greek equivalent of the Hebrew word Sheol. Sheol is used 67 times in the Old Testament and describes the realm of the dead. Hades is used 10 times in the New Testament. in reference to the place of punishment, for example, Luke 16, where the unrighteous dead are kept pending their sentencing to hell. And so um this is all the dead. Die in the sea, died in the land, doesn't matter. uh doesn't matter where, doesn't matter when, um unbelievers died, they're going to be resurrected to this great white throne judgment for s final sentencing for everything they that they ever did. Then the vision continues Then death and Hades are thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire, and if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life He was thrown into the lake of fire. Um so what is this with death in Hades? So death in Hades is the grave and the temporary place of punishment for anyone whose name was not found in the book of life. The they're thrown into the lake of fire. of fire also, meaning they, death and Hades, will go out of existence. So death is no more so there's no more need for Hades, a temporary place for the dead people to go, because all the dead people have been brought up out of Hades and finally judged. So often to the lake of fire go death and Hades as well, meaning that they go out of existence. Um the inmates that came up out of death in Hades uh will be resurrected for this final judgment. and cast into eternal hell, the lake of fire, which is the second death. We've seen the lake of fire already get its first two occupants. In chapter 19, the beast and the false prophet, they get tossed in there at the end of the tribulation. Uh we get Satan tossed in there, and now we get all the unbelieving all the unbelievers from uh all of history brought up to the Great White Throne judgment and also tossed into the lake of fire Um so then this is d the second death. So all these people have already died And now there's a second death, the second death, which is hell going into eternal hell. Um so the rest of the dead who did not participate in the first resurrection, that was chapter twenty, verse five, that was the uh those who had died. as believers, their resurrection, the first resurrection, everybody else is resurrected here at the second resurrection, and subject to the second death. Those from the first resurrection not subject to the second death. Those from this resurrection subject to the second death, which is the lake of fire, tossed in the lake of fire. And these are identified as everyone anyone whose name was not found written in the Book of Life. Yes, Greg. Is the abyss the same as Haiti? So the abyss is There's a different word used for the abyss, and it's Tartarus. Tartarus is the Greek word that's used for the abyss. So it's apparently it's different. The abyss is different from Hades. The abyss, we we only get a couple of different uh places where it's described, 2 Peter and Jude, and it's tied to um angels being locked there, fallen angels being locked there, tied to the time of Noah, and and also compared to the the acts of these fallen angels are compared to the sexual immorality of Sodom and Gomorrah. And so Tartarus is a different Greek word than Hades, and so evidently the abyss is different. It's a holding pen for demons that did something spectacularly evil at the time of Noah. And we see that described in Genesis chapter six actually. Um they eventually throwing into the lake of fire. Yes they are. Um so you will see that Satan and all his angels throw into the lake of fire uh But there were some subset of demons that were locked away all the way back in Genesis chapter six. Now some of them are let out of the abyss um at the time of the tribulation. We saw that already. Time of the tribulation, some of them led out of the abyss. Um and including demons that uh possess the Antichrist and the false prophet come up out of the abyss. Um so the abyss is different from Hades. Hades is a kind of a holding pen, uh temporary punishment place for dead unbelieving human beings. The abyss is a place where demons were chained. And evidently it was quite frightening to the demons, uh, because when Jes Jesus drove the demons out of uh the the legion of demons out of the um the gathering man. Um they begged to go into the pigs rather than go to that abyss. Um they didn't want to go there. Um Okay. Uh does that yes, Keegan. Um it just says that the whole copy was thrown alive if the basic five Yeah it did. Yeah. Yeah, it sounds like it. Yeah. It sounds like they got their eternal bodies and tossed into the lake of fire right then. These dead all get their eternal bodies here at the Great White Throne Judgment and get tossed into the Lake of Fire. Because remember, the Lake of Fire is eternal. So it has to be a body that can be punished forever and ever and ever and ever and ever. Um and so yeah, that's what the Evidently the uh the beast and the antichrist got that at the time they get tossed into the lake of fire and now these all these unbelievers have the same eternal bodies that get thrown into the lake of fire forever. Yeah, c it's quite sobering. Okay. Uh those who die in their sins in this present world of time and space will die a second death in eternity they will be sentenced to the lake of fire forever. That's described as the second death. Although it's actually eternal life of punishment forever and ever and ever. Um it's described as the second death being tossed into that lake of fire. Um any questions or comments about any of that? Alright, moving on to chapter twenty-one. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there's no longer any sea. So we get this phrase a new heaven and new earth. It comes from two passages in Isaiah, Isaiah sixty-five, for Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth. So we've the the Lord is prophesied this all the way back into the Old Testament, the new heaven and the new earth. Isaiah sixty five, Isaiah sixty six, uh, says, For just as the new heavens and the new earth new earth which I make will endure before me, declared the Lord, so your offspring and your name will endure. And so there's been this prophecy of a new heaven and a new earth going all the way back to the Old Testament. This Greek word kinos Uh translated new here. It doesn't mean new in a chronological sense, um necessarily, but new in a qualitative sense. A new, greater, better heavens and earth essentially is what it means. So they're not merely successful. Exceeding the present universe in chronological sequence, although that also is true, uh, there's something brand new, fresh, never before seen, qualitatively, this new heaven and the new earth. Um and of course he has to create a new heaven in New earth because the first heaven and the first earth has passed away passed away. We saw that they were they had fled from his presence and his presence is everywhere and so that means they're uncreated. And so in order for um us to have a body So he originally created the first earth to be mankind's home, uh, but sin corrupted the earth, uh, and so God's going to destroy them and make a new one. which is what we see here. So the first hint of how different things will be shows up right away in that there will no longer be any C That's a big change. Think about our earth now. Three-quarters water. The oceans cover three-quarters of the earth. But this new heavens and new earth doesn't have a sea Um uh so w what's life gonna be like? Well that's really different. We're not told exactly what it's gonna be like, but really that's really, really radically different if there's no C. Um I mean uh all life as it exists now depends on water and the hydrological cycle and if there's no ocean what's going on there Radically different. So it's a radically different new heaven and new earth. Not like the one we've got now. Um so based on some totally different principles Um there is in chapter twenty-two, in two different places, described a river, uh, but it's a river of the water of life. Whatever that is. Um So as I said, uh the the the climate has to be totally different. Uh it can't be based on the hydrological cycle which is based on the sea. There has to be evaporation out of the sea for there to be rain in the way the earth is now. Uh but if there's no sea, then it can't be like that. It's got to be something totally different So um we can only imagine what that's like, but it's not like what we've got now. Totally different. And and I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. And so we get a description now of the capital city of the eternal state the the new heavens and the new earth. So uh the holy city in New Jer Jerusalem appears to be an actual city. Uh we're gonna get dimensions for it, for example, uh coming up uh in a subsequent lesson. Uh so it's not um it's not all of heaven evidently, it's um It's the capital of heaven. Um its dimensions are given. We'll see in the second half of chapter twenty one. Um it's the third city named Jerusalem in redemptive history. The first is the historic Jerusalem that we have now. uh currently existing in Jerusalem, uh in Israel. Uh it's repeatedly called the holy city, even in the Old Testament. That historical city because it's set apart for God's purposes. And then we get a second Jerusalem that's restored where Christ will rule during the millennial kingdom. So the first Jerusalem is pretty devastated during the tribulation. Uh but evidently there's going to be a Jerusalem that seems to be rebuilt uh for the purposes of being Christ's capital in his millennial kingdom. And this is a third one because, how do we know that? Because the first creation is totally uncreated So that uh that Jerusalem is gone. And so this is a new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven, uh, for the new heavens and the new earth. Uh and then John hears a loud voice. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold. Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be among them. This is a glorious promise. Um so the supreme glory of heaven, of course, is that God's There. The presence of God. The presence of the person of God is what makes heaven special. We've had this description of a loud voice twenty previous times in Revelation, and here we have it again, a route loud voice. We we don't give we're not given the source here of the loud voice. Uh it's probably not God Himself, because God Himself is pictured as speaking separately. Starting in verse five, uh, as we'll see. So probably an angel that's been the um uh the i it's been specifically designated as an angel who's made a loud voice Previously in Revelation, it doesn't specifically say here in this passage. The announcement is, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men Um that Greek word, uh translated tabernacle here, can also mean tent or dwelling place. Uh so the picture here is God pitching his tent among his people. So he's no longer far off. He's no his presence is no longer veiled in the form of uh the human form of Jesus or even in uh Christ's millennial majesty. It's not in a pillar of cloud and fire, it's not hidden in the Holy of Holies It's right there among his people. Um God is imminent. We're right there with him. Um, which is different from how God has been throughout history in in this heaven and this earth. And the new heavens and the new earth, God is right there with His people. Um a glorious thing. And this is such a staggering truth that the the voice, probably an angel, actually says it f kind of four different ways. He he repeats the same theme kind of four different times. Uh the tabernacle is with uh is the first one, and then he says God will dwell among them, which is really saying the same thing. Um and they shall be his people, and God himself will be among them. He he he's he's saying the same thing in different ways to to show that, yeah, this is really a f True. He's really gonna be right there. You're gonna be his people. He's gonna be your God. He's gonna be dwelling among you. He's gonna be tabernacling or templing uh or uh tenting right there, uh among you. Uh so the angels just repeats himself in four different ways to emphasize that this is this is gonna happen. This marvelous thing is really gonna happen. And then we get a description of how things will be different. An other way So this new heaven and new earth is different And we get some descriptions of how it's different. Um so he and so there's some positive descriptions of how it's different, and now we get some negative descriptions of how it's different. What things are not present in this New heaven and the new earth that are present in our current day and age. So first he will wipe away every tear, and of course that doesn't mean that people are going to arrive in heaven weeping and need to be comforted. It means that there's no longer any cause for sorrow that would cause any weeping. Uh and that's uh subsequently explained I think in the the the rest of the phrases in that passage. Uh no longer any death. The greatest cur curse of human existence will be no more. Uh in First Corinthians fifteen says uh Paul says, Death is swallowed up in victory. And that's what we see here. No longer any death in the new heavens and the new earth. No mourning or crying in heaven. The grief saw and distress that produce mourning um will not not exist in in heaven. So there's there will be no reason uh ever for us to mourn once we get to heaven. Um and so it's different. It's different from our day to day existence, the things that are uh permanent uh parts of this world. Uh this this present heaven and earth, death is an absolute reality. Everybody dies. In this new heaven and new earth, no more death. And then it fin he finished So that that the first heaven and earth is gone, and with it all these other things that are part of that first heaven and first earth, death, crying, mourning, pain, suffering, all gone is what the angel is saying. And then we get he who sits on the throne talking. So we have this angel, this loud voice saying something And now we get the one sitting on the throne chiming in after that. And he who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. And he said, right for these words are faithful and true. So he's direct he's addressing John now. So he summarizes the changes in a positive way. So we had all these negatives Uh and then he says, I am making all things new. So all these old things are gone and I am making all things new, says the one who sits on the throne. Uh and this is the same one from whose presence heaven and earth fled away in chapter twenty. Um the new heaven and the new earth will truly be a new creation. Old creation gone and God declares, I have made a new creation, a new heaven and a new earth. So it's not merely a refurbishing of the The old one. The It's a brand new one. Old one's gone, brand new one. And of course it's God Himself who's the one sitting on the throne And he says to John, write, for these words are faithful and true. So the words that John is commanded to write by God are faithful and true. They're just as faithful and true as the one who's revealing them. And we've seen previously in Revelation, God described and Jesus described as the faithful and true. We saw that in Revelation chapter three and also in chapter nineteen. um Jesus described as the faithful and true. And the words are described as faithful and true. And so we saw um we saw in Luke twenty one Jesus say, heaven and earth will pass away, but God's words will not pass away. And so we see that. We see heaven and earth has passed away, but God is saying these words of mine are faithful and true, and they have not passed away, just like Jesus said in his earthly ministry. So there will be an end to the present physical universe, but not to the truth God reveals to his people. Whatever God says will come to pass. And then God goes on. Then he said to me It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without cost. So it is done is the next thing John hears from the one sitting on the throne. And of course these words are reminiscent of Jesus' words on the cross. Jesus said It is finished to telescope paid in full. Now God says it is done. So it is finished. Jesus' words mark the end of the work of redemption. It is finished. He had paid the price. So the work of redemption was done when Jesus died on the cross. These were words mark the end of redemptive history. All of redemptive history is done. It is done Um God says at the end. The one who sits on the throne um calls himself the Alpha and the Omega. That's the first and the last word of the Greek alphabet, the beginning and the end. And so God started history and he will end it. Now remember at the very beginning of this book of Revelation, Jesus gave himself this same title. I am the Alpha and the Omega. When John first saw Jesus, the risen Christ, Jesus said, I am the Alpha and the Omega. Revelation chapter one. Here in Revelation chapter twenty one, we have the one sitting on the throne, God Almighty, once again describes himself as the Alpha and the Omega. Uh the beginning and the end. And so all of history is God's. God owns it, He's sovereign over it, every bit of history, and here we've come to the very end of this history of redemption and God says, Here here I am The Alpha and Omega. I was here at the beginning, and here I am at the end. God Almighty sovereign over everything. And then he gives this promise God will give to the one who thirsts From the spring of the water of life without cost. And so this is reminiscent of some things that Jesus said during his earthly ministry. He talked about giving the water of life to uh the woman at the Samaritan woman at the well. Uh if if I gave you water, you would never thirst, he said to her. He was talking about this. If she was if she would believe in him become a believer, then eventually she would get to this point here where she would be in the new heavens and the new earth, and she would be given uh this water of life without cost. Um he also spoke about it in uh John chapter seven, the last day of the feast he said um that he who believes in me will have springs of living water, uh he said during his earthly ministry in John chapter seven. And here we have those springs of living water in the new heavens and the new earth. He overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. So heaven belongs to he who overcomes. Uh and who is he who overcomes, according to first John chapter five, the one who exercises saving faith in Christ. And so also remember that this is how Jesus described believers at the close of each of the seven letters. In uh Revelation chapter two and three. The seven letters to the churches, he ends with, He who overcomes. Uh so those who believe, and here we have he who overcomes again will inherit these things. Um the In first Peter chapter one, Peter describes it this way, they will obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for them. That's what God is talking about. That's what uh God is God is revealing to John here at the the end of chapter at the middle of chapter twenty one, he who overcomes will inherit these things. Um and so th and there's a marvelous promise here. I will be their God and he will be my son. Um God has made that promise to his people. Throughout Scripture. I will be their God. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Deuteronomy, 2 Samuel Ezekiel, Zechariah, I will be their God. And here he's i the it's become a reality here in the new heavens and the new earth. And equally amazing of course is uh we can be his son. Uh now in a certain Um respect of course we we have the adoption as sons already as believers, uh but only in heaven when we come into our complete inheritance, uh will will the adoption be fully realized. What it really means to be uh a a child of God there in the new heavens and the new earth. Now, uh of course it ends on a sour note. Uh-huh. So that's all the good things for the people that are uh in Christ. Uh but now we get to the negative. But for the cowardly and the unbelieving and the abominable and the murderers and the immoral person and the sorcerers and the idolaters and all liars, in other words, all the unbelievers, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. So those who are Written in the last book of life, all these wonderful, marvelous things in heaven, but there's the other side of the story. There's there's always the other side of the story that those who are unbelievers, instead of getting all these marvelous Thanksgiving, to be in the presence of God, being adopted into his family as sons, um instead tossed into the lake of fire. Um so for unforgiven, unredeemed sinners, the s the second death, which is the lake of fire uh is their fate. Um and so um those whose lives are characterized by such things give evidence that they're not saved. That's the point here in in this. And so the Those who are not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, into the lake of fire they go. Heaven awaits believers and the final hell awaits resurrected unbelievers. Alright. Any questions, comments about any of that? Yes. That's a good way to end. So let me close us with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh the wonderful promises that we see here about uh the uh the the new heavens and the new new earth, which is the the place where all believers will go, but also the sobering reality of the fact that unbelievers go to uh a permanent place of punishment. And Lord, please let us uh be motivated to share the love of Christ, to share the hope of the gospel with those who are yet unredeemed. We we thank you, Lord, and we love you, and we we thank you for uh your great plan of redemption that allows us to participate um in uh this new heavens and the new earth and to be your child and uh and to be in your presence forever in heaven. What a glorious thing that is, Lord. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.