Just saying to uh pray and hope that there's still a blessing left for the United States of America. It's been recently pointed out that a nation without borders is no longer a nation. A country without laws ceases to be a country. That's true. We could add a house without walls was no longer a house. A home without rules ceases to be a home. Everything has to have boundaries, borders, rules, procedures, a way of operating if it's to succeed. We all know that. What small business flourishes without standards and procedures? What academy can educate without rules? What club, even, fun social club, can long stand without membership requirements? Rules really do matter. Organizations with bad rules, well, they turn corrupt. Those with good rules, they succeed. Those with no rules cease to be. The same is true with your individual life. Each person must live by some guidelines, some rules, some laws. A borderless life comes to ruin. What is the rule in your life? What law do you follow It's an interesting question. And as we turn to James 2 again, let's explore what Jesus said was the rule for life, the Christian life, why it's so important for success. James 2, we're going to start in verse 10, although I'll probably be referring backwards a little bit. Start in verse 10, read to the end of the chapter, 10 through 13. If you have a Bible, please follow along. You'll get so much more out of it. If you take notes, sometimes you can write something down that's memorable, important for you to review. The Holy Spirit through James communicates this to us. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, He has become guilty of all. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, do not commit murder. Now, if you do not commit adultery, but do commit murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak And so act as those who are to be judged by the law of liberty. For judgment will be merciless to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. If you look at this passage and even back to verses 8 and 9, you'll see that it's about the law. Please notice the law is mentioned in verse 10, it's mentioned in verse 11, verse 12, as you go back, there it is in verses 8 and 9 two more times. And judgment is also mentioned, judgment from the law in verse 13, conviction by the law in verse 9, and then mercy over judgment from the law in verse 13. Passage has kind of a legal flavor. To it. It might seem a little bit strange to you. Why focus on the law We're Christians. We're part of the New Testament. We're born-again believers. What does the law have to do with the Christian life? Anyway, it's a good question, isn't it? Isn't that called legalism when you follow the law? Some of you might be questioning, and many do. The answer is no, it's not called legalism. Legalism is when you think that God will approve of you based upon you keeping the law. Legalism is when man-made rules become the arbitrary standard for measuring Christian maturity and spirituality. Obeying God's law from the heart is not called legalism, it's called obedience. Ever heard of that? And to ignore God's laws called lawlessness, and to teach against God's laws called anti-nomianism. Nevertheless, James, as a writer, as a theologian, as a Christian teacher, has been accused throughout church history, and particularly now, of being a bit too legalistic. Too Judaism, too concerned with the law, both here in his one letter that he contributes to the canon of Scripture, and wherever he seems to pop up in the book of Acts and speaking, he's talking about the law. Some interpreters have viewed James as being the opposite as Paul, kind of on the opposite end of Paul. Paul was the apostle of grace. Paul's always talking about grace. He begins and ends all of his 13 letters on a note of grace. He explained grace as being in opposition to the law. He taught that we're no longer under the law, we're under grace. But James keeps talking about the law. Not just the law, but doing the law. Keeping the law, abiding in the law. You may remember from chapter 1, verse 25, if you want to flip back there, that he wrote One who looks intently at the perfect law, he called it, the law of liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer but an effectual doer, this man will be blessed in what he does. Do what the law says, you'll be blessed. Interesting So James taught that the Christian life has a guide, and it's called the perfect law, even the law of liberty. A law that we're supposed to look at intently, remember it, don't forget it, and then practice it and receive a blessing. Furthermore, if you flip forward to chapter 4 in James, we haven't gotten there yet, but verse 11, you'll see him talking about the law again. Do not speak against one another, brethren, he who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against there it is The law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge of it. Mentions the law four more times. Just keeps popping up So also here in chapter 2, the law. He calls it the royal law. What is all of this about? The Apostle Paul doesn't seem to be like this as you read his writings. He seems to have placed The gospel of Christ at odds somewhat with the law. We read in Paul's letters in Romans 6. 14, for example, Christians are no longer Under law, but under grace. First Corinthians chapter 9, verse 20, he's talking about his strategy and evangelism. He says to the Jews, I became like a Jew. to those who are under the law as if I'm under the law, but I'm not actually under the law, he says. And then he says to those apart from the law, that he was as apart from the law. In Romans 7, 6 he says, we've been released from the law. Interesting. Over and over in Paul's teaching, there is this antipathy between law and gospel. Galatians chapter 3 and verse 24 is another example. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor, no longer under the law. The past age was law. It was our Pide Gogas, our child trainer, our child trainer to lead us to maturity, to lead us to Christ and faith in Christ. But here we have James, and he seems to be embracing the law, bringing it close. He seems to see the law as good and as relevant for New Testament believers. It's a guide for Christian behavior, he teaches. It reveals and convicts of sin. It instructs us about God. It is even given lofty titles right here. Well, to be fair, James is not the only one who talks about the law in the New Testament. The Apostle John speaks of obeying commandments. That's law. 1 John 4, 21, he wrote, This commandment we have from Christ. That the one who loves God should love his brother also. Command. Law. Peter, the apostle Peter in 2 Peter 3:2 wrote: that you should remember the commandment Of the Lord and Savior spoken by your apostles. Don't forget the commandment. Jesus spoke of law. In Matthew 7, as he concluded the great Sermon on the Mount, he said, In everything therefore, treat People, the same way you want them to treat you, for this is the law and the prophets. Embrace the law, at least the moral requirements of the law. So too, our text today actually encourages believers, live according to God's law. of liberty, his law of liberty, because you are going to be judged according to God's law at some time in the future. I find this a very intriguing passage. I hope it will be a helpful message to you, beloved Because it speaks some of the same truths we believe a little bit differently, and maybe because of that we'll hear it a little differently, and the Lord will benefit your walk with Christ. God's law, here's our outline. God's law, far from being set aside, actually guides us During two periods. First, presently, and second in the future. Presently, the royal law regulates life. That's verses 10 and 11. That's what we're going to talk about today The royal law regulates the Christian life, verses ten and eleven. And then secondly, next time we'll get into the future, the law of liberty will judge our lives, verses twelve and thirteen. So it's a present time and a future time. that these during these two periods that the uh the law guides us. Okay? Let's look first presently how the royal law regulates life. Look at verses 10 and 11. Actually I'm gonna back up to verse 8 because really verses 1 through 13 are a unit of thought and we need to we need to pick back up verses 8 and 9, which were kind of a transition. from some of the things spoken about earlier and then what we're getting into today. Verse 8. If, however, you are fulfilling the royal law, James writes, according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing well. There's a commendation. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. Verse 10. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, do not commit murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but do commit murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. Let's stop there. In pointing out the sin of partiality against the poor from the earlier verses, James now confronts the believer with the law. What law? Specifically the royal law We saw last time that the royal law means the kingly law. Some people interpret it as the supreme law, that is the law that is above all the other laws. That's not really what the word means in Greek, basilikos. It means the law that's associated with royalty, with the king and his kingdom. So it's better translated as the Nazbi has it here, the royal law. It's given by the king. It's for the king's people. It's to reign and rule and regulate the kingdom. That's the idea. And that law is specified in the next phrase, quoting the scripture notice. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Where was James quoting that from? From the the law of Moses, right? Particularly the book of Leviticus, chapter 19 and verse 18. He calls it Scripture, by the way, and so scripture means sacred writings, gives you a little bit of a hint that James himself was submitted to Scripture. He believed Scripture was inspired, that it was authoritative, that it was clear, and so that is that's how we should be viewing Scripture as well. But he goes to Scripture, he quotes it, calls it the royal law Why is that? Well Jesus the King took that command and as you look at it in Leviticus it doesn't look like it's an elevated command as it's just in a list of a lot of different commands. Jesus saw that command in the embedded in the 613 commands. And Jesus, our Lord and Savior, saw something special about that command. He took it out, not out of context, but he pulled it out in a sense, and he elevated it and he magnified that one command, and he made it a good summary of all of the other Old Testament commandments in as far as our moral obligation to one another in a horizontal sense. Doesn't fulfill our obligation to God. The greatest commandments What? That's our vertical responsibility and requirement that fulfills our obligation to God. But as far as man-to-man goes, Jesus saw in that statement, Love thy neighbor as thyself, as a great summation of and fulfillment of all of the rest of the commands that were there. And so he took that and he made it his command. He made it his royal command in the New Testament. Love thy neighbor. He turned it and looked towards his disciples and said, This commandment I give to you, love one another. Love. What a great command to have. Love. The commandment for love. What a wonderful command, if you think about it. Usually we're against rules, we don't like rules, we don't like being told what to do all the time. You know, someone tells you, love! That's a good thing, isn't it? This is agapa, it's the agape love. It's the love of volition, right? It's not a love you always feel really good about, but it's a love where you you decide in your heart you're gonna do the right thing for other people. You're gonna care for them, you're gonna sacrifice In this context, it would clearly refer to caring for the poor. There's someone in need. They don't necessarily deserve your help, but they need your help. And so a merciful, loving kind of action would be take an action and do something to help them. That's love. It's not the uh the love of society today. I hope to distinguish God's love from what is talked about all over the place out there today, right? It's like love, a true biblical love, is morphed into this very ungodly idea of tolerance where everything is good, everything is fine. It's not that you're loving unlovable things and everything has become lovable and nice and good and tolerating. You know, this is true sacrifice that does what is right for others. Meaning just accept whatever today, any perversion in the name of a false love. By the way, you'll never find God's love helping people practice their sin. It's not God's love. If he helped them practice their sin, it couldn't be love because he'd be deceiving them and leading them to destruction. So the idea that we're somehow going to be kind to people by helping them along in their sin or by making a rule that allows them to practice their sin is just a complete misunderstanding of love. Anyone who says that's love has no idea what God's love is. They haven't even learned the ABCs of God's love yet. God's love is a righteous love. 1 Corinthians 13 says it rejoices with truth. It actually benefits other people. His love So that's the commandment that Jesus gave as King. He's our King, he's the King of Israel, we're his subjects, and He's the King. And he literally said, and I like how he said this in John 15, 12, this is my commandment. Did you ever listen to the way he said that? He personalized it. He possessed that commandment. This is my commandment that you what? Love one another. This is mine. In John 1334, he calls it a new commandment I give to you. How can it be new when it was 2,000 years old or 1,500 years old in his day? New, I looked that word up, it's kinos, it means fresh, unused. How can it be new? It's in the Mosaic Code A new commandment I give to you, because he was giving it a new emphasis. He was giving it a new application. He was giving it a broader sense as well. It was a new command for a new age. There he was in the upper room celebrating the Lord's Supper, inaugurating the next day in his death the new covenant, and he was saying, This is my commandment for the new covenant. That accompanies new covenant believers for the new covenant age. It was really the first time that he had directly charged the disciples, this I command you, just as I have loved you, love one another. It's his command. So love now took a very prominent position among the people of Jesus. It's not that it wasn't there before, but it is heightened under the teaching of Christ. He wanted them constantly to be thinking about the importance of this commandment. For it summarized their entire Christian obligation to one another. It became the governing factor, the banner under which New Covenant believers would live. Does that make sense? So love thy neighbor, buried in all these commandments, or just in a long list of commandments, he adapted from the Mosaic Code and he fitted it for use in his kingdom and it became his royal law. I want to expand on this a little bit because this is exciting. This is really intriguing, I think. If you just keep a finger in James and turn to Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew, to the very beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, you'll you'll read something I think is quite clarifying. Matthew 5. Opening really of the main body of the Sermon on the Mount. The Beatitudes and what comes before sort of the introduction to the Sermon on the Mount, but the main body starts right here in uh chapter 5 verse 17. Verse 17. This is really the main body where he introduces what he's going to be talking about. Yes, I do believe it was one sermon delivered at one time. Matthew 5. 17 He's speaking to the Jews. Remember, this is by the Sea of Galilee. He's kind of telling them what he's all about. This is early on in his ministry. And this is such an informative passage. It's of such great value to understand what is changing and not changing between the Old Testament and the New Testament, the Old Testament law and Jesus' teaching. It's one of these pivotal verses in the Bible. You look at it and he says, Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophecy. So put out of your mind any wrong ideas you have about my ministry. I want to clarify for you, Jesus, what I'm really doing. Do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets, I did not come to abolish, but what? But fulfill, right That word abolish means to overthrow or to destroy or to demolish. It was a term that was generally used to destroy buildings, to kind of just knock them down. And so the idea would be to render something useless, to nullify it. So Jesus says, in no way should you see me as trying to dismantle or tear down the law of Moses. I'm not here to do that Nor the Old Testament prophets. Jesus believed the law. Jesus practiced the law. Jesus knew the law was good and holy. Just like the words of the Apostle Paul would say later in the book of Romans, he said, the law is holy. And the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Nothing wrong with the law. It's great. It's good. He's not there to tear it down. In fact, uh Psalm 197, I love that. It says the law of the Lord is what? Perfect, right? Restoring the soul. It was never to be looked down upon as something bad or wrong. The Old Testament law was good. Why was it good? Because God gave it. Do you know that before God gave the Ten Commandments, He personalized the commandments, He said, I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt? out of the house of slavery, boom, commandment number one, you shall have no other gods before me. Just comes from him. It was it's from him. It has to be holy. It's good. And Jesus here twice for emphasis says in verse 17, do not think that I came to abolish. I did not come to abolish. Can't be clear, right? What did he come to do? Fulfill it. That means it's good and but it's incomplete and it means fulfilling. Play ra'o is the word the verb fulfill, it means to fill up or to complete, or another way of saying that would be to accomplish it. Jesus in his whole mission to earth, his life came to to live every aspect of the li of the law of God that we were unable to do that. He would go to Calvary and die on the cross to pay for their sins and thus fulfill the righteousness of the law. He would rise from the dead, ascend into heaven. He would fulfill the law in every single way. Jesus, in other words, himself is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. If I can borrow his own words, John 5. 39. The scriptures, he's talking about the Old Testament scriptures because none of the others were written at that time. The scriptures testify about Me. What a statement for a man to say. Here's all the Old Testament scriptures. What are they about? They testify, Jesus said, about me. I've come to fulfill it all. They spoke of me anyways. So without Jesus, the Old Testament, all the laws, all of its prophecies remain incomplete. The Old Testament was never meant as a full and complete package. It was always with a dot, dot, dot, more to come. The more to come was Jesus. Jesus did not come to set up a rival system of teaching or a rival law or to debunk the old law. He came to embody all of it. However, and this is a big however, and you need to really listen to this because this is very important, the effect of Jesus Christ's coming. Was that the law of Moses as an operating system over God's people Israel, as the arrangement that God Himself had set up for His people during that time Came to an abrupt end with Christ. Not because Christ abolished the Old Testament law. Not because it was destroyed, but because it was assumed into Christ and fulfilled by Christ. The law of Moses. What an elaborate law, what an elaborate covenant that it was. Six hundred and thirteen commandments, all regulating the nation of Israel, every aspect of their their their kingdom, their theocracy All the people of Israel swore in an oath solemnly to keep the law because the law was part of a covenant they were making with God at Sinai, right? Blood was sprinkled on them. I mean this was formal, this is dramatic. Curses upon them if they did not obey it. It told them how to live, it told them how to worship in every little detail, in every little sacrifice, how to conduct their nation, how to go out to war how to do their family, how to do everything. It regulated everything. That entire mosaic system and law was swallowed up in New Testament times into a greater system, a better system. It's called the new covenant in Christ and His teaching, His law. So what happens now? Now, Peter, John, James And the others, you and I, and you covenant believers, we're following Christ. We're following Christ's teachings. We're following Christ's law given in the New Testament The believer today is able to follow all of the moral requirements that God laid on the shoulders of the Israelites under the old covenant. We're able to keep that full moral will of God because we follow the teachings of Christ, okay? You don't have to worry, am I keeping the Ten Commandments? If you keep the commandment of Christ, you are automatically If you follow Christ's law of love, you automatically fulfill the moral requirements of the old covenant Today, we are not under the Old Testament law as a system. There is a role for the Old Testament law today, but as a governing system, we are not under it. We're not under it at all. That's what Paul was talking about In Romans 6. 14 it says you're not under law, but under grace. Couldn't be clear. Galatians 5. 18 he says if you are led by the Holy Spirit, you are not under the law. Couldn't be clear. 1 Corinthians 9 29, Paul says he himself was not under the law of Moses. Rather, he was under, and he calls it, the law of Christ. The law of Christ. What does it mean to be under the law? Well it doesn't mean, as some have interpreted, that you're under the condemnation of the law. Some people have tried to make it that. That's not what it means. How do we know that? Because in Galatians 4. 4, it says that Christ was born and lived under the law. And he was never under the condemnation of the law, because he never what? Sinned, right? And that's the same exact phrase, by the way, in Galatians 4, 4. Hupa Namen, under the law. Under the law does not mean under the condemnation of the law. Jesus lived under the law in the sense that he was under the management of the law during his entire life from birth to All the way through death. He lived as a Jew under the law of Moses. He fulfilled the commandments of Moses in every way. Circumcised on the eighth day, down to the details, he fulfilled all righteousness under the Mosaic covenant. He was born and he lived during the time when the law of God was still in operation. See, sometimes it's confusing because you're reading about Jesus' life in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John and you say, wait a minute, that's in the New Testament. No, the New Testament in terms of the covenant isn't ratified until the end of Jesus' life when he dies on the cross. That's when that age really began. Jesus' life was under the old covenant. Every aspect of his life, he lived to fulfill the law of Moses. But now that's passed. You have to understand that. Because so many of the errors that creep into Christianity, in the various Christian denominations, creep in because people do not understand that one basic doctrine. system has passed. You cannot properly understand your Bible or the requirements of the Christian faith or what the rule is that you are to live by unless you understand that time period has passed. Christ fulfilled it Just as the I like to put it this way, you look at the the early sun, the the the light of dawn as it comes up. Wasn't it beautiful this past week? Some beautiful dawns. And you get up and there's that early dimmer light. And yet by noonday, the the sun is up high in the sky and it's shining bright. So it's not that the sun at noonday abolished the light of dawn. It's just that it became brighter and brighter as the sun came up, and the light of dawn is swallowed up into the greater light of noon, and thus, in a sense, has fulfilled the light of dawn. That is what Christ is. He's the brighter shining light of which the Old Testament is the shadow. Christ comes in the fullness of light and he fulfills the light of the dawn and becomes the greater shining light. He's the greater one Many believers really get their feathers ruffled at this point. Wait a minute, preacher, what are you saying? We're not under the Ten Commandments anymore? Are we or aren't we? Put you on the spot. Okay, I'll answer this way yes and no. The law of Christ takes care of all the moral requirements of Moses' law. But we are not under the Ten Commandments as a system The Ten Commandments are the centerpiece of the Old Covenant. They're the center Ten Commandments of the 613. The proof that New Testament believers are not under the Ten Commandments is the Sabbath law, one of the ten. The Sabbath law to worship God and not work on which day? The Sabbath, some try to make it the first Sunday. Sunday was never the Sabbath, it was always the seventh day, couldn't be clear. We don't stay home and not work on Saturdays and we don't worship on Saturdays. Why? Because we're not old covenant believers. We're not under the Ten Commandments. That doesn't mean there's not something to learn from the Ten Commandments. Something to appreciate from the Ten Commandments, something that is absorbed and brought into the New Covenant time that brings the Ten Commandments with it. But as a system, a governing system We're not in that old system. In fact, do you know that the Sabbath, keeping the Sabbath, I mean really keeping the Sabbath, not doing any work at all. You or your son or your daughter or your male servant or your female servant or your ox or your donkey, remember how specific it was? The keeping of the Sabbath is actually the sign of the old covenant. You would keep it to show you're in covenant with God through the Mosaic covenant. The sign of the new covenant is the Lord's Supper. Sign of the Old Covenant is keeping the Sabbath. We're not under that, that's why we don't keep it. When you obey the law of Christ in the New Covenant, you do everything that Moses required morally in the Ten Commandments and more Paul directly said this. He understood this. Romans 13:10. Love does no wrong to a neighbor, he wrote. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law. He meant there the Mosaic Law. Alright, maybe some of you still don't get it. Let me back up even further. Remember that before there was even a law of Moses, before God took his finger, figuratively so to say, and he wrote the Ten Commandments on the stone, right? Wasn't there still a moral law before he wrote the Ten Commandments? Didn't people who lived before Moses still know that committing adultery was wrong and murder was wrong and stealing was wrong and bearing false witness was wrong Most of them, yes, amazingly. They didn't know that. Do you think morality and righteousness began at Mount Sinai with Moses? No! That is thousands of years into human history by that point in time. Long before Moses, there was Adam and there was Noah and there was Abraham and they had a conscience and they were made in the image of God and they understood the moral law of God. It existed before the Ten Commandments. Then that eternal moral will of God that He stamped into all of humanity was taken and was codified and made more specific and put in conjunction with a covenant with a nation, and now that eternal, righteous, moral will of God that comes from God Himself as an eternal being was codified into a covenant And now that became the Ten Commandments and what surrounded the six hundred and thirteen commands. So the righteousness that God always had in his being, that God made Adam with, that was their For man to live with and existed there was taken and put into that that covenant. It existed before Moses. When Christ came, in the fullness of time, as we're told, he brought a fuller expression of that righteous will of God than even found in the Mosaic Code. The Mosaic Code was not the final revelation of the righteousness of God. Christ was. So Christians are not under the Ten Commandments. They are under all the moral requirements of the Ten Commandments because they're under the righteous banner and moral will of God from all of eternity, of which the Ten Commandments is a great expression of that. We are under, as Paul calls it in 1 Corinthians 9, the law of Christ, and in no way is that inferior to the Mosaic Code. James here calls it the royal law or the law of freedom. Love is that law. The law of Jesus Christ, which covers all. And how mystific the Lord Jesus was. John 15, 17. This I command you that you love one another. So often we hear that and we hear Jesus wants us to love one another. No, he said this I command you, I with my authority as king am leaving you my royal edict, my royal decree, love one another. The law of Christ expresses all the righteousness that came earlier, and it eclipses it as well. So, turn back to James. James is not out in left field. James is not out to lunch. He's not a legalistic Judaizer. James, who is the Lord's brother, I remind you, and who spends a lot of time quoting or at least alluding to Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. followed really Jesus' lead. Jesus brought love front and center in regulating the Christian life. James just followed him James is not, by the way, talking about bringing us back under the Old Covenant or the Old Testament law. Notice that James does not write here anywhere about doing the works of the law. When Paul would talk about those that are trying to be justified by the works of the law, James does not bring up that terminology. Notice he doesn't speak about that at all. He's not a legalist. He's not saying I want you to do the works of the law so you can achieve righteousness with God. He never says that. He does not urge the brethren in this letter or anywhere, you need to get circumcised so that you can keep the requirements of the law. No, he doesn't do that. He doesn't say keep the Sabbath. He doesn't encourage the keeping of the festivals or the holy days or the dietary laws or all the purification laws. James is not bringing the believers back under the Old Testament law. Jesus is bringing them to a freeing commandment of Jesus Christ he calls the perfect law. And we, beloved, are to take his commandment very seriously. This is all set, don't forget, in the context of helping the poor, remember? We must practice love. Who needs our expressions of love the most? Isn't it the poor? Aren't they the ones that most need to see us practicing this command where we look for those in need, find ways to fulfill it as a individually, but as a church, working together. How can we reach them? How can we meet them? What can we do for them? That's love. In fact, just to cheat a little, looking forward into uh the verses to come, not really cheating, but just look at the verses that come there. In verses 14, following 15, 16. He gives an example here of an act of faith. He says, if a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, wouldn't you call that a poor person? And one of you says to them, go in peace, be warmed, and be filled. Got all the right words, you know. And yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body. What use is that? And then he goes on to correct that kind of a faith, a faith that doesn't have love. A faith that doesn't produce the fruit of love is not even a faith, James is going to say. So this is very much on his mind. Love is central to our faith, to the expression of our faith, as a rule of faith, as the law of Christ. Love. Love one another. Love the helpless. Now focus on verse 10, if you would. In verse 10, James is using the moral requirements that are in the Old Testament law. Remember that the moral requirements in the Old Testament law are the same as the moral requirements in the law of Christ, or even though the law of Christ may eclipse and go further, but it's the same. And he's going to use the Old Testament law here in verse 10 and 11 to bring about conviction of sin. In fact, there's a little transition word there in verse 10, 4 in Greek. It means that the evil of their partiality that he's explained in verses 1 through 9 is now confirmed by the fact that it breaks the moral requirements of God's law. So in other words, James is using the Old Testament law here in a very legitimate kind of a way. He's saying we're going to use the Old Testament law to understand the righteous requirements of God and by that to see how we failed to live up to that standard. It's a perfectly legitimate use of the law of Moses even today to show and reveal sin. That's what it's good for. So he he states the principle. And basically the principle is this: violating any part of the law of God Is equivalent to breaking the entire law. Breaking the whole law. Do you see that? Violating any part of a law is breaking the whole. What does that mean? That means the law is a unit. And it applies to everyone, or I should say it applies to any when it says whoever in verse 10, right? For whoever keeps the whole law. So he's dealing with anybody here. It's a scenario. And by the way, this is an extreme scenario that James envisions here. Whoever keeps the whole law. If that never happens, who's he talking about Nobody around nobody I know that keeps the whole law. This is a very special situation he's thinking about. I mean James knows they're all sinners, just look ahead to chapter 3 and verse 2. He says in chapter 3, verse 2, for we all stumble in many ways. He knows it. He knows we're all sinners and we know that we all stumble in lots of different ways. Not just one sin over and over, but we got a lot of sins, right? James knows that. He's not Pollyanish. He knows that. We all stumble in many ways. He knows that no one perfectly obeys God's law. He knows what the Old Testament said in Ecclesiastes. There's not a righteous man on earth who continually does what is good and never sins. He knows what Romans three twenty three said, all have what? Sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, right? He knows that. He knows no one perfectly obeys God's law. But just to make a point, let's develop an imaginary guy. For whoever keeps the whole law. He's so great. Keeps the whole law. He stumbles in one point. One point only. Now there are tons of laws, so this is a pretty good guy. I mean I'm thinking about what he's saying here. Wow. So he's He's doing the whole law. He's practicing the whole law. I mean who's like that? I mean what would you think about a guy like that? Here's a guy he practiced the whole law, but he just stumbled in one area. He sound like he was intentional. He stumbled into it. He kind of broke it, he fell into it, he messed up. What would you think about a guy like that, right? That guy's a model citizen. That guy should be a leader in church. That guy is wonderful. Let's select him for president. This is unprecedented. We've never seen anyone like this He's lived, you know, next to Jesus, he's just broken one little one law. That's all it is. He went astray. We can understand that. I mean we have hundreds of them. He just broke it in one situation. What a wonderful guy Beloved, that is not God's estimate of him at all, right? No, we'd be far, we'd be a mile away from what God thinks What does God say? What does James say? He has become guilty of breaking the whole law. This is one of those places if you're reading your Bible and you're not asleep and you're thinking about what you're reading. You should be doing something like this And you just double checking to make sure you're not seeing double print or something like that on the page. How on earth could that be? Guilty of the whole law? Wait, wait, wait, he breaks one law? And now you're saying he's guilty of breaking the whole law? That's it? That's all he did. Yes. Yes. And guilty means this guy is now under the power of the law, the jurisdiction of the law. Yes, even the condemnation of the law. He has to face now the consequences of being a law violator, or as it's called in the passage, transgressor. He's convicted, Pentecost. He's guilty. His standing before God now has been ruined. He's going to stand before God. God's the judge. He's going to stand before him. And what is the guilt? Guilty. That's the verdict. There's two verdicts with God, innocent and guilty. And he falls into the guilty side. One sin, one violation of the law. You've got to be kidding me. You've got to be kidding me. I mean who can live up to that? I mean that is just so unfair of God. What kind of justice would do that? What kind of a crazy judge would say he's guilty of breaking the whole law What kind of a god? What kind of a god is like that? Answer A holy God? Do you know what holiness means? No exceptions. No exceptions. How many sins did it take for Adam to be removed from paradise? One. No exceptions. How many sins did Satan commit as Lucifer before he was thrown out of heaven? As far as we know, one. This is our God. You see, the law is not a bunch of little laws. It's not like you know the Israelites scoured the other nations for good and just laws and kind of accumulated them and wrote them into something new There's one lawgiver. All the laws didn't come from Babylon or the Hittites, some of these people that believe in the evolutionary development of the Of uh the nation of Israel and its religion. No, no, no, no, no, no. Came from one source, God. It's the law, we say of Moses. No, it's the law of God Moses is just a mouthpiece. One God, one standard, one law. Many expressions of the righteousness of that law, but one law, it's a unit. So you either keep the whole law, you keep the whole unit, the whole thing, every last part of it, or you fail. A lot of you guys play basketball, you like to shoe hoops. There's a hundred different ways to miss a basketball shot, isn't there? I mean you can brick them, you can rim them in and out, bang them off the back of the rim, off the backboard It only counts if it goes in, right? It goes in the hoop. Close with God doesn't cut it. Some people say that close only counts with horseshoes and hand grenades. Who cares if you knock the bar off in the high jump with your head, your tail, your legs, or your floppy hair? If it falls, you failed the jump Put it another way, there is no grace in the law of God. Not a splinter of it. Not an inch. All the law brings conviction. All the law brings guilt. It's meant to expose the evil that's already inside of us. See, we didn't become evil when we break a law. The law is like a mirror, it just shows us what we're like. It's like your kid, you know, you look at your kid and you say, you know, now don't do that. Now you know he's going to do it So why do you tell him? Because you want him to to learn they he can't keep that. He's a sinner. And then you bring the grace of God to his little heart, right? And you don't castigate him, you teach him about sin in his heart and lead him to Christ. That's the proper use of the law. Now please notice the illustration of the principle. After he states the principle in verse 10. He gets into the example of adultery and murder in verse 11. For he who said, Now notice the word for again, tying this as an illustration to the principle in verse 10. For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said Do not commit murder. So what about that? So if you do not commit adultery, but do commit murder, what then is true about you? You're still a transgressor of the law. That's a point. By the way, it says he who said. You know who that is, right? Little little hint again that this there's a Jewish flavor to the letter of James because the Jews did not like to overuse the name of God. And so this is a circumlocution of the name of God to sort of speak around the name of God, the mean God. And it means that there is the speaker who spoke. And by the way, since it's talking about scripture, he who said, and since that's scripture, you have a very clear understanding of what the nature of scripture is. When people have a low view of scripture, they're contradicting what it is because he who said is the same thing as what the scripture says. The scripture is he who said. That speaks of the verbal, accurate inspiration of the Bible, right? And so he picks up these two laws. Embedded in the Ten Commandments, right there, right? Two laws, adultery and murder, following the Septuagint order. Adultery first, murder second. That's in some of the manuscripts of the Septuagint. The first and second of the laws pertaining to man. First five commandments of the ten pertain to man's requirement. and love towards God, the last five, the second half, is man to man. And it begins with murder and then adultery, or that's in the uh Masoretic text, and in some of the Septuagint text, uh adultery and then murder. The first two. So they're important. We call it the horizontal law. Okay, so there's the vertical law, Israel's duty to God, first five commandments, second five, man to man. And he picks these two because these two are hefty commands. These are weighty commands. Don't murder. Don't commit adultery. Violating either of those two commands brought the death penalty under the Mosaic system. So they're equal weight commandments. But the point is that if you are able to avoid in your life adultery and don't commit it, but you murder somebody Oops. You are still the violator of the law. And implied vice versa, right? No way could you keep one and break the other and then expect no consequences. Look, I kept one. Doesn't that count? No. Either way, you're a transgressor. What's a transgressor? Someone who was under obligation to keep the law but did not. That's what a transgressor is. A breaker of the law of standards. Now why is James pointing this out here? Because it is the same with favoritism in the sin of partiality. Showing partiality is also a violation of the law of God. It is a violation of the integrity and the intent of the entire law of God, where we're supposed to be doing good to our neighbor We're supposed to be living by the law of love, but favoritism does not do that. Favoritism diminishes the poor man and elevates the rich. Again, that's because the law is not a bunch of individual laws, but it's a unit. Like you take glass, it doesn't matter whether you shatter a corner of it and it all cracks, or you take something big and shatter in the middle of it. Once it's all broken, it's broken, that's it Paul wrote and said this way in Galatians 3, As many as are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things Written in the book of the law to perform them. That's the law. You want to go the law's route, you want to be just and righteous before God with the law, you've got to keep the whole thing. Can you imagine running a red light officer pulls up to your window and you say, Oh, I'm sorry, officer, you know I stopped at the last 120 red lights. Does that count? No Right? It doesn't count. We already know that. Sin is not really about breaking one part of a law It's about breaking the integrity of the law as a whole. That whole standard of righteousness given from God, you break a corner of it, the whole thing shatters. We can't be selective about the laws we want to obey. When you break one part of the law, it reveals unrighteousness in you. It also says that because you were willing to break one part of God's law, given the right set of circumstances, you would be willing to break the other laws as well. You're doing your will, not God's. That's James's point about favoritism to the rich. You think that's a small thing? If you show partiality, you violate the very law of love. You have a wrong spirit inside of you. People do not like this kind of teaching. I do not like this. Some of you probably not liking this right now. People do not like to be told you don't measure up to God's standards. Man, if you want that's a that's about the least postmodern politically correct thing you can say. Ah, you don't cut it with God That's exactly what James is saying. You know, realize the gospel of Jesus Christ is going to become politically incorrect to say in public. Keep it in your church. Keep saying it out there, keep speaking it. Because the first part of the gospel is you're in trouble with God, you're not good. And what's the point in leading them to the cross if they don't understand their sin? People today think they're decent folks, good folks, truth tellers. Well they lie. How can you be a truth teller if you lie? They think they're kind, but then they act mean. I'm a nice person, but you act mean They exaggerate their virtues. They they cover up their faults, right? People uh you know they wave the American flag and then they hedge on their taxes. I think that's called cheating. They say their vows up front, beautiful gown on, then they cheat in their marriage. Did you catch the guy that hacked into the adultery website thing? You know, publishing all the names of everyone that was saying, hey, you know, life is uh short, get an affair. Now they got all the names and they're publishing them. That's nothing. Imagine when God publishes all the names of sin. 1 Corinthians 4 5, wait until the Lord comes who will both bring to light the things hidden in darkness and disclose the motives of men's hearts. Not just that they committed adultery, but why. Oh man, is that going to be amazing? The lust of our world is non-stop. Internet, the moles. They drink it they drink it like water. God says it's evil There is hatred out there and murder and rape and bullying and jealousy and envy and the loving of pleasure and drunkenness and carousing and you name it. If that weren't bad enough the way they practice sin, they take everything good that happens into their life, everything that's been provided for them every day of their lives, their food, the sunshine above, beautiful days like we have The blue sky, the moon, the wind, the rain, the crops, the food. And rather than falling on their knees before God and saying, Thank you, God, I worship you as a provider of all these things, I give you thanks for that. They just curse his name back in vain at God. And worship false gods and erect false systems of religion. Oh sure, they're big talking about themselves. But those same people, if we take James here at his word, are guilty 10,000 times over. There is no angel in the courts of heaven above who is impressed with the life of anybody on earth. Just read the judgment of the great white throne and find out. You know, the Jews back then they prided themselves on being very religious, keeping the law of God, right? Jesus was astonished at this. He said to them in John 7:19, Didn't Moses give you the law? And yet none of you carries it out. What an indictment. And people today are the same. They can be so legalistic. Even a lot of people who do not go to church and moralize and lecture other people about what's right and wrong. I like to call it the worldly church out there. They think themselves so moral and they get on these talk shows and they start lecturing everybody else about what's right and wrong. Lecturing people on morality, judging other people, looking down on them, saying, this is outrageous. This is disgusting. Pronouncing themselves great Americans. I'm proud of myself. I fight for the environment. Well, goody for you. I'm against cruelty to animals. How could you be so evil eating that meat? I fight for women's rights, gays rights, you know movie stars who who have who have led people into the most sinful thoughts in their movie, and then they stand up and they take their little trophy and then they decide to lecture people on morality. Pharisees of the world. Self-righteous modern Pharisees. They lecture others and they shatter the law of God every single day Every word they speak condemns them before a holy God. Hey, if you want to go the legalist route, then again I say As Paul said in Galatians 5, I testify again to every man who received circumcision so they would keep the law. You are under obligation to keep the whole law, he said. Not most, not 99 out of 100, all of them. God's standard is perfection, not 70-30, 80-20. You want to go the route of works before God, you had better not miss a beat. You better be perfect. Oh, wait a minute. You already blew it. So you can't go that route. So many have no clue, no clue whatsoever what God is like. They think of Him Like some half-blind grandfather up above who can't see all the miscreant deeds of his grandchildren on earth they're getting away with things. Beloved that is not a real God. Hebrews 4. 13, there is no creature hidden from God's sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. You gotta deal with God, and he sees everything. With you it will be very easy to find guilt. Pick a day Any day. Pick a week, any week. Pick a month or a phase of life any time, and God will find the sin that is there. Need I remind you of Hebrews 10:31, it is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Beloved James is so aware as we are today that many justify their disobedience. They point to all the laws that they have kept. They put all their credentials out front. They think they're so good. They don't need to be saved by Jesus Christ. They don't need that kind of talk. They're fine with God the way they are. Listen, your morality through your Judaism or your Catholicism or your Buddhism or your Baptist heritage or whatever it happens to be Is nowhere near good enough for the standard of God. You're nowhere near the standard. You're a transgressor of the law of God, and there's not a thing in the world that you can do to change that. You stand guilty before God right now a thousand times over. You pass out of this world into the next world. You've been following the works of a religion in this world, doing good, trying to impress God. Clinging to your religion on your deathbed, you're doomed. You will go into eternity with all of your sin. Certainly not all laws are equal in weight. Heisting a soda pop is not the same as murdering somebody. The law of God had varying punishments for different sins. Jesus spoke of some people's sins being greater than others, but listen, all sins have this in common. Once broken, As far as God is concerned, there's only one standing you have with Him. Lawbreaker. Transgressor, and you will bear your guilt into eternity. Religion can't save you. Jesus Christ can. You come to him, flee to him, run to him, beg for mercy. Don't tell him your credentials, you don't have any. Believe in his credentials. He has them all. Perfect, sinless. Loved to the fullest. Practiced everything he preached. Died on the cross to pay for your sins if you're willing to believe. Run to him. Give him your life. Believe. Today he'll save you He'll save you completely. He'll give you a righteous, innocent standing before God as a gift, unearned, undeserved. Just that simple. That's what the good news of Jesus Christ is. Amen? If you need to come talk to one of the leaders myself afterwards and you're you need to talk about that, please do. I'd like to make that plain to you. Father, grant eyes to see Hearts to believe. We as believers, as we hear of the standard of righteousness, may we always rejoice in our Savior and be determined even more to obey your law from the heart because We know you saved us from that, not that we would practice sin, but that we would learn from the heart to obey your law. The law of love, the royal law. Thank you for our Savior and our teacher, Jesus Christ