This morning we're gonna kind of pick up from where we were last week. We talked about how sin motivates The functions of our heart, uh how it uh affects us cognitively It affects our um affections and volitionally. For example, sin corrupts our thoughts And uh and the beliefs of the heart, people, people in their daily lives believe thoughts that are not true about God. People can believe things that are not true about themselves, about others, and about the circumstances in their lives. People believe God is less glorious than he is, less relevant to their experiences And that God is less worthy of their worship. This is how sin corrupts the heart. People also can believe that they are more important than they actually are. In relationships, people believe that others are meant to serve them. And people don't think about relationships the way God describes in his word. If you think about, I know for me when I think about my life as an unbeliever, I can check off a lot of this of what I've just said, how my heart was um corrupted by sin and unfortunately I didn't even know. Sin corrupts our affections It corrupts our heart and that our feelings don't align with what God values. Most times our emotions don't reflect the character of God. People don't find joy in what God delights in. We're not saddened about what grieves God. Our desires and the emotions don't imitate God. Sin corrupts our choices and our commitments. Corrupts our will. Our ability to choose is bound by sin. Therefore, we are bound or always bound to sin. So we we we we were able to See this in Genesis 3 of last week when we looked at Adam and Eve and how sin motivates their hearts. So as I said today, we're going to look from Scripture how faith affects the dynamic functions of the heart. Last week we were in the Garden of Eden. And today we're going to go to the Garden of Gethsemane. Christ's life is the perfect picture of what our life should look like. Paul says that we are ambassadors for Christ. We are to be imitators of God. And Peter says that we are God's own possessions. Now we know Christ led a sinless life, both externally and internally. But what I hope you see this morning that Christ can teach us a lot about the heart when it's motivated by faith When righteousness, which comes by faith, plugs into the structure of the heart, everything changes. What we think about What we desire and our choices change. And I'm sure some of you can attest to that. Uh all of us who are saved and and and over the course of time as we gain more knowledge about God and who he is and who we are or who he says we are. Our books change, our affections change, our desires, and our choices change. I've uh you know, in my own life it's it's I don't believe the same things I used to believe. My desires are different today than they were when I was an unbeliever. And I make different choices. So I think over a period of time as you grow in Christ, you will see how your Thinking, your beliefs, your affections, and your desires, and your choices change over the years. So, faith functions dynamically in the heart, restoring the sinful heart to function. As it was originally designed to. Our hearts were designed to worship God In thought, in our desires, and in our choices. So, um, let's go to the Garden of Gethsemane The Gospels, we see this scene in the garden in Matthew, Luke, and Mark. And so I want to choose, I I chose Mark, not for any particular reason, but Let's look at Mark 14. We're going to look at verses 32 through 36. Excuse me. And we're gonna look at this dynamically. Okay How faith affects our heart dynamically. As I did last week and and I'll do this week, I'm going to ask questions and So our observations will come from these passages here. So let's look at um Mark fourteen. Let me get there. Verses thirty-two through thirty-six. And it reads, And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he, Jesus, said to his disciples, sit here while I pray And he took with him Peter and James and John, and he and began to be greatly distressed and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little further, he fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible The hour might pass from him. And he said, Our Father, all things are possible for you Remove this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will Okay, so let's look at this dynamically. Christ Is the author and finisher of our faith. Whenever we want to Learn anything about faith in our lives. We look to Christ. He is the author and finisher of our faith. So when we look at that passage dynamically, question Which one of these stands out the most? What's most obvious when you read those passages, when you read that passage? What stands out or what jumps out most to you? Anybody You want me to read it again? I'll read it again because I I know you can see this. What stands out about it is it is belief, affections. His choices. What obviously stands out the most when you read that? Belief. Belief, okay. You see belief? Anybody else? Each one of them is in the passage. Does one dominate over the other? Not necessarily, but what I'm asking is when you read this passage, what's what jumps out the most? Is it his beliefs? Is his affection or his choices? I'm going to read it again, but I'm going to start at verse 33. And it says, he took with him Peter, James, and John. And began to be greatly distressed and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little further, he fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will. Listen to these words. Go ahead. I would say that it's his um his volition, he makes the choice in the end to follow that as well in spite of the fact that he's feeling both the um overwhelming, you know, the emotion and what he believes that you know that it's God's will that he makes the choice that no matter what you know I'm leaving this I'm gonna do what God's will is. Okay. So here in the class Ms. Chebeck says volition because Jesus says not not my will but God's will even though He was under great distress. Is that what what you're saying? Yes. Yes. Here's what I see most They're there. I'm not saying that that's not there. Listen to these words and and and and and and you see them, Ms. Q back. Christ was greatly what? Distressed, troubled, affections, is loaded with affections, sorrowful He said, My soul is very sorrowful. In the Gospel of Luke's account, Jesus prayed with such great agony that sweat. Became like drops of blood. So the source of his suffering was that he knew the suffering and shame that he was going to experience on the cross Yet he knew this was the will of God for his life. So we see all these affections. Right? You see these emotions that God is going to that Christ is experiencing right now. Why was Jesus feel in this way? If Jesus is root, is he not trusting God? In this situation? Was Jesus experiencing a lack of faith? We better never say that, right? We would never ever say that Jesus experiences a lack of faith. It's unheard of. So what does this tell us about these affections? Human nature. Sorrow, distress These emotions that Christ is feeling right now during this time, these emotions of sorrow and distress and agony Can be emotions of faith. They can be motivated by faith. When we grieve the things God grieves, when we are sorrowful for the things That causes God's sorrow, our emotions are motivated by righteousness I think sometimes um and I have met Christians and I think I even thought this at one time, that I always must show joy. Right? That it was not right for me to be sorrowful as a Christian. To be in distress. Right? I got a question here. something that we know is going to happen so that'll be the wrath of God is getting ready to come upon him soon. He knows he knows this is going to happen. He's scaling He's feeling you know the stress that's coming, but he knows this is the plan is he's supposed to do this. He's supposed to go to the cross. So he's feeling it. And often When we're faced with something that we know is going to happen, there's nothing that we can do about it. Do we feel the stressful emotions that go along with it? Absolutely. same time, there's nothing we can do about it. It's like we we have to go through this. And it's part of him being human, you know come to Earth to relate to us, or for us to be able to relate to him, and being the sinless man is false for us. Does that make sense to say? Yeah, so Brian is saying that, Quebec is saying that Christ is I I'm gonna try to summarize, Christ is showing us that we too can have emotions Right? And I uh this we we our God is a God of emotions. We are created in the image of God. When we are faced with the inevitable, we will grieve or be sorrowful just the same as Christ. Right? Our emotions are to be aligned because of faith with God. For example God can command us and he does. He says what? Fear not. Right? But right after he says that, he he he tells us something because he know we will fix Right? He says, for I am with you. It is an interesting command. He says, fear not. But you will. But here's the reason that you don't have to fear. Because I am with you. And even if you do feel, I am with you. Okay, uh am I making sense Okay. So we see these affections, these emotions that Christ is going through And things like grief and distress and sorrow or emotions of faith, right, when they are in line with what God if you lose a child, you're going to grieve. Right? You're going to grieve. The unbeliever and the believer will grieve. But our grief is a bit different because we know the end result that our child will experience if they're a believer, uh eternity with Christ. It makes a big difference because of the knowledge that we have about who Christ is Okay. Am I making sense? Just raise your hand if I'm not making sense. Okay. Question number two. What did Jesus perceive That he was losing. What was causing him to be sorrowful? He was grieving. So grief is the perceived loss of something valuable. So in these verses, what did Jesus perceive that he was losing? What was causing his sorrow and his grief and his distress? To the point that he was his sweat was became blood, drops of blood Would it be knowing that there was going to be a separation between him and God when he was on the cross? Amen. Amen. Jesus understood that what he was about to lose was his fellowship with God. He was so sorrowful in it about that. So this is where the agony and the grief and the distress came from. His relationship with God. So what does this tell us? It tells us how much Christ, he deeply valued his relationship with his father. So Jesus' sorrow is an aspect of faith. Question number three. When you read these passages, what cognitively Is going on here. What knowledge is being displayed in Jesus thinking as he prayed? Mark this is home. Yes, yes. He believed that it's nothing impossible with God. If God will he can he can um allow this uh cup to pass over but yes yes huh yes he it it it it says that all things are possible with you Right? So that is a knowledge about God in this time of distress, right? He knows God. But he says something I like what he says Abba Father. What does that tell us about their relationship? Abba Fab, he says. Very intimate. Very intimate relationship. Very intimate relationship. So you see cognitively the knowledge and the belief Jesus is showing us here. In time of distress, knowing that at some point he's going to the cross and what he's about to face, the shame of the cross. You see how the belief about God is working here? Even in the midst of his affections. Everything is working by faith. This whole thing of our father, as someone said, points to crisis deep intimate relationship with his father. It is an accurate understanding Christ has Of who God is. It conveys a respectful intimacy Between the Son and His Father. Jesus is crystal clear in understanding of his understanding of God being God and He being the son. He also acknowledged and understood from this deep intimate relationship with God the power and the purpose of his father. As he acknowledged, as someone said, all things are possible for you. He knew God could change this if it was his will What is that teaching us about when in our struggles? The same belief do we have that same intimate belief about God when we are in our personal struggles or even helping someone else that all things are possible I give you an example this week, our daughter just going through uh Um some tough times, right? Really tough times. Um I'm seeing the the worry and the anxiety Right? The worry and the anxiety. And and and worry and anxiety can cause uh pain in our bodies. Right? Experiencing chest pains. And I have learned over the years to ask this question, right? And I ask it of myself Who is God to you right now? Who is God to you in this moment or this experience that you're having right now? Is he a God that is far away? Is he a God that doesn't understand your experience right now? This has huge implications on our choices and how we feel. So my attempt for her, right Is to get her to thinking about or have the right belief about God and who He is in her present moment, in her present situation. Now it's easy for me to address the problem, the external thing that's happening in her life. But I want to get her back to thinking about having the right belief about God. She's having a lot of problems about the job. So does anyone have any c questions or comments right now about about So far. When we talk about affections and beliefs That Christ is showing us how faith affects our heart cognitively and our desires, feelings, or emotions. So my kids is hung. Uh-huh. So when we're in the midst of the conflicts, um our believing God would help us to align our hearts back to what God think about the situations If we got lost in our emotion we gotta think about how um what is God doing in that moment and how we think of God at that point and that will align our emotion back to who God is and how He orchestrates the situations. And then we will adjust our emotions according to our knowledge of God. Yeah, yes. Um growing in Christ. So I have a question. Yes. And it's um Just following what Hun said, what are the vital knowledge that we could share with somebody going through anxiety in a tough time that could align their faith back to God or change their belief because like you said during anxiety um some people just don't believe God is there for them What kind of information or knowledge about God can we share with those people that would actually um kind of let them have a better thinking about who God is and change their affection and um the way they feel about the whole process. So I think uh uh we we're going to talk about, you know, later in this this class personal struggles we have with things like anxiety or depression and things of that that nature. So my Yes. I'm sorry to interrupt. I just wanted to share Colleen's comment. She said that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and that's how she see gu sees God in every situation. Okay Okay, yes. That's that's great knowledge about God, meaning that you have to know how he has operated in the past, how he's operating now, and that he will continue to operate. in the future. I think one of the things um to your question about anxiety. Let's say using the example that um I use What's important in in helping people who struggle, I think, is first what I said is listening to their story Right? Just listening to their story. Everyone has a story about where they are and how they got there Right, wrong, and indifferent, it is their story. And I want to embrace that and understand that. So that I can apply the scripture to that right you can easily say to a person who experiencing anxiety you don't believe God Right? You don't believe what God says. I can go right to that And that might be the case, but it's how I get that person to see that. So I want to give her scripture on who God says he is who God says she is, and how he has been and working in her life. Okay? That that would be my approach. I want her to see the love and the care of God. You know, I use Matthew 6. And I read in the book, I think it was by Ed Welch. And he talked about how Christ takes us on a long walk, a nature walk, on a nature trail. And he talks about the birds and the bees. You and him walking together. And he talks about all his creation. Just imagine this. You are walking on this nature trail with Christ. And he's talking about his creation to you. And at some point on this trail, he stops. He's holding your hand And he turns to you and he says, I love you more than all of these. He has shown me all of his creation And if I can get that person, I want that person to start thinking about of all of God's creation, Christ loves her more, him more, than all of creation. I thought that was just like a fascinating way of explaining how Matthew 6, how God says you don't have to worry. Don't be anxious So is this is this a way to get to that person's heart to let her know or him know how much God loves them using their imagination. Yes. Right. How often do we need to find out God showed up to us? So we're going through that struggle, that trial, and we want God to show us love by taking it away. Right? But God loves us so much, He wants to sanctify us so much. Saving, being saved, being sacrifice that he may not take away their child. He may not take away their child at the body. Because he loves us so much that he wants to teach us something. It says there. It says, um, you know, take away, what's it say here? It says Where it says I can't um take this cup away from me. Yeah, same for us. Take this file away from me. Right. He loves us. He may not take it away because he wants us to learn, wants us to grow, wants us to be more peaceful in the body and to bring more view. So Brian is saying that oftentimes in our trials God may not want to take this trial away from us, but most times in our trials, we want the trial to be taken away from us, right? We want the pain to stop. Right? Right? He's showing us love through this. So in my helping people, that is the one thing I need to try to convey that even though You know, we look at James and he says, Have all joy, right? And I remember people used to tell me that. You know But the joy comes from knowing, as what James says, that this is a time of growth that God is allowing me. This is a time of growth. This is a time of bringing me closer to to Christ during this trial. So yes, most people want the pain to stop. Right? What's my goal? My goal is to draw them near to Christ My goal is not to stop the pain. My goal is to draw them near to Christ. Right beliefs about God will change feelings about will change your feelings and thus you will begin to see your situation in a different light When I'm in a trial, one of the things I think about is I am all alone. And this is where you guys come in and why we have to to understand and and and be there for one another and understand the trials people are going through. And that we kinda um straying off or off a bit. But Let's get to the last question here. So we see that Jesus worshiped God with his affection Excuse me, and his knowledge or his beliefs. Alright? So how does, where do you see volition How does he worship God volitionally through his choices in this passage? What is he doing? Yet not what I will, but what you will. Right? We see that We see Christ submitting his will to God's will. His commitment was to obey and honor God. It was greater than his desire to have this pain taken away from him. To have this cup removed from him. And Jesus, by submitting to the will of the Father, he did that for you and he did it for me. Think about that. Because Christ submitted to the will of God, we now Right? I mean think about what he did and what on the cross, what happens on the cross for you and us That would be no salvation for us. This also shows us that as we see how faith rules Christ's heart That we too have the ability for faith to rule our hearts in the same way. When we have the right knowledge about God, the right beliefs about God. Producing the right affections about God. Our choices will be in line with God. We will make the right choices. Everything changes when faith infiltrates our heart. Am I making sense? Are you following me? This has great implications on how we live today. As I said, one of the greatest questions I ask myself, Mike, who is God to you right now? Right? After the conflict I have with Linda, I can walk outside because I'm angry and I'm frustrated And this question needs to come up to me. Mike, in that time, right then, who was God to you then? What were you believing about them? Well I was my belief more centered on Mike or on God And that question brings me back and helps me understand why I was feeling the way I was feeling and the choices that I just made. And that choice, if it's a sinful choice, leads me to repentance. Lead me to asking for forgiveness to others and to God. Does it make sense? Um someone says, right now I am also struggling with anxiety with my job. Is this a sin issue? So we're going to get into that when someone asks about sin. That's that's that's that's That can be real tricky, okay, to to quickly say that your anxiety, a having anxiety, is same What we believe about God, okay, in those times of anxiety is very important Okay. Um it can be a sin issue. I I I'll I'll just say that And I know we're going to talk about anxiety and and hopefully that question that question will be answered. So I I I want that person to know. that it won't go unaddressed in this class. Hey Mike. Yes. Karen Milligan here. How you doing? Milligan, Karen. Yes. Yeah, so one point I like to make when I went through a period of anxiety long time ago is that God doesn't always necessarily take away our anxiety from us. He uses it. And sometimes all we can do is hang on. He didn't take Christ's anxiety away in the garden when he sweated drops of blood and was really fell to the ground in prayer uh, you know, the the plan for him to go to the cross went went through and it had a purpose, a higher purpose. And so sometimes the reality is He doesn't take it away. He uses it as an opportunity, at least he did in my case, to help me think rightly about him Like you were saying, you know, if you think rightly about God, sometimes you're just hanging on by a thread, but you're still trying to think rightly And somehow he allows that sometimes. And he can use it for to bring you closer to him and to glorify him and to also sanctify you know me. So I just wanna make that point. It's not always Rosie like, well if you believe everything right and and you do everything right, you know, it's all gonna be good. Sometimes no. Sometimes he allows that pain because it's useful to his purpose. Yes, to to grow us and to draw us near to him. Yeah. Going through personal struggles My approach has always been this will be a process. That's it. That is it. This will be a process. Yes. Right I don't expect anyone, either that I counsel or I'm discipling to get this the first time. Uh uh I don't. Yeah. I didn't. Nope. Nope. It can go on for a long time. And you think, you know, but sometimes it's just hanging on to the truth you know and saying, although I'm going through this valley, like like Job did. Like I don't get it. I don't know what's going on. But I'm not going to turn my back on you, Lord. You know? So that's all I wanted to say So we, as Paul says, right, what do we have, what's at war here? We war and we will always war with the desires of the flesh And the desires of the spirit The desire is not just the flesh worn with the Holy Spirit. It is the flesh worn with the fleshly desires and fleshly and spiritual desires. Keyword desires, affections. Okay? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, you know Those are desires of the spirit, and that's where the war is. So it will be a process. Coming to believe what God says. Because I'm wrapped up in the situation, I'm wrapped up in the emotions But if I continue to to help that person get come to that place of belief, right, in God Even in that, that's where compassion comes in. That's where true friendship comes in. That's where walking with people side by side comes in. Right? I can easily say to my daughter, you just don't believe. And nothing is going to change till you believe I don't think that's the way Christ wants us to do. Wants us to handle things, yes. I think sometimes it is uh just coming along and reminding them of who God is. Because for some people, anxiety is a lifelong struggle. And when things when something happens And if your thinking goes on, and as well as users of Christ, we can remind them of the truth of God's Word. And sometimes that's it's a con to the thing like with David many times in the song he starts out you know doubting what back doing under severe distress and by the end these are lines Yeah. And that's that's where many times it ends is just having to constantly be reminding you know we're gonna take it So sometimes those thoughts are coming in constantly as a discipline. And we and sometimes it's a daily moment by moment some with constantly reminding ourselves of the truth of God's word, but then you have to have that truth in there firstly in order to be important. Yes, the the the the the the comment is that we have to continuously remind people of the truth about God. I think that kind of sums it up. We have to constantly remind one another in their personal struggles the truth about who God is, even in this struggle. You can we can use this passage of Gethsemane as a foundational truth, a truth of faith when someone is struggling. Uh anybody else got uh questions or comments? Hey Mike, it's Colleen. Um I was just gonna say that Um, w I heard that what you had said earlier about the fact that we will have trials. We absolutely will have trials and the Lord will allow them to last as long as it pleases him and until he accomplishes whatever he set forth to accomplish within that trial. There's no doubt about that. Um, but one thing that I do um disagree with is that in the garden it says that Christ was sorrowful. It says he was sorrowful. Did not say he was anxious. I think there's a difference, a huge difference, because he tells us point blank, be anxious for nothing. So I don't think the Lord was anxious in the garden. I think there's um I don't know that that's true. But as far as um being sorrowful, yes, absolutely. And I do too agree with what was just said that when we are find ourselves being tempted to be anxious about something, We do have to stand firm on what God says. We do have to encourage ourselves. Bless the Lord, O my soul and all that is it within me, bless his holy name. We have to really preach the gospel to ourselves. along with going to others and asking for prayer, but we have to look back on to our life and see where God has been faithful in our life and where He has done um mighty things in our life that we never thought that we'd even ever see the light of day at the end of that. But I do think that um that we we need to continually every sometimes moment of every day, remind ourselves of how good God is, how faithful He is, and um and r remember the scriptures that um that speak directly to us about about his faithfulness to us. Yeah. Yeah Colleen. I I I'm I'm not sure if we um We started talking about anxiety some kind of way we got there. I I don't know if it was an example that I gave or just using um um How we go through things as a personal struggle and anxiety came up. We weren't equating that Christ was experiencing anxiety in the garden So we know that, yes, as the scripture said, he was sorrowful and he was distressed and troubled. That that might have been me, Mike, because when I when I spoke I said that the Lord did not take away his tr being troubled, his distress So you can call it distress, you can call it sorrow, call it what you want. He's going through a trial. Okay. And maybe maybe Colin is right, maybe we should never ascribe anxiety to the Lord. However, I want to point out that it's not a legalistic thing, that if we p if we you know, we have to stand firm. But I can attest to the fact that sometime the Lord has taken me through it by just drawing near to him and the Holy Spirit comforts me. He I don't have to even work for it sometimes. Sometimes when I'm just walking in intimacy with Christ and and just you know, just c crying out, the Holy Spirit clarifies my mind, you know, through the word and all the other things I've done to stand firm. But it's not like, oh man, if you're doing all A, B, C and D It's you know, it's not like that. It's it's if you know what I'm trying to say. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's it's not uh uh uh it's not always uh a one, two, three do this, do this, do this. Right. Yes. Yes. And the only last thing I want to say is that what's so good about Christ is that he empathizes He knows our every temptation. He's been there, done that. He knows. So he's not, you know, it's not like a legalistic thing where now I'll I'll heal you if you follow all these rules. It's more like Hey girl, I've been there. I know what you're going through. I love you. Focus on the love I have for you. You'll get there. Right. If you love me, I'm there. That's that's all I want to say. Amen, Karen. Thanks, Holly. So do we understand or do we have a better picture? Of the dynamic functions of our heart. What when we have Go back to Genesis 3. How sin motivates the heart. Right? How we have a wrong belief About God. And now in this how faith motivates our heart having a right belief about God, even in times of sorrow and distress. Right. So the idea is to help us understand what's happening in our hearts. Our hearts is the control center of everything that we do. Right? And so if I'm able to understand what's happening to me right and apply and make sure that I can apply the scriptures right I can I can make right choices. If I'm believing God and His promises Believing who he says he is, believing who he says I am. Right? I can make right choices. It's counseling a guy and He would come home and wreak habit in his home. Right And I noticed every now and then he would say something about his relationship with Christ. And he began to just talking to him and listening. I'm beginning to see that he valued more what people said about him than what God said about him. When he's on the job and he fails or do something wrong and he listens to people on the job, he holds that in his heart, he marinates that, he thinks about that, it creates sorrow, hopelessness, and even anger, and he brings that home. My approach with him He needs a right belief about who God says he is, in spite of what everyone else. Do you believe God, do you believe even in your failures who Christ says you are? Once he gets to that point, his affection, his desires, his emotions will change, and his choices will change. It's not gonna matter what God's on the job say, because he has a right understanding of his belief about God, who God says he is and how God is working in his life Am I my concern? Okay. Um any other questions Um I think uh Gabe will be back uh next week and yeah he's probably think he's gonna teach on the spiritual warfare And then after that, I believe the agenda is to, we will then talk about some specific personal struggles that uh we we we we go through and how we can apply the dynamic functions of our heart things like depression and anxiety and fears and so we can talk a little bit deeper uh uh about those as well. The idea is Knowledge, but knowing what we're going through. Right? Knowing what we're going through And I have found in my own life. So when I get back in, a lot of this falls into place. Right? Okay, any other questions? Any other comments before we close? Okay, let us pray. Lord God Lord God, I thank you for your word. I thank you. Um For how you love us, how you care for us, how you guide us. working of your spirit in us. You have given us the mind of Christ so that we are able to understand your word and apply it to our lives. I pray, O Lord, that we begin to think more deeply about our hearts. And how important knowledge of you is and our beliefs about you and how they are able to affect our desires and our choices. I pray, oh God, that you would prepare our hearts now for a sweet time of worship and praise for all that you've done in our lives and all that you're doing in our lives and all that you will do. It is a privilege to be called your children, and it's the privilege to call you our Father. Knowing that you will always be there for us. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen