It would be interesting to know what you think of, what you envision when you think of world vis world missions I think sometimes we have images in our mind. Missions, what is that? Be interesting to see what thought bubbles came over each of your heads as you think of missions. Maybe some sacrificial missionary preaching the gospel in a poor country, trudging through some pathway in Africa, Asia, somewhere like that. Maybe a thatched hut with a wooden plaque over top and you find out, oh, that's the seminary they've started in the country, a fledgling seminary. Maybe it's a small church in a Muslim land that's undergoing persecution. Or a gospel film that's being projected in a Third world country, a large city, and many are many thousands are gathered around to see the picture. Or a jeep that's stuck in mud on a dirt road trying to get to some remote place to bring some supplies. Might even be the missionaries that you have seen coming home on furlough and they're back here in the States and they're showing their slides, their pictures, they're asking for prayer and money to support the work. This might be some of the pictures, the images of missions when you get told, ah, we're going to have a missions time, a missions emphasis. There's a broader picture of missions, a broader backdrop to all of these individual pictures about missions that I want to have painted for you this morning. Rather than focusing on all the different aspects of missions, I want you to think about what missions is more globally, what God's mission is. Sort of like a mural in which all these other pictures might be put, a big background for missions And it comes from a very familiar text of Scripture. It's not typically thought of as a missions text, but it's going to be what we think about today. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 10 And as you're turning there, before I read, I just want to give you a little bit of background about Ephesians. Not a lot, just a little to focus our message today. We're going to be preaching Ephesians 2, but in Ephesians 1, as you read it, you realize that there's an awful lot that is explained in that first chapter of Ephesians about God's salvation. It explains a lot. I mean it's complicated, it's rich, it's deep, but it really tells an awful lot about a Christian's salvation. In chapter 1, verse 3, it mentions being blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. We don't deserve any of that, but it talks about this rich blessing that God gives in his church. Also in chapter 1 and verse 4, it talks about election, how God chose us. And he did it because of his love for us. And in again in chapter 1, verse 7, talks about the blood of Jesus and how it's washed away sin and has forgiven us. Verse 11 talks about God's eternal purposes. He's given an inheritance. We're all going to have this great inheritance, even though it's not seen right now. It mentions in there about the Holy Spirit that's been given to us also. So if you go all the way down to verse 19 of chapter 1, begins talking about God's power. What is God's power like in that our eyes would be opened to Paul is praying that our eyes would be opened to his great power and following From verse nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, it talks about the demonstration of God's power in raising Jesus from the dead and seating him at his right hand. So you have all of this wondrous teaching on salvation in chapter 1. And then we arrive at chapter 2. And the best translations start with the word and so you know it's really a continuation of what happened in chapter 1. He's going to continue to speak about God's blessings, but he's going to start from a much darker perspective. He's going to talk about our depraved, sinful nature, but he's going to build from there back up again to something that's glorious. So I want to read that passage for you now. Follow along if you would. And you, writing to Christians, were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air of the Spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love, with which he loved us Even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive, together with Christ. By grace you have been saved And raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace. in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. This passage seems outwardly to say nothing about missions. Doesn't mention missionaries, mission organizations. You don't read about sending churches or prayer meetings, bathing missionaries in prayer. Yet if you're going to understand the big picture of God's mission throughout the world, it says an awful lot about it. This has everything to do with missions if you think about it. It is a backdrop, as I said before, to what happens in all the little details of missionary work. Really, the entire chapter helps us to understand that. Rod is going to speak next week on the second half of the chapter, but uh the first half is what we'll focus on today. What do we see here in the first ten verses of Ephesians 2? Well, we see this. If you want to tie it to missions, I would put it this way, and you can write this down. Missions means working with God To bring praise to the glory of His grace. Missions means working with God to bring praise to the glory of His grace. In other words, missions is joining God's team and telling the world about God's grace. God's got something wonderful. He's got a wonderful message. He's got a wonderful plan. He's got grace. He's got a lot of it. Missions is joining God and telling the world about that. God's grace is presently working in our world right now. You don't hear that on the news, but it is true. And we are to advance the Christian mission. Why? To see God praised for His grace. It's really all about what praise and adoration comes back to God for His grace. Now, there are three very broad truths about missions. This this backdrop that I talked about. We're going to go through them. The first one is this. Missions is to a dead world. That's in verses one through three. Look at it. Missions is to a dead world. What's our mission to? It's to a dead world. Focus on the first three verses again, if you would. And you, now he's talking about Christians, is reminding them of their present state so that they would remember how wonderful God's grace is. You were dead in your trespasses and sins. in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all Formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. even as the rest. This was our condition, this was their condition, this was everyone's condition. So this is the raw material, so to say, of mission. It starts right here. This is to whom the mission, when we talk about a mission, this is to whom it is directed. You can't romanticize missions too much because the mission is to people who are not all that attractive, to dead people. A dead world. Can I point your attention to that little word and at the beginning of verse 1? It tells us that chapter 2 is simply a continuation of Paul's teaching. About what? About the power of God working in the life of a believer. That's all from chapter 1. The connection would be something like this: just as God literally and bodily raised Jesus Christ from the dead And demonstrated his own power, so also God powerfully raises people from spiritual death. He raised Christ from physical death, he raises us from spiritual death. But to be raised from the dead, you have to start with a dead corpse, a dead body. Got to start with the bad news, the dead. So let's take a look at the world. And let's look at some of the descriptions of the world in these first three verses. Here's one description, we just said it, and that is that we are dead. The world was dead. It's not talking about believers now, but the world has the characteristic of deadness before God. You were dead, verse 1 says, in your trespasses and sins. That's a very effective description of the world. Doesn't flatter our egos too much, but it is effective in what it says. Because when you're dead You guys know you you know you have the expression that guy looks half dead, but you can't really be half dead. You're either dead or you're alive, right? And if you're dead, you're dead. You're dead to everything around you, you don't respond as a stimulus. If you're alive, then well you might be weak and sick or whatever, but at least you're alive. You're alive. But dead is dead And so uh dead corpses, you poke them, they don't do anything, they don't respond to stimulus around them. The world is dead to God, they don't respond to to the life of God. They don't respond to worshiping God. If they worship, it's not the true God they're worshiping, they're worshiping false gods, they're fine with that, but they're dead to the true God. So you look at the world, you see all that the world does, there's the business, they're running around and partying on weekends, and you say they look alive. No, they're dead. They're walking around, but they're dead in this regard. They have no life, they don't know God, they don't respond to God, they don't take interest in the things of the Spirit of God. In fact, 1 Corinthians 2. 14 says they don't have a capability to do that because they're dead. It's not that you can't keep prodding a dead corpse, they're dead. That's the way the world is. Our mission is to a a dead world. And they're dead because, please notice again verse 1. They live and move in the sphere of their trespasses and sins. Who are they trespassing against? That's a very easy answer. God. It's always the right answer in church, right? They trespassed against God's law. God has a law, it's a moral law. He made them. He told them this is how you live. They decided they live the way they want to. They even might say God doesn't exist. They set up their own rules and laws and God says, No, you've trespassed my law. And they've sinned. What does that mean? It means they missed the mark with God. They're supposed to aim at that target, but they aim over here or they fall short in some way. They don't hit it with God. So the root problem with the world around us isn't that it has cancer. Here this is the uh you see all those little pink things on all those uh Football players in October, that's wonderful. I would like to see breast cancer eliminated too. It's a good work to be involved in, but that's not the number one problem of the world Number one problem of the world is not lack of education. You see people going to different places, building schools, helping people to educate and get a good job. That's a nice and noble thing to do. That is not the number one problem of the world The one number one problem in the world is not that it's not not democratic. Democracy is not the Messiah of the world. It's not going to save us. If that was Or were the number one problem of the world, or any of those things were the number one problem of the world, then we should be very, very busy building schools and building hospitals and all the other work that would be done That's not the mission of the world. The mission is to a world that's dead. The church so has to be involved in the resurrecting ministry. You with me? We have to be involved in resurrecting. Say, uh-oh, he's going to have one of those services where he calls people down front. He's going to start healing them and raising them from the dead. No, no, no, no. I'm not going that way. I'm not one of those wackos. Hold in there. Hang in there. The Christian church's mission is a mission of cooperating with God toward the dead to see them raised. Throw in Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. They don't manifest God's glory the way he wants anymore. That's why Isaiah the prophet could cry out 2700 years ago in Isaiah 64, 6, all of our righteous deeds. Please notice he didn't say all of our bad deeds, all of our righteous deeds are like a Doesn't say a halo over our head, does it? Or like a filthy garment to the Lord. The best work that we produce and charities and good works and looking out for our fellow man, God looks at it and says it's all tainted, it's a filthy rag. Christian missions is not to get out there in the world and offer another religion so that they can now have the seventeenth religion in their church, I mean in their country, and now they can choose from Buddhism or they can do Taoism or Islam and now they have Christianity. We'll give them an extra option, you know their church will have more to choose their country will have more to choose from. No It's not that. It's not an extra religion to be thrown in there. It's a religion that is saying, it's a relationship with God that is saying Your problem is you're dead, and none of the other religions are going to raise you from the dead, and so we brought God's solution for your real problem. Because if you get sick and get healed, you're going to die again anyways, right? And if you if you don't know a lot and you're not all that educated and you can't read and write, but you love Jesus, you're going to go to heaven and you'll learn whatever you need to learn there anyways. And that's nothing against teachers, I was one And if you're the smartest guy in the world and you know all about math and you study the stars but you say there's no God, as someone recently said, then you haven't really learned that much. So none of that's really important. Your problem is you're dead and we got a mission to you. We want to raise you from the dead. God wants to raise you from the dead. That's what Christian missions is all about. We're not going there to tell people, hey, just follow your own heart. The heart is deceitful above all else, the prophet Jeremiah said 17. 9 in that book. It's desperately corrupt. Human heart? What does God think of the human heart? It's desperately corrupt. There's a good definition of the human heart. Desperately corrupt. That by the way is not just talking about somebody else's heart. We have to hold up to that as well. You look at other people like, man, their heart is desperately corrupt. Look at those politicians. No, but see the politician's a human being. And and we're all human beings, and so we all have human being hearts, don't you? You have a human being heart, and so it's desperately corrupt. God rejects man's religions. God rejects man's morality because it comes from a deceived heart. It's no good. Now, another description of the world here in verse 2, the beginning, it says the world has a course in which it goes, a way, a pathway, a course, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. The little in which part refers back to their trespasses and sins. Unbelievers have had a continuous step-by-step walking existence in trespasses and sins. They don't have momentary lapses where they fall into some bad sense. I'm sorry, I didn't really mean to behave that way. Their entire course, the entire way of life is sinful. It's not that they sin when they get drunk or they sin when they rape. It's that all of their life is sinful. There's no part of their life that's not sinful. When they go to work, they promote their sin. But when they sit down to pray for their meal, they promote their sin because they're not doing it properly. It's all sin. Whether it's religious, secular, whether it's overtly bad, or whether it's in the mind, it's all wrong. They walked in the course of their sin. It's not an occasional indulgence. It's according to these sins, the course of this world. The pre little preposition there, kata, according to it, fits in with the way the world is. Uh oh people in the world, unbelievers, fit in nicely in the world. What do I mean? They think like folks in the world. They talk like folks in the world. Different dialects, but they Talk with the priorities of people in the world. They are worldly. They fit. Their sense of humor is worldly. Their priorities are worldly. Their goals for life are worldly. They raise their kids worldly. It's the course they're on. It's their path. It's how they live. It's not occasional. It's just the entire way the world is. World, by the way, is the Greek word cosmos. It means here, not the planet or the people, but the world as an evil arranged system that is opposed to the rule of God. This is the world of sinful humanity in an organized rebellion against the holy kingdom of God. That's why we're told in the letter of John Chapter 2 verse 15. Do not love the world. Doesn't mean don't love the people. It means don't love that evil system that the people are a part of. Why? Because it's uh it promotes the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and uh what, you remember? Boastful pride of life. Man loves to boast in himself and take credit for things. That's the course of the world. Another description: the world has an evil ruler. Look at the middle part of verse 2. According to the prince of the power of the air of the spirit, now working in the sons of disobedience. The prince, our cone, ruler, chief. Someone there is organizing it. It's an organized system of rebellion. Someone's organizing it. Who's that? 1 John 5. 19, the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. What's his name? Revelation 12. 9, the great dragon was thrown down to earth, the serpent of old, who is called the devil, and Satan who deceives the whole world. Cosmos. He has a lot of different masks and names. It's the same evil Satan personal evil being. He is the Prince of the Power, notice. Could be translated. He is the Prince of the Authority. or the prince of the kingdom, it's used in the singular, usually refers to a collective power like a domain, a kingdom. Later in Ephesians in chapter three, verse ten And in chapter 6, verse 12, it describes evil spiritual authorities working along with the devil in heavenly places. And they are working to deceive. The prince of the demons dominates the world. Notice in next in verse 2 that he is the prince now working in the sons of disobedience. The evil worker works behind the system and behind the scene to energize a spirit of disobedience. It's all about God wants this But this prince works so that you don't want that, you want something else. What he did with Adam and Eve, right? It says to Eve, You won't die if you eat this thing. Worked immediately. in her life, just disobey the word of God. Just don't do what God says and it'll be better for you. That's the spirit working in our world. You leave and you hear, you know, you hear this morning your church, you're like, you know I'm hearing a lot of religious stuff here. I'm hearing a lot of Bible and it's to encourage you to listen to God, right? Listen to God, obey his word. When you go out there, nobody out there saying, listen to God, obey his word. And if they are, they mean a different God usually. Unless you happen to bump a new Christian out there who's been to another church like this where they were sitting down, some are saying, listen to God, listen to the Word. Do what He says But you go out there, you go to work, and the message some way or another, even in the commercials that come to you, is it God's not important. If he is, I mean if he's in there, just disobey him because it's much more fun to do something a different way. It's a spirit of disobedience. It permeates the world See, God's not happy with that. God's going to destroy that. God's angry with that. God is patient with that, but he's angry with it And he is going to he's going to destroy. So our mission is to them. They're just obedience. And God wants them obedient. It's the way it should be. And some of the ways they show it is with the fourth description there is uh each member uh has sinful flesh. Look at verse three. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh. Don't forget you're nothing special I mean you think you're something special? I think I'm something special. Oh look at me, I'm in church. I'm a I'm a outstanding citizen. I go to church on Sunday morning. Look at that jogger out there. He's not going to church. Look at that guy over there. He's not going to church. I go to church. No, no, no. You formally did what? Oh yeah, lived in the lusts of our flesh. Oh yeah, I remember that. Don't forget that. Man was dominated, you were dominated. It's not just the external forces of the evil spirit and the world system, there's something inside of the human being also that's part of this world system. It's called the sinful flesh, not the body. There's nothing wrong with the body. But that that bents towards wanting to do wickedness and evil. And that's something that the unbeliever cannot get rid of. He can't get rid of it. It follows him everywhere he goes around. He can't take it off. It's there. It's him. He's the problem. You know, he can't dream it away. He can't meditate it away with religion. He's stuck with the sinful flesh. He's got it everywhere he goes. It's not just lusts of the body, but lusts of the mind, too. Notice that. Colossians 1:21 talks about how unbelievers are hostile in their mind. Often that's the first thing that comes up. I'd like to talk to you about Jesus. Jesus And this this hostility comes out. Where'd that come from? They're hostile in mind to the king. Jesus is the king. Jesus is not just a Jew that lived a long time ago, you know. He's not just, you know. A religious guy. He's coming back to the planet. He's going to cause everyone to bend their knee and obey God. And he's going to punish those that don't. And he's the king that God has chosen. And so they are opposed to his rule. They don't like that. They're hostile in mind Ephesians 4 18 says they're darkened in their understanding. You want a list of the kinds of deeds of the flesh? Galatians chapter 5, 19 to 21 is about the best one I could think of. Now the deeds of the sinful flesh are evident, which are immorality. Impurity, sensuality, sounds like TV, doesn't it? Idolatry, that's what goes on in the religious world. See, the religious world is also rebellious towards God. Sorcery, that's on the increase. Enities, people kind of upset with one another not getting along. Wouldn't you agree? That's the world. Strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger. This is modern news. Disputes, dissensions, factions. That's what life's about. Envying, drunkenness, carousing. And then he says, in things like these, in other words, the list could be longer. Well, the outcome is the last description of the world, the fifth description, we were by nature, verse three, by nature children of Brad We're so disobedient and so much following the ways of the world we are subject to wrath. We're even called wrath's children. Children destined for the wrath of Almighty God. Most people these days dismiss talk of the wrath of God altogether, but God talks about it constantly in His Word I remember one person we talked to in our community when we were doing a survey, he just said, I don't think God ever gets angry at anybody. He doesn't know God. God gets very, very angry. And churches that say otherwise are not telling their people the truth. Romans 1:18, the wrath, you know wrath means anger, extreme anger, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness. and unrighteousness of men. God's wrath's working right now. Why do you think there's disease in the world? Why do you think there are disasters? Why do you think there's death? People say, where was God when such and such a disaster hit? He's right there. It's the wrath of on the world. The whole world is cursed. We're a cursed world. We're cursed world, we couldn't be anything otherwise. We're in rebellion to God. It's amazing he hasn't already just squished the world and got rid of it He's just being patient with it there in his hand. He's being patient. But the whole world is in rebellion. Him, of course, he's angry with it. He made it. They're not listening to them. Of course he's angry. You don't need to read the Bible to figure that out. People just have wishful thinking. So they lie to one another. I'm okay. You're okay. We're all gonna be just fine, as they say as they march towards their doom. Second Thessalonians 1. When Christ returns, he will deal out retribution to those who do not know God. You know, you play cards, I keep thinking of that dealing out retribution. That's a that's a graphic. It's going to be just dishing out wrath to those who don't know God. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord. Revelation 19, 15. Jesus, when he returns, will tread the wine press or the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. Can you get a more vivid picture of wrath than that? Jesus is coming back and he's just trouncing on the grapes and as they get smooshed and the juice pours out. That's the wrath of God flowing out all over the world. And that was Jesus doing the trampling. God rejects the sinful world. He loathes our sin. He will destroy it eventually. The wrath of God will inevitably fall on all unbelievers. If you're an unbeliever and you're not sure you're a believer, you're right now under the wrath of God. It doesn't matter what anybody else said to you, God's word says you're under the wrath of God. And it will fall on us because we are even by nature, children of wrath. Nature, by nature, phusus is the Greek word You know, like like corn is to a corn stalk, you know, like like fur is to a bear. By nature, sin is to us. That's the way we are. Some people say, well, if I have a sin nature, How come I don't feel it? The same reason a fish doesn't feel wet. That's the environment they've always been in. They've never known anything different than that. Their entire way of thinking is sin. So they look at it and think it's normal. That's why you have to hear God's word. He says, no, that's not normal. That's abnormal. That wasn't the way I made man. That's the way y'all. He doesn't does God say y'all? I don't know if he does or not. Maybe when he's speaking to Southerners. Y'all messed up what I made. Sin nature That's a very, very hard doctrine for people to accept, but God says it. David, a godly man, right? He said in Psalm 51 of himself, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin, my mother conceived me. He knew Genesis 8. 21 says, the inclination of man's heart is evil from his youth. Do we need a sociological study to know that uh those uh rascals and uh Elementary school and middle school, they have a lot of evil in their heart, don't they? It's there from the beginning. That's the human heart. Alright. So this is missions, reaching out to a dead, disobedient, deceived, dominated, and damned world. That's our mission. To see them delivered from that and the wrath of God. Alright, now second broad picture is this: missions glorifies the grace of God. This is in verses four to nine. Missions glorifies the grace of God. Look at verses four and five. But God, there's the transition, and the good news begins with those words. Brother Michael Armstrong gave his testimony last Wednesday night. He focused on those words. But God, but God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us. He hasn't forgotten us, we're his creation Even when we were dead in our transgressions. And he translated, even when we were defying God's law, he still loved us. And he made us. Here it is. Remember, I said we're in the resurrection business? He made us what? Alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. A little reminder. By the way, the sentence, if you connect it all together here in the Greek, in verse 1 it says, You were dead in sin. And then it doesn't complete the sentence until verse 4, but God made us alive. You see, that's how it connects. So we are now to behold the backdrop, the picture, the wonderful background, the missions of the great mercy of God, the rich mercy of God, the great love of God, and the grace of God that saves us. That's the backdrop. One of the joys of living in Maryland is to experience all four of the seasons and the pictures that you have there. You ladies, as you drive up They're into where is it, Pennsylvania today, and you're gonna see bright blue sky and hopefully some of the trees are changing color and all of that. And God puts the seasons on display, I think, so that you can sit back and you can marvel at what He has done as creator, right? You look at each of the seasons, you see it, you behold it, and you're like, man, God puts some beautiful things on display. Well beloved, there's something else that's more beautiful on display than what the Creator put on display in the creation. It is the Savior putting on display for the entire world, indeed for angels and everyone else to see, the marvelous display of His grace. Grace is like the landscape, a beautiful landscape. He wants us to see grace, grace in operation. And he wants us to marvel at it. He wants us to be all excited about it and praise him for his grace. This is going to tie in the missions. Hang in there. We could call it the grand display of God's grace. There's a hymn that says, and I won't sing it, wonderful, the matchless grace of Jesus. Deeper than the mighty rolling sea, higher than a mountain, sparkling like a fountain, all sufficient grace for even me, for even me. That guy, or gal, whoever wrote that, was thinking about the display of grace and was thinking this is marvelous. He was trying to relate it to beautiful things that he had seen. Well, this portion of Ephesians tells us of the wonderful, marvelous grace of God. God is described as a God who delivers sinners inside the world by a power. And that power is his grace. Death is no match for God's grace. The devil is not powerful enough to hold on to members in the world when God's grace gets a hold of them and yanks them out. The dirty flesh that we can never get rid of is not powerful enough to hold back the changes God wants to cause. If you're a person and you're saying, I have sin in my life, and I don't really ever believe that that will ever be able to change I don't think my feelings and my evil desires can ever change. Yes, they can. Not by you and your willpower, but by grace. Grace is powerful enough to do it. This is super powerful grace. Grace is God's superhero that comes into the world and delivers people. He raises us from the dead. Grace not only makes us alive, it does far more. Look at verse 6. And not only raised us up with Christ, and seated us with Christ. Way up there in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. You keep getting a with him and a in him. It's all related to Christ. And grace does that. Grace raises someone up, grace takes them into heaven, grace seats them at the right hand. It is marvelous grace, indeed. What is grace? Some people like the acronym G-R-A-C-E: God's riches at Christ's expense. That's a neat idea. It comes from 2 Corinthians 8. 9, which says, You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. That you through his poverty might become rich. God's riches at Christ's expense. G-R-A-C. Some people like that. Really, the most accurate definition for grace is simpler. Chorus, grace, just means God's unmerited favor. When you gain favor with God and you didn't deserve it, that's grace. So it's beautiful. There's three works that grace does here in verses four through six. I wish I had more time to develop it. I'm just going to say them. Verse 5: Grace makes us alive. Verse 6, raises us up into heaven. Verse 6 also seated us in the heavenly places with Christ. Each of those three works of God's grace comes from three Greek verbs. When each of these Greek verbs has a prefix, the prefix soon attached to the front of them, it means that something happens connected or together with something else. In English we have the prefix sin, s-y-n. You know, synchronized means to coordinate times. Your times are coordinated together. Synthesis meaning combining of parts or thoughts. Here, something that happens to us is joined together with somebody else. We are raised, made alive, raised, and seated, but we're not having that happen by ourselves, it happens because we're connected to another, and the the one who is the other is who? Is the Lord Jesus Christ. See this all connects back to chapter 1. I want you to look back to chapter 1. And verse 19. There he's talking about Jesus. And he's praying that we would know in verse 19, sort of picking up in the middle of the sentence. That we would know what is the surpassing greatness of God's power toward us who believe. What's that power like? These are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might. Working of the strength of his might how is it illustrated? Which God brought about in Christ when he raised Christ from the dead and seated Christ at his right hand in the heavenly places far above all rule and authority. power and dominion in every name that is named not only in this age but also in the one to come. In other words, you want to know God's power, here it is God took a dead corpse and raised him from the dead, Jesus, and then didn't just leave him on the planet, but caused him to soar up into the heavens, going above all of the authorities that are there in the heavens. Put him up the name above every name and then sat him down at the right hand of God. That's power. But the thing about that power is it's not just the historical power in the life of Jesus, as we come into chapter two The point is that we've been saved by grace. It's the same power that is operative. We also, together with Christ, raised from the dead, spiritually speaking brought up into the heavens spiritually speaking and sat down with Christ at the right hand spiritually speaking. We have been united with Christ already So that what happened to Christ happened also to us. It's the same divine power, the same power, with one difference. What happened to Jesus was not grace. He earned his resurrection. He never sinned. He didn't die because he sinned, he died for our sins. You and I are dead in our own trespasses and sins. And so it took a power called undeserved merit to take those dead in the world, cause them to come alive as they hear the message of Jesus, be raised up into the heavens in some mystical way that's hard to understand, and to be seated down at the right hand of God. with Jesus. I don't understand that entirely. I know it's true. I know I'm connected to Jesus. I know you're connected to Jesus. That's why we're called the body of Christ. He from heaven is the head of the church. He fills us with the presence of his spirit. We're connected to him as the head. He's at the right hand. And so this is what is true that has happened to us. We're not just those who have escaped the torrents of hell. We are those who have had so much more given to us than that. We've been connected to Christ and receive all the inheritance and blessings and everything that He's going to give to Christ. It's amazing. It is really amazing. And it is all of His grace. It's all of His grace. Now, why did God do this? Well, verse 4 says, because he's rich in mercy. Why did God show a lot of mercy to people that didn't deserve it? Answer. Because he's got a lot of mercy. He's rich in it and he wants to spend some of his mercy. He just wants to show mercy. You say, why does he want to do that? I don't know. I don't know. He's merciful. He loves showing mercy. That's who he is. You don't ask why is God the way he is? That's the way he is. Nobody makes God God. That's just the way he is. He didn't have a beginning. He wasn't caused. No one put them put them together. No one invented God. He's just merciful. That's one reason. But there's another reason that's found in verse 7. That's another motive behind why God showed his grace. Look at verse 7. So that in the ages to come, he might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness. Toward us in Christ Jesus. In other words, He wanted us to see The results of his grace, all these sinners gathered here on Sunday morning, other places. Bunch of lousy, rotten trespassers. And see that God's grace worked inside all of us and transformed us. Who gets the praise for that? And that's what he wants everyone to see. Start singing about that. Start yelling about that. Start going out and telling other people about that. You're in a world and you're dead. You know you can you can experience God's grace. There's nothing worse about you than any of the rest of us. There's nothing more powerful about the sin inside of you than the sin that was inside us. God is supposed to get some glory, supposed to get some praise, and his grace leads the way. And we're the beneficiaries of this. It's kindness towards us. And it's all in Christ. You can't get it anywhere else. See, and he goes on to even emphasize this grace in verses 8 and 9. Let's just read those quickly. For by grace you have been saved. So don't think you did anything good. And and it was through faith. People say, Isn't faith a good thing to do? No. Faith is an emptying of good things to do. Faith is saying, I don't have any more confidence in myself, I gotta reach out. Faith is a beggar's hand. I don't have anything to give. I just am very, very needy. Faith says, help, save me. That's all faith, sir. Faith doesn't contribute anything. Faith is not a good work. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. Whatever the faith is, the grace is and the salvation, none of that is from you. It is what? Gift of God. You get a gift, you don't earn a gift. You just get a gift, someone offers you a gift, and it's a beautiful gift, and it gets put in your hand and you look at it. What should you say next? Thank you. I don't deserve this. That's a gift. It's a gift of God. And then in case anyone misunderstood verse 8, there's verse 9. Not as a result of what? Works. You can't be good in church and obey God, do a bunch of things, forget it. And the reason is so no one will boast, right? No one gets to boast save one. The Lord God. He gets to boast. He gets to put all of us on display like trophies on his case. Look what I made that rascal into. You see anything good in his life? It's the grace of God. See anything he's figured out? It's the grace of God. See anything good he's going to get? It's the grace of God. My grace, God says. I'll boast, you don't boast. You're the trophy, I'm the one who won it, he says. So this is where we get back to missions. Missions is cooperating with God and getting out the message of His grace to all the nations so that more and more of those in the world will be raised from the dead through His grace. Raised up into the heavens together with Christ because of his grace, seated at the right hand of God the Father, because of his grace So that more and more people and nations will quit talking about whatever they're talking about and quit bragging about whatever they're bragging about and start boasting and bragging about Jesus Christ Amen? My goodness, he's so filled with grace, we should just be dancing and glorying in his grace, is the point He is marvelous. It's a beautiful, beautiful mural, a backdrop, in which all of those little fatched huts and and jeeps and missionaries preaching and everything. They're out there doing missions. Why? Because they want everyone to know of God's grace and the scene of God's grace In fact, if you just give me two more minutes for verse 10, that's our third point. He even says it there that we were saved in order to do good works. We were saved, verse 10, in order to do good works. We are his workmanship. We're not doing the works. He's doing the work. We're made into a poeto. We get the word poem from that. His workmanship. We were created in Christ Jesus. We've been created anew. And why were we created? For what? Good works. Please notice the good works come after. We're recreated, not before. You don't do good works to get saved. You get saved, then you do good works. First you have to have faith by which you're saved. Then the good works come. People say, I don't know how to do good works. I don't know how to please God because you're not saved. You need to get saved. You need to hold out your hands and say, Save me. You need to give up the rule of your life and say, God take over. Then he saves you by the power of his grace. And he not only wipes the slate clean and forgives you, he gives you power to live a different life. And what are you supposed to do in living this life? Good works. Good works. Which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. He has a plan to reach out to the nations with his grace to save them and show kindness to them, but so that all of them will praise his name. And his plan involves Your work. And so you should be asking, how can I cooperate with God's grace in my life? So that I can advance the mission in the world, so that more and more people in Chile, in Spain, in Northern Africa, and anywhere else Can hear the gospel of the grace of God and say, I am so grateful for that gift, and I just want to spend the rest of my life praising the glory of God's grace in Christ. Amen So think about that, this missions week. Think about it not just as a compartment of our lives, but no, that's what we were saved unto, to do good works, to serve him, to advance his cause in this world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for involving us in a mission into the world. Thank you for giving us good works that you prepared beforehand for us to do. Thank you for saving us by your grace. We pray for anyone here today that's not saved by your grace. That you will open their eyes, humble their hearts, help them to be willing to admit they're not, and to not play church and pretend, but to be humble enough to admit that they're dead, they're in trespasses and sins, and the way they live is proof of that. Help them, Lord, to receive that gift. Help them to humble themselves, grant them saving faith. Help us to be excited about missions. Help us to want to do everything we can to support missionaries, send missionaries, pray for missionaries, and be missionaries in our own world, in our own place here ourselves to be busy with local evangelism and faraway evangelism, starting new churches and supporting and deepening this church. For we ask it all in the name of the one who saved us by his grace, Jesus Christ. Amen.