Alright, here we go. Clearly, I'm going to talk about Christ as King I want to talk about Christ as King because love, repentance and forgiveness, thanksgiving and rejoicing The goodness of God, righteousness in atonement, in justification, in salvation all occur in the context and framework of Christ as King. And as I said, I stumbled in the notes. I stumbled upon a verse in Revelation. That's where my study here began. It used two words for Christ. We'll touch on those in just a second. And in digging into those words, the rest of my discovery followed. Even the other day while I was listening to Lorfee, the second of Lorfee's two lessons, because I wanted to hear what you guys had heard and I was enjoying those. Salvation is ultimately the king's conquering and reigning in your life. And if you understood that better, you would understand better what not only the conquering part, the instant of salvation, if you will look like. That Exodus experience, that uh uh born-again experience, all of those things actually happened, by the way. But if you understood Christ as King better, you would understand that those events support the reign of the king in your life. You would stop seeing salvation as a a punctilial event, an event that happens at a point in time and a status, and you would start realizing that it's you becoming part of The army of a king. By the way, that's all very scriptural language. I'm just not bothering to tell you where I got that from at the moment because it's gonna come out in the rest of what we So even salvation comes in in the foundation of Christ as King. Conquered, rescued, and then reigned. Most of my introductory remarks there in your notes have already been stated in some fashion or the other. I I just can't tell you enough how much I went looking for A gold ingot or a diamond. That's what I always go looking for when I'm teaching. I just want to find that precious thing, the thing that seems precious to me And I want to be excited about it and then I want to share it with you. And I went looking for one of those here. That usually takes me six to ten hours, if you're wondering. What I found was a vein of gold, an inexhaustible vein of gold that ran from Genesis to Revelation. What I found was a mine of insurpassable value filled with every kind of diamond Um and it was just super exciting to me. I ended up spending something in excess of thirty hours preparing this study, which for me is a ridiculous amount. I had to stop because I was already at six pages and I was like, there is no way. So just stop. And even as I prayed, right, that second bullet is what I want. I want to know the surpassing value of Christ I don't know that I'm going to do it, but if we were talking about the fruit of the spirit, that which follows from us responding correctly, uh uh to the king, Christ our King. We'd have to put the fruit of the Spirit down here. Uh that fruit of the Spirit grows directly from what Christ does in our lives to change us from dead to living and then under his reign. And the thing that breaks that transaction the most, breaks that transformation the most, and you'll see it over and over again, even as we study these kings. is what we value. And until we value Christ as the surpassing value, we will always struggle with the first. Sin. We will always reach for what we think we are not getting in Christ. And in so doing, we will usurp The throne. That's the language that the scripture uses. See Psalm 2. There are lots of other places, but see Psalm 2 So I want to show you the surpassing value of Christ and through him God in order to capture our undistracted obedience and to provoke our overflowing joy. And again, those are mega themes. in scripture, but notice that they come from recognizing Christ as King rightly. My objective is to understand the importance of Christ as King, to understand the character of Christ as King, and to respond. to Christ as King. This is a two-week lesson, and I'll be pushing hard to even get that done, but it will take us two weeks I do not remember how, but my uh studies started in Revelation nineteen, uh, eleven and sixteen. I I truly don't remember how I got there But that's where they started. And it says, Then I saw heaven opened, and behold the white horse, the one sitting on it, is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war The king has come, even as he was promised in Ezekiel and Jeremiah, to judge his people. And on his robe and on his thigh, he has a name written And there's a lot of significance to that on his robe and on his thigh, but let's just say for right now they're saying that the ultimate identity So that was interesting to me. I thought what's the difference? Between king and lord. So I picked up the two Greek words that are used there, uh Basilius or Basilion. And curios. And using the Septuagint, I just went all the way back. I said, well, I have a Greek translation of the Old Testament. Where are those same two words used in the Old Testament? And what words do they translate? And so I've got those up there for you. Uh Yahweh or Jehovah, uh the one, and then Melech is just King. Um and so using those two I had the tool that I needed to mine from Genesis to Revelation uh for narrative about our king and about our lord. The left side of this chart um is really what God does, his program uh to introduce uh a king, the king ultimately, uh although you'll see that there's a journey between uh where he started and his final destination there. And then this chart is Christ is King, what he does, um, and then uh how we are to respond. We are going to spend the time to go through the scriptures, even as I suggested to you earlier, because I am not content for you to hear my man-made forms for this topic. I want you to dive into scripture Swim through it with me, and I want you to understand and discover the shape, the form, the value of all that Christ is as king. by just wading through the uh the totality of the scriptures. And I say totality, but we're not gonna have that much time. So I'll just do my best to pick um the best passages. As Lord, he establishes justice and goodness, and he does it through covenant everywhere in the scriptures. And you'll see a chart which you're familiar with. Actually, I've made the chart for this lesson I believe I put it into the notes on love. Um, and then you this is where it came from. So you'll see it again here. That justice and goodness is mediated to his people by a king. That's true all through scripture uh culminating in the only uh true king, the only good king, the only capable king, which is Christ. And then we'll trace some of that uh into the New Testament. Notice in Revelation it's on the day when the fullness of Christ is revealed to all the world in the final victory over sin. and the final reunification of Creator and Created, all that was done in Eden and lost in Eden. is regained in this uh narrative in Revelation. And so you're seeing the unveiling or the unrolling of that final thing, right? So it sets the other thing. If we are here and we're on a trajectory, what trajectory are we moving toward? What revealed truth are we ultimately moving forward? Well you see that here in Revelation 19, the revealing of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Two names, Lord and King. As Lord, Christ is creator, the giver of all good gifts, and from the beginning he establishes covenant. It's a little hard to find that first covenant in Genesis because it's not called a covenant until Hosea. But in Hosea we are told that Adam broke the covenant that he had with God. So it is appropriate to say that from the very beginning God began to establish his relationship with people through covenant. He has always worked with his people. Through covenant. He is the covenant maker. God made man to be kings and queens to reign. Genesis 1, 28, and 31. talks about having dominion over all that is created on earth, demonstrating God's justice or his rightness. And you'll notice my footnote there, right? By rightness we mean the truth of all God is and all He says that secures us in and ensures us of all the goodness that God intends for us. Walk rightly before a king who has all wisdom to know what right is, and in so doing gain the goodness he has You see that played out so vividly in Eden. A right world with right relationships everything esteemed as good, not by us, but by the one who establishes all standards of goodness. An abundant, profligate goodness. You say, why that word? Because nature is made with such unnecessary complexity for the sole purpose Of magnifying the goodness of our God? Why are things excessively beautiful? Why are things excessively extraordinarily complex? Intricate Designed beyond any necessity for form or function. I don't know. But that has something to do with God's goodness. It begins to suggest how good our God is. And in the midst of that, men that were meant to reflect or mediate That rightness and that goodness to all creation broke covenant with God and were kicked out of the garden. We're no longer able to access that superb goodness. You say, yeah, we we know all that, Scott. We know Genesis. I know, but I need you to hear the narrative from beginning to end. If I skip a piece just because you think you know it, it doesn't work You need to see it all the way through, all the way down, all the way up. Man breaks covenant with beg uh with God, becoming not only separated from God, but against This becomes the universal state of all Men. So God created the earth. He established a king and a queen over it and all of their progeny to have dominion over all that was the world's, to lead the world in the rightness of the character of God and enjoy the the uh commensurate goodness. When we walk in God's rightness or righteousness, although righteousness is one of those religious words that I balk at. Right wisdom, right knowledge, right action, right emotion, all things subordinated to the nature and truth of God then we experience the superb goodness of God, and that was shattered when Adam and Eve decided they wanted to sit on on the throne of God. To be like God is what it says. Desperately separated from God, his justice and his goodness men need a mediator. As King, Christ reigns to establish the justice of God and pour out God's goodness on the people of the covenant. Christ is the perfect and necessary mediator. The problem is established by Genesis 3. So is the solution foretold, right? Who will bruise the serpent's head, right? Or crush the serpent's head, sorry. The problem is we're told Christ is the promised mediator. Revelation tells us that that is true all the way through to So let's just walk through it. Okay? Two concepts that we need to understand to comprehend the importance of Christ's king, covenant and mediator. Our Lord is the covenant maker. If you want to, you can call him the Great King. Because if you study covenant forms, you will find that the Great King came and was victorious over lesser kings and lesser nations, and he established lesser authorities. to maintain relationship between those vassal people, those vassal states, those vassal kings, and himself. So I draw that distinction or draw upon that distinction continually here. God is Lord. We know that Christ is also Lord. The New Testament is very clear about that. But for sake of uh coherency in our thinking. God is the Lord, the great King, the covenant maker, and He establishes Christ as that mediatorial king, the one who represents him to us and draws us back into right relationship with God. How does God relate to man? be in relationship with man through requirements, justice, and promises, goodness. That's just the the the shorthand we use for that is just covenant. Um and and you can actually not that it's scripture itself, but you can actually pull that definition right out of the uh Westminster Shorter Catechism. It defines a covenant as the requirements and promises of God. So what's a covenant? It's God's requirements and God's promises. A covenant is unchangeable, divinely imposed legal agreement between God and man that stipulates the conditions of their relationship Now some of you are may or may not be balking already at that internally. I did not say that men are capable of meeting the requirements I just said that they were requirements. You know that we will need Christ, the King, to also be our servant in order to satisfy the justice that is required of us for our sins. We will not be able to do it and we will need him to do it for us. We do, I said we will, because I haven't gotten there in my lesson yet, but we do need him to do that. Since the beginning, all men, like Adam, have transgressed the covenant. They dealt faithlessly with God. We now have Christ as King and mediator. of the new covenant, Luke 22, 1 Corinthians 11, Hebrews 7 and 8. The timeline of the covenants provides a clear framework for understanding how the Bible progressively reveals its teaching on Christ as King. It shows us the totality of this foundation in all that Christ does with God does with men. Sorry. as we move through the scriptures. So I'm going to skip the table for now. We're basically going to work through it in sections as we go through these notes. That is all I hope to get through this week. our King, the only perfect mediator of the covenant. The infinite value of Christ as mediator king can only be seen when we recognize that it is a main theme of the narrative of the Bible. The primacy of this theme teaches us how valuable Christ is and the utmost necessity of responding to Christ as King with all that we are and after. The primacy of this theme teaches us How valuable Christ is, and the utmost necessity of responding to Christ as King with all that we are and have. Quick pause. I cannot tell you I started this study a month and a half ago, maybe a month and a half ago That's probably when I started on this. Over the last month and a half, I cannot tell you how many times an interaction in my home or an experience at work or an experience in church or out in the community When I've had to go, wait a minute, Scott, is he reigning as king in your life in this circumstance or not? Okay, Lord. Okay, Lord. Okay Lord. And not only okay, but I don't get to grumble about this. I don't get to assess this as bad. Lord, it feels bad It's costly, it hurts, it's frightening, but if you are a reigning king of the character that you describe in the scriptures, then Lord let me put one foot down in front of the other. until I walk the path that you have assigned to me. And let me do it, knowing that I do it for the goodest king. Yeah, I I know what I do. For the goodest king that I could possibly imagine. So am I excited about the theology? Am I excited about the biblical study? Absolutely. But I mostly care how you think about your king in the kitchen. in the nursery, at work, in the field, under the heat of the sun, under the dark of night, under the wet of storm, I care about you responding to your King. And if you walk out of here with nothing but more knowledge about the scriptures and this narrative of Christ is king, if it is nothing more than knowledge to you, then we are of all people most miserable As a treasure of an inexhaustible mine of gold or diamonds, and to continue to live as a pauper. Tryune God is the great king of creation. See it in Genesis one one, Psalm twenty four, Psalm ninety-three, Psalm one hundred three, just as a sampling, right? This is this guy. I'm not trying to be irreverent, but I'm just trying to spell it out, right? He is the Creator King. We obviously know from passages like those in Colossians. that creation was also done through Christ. He was there. He was the one. God appoints Adam and Eve, so creation happens. I'm in the Genesis narrative here. God appoints Adam and Eve as vassal, king and queen to reign in truth. and goodness over all creations creation. And makes one stipulation. It's the one requirement. Right? The promises are inherent. You satisfy this one requirement, and all of this is yours. And when they break the one requirement, they lose the promise. So God makes them another covenant and another promise. Genesis 1 Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let him have let them, excuse me, have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens. And over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. This is the first time the king narrative enters the scripture and it is threaded all the way through to the end. But I wanted you to see it at both ends. In the beginning, God established kings to express his justice and his goodness to all that he had created. And in the end, he will establish a final king that returns us from the brokenness of our first king. Genesis 2, Yahweh God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And Yahweh God commanded the man, saying You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. Here's the requirement, the condition. For in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die This is the first covenant and it doesn't last long. Adam and Eve break the covenant. I know I'm reading my notes, I don't usually do that, but I'm in a hurry, and this keeps me on track. Adam and Eve break the covenant. They rebel. They want to be the great king. And you see that in the passages, Genesis 3, for God knows that When you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God. There's the lie. There's the lie that it will be good for you to sit on the throne Come on people, how often do you do that in your everyday lives in small, practical, seemingly reasonable ways to your peril? For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. This is the lie that Adam and Eve desired: to sit in God's throne as the great king Genesis six, five. Yahweh saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. This is the result Of you usurping the throne. Perfect unity with God and creation disintegrate entirely. Not just a little, entirely. Every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Does it 21-25? In those days, notice this, there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. As rebels, they no longer represent God to creation. They are now irreparably separated from God and all creation. that they were supposed to represent God too, and it is now cursed. There is a word picture of something like the tragedy of the fall of Adam and Eve in Ezekiel 28, and I would like to look at it because it's just that good So if you'll flip your Bibles over to Ezekiel twenty-eight, and if I could have one of you dramatic, you know Reader type people. I don't mean I need you to scream. I just want you to put appropriate emphasis on the passage. Can I have somebody read uh eleven through nineteen for me Yes ma'am. All right. Is the NKJB okay Just read it. They're they're all translations. Whatever. The word of the Lord came to me saying, Son of man, take up a lamb and cage tire and say to him, Thus says the Lord Lord God. You were the seal of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering. The Sardiates, Popaz, Diamonds, Barrel, Homps, and Japan For sapphire, turquoise, emerald, and gold. The workmanship of your temperals and pipes was prepared for you on the day you were created. You are the anointed cherub who covers. I established you. You were on the holy mountain of God. You walked back and forth in the midst of fire stones. You were perfect in your ways from the day you were created. By the abundance of your training, you be build silence within, and you sin. Therefore, I cast you as a profane thing out of the mountain of God, and I destroyed you. Oh covering From the midst of the fiery stones, your heart was lifted up. Because of your beauty, corrupted your wisdom. For the sake of your splendor, I cast you to the ground. I laid you before kings that they might gaze at you. You defiled your sanctuaries by the multitude of your iniquities, by the iniquity of your trading. Therefore I brought fire from your midst to devour you, and I turned you to ashes upon the earth, besides, all who knew you. Among the Python is at you, you have become a horror and shall be worn forever. This is not written to Adam and Eve, and I don't mean to imply that it was Alright, it was written to it's a little bit of a mysterious passage actually, but it was written to the king of Tyre. But when the Lord wanted to describe the tragedy if you will, of the arrogance of this king and what he had done wrong, given so much goodness and authority. When the Lord wanted to describe that, what did he do? He went back and used the garden and Adam and Eve and and the word picture that's supplied in Genesis to talk about the brokenness of his kingship. A a usurper. He was a established and assigned as a king He was given, uh, and you'll see this again as we establish uh kings in Israel. Actually you'll see it much more overtly as we establish kings in Israel, but he was given uh the role to mediate God's justice and judgment and He enjoyed his goodness and when he decided that his own ego, his own w what's the word that's even used there? Your own splendor When he decided his own splendor was what he cared about most, right? I want to be the center of attention. I want all eyes drawn to me. Then the destruction happened. So you get this amazing word picture of what happened in the Genesis account with Adam and Eve here in Ezekiel. Romans 8, 20 and 21, for all creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay. Parents, husbands most of all, or men most of all, married or unmarried This one hurt when I got there. Notice that when the kings operate the way they're supposed to, they mediate God's justice, his rightness, his wisdom, all the truth and goodness about him, and they uh secure the good blessings of God. But when the king usurps the throne of the Lord, usurps the throne of the great king, when the vassal king usurps the throne of the great king, all that was created All creation was put under Adam and Eve, that they would have dominion over it. And when they fell, the Lord also subjected all creation. to the fall, to the same futility. You want to know what happens when you decide that you should be king instead of subjecting yourself to the rain of Christ, you hurt everybody whom you are supposed to mediate the justice and goodness of God to. We'll see more of that as we go through, but I want you to see that. It's also true of women, by the way. I made an interesting discovery this morning. Do any of you you all know who the Proverbs thirty one moment is, right? Have have uh any of you women ever set that out as a model for your own life? I mean I I can't say yes to this. one for obvious reasons, right? I I think it's uh got some interesting standards for men and women, but the Proverbs 31 woman is definitely for you ladies. Have any of you ever set that out as a model for your own life? Wow I got one hand I don't know what the rest of you are doing. That's a bolt here. Do you know how that chapter starts? Who's being addressed at the beginning of that chapter? A king. Proverbs thirty-one is about right king and queen roles, rightly subordinated, rightly dignified, according to the wisdom of God. I thought that was so cool. A man and a woman abdicated their roles in mediating as king and queen and all that was horrible. All that is horrible followed from it. But I want you to see even here that Christ is calling us back to be restored to the roles that he intended. We can't do that by ourselves. That's why we need kings. So I don't want to put you in the way of Christ, right? We are incapable of doing this without Christ. He is the king. But I do want to see what God saves you to, and as Christians, what you walk in. You are to be royal priesthood kingly priesthood, right? You are to be restored to this position in all of your relationships in life. Isaiah 14, 12-14, you said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven above the stars of God. I will set my throne on high. I will sit on the mounts of assembly in the far reaches of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the most This is Israel. These are God's people. He had declared himself, shown himself to these people, and look what they say. Knowledge alone is not sufficient. These people knew things about God that we do not because they saw them with their own eyes. I suppose you could say we have further revelations, so we know things they don't know I would agree with that, but you get my point. They saw the glory of God with their own eyes and in their own generations, and yet they still have the arrogance Just stand up and usurp the throne. How much more is it a danger for you? At Sinai, so there's no king, right? We're in a period of no king. That's what the the judges passage said. There was no king in Israel. And even here in Isaiah God has done some work to bring his people out, but at this point in our narrative there is no king. So at Sinai, God declares Himself to be the great king and anoints human mediators, such as Moses and Aaron. These are only prophets and priests. I don't mean to diminish those roles, those are important roles that Christ also uh works at as mediator, Christ is prophet, priest, and king. Right, you guys know that. But I do think it's interesting that he first establishes himself as king. He kind of says, I'm going to cut out the middleman and I'm just going to go all the way up. And uh but I will give you prophets and priests to mediate my word and my will to you Exodus nineteen five through six. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all people Notice that covenant-sounding language, requirements and promises. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom. He's establishing himself as king. Deuteronomy 33, 5 makes sure we understand what happened there. Thus Yahweh became king in Jesurans. When the heads of the people were gathered all the tribes of Israel together. We believe meaning I can't find any dissenting opinions, that Joshuran is some uh obscure reference to Mount Sinai. When God established that he was upright and that he required his people to walk upright in the world. So what's he say? I became king at Sinai So here's a new phase of the narrative of Christ as king. It's God assigning himself as king. It's unclear to me whether I it would be more appropriate that there even he's alluding to Christ as king or I I I'm just not sure. But God basically says, I chose Adam and Eve to do this, they failed, I will take it on, kind of without mediation, if you will, or only with the mediation of uh a prophet and a priest. But in any case, this is a new phase of uh the narrative of Christ as King. And even in Deuteronomy, and I've got it further down at the bottom of your page in in uh Chapter 17, uh God already knows that the people are going to rebel against this as well. So God's people rebel and demand a human king. The human Uh human prophets and priests have failed as mediators between God and man. First Samuel 8, 6 through 7. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. Right? So fast forward some time They're in uh the promised land, um uh and all that followed from that. And Samuel prayed to Yahweh, and Yahweh said to Samuel, Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you. For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. What is the problem with these people? They rejected their king. They usurped the throne. The circumstances of their lives were such that they said, it's not working. Your reign isn't sufficient. Your goodness isn't sufficient. Your requirements are too hard. We want a king we can taste and touch and feel. We want a king we can understand. We want a king we can complain to, like all the other nations. We want a king like the other nations. We want a man. 1 Samuel 8, 19 through 20, but the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel who told them, This is a bad idea. Don't do this. And they said, No But there shall be a king over us, that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. Man, really? Kind of thought God was taking care of that in some miraculous ways. And we already have some previous record when you tried to do that on your own without asking God, how'd that work out for you? And before we sat back here in the New Testament and put our hands on our hips and look at those crazy pig-headed Israelites It's true of Adam and Eve. It was true in Noah's day. It was true in Abraham's day. It was true of God's chosen people. Are you wired differently? All people in the recorded narrative of Scripture. Up to this point, keep responding 1 Samuel 1019 But today you have rejected your God who saves you from all your calamities and your distresses. And you have set said to him, set a king over us. I may take it too far sometimes. That statement that I made to you earlier. Uh in all of my life, no matter how accomplished I get, it is never good enough. And so I say three things all the time. I teach people this. Everybody I know that I get a chance to say it to, I teach people this. That it's the nature of leadership. I try my best It's not good enough and your criticisms are hurtful. The last one is just an honest response. Most people don't well never mind what most people do but those three go together. I am so glad that my best efforts do not have to fish at those of the breeches. And I cannot bear the fact that I see a continual, I'll call it an undulation in my life. between the high mountaintop experiences when I am on my knees before a great king in repentance and enjoyment of him, because those two always go together when they're rightly done. Repentance always read leads to overflowing joy in Christ. And Monday morning, when I forget and I try to control my life and all of its circumstances and grumble, try to usurp the throne. 1040, right? First Samuel twelve, twelve through twenty-five. It's excerpted here, so it won't be a long read. You said to me, No, but a king shall reign over us when Yahweh your God was your king, right? He was your king. He was doing what he was supposed to be doing, if you can say it that way. And you said, no, but a king shall reign over us. And now behold the king for whom you have asked. Behold, Yahweh has set a king over you. If you will fear Yahweh, and even here his his graciousness in this And here's kind of the the the next turn in the narrative. If you will fear Yahweh and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, and if both you and the king who reigns over you will follow Yahweh your God, it will be well. If this king stands as mediator to the character of God and maintains relationship as a vassal king should between the conquered people and their great king, All will be well, and you know already that this doesn't work out so well. The best king we can speak of would be David And even he, even he. And I don't just mean his personal sin. How about the census and the death toll that took? How about the turmoil in his family that reaped itself in wars in the nations and division? God has established a human king. This is the next chapter in the foundation as king. God has established a human king as mediator. Notice the covenant language of promises and requirements If then human kings fail as mediators. And I love this. Deuteronomy 17 occurs before this passage in Samuel This is right after God has said, I will be your king. And he and then he goes on to say, But I know that when you enter the covenant land, when you enter the promised land, when I have done for you what I promised to do for you, you will demand a king. And he says Human kingship or he doesn't say this, but human kingship is intended to be the image or the replica of the divine kingship. But it's worth turning over there. Deuteronomy 17 I'm gonna speed read it, so pay attention. Fourteen through twenty. When you come to the land that the Lord your God is giving you And you possess it and dwell in it, and then say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me, you may indeed set a king over you, whom the Lord your God will choose. One from among your brothers You shall set as king over you, you may not put a foreigner over you who is not your brother, only he must not acquire many horses for himself, or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses Since the Lord has said to you, you shall never return that way again, and he shall not acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away. Hmm. Solomon didn't do so good at that one. David didn't do a great job at it either. Lest his heart turn away, exactly what happened, nor shall he acquire for himself excessive silver and gold, also see Solomon. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write I love this guy's pay attention, men. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law, approved by the Litical Priests, meaning an exact copy. And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life that he may learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of this law. and these statutes and doing them, that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, either either to the right hand or to the left so that he may continue long in his kingdom, he and his children in Israel. Men, you are called to be kings in Christ. So this passage is for you. And until you open your mouth with one whisper of submission to authority, whether it's of other men younger or under your authority or particularly your sisters and your mothers and your wives, why don't you learn to demonstrate submission to your great king first? be kings according to God's word and encourage others to live in right relationship with their king. They're great kings. But how shall you teach or demand submission from others when it is not conspicuously demonstrated in your own life to your great king? Few minutes left. Human kings rebel against the great king. 1 Samuel 8, 11 through 18, this is kind of a foretelling that this will happen. Samuel said, These will be the ways of the kings who will reign over you. he will take. It was funny when I was about that point uh I discovered that Maryland had passed a new tax law and it is onerous. Three percent of total revenue And long story made very short for the sake of getting back to the good things of God's word. It it's crushing. It will put many small businesses out of business. It is a crushing tax law. So that the Maryland government can take your children at the age of four and begin to indoctrinate them them with their foolishness. They need three billion extra dollars and they're going to take it out of the tech industry small business. And they recognize that in the passing of that law. It says right in the law. And then it's like They talk about the revenue fluctuating over the years, and they're like it's because it's going to close a bunch of small businesses, so the entire tax of those businesses will go out. I thought, wow, the Kings will only take sons, daughters, It will take uh the kings will take sons, daughters, the best of your fields, vineyards, olive orchards, grain, male and female servants, workers, donkeys, and a tenth of your wealth. That's what it says there in 1 Samuel. That's what earthly kings that do not rule according to the goodness of God, with his justice and pouring out his goodness, that's what they will look like. That's what it will feel like. That's what it's like, by the way, man, to be married to a man. We'll live in a house with a man. We'll have to serve under a man that is not rightly subordinated to his great king. It feels like that. Just take, take, take, take, take First Kings 11, 4 through 11, for when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not wholly true to Yahweh his God. So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh. And did not wholly follow Yahweh. And Yahweh was angry with Solomon because his heart had turned away from Yahweh, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, the best-looking king, Saul. Failed. The greatest warrior king, David, failed. The wisest and wealthiest king failed. And it just kept getting worse. Ezekiel thirty four. Ah, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding who have been feeding yourselves. Should not shepherds feed the sheep? By the way, there's a whole dovetail into another lesson I had to prepare for the Columbia trip. It's Christ as servant. But until you understand Christ as king, you are not ready to understand Christ as servant, nor your own role as a servant, one who loves God and serves God's people. Should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not Feed the sheep, the weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up and strayed. Excuse me, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force force and harshness you have ruled them. Thus says Adonai Yahweh, Behold, I am against the shepherds. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths. You begin to see an introduction to Christ as King right there. I will seek out my sheep. And I will rescue them. This is the turning point. God has shown men that no human king, no human shepherd, can mediate between God and man, and he promises that he will supply the king who will rescue his people. Without Christ as mediator king, the glory of God departs from his people. Ezekiel eleven twenty-three. And they are led away to captivity. Seems like a sad note to end on, but I am out of time and it's a good breaking point. Be encouraged by the fact that Christ came as the perfect mediator king and he establishes a new covenant. And he gives us the Holy Spirit to enable all that is about us that is not good enough to do what he calls us to do, so that we might reign as kings. and queens better than has been done in the past because we have a better covenant in Christ Lord, I never get where I want or do as well as I would hope. And in that not good enough I am looking to you to complete, to satisfy, to fill up, to make whole, to mediate perfectly what I am not good enough to do. Please do that, Lord. That these people would be fed, encouraged, brought back, strengthened, re-established. as the kings and queens that you desire them to be, drawing others into relationship with yourself. All these things I pray in your name. Amen.