All right, ladies, we are really doing good going through this book, and what a great blessing this book has been. Becoming a woman who pleases God. You know, you can read each of these chapters and really glean from anything from these books. So we've been very blessed from the writers of this book and to all the ladies who have been teaching them any lessons So today, Laura is going to be teaching the wise woman develops a worldview. So let's pray for her and prepare our hearts to hear this great truth. Dear Lord, I pray for my dear sister and lift her up as she continues, as she has come together, Lord, and prepared a lesson. To help us understand these truths much better. We thank you so much, Lord, for her talent and teaching. We thank you so much, Lord, for her dedication and love for the women to bring your truth to them and to To really encourage our hearts, Lord. Encourage us to really become a woman who pleases God. So dear Lord, prepare our hearts, prepare our ears to hear and see, and let us come together, Lord. and learn the lessons that you want each and every one of us to learn, to live a life that glorifies you. In Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know if anyone has purchased the book, is reading the book, or following along But um this chapter is A Wise Woman Develops a Biblical Worldview. And um really I'm really excited to get into this. But if you had read the chapter, um I'm going to be a little bit broader than the chapter. The chapter spent a short amount of time talking about what it means to develop a worldview and then did more practical specific application of how we can help share that worldview to our children. I'm going to kind of reverse that and spend a little more time on the theology of why we develop a biblical worldview, what is a biblical worldview, what's the purpose of it. And then give some application at the end. So let me just try and move this a little bit so I can have my notes a little better. I'll project, I promise. Never been an issue. Um, I want to start off by giving you my thesis in case things get a little confusing. One because I love this topic. So I tend to get a little excited, a little distracted. And um so I just want to start off with it. Um that's Here's how it goes. A wise woman invests herself in developing a biblical worldview so that she is able to discern the error of the false spirits and philosophies of the day that are raised up against the wisdom of God. She will be an influence to all of those around her, both the believing around her and the unbelieving, encouraging and discipling other believers to also use their influence to defend the truth of the word. But more simply, we very busy women need to study theology, philosophy, and apologetics because our lives depend on it Our ability to obey God, influence the society around us, honor Him, and protect our children depends on us getting down and dirty with these dead philosophers and a whole lot of isms. Postmodernism, skepticism, moral relativism, naturalism, Marxism, fascism, atheism, just sitting a few. So why do I say this? Why is it important? Ladies, because it is no longer in our culture okay to agree to disagree. It's no longer okay for us to believe differently than the world. The world is now openly hostile and hateful towards the Christian faith They are completely intolerant of anybody or any view that will not allow them to be and do whatever they want to. And most and the most hated of all worldviews is the biblical Christian worldview. So let's uh buckle up, put on our very deep thinking caps. I do hope we are all through scripture challenged by the instruction of the word. to be stronger in this area. But I I don't want us to be discouraged. I hope to give us encouragement that this is attainable. And the Lord wouldn't command us to do it if we can't do it, right? Okay, so I'm going to start by opening up in Matthew chapter 5. If you have your Bibles along with you, you can open up there. We're going to go into the Sermon on the Mount. And expose the three verses. Matthew five, verses fourteen through sixteen. Jesus says, You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. So, first let's just ask, who is Jesus talking to? If we back up in the passage, he's giving the Sermon on the Mount, thousands of people, right? But it's his disciples that are closest to him that Jesus is talking to. Although the large crowd is everywhere, Jesus is saying to his disciples, you are the light of the world, the city's fed on the hill Oh, I should have begun in verse thirteen. I just realized. Let's start over. Roll read thirteen through six. You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. And then you are the like Okay, so he's talking to them. And what does he say that they are? He says they are salt, right? Salt of the earth. So not becoming salty, that they need to grow in their saltiness, they are salt. What is the function of salt? In Jewish society it had many functions. Obviously flavoring, sometimes purification. Sometimes they rubbed an infant with salt before they swaddled them. We're not 100% sure why. Uh they used it to make the ground less productive. The Romans would come through, they would throw salt in all of a field, and the ground would be useless for farming. for years to come. It was a way of keeping covenants, it would sting a wound, can create thirst, melt ice, it also represents wisdom. There's a myriad of ways salt is used during this time. But the most common and the most obvious use, right? Let's not try and figure out the secret hidden meaning. What does salt mean? What is salt? Salt they didn't have refrigerators. Salt was a preservative. And so before refrigeration, the primary use of salt was to preserve food. Within the home, the average Jew would rely on salt on a daily basis for preserving their food. I mean, how often do you use your refrigerator, right? The meaning then would be, as salt preserves meat from decay, so we are to preserve the mass of sinful mankind from slipping down into utter ruin and decay. It is our lives and our voices which are to be the preservatives of this decaying world. Without us, things would get a lot worse, a lot faster. How fast does your food spoil when you slowly leave it sit out overnight? God has sprinkled us over the earth in order to uphold his righteous standards. It's his common grace on a fallen world Even some of the Beatitudes speak of this salty relationship to other unbelievers that are gentleness, our meekness, let it be known among the world. We preserve the earth from seeking as horrible and lowly and wretched as they could possibly be. And like I said, this isn't your potential. You have the potential of being salty. You might be salt if you act in a certain way. He says you are the salt of the earth. There is no other salt. That is why God has placed us here. That is our role in life. It's our function in this world. It's not a command. It's just a statement of fact. Scripture often speaks of the preservative role of believers throughout the world. John the Baptist was a preservative in Israel. It says he was that was a weak and degenerate society was called back to God through repentance Many of the Jews would eventually receive Christ, who would eventually receive, were prepared to do so through the ministry of John the Baptist. He was a preservative on the nation of Israel. In 1 Corinthians 7. 14, it tells us that of the positive influence a Christian woman can have on her household. It says the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife That simply means that through her faithful witness at home, salvation can come to the rest of the family if they repent and believe in Christ. She is the preserving effect, so the family does not sink further into sin and ultimately into Moses was a preservative on the people of Israel, a steadying and preservative influence, right? When he left the camp of Israel and went up to the mountain for 40 days receiving the Ten Commandments, what happened when he removed himself They built a golden calf. They got so corrupt. When he returned, he led the Israelites into repentance. He smashed the golden calf, preservative, back into the land. We understand this because we all know there are certain people that it's easy to be bad around. I I I assume none of us are horrific in our lives, but I think we all know there are those around us that cause us to Be a little relaxed. Some people do not preserve our morals. They corrupt them. They can be seductive. They make you feel comfortable with practicing depravity. They're easy to get along with no matter how you act because they don't care how anybody lives. Often young people like to hang out with their worldly friends more than their family or their church friends because, well, the worldly friends don't try and make them act a certain way. And those friends don't criticize them for doing wrong But if they don't have good standards for living, of course they don't criticize you. They have terrible standards. They don't love what is good and right. So wrong doesn't bother them. They don't care about things that that you ought to care about. They don't care about what character you will have and grow up with. And if you are young or currently now have friends like that, they are not friends. They're not preservatives. They may be corrupters and your sinful flesh, if it feels at home with them, there is no benefit to you with them. But we can also think of people in our lives that are good influences who bring out the best in us When you are in their presence, you just know you ought not to speak in a certain way. You hold your tongue with complaining. You feel a little more joyful and able to praise the Lord. They inspire godliness and faith. You work a little harder and you have more excellence for the Lord. Well, Christian, Jesus says that is how all of us are supposed to be. Some we're supposed to influence others towards godliness, goodness, righteousness. When we talk about Christians need to influence society for good, first thing we often think about is politics. But I'll speak more about that later. But this context is not speaking about political action. It's good works in general, not Not government change. Jesus would have us perform our function at SALT wherever we are and whatever we are doing. Does the language become corrupt in your work environment? You are there to uphold wholesome speech, to refuse to join in with perversity, to refuse to laugh at it, and yes to tell them respectfully, you do not want that kind of speech around you. My husband has some wonderful business partners, very friendly men. Horrible language. There was one time it was on speakerphone and And I heard and when the conversation was over, I remember saying, I'm so sorry that they speak that way And his other business partner they talked afterwards and he said Yeah, I don't know why I do it. I just get on the phone and he starts saying it so I use it so that he feels more comfortable. My husband was like, Well if the two of us don't use it, then he feels uncomfortable And it's great because my husband's the only Christian and he's influencing the non-Christian. You know what, you're right, let's all hold a standard of morality and join others in with that. It's really neat to see. It's really neat. Does the topic turn towards complaining about your husbands or your friends, your life, your situation, your church with other friends while you're on the playground or having coffee or meetups or online Work on being a positive influence wherever you are. Well, but what if you don't? What if, as it says, the salt has become tasteless? What if you lose your saltiness? Well, the question did not really expect an answer, right? Jesus wasn't asking because Jews knew you could not put salt back into the grains of salt Now, some have actually questioned the inerrancy of the Bible because of this verse. Because salt is a compound of sodium chloride. It's a stable substance, and it will not, cannot lose its saltiness So Mark 9. 50 is even more specific and says, if the salt becomes without salt. So people seem to see that Jesus is implying that sodium chloride could lose its So they say Jesus was mistaken. Ha ha. He's not a scientist. He's just, you know, a nice guy. But those who criticize the Bible are always too hasty. Please remember that. Always too hasty. There were a variety of salts used in Palestine in the days of Jesus, and most of them were not pure sodium chloride Salt from the Dead Sea region and surrounding salt marshes was contaminated. And that is where they got most of their salt. The actual salt being more soluble than the impure salt, right? What happens if you put salt in water? It melts, right? So the actual salt being more soluble than the impure solubles could be leached out of the rock, leaving residue of no worse. So the average homeowner had no way of getting that lick with salt and putting the saltiness back in. Jesus was right. Salt could lose its saltiness in Palestine. What did they do with that useless residue? Jesus said it was no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by a men. The usual place for throwing rubbish was out on the street, literally where people trampled on it, on their feet. So what does Jesus mean by this? Does this imply a Christian can lose his salvation? Right? This is a question we must understand. No, it does not. Not at all. What he loses is his witness, his opportunity for ministry, his positive influence The New American Commentary describes the locks this way. Believers who fail to arrest corruption become worthless as agents of change and redemption. Christianity may make its peace with the world and avoid persecution, but it is thereby rendered impotent to fulfill its divinely ordained role. It will thus ultimately be rejected, even by those with whom it has sought to compromise. Christians who act as cowards and silence their opposition to the world's ways, In order to avoid the danger and displeasure of the world, they will in the end be treated with contempt from the world anyway. So again, Jesus was right. Salt must be salty. It just must. We cannot and must not compromise to the world. This is what happened to Lot in the city of Sodom Genesis eighteen thirty-two reveals that God was willing to spare the entire city. Remember, you know, Abraham talked him down. Well, what about this? What about this? I just wonder if He's like, I don't know, I kind of know my nephew. Let's not do 50 people. Let's talk that down a little bit. Let's talk that down, right? And he talked it down to 10. All right, Lord. There were only 10. the city who are righteous. God said he would spare. You had Lot, the nephew of Abraham, who'd been with Abraham in that city. What was his influence? Zilch. In Sodom, Lot had not acted as a preservative. And the evil men, what did they do? Did they like him for it? They despised him. They surrounded his home, and they would have harmed him if not for the angels. Sense to rescue him. Lot lost his usefulness to God, and Sodom was destroyed for its extreme corruption. And the city had no use for Lot We too are living in a world that is both corrupt and dark. Don't be fooled by man's improvements in science, technology. Society, don't be persuaded by the Me Too movement, fight for equal rights, or the woke agenda affecting every corner of our life. While our so-called knowledge has rapidly increased, our morals have rapidly decreased. And in this kind of society that God has placed us, we are to preserve it from corruption. But the American Evangelical Church, by and large, is not influencing society for better. Rather, it is being conformed to a society, just like lots. How many compromises is the church making If this is not reversed, the church in America will also lose its usefulness to God. But it doesn't have to be that way. So next, Christ employs a second image in verse 14, and it speaks also of influence. You are the light of the world, a city set on the hill that cannot be hidden. This image of the believer is really the dominance of the two metaphors Salt and light. This is the dominant. For it speaks more vividly, and then Christ expands on it more textually. Salt works almost imperceptibly to stop the decay, but light works obviously to point the way. So how can we be the light of the world? One question that immediately comes to mind is how can we be the light of the world when Jesus said in John 8 through 12, I am the light of the world. He who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light. Jesus is the main light, the source of light. Our light comes from him. He is the sun. We are the moon, reflecting his glory. If any of you have seen a gloriously colorful sunset, just remember, Jesus is the sun. We are the light of the sunset reflecting the rays of the sun and the colors. But the light is not our own You must understand it is a great privilege to be called the light of the world. Ephesians 5. 8 tells Christians, for you were formerly darkness, but now you are the light in the world. And then here comes the responsibility: walk as children of light. We are really only light in the Lord, not in and of ourselves You see, the Jews prided themselves as being the light of the world. They were the chosen nation. Right? Romans 2. 19, it says, but in their unbelief and in their sin, they were no longer the light of the world And then with the inception of the church, God is using the church to reflect his life. 1 Peter 2:9 points this out Peter says to the church, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. He's not talking about the nation of Israel. He's talking about us, his own possession. That you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. We are light by proclaiming God's excellencies Light as an image communicates very clearly. It kind of doesn't need a lot of description. It instantly dispels darkness and then uncovers what's in the darkness. It illuminates the way so we can see. Light is decisive. It's either on or off. Darkness cannot overcome light. Darkness has no ability to hide light. Where light shines, darkness always flees. A star in the night sky, as a star, darkness only serves to accentuate the light. Right? It doesn't overwhelm the star. More darkness, brighter star. So light also refers to refers to purity. It makes the way clear. And those in the light live in love, according to 1 John, first one. So we then as believers are to dispel the darkness of lies and hatred and wickedness. We guide the way for others to live So to press this point further, Christ presents two illustrations of the light. First, the city set on the hill. Now that's just stating the obvious. A city set on the hill cannot be hidden Dus cities built on top of a hill would be seen for miles around as one approached them, and there was nothing that could be done to hide them. Sue had had the pleasure of going to Israel. I don't know if any of you all have. I have not. But you can see in the topography, there was just the thing you had to do as a city. If you wanted to be safe, if you wanted to be a strong city, you put it on top of the hill, not in the valley, right? In the ancient world cities, these cities were often built of white limestone. It was what was around there in the region. And this would only make them stand out in the sun that much more. that bright light. And at night a lake city up on top of a hill would be seen for miles. The point is, especially with no like light pollution from electricity and all that The point is that those who follow Christ, us Christians, we are meant to be seen in the world. God never meant for us to be hidden away as monks somewhere. um nor so that we be detached from influencing a society. We are not to remove ourselves from a wicked society. We're supposed to push ourselves further in, shrine brighter, influence more. The next illustration Christ uses of light in verse 15, nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Now I'm thinking about some of you may have recess lighting, some of you may not. I have a mixture of both. I have recess lighting over my sink in my kitchen and nothing over my stove. And I keep thinking like Who designed this? I needed to see and I can't see, right? So you don't put a light under a basket. What's the point of the light? The point it just makes the obvious, right? Lamps go on lampstands. Never under containers. Recessed light should go over the cooking area. It just makes sense. So why? So it gives light to the whole house. It gives light to what you're doing. The images in our day have changed, but the point is clear. Where do we put our lamps today? Not under the bed. On the nightstand The whole point of household lights is to shine where they're needed. They are no good if they shine where they are not needed. So in verse 16, Jesus gets to the main point. He says, let your light shine. Well, that's not hard to figure out, right? What does he want us to do? Let our light shine. Really shine. That's the idea. Don't hide your Christianity from others. Don't remove yourself from a place of positive influence. If you were a flashlight, be the brightest, Helgen bald flashlight you could be. It be the floodlights over your garage. You know, be visible. Be obvious. Again, 1 Thessalonians 5. 5, for you are all sons of light and sons of day. And Jesus says, let your light shine before men. The whole point is to be in the midst of people and for others to see us. What good is a church? not being visible in the community, worried about being too different from the others. Listen, wherever there is darkness, light is needed. That's simple. And guess what? There's darkness all over the world. God has placed churches strategically around the world today whose presence is to light their countrymen. Hope Bible Church is strategically placed in Columbia, Maryland. You are strategically placed in Severn. You are strategically placed in Jessup right here too. But we are all strategically placed and hope in this spot. Why? People are supposed to look at us. They're supposed to look at you and notice how you live. God has put you on a stage, but you are not an actor. You are the real thing. Now, do not misunderstand. This is not saying you cannot have your privacy at times. Even Christ would retreat away from the people to have a place where he was not seen, not heard, so he could commune with the Father. In prayer and rest, okay? No fishbowls. But the bulk of our lives wasn't meant to be seen, observed, analyzed Was not Jesus himself analyzed and observed? How many sermons and books and songs have been made about Jesus' life? Because his life was the greatest light. By the way, if you don't think you're being watched, just observe what happens when a professing Christian, any Christian, sins in any obvious way. We all know. Right? Listen to all the voices that rise up against her. And suddenly you realize, oh, yeah, they're watching alright Philippians 2. 15 says that you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you appear as lights in the world. The world today wants us to believe there are many points of light out there. Any good person can find or be their own light. Mindful thinking, mysticism, Buddhism, globalism. All your risms. The only point of life in this world are Christians. That is why we are left in the world for the benefit of others, particularly unbelievers. Notice Christ goes on, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works. This is what they are to see. This is what the light is. Good works is wrought. It refers to all that is done that is good. Remember in this context, the Jews were told to bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance. That's what Christ said in Matthew 3. Spirituality that does not produce good works is phony. Good works don't save us, but they are the reason we are saved. Ephesians 2. 10. For we are his workmanship created in Christ for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Titus 3. 1 says, remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed. The New Testament tells Christians to engage in good works more often than it tells us to witness for Jesus. Do you know why? Because the good works, your life, validates the Word of God before the eye of the unbeliever. And good works, works of kindness and charity and goodwill, faithfulness to the family, serving God's kingdom. These are the visible things others can see when they look at us Titus 3. 8 says, this is a trustworthy statement. And concerning these things, I want you to speak confidently, so that those who have believed God may be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. Sit as 314, and let our people also learn to engage in good deeds, to meet pressing needs, that they may not be unfruitful. 1 Timothy 6. 18, instruct them to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous, ready to share. But there's an even greater reason to engage in good works and good deeds. You see it there in the end? Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works. and glorify your Father who is in heaven. The whole point of being a light is to glorify the one who made you a light. To glorify means to magnify, to honor, to demonstrate God's splendor and his brilliance, the wonder of his perfect character. 1 John 1. 5. And this is the message that we have heard from him and announced to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. Yes, they see us, and in particular, they see our good works. But all of this is only to say to them, it's not me. The good works are God the Father working in me. This is no attempt to win praise for oneself. It's not religious hypocrisy. It's a sincere desire to attract attention to God. But that attention will first come to you. Don't resist that attempt at that attention. It's not humility. That's hiding the light God gave you. Don't resist that attention, but with that attention, reflect it back to the glory of God. When people want to know, how are you able to live that way? Tell them, Psalm 27. 1, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Tell them God Himself is light. God said, let there be light at the beginning of creation and there was light and the whole of creation sparkles with his glory. This is my father's world. I love that song. The birds, their carols raised, the rustling grass, everything is singing. the whole of creation. And when they see our good works done in the name of Jesus, they will know and understand. It is God's light that we protect. Some of us have sinned by hiding our lights, and it's been cowardly of us. We did not tell those people that our godly standards came from the Bible You were afraid that we would appear too religious or too out of step with others. I am not condemning you. I fully understand I have done that as well. And ladies, for the first time, I went back historically and thought about it in 1800 years since the reign of Constantine, right? If you don't love history, it's a long time ago. Right? Constantine, Constantinople. It is no longer socially acceptable to say you are a Christian. It's been 1,800 years. Constantine came in and said, Christianity is the religion of the empire. It was a rather large empire at the time. the whole world. And so we said it's the it's the religion of the world. And ever since then, yeah, okay, Catholics messed it up. You know, there's been this weird whatever. But it's generally been the social norm to say I believe in God. I am a Christian. Well, not anymore. Not now. Instantly you are painted as a bigot, racist, idiot. Not only is it not fashionable anymore, but they've turned Christianity into a derogatory faith. They believe that they are more enlightened, more accepting, more loving, and more inclusive. Because obviously to believe any part of our historical fairy tale concocted to keep societies oppressed by the ruling parties, you would have to be backwards and simple-minded and hateful of others and exclusive I get it. It's hard to be a light in this society. But don't be a coward. Be a believer. Be brave. Trust God to use your testimony to bring him glory. Trust God to use Persecution? Maybe simply to accentuate your faith. Trust God to help you be a guide to the spiritually blind. Do not worry about how they will respond. You just shine for the Father above, shine for God. And one day you may see some of them giving glory to God because of your life and your godly influence on them So hopefully now I have motivated us, excited some of us to become an influencer. I use that term in an announcement. It really just makes me want to roll my eyes every time I hear it. you know, eight eighteen year olds telling me how to part my hair. It was ridiculous, right? Don't influence my style. You haven't even lived. So but they get paid, right? They get paid to promote the product. Oh look at my life, it's amazing And it influences us, right? No, we God wants us to be an influencer. Are you ready? The rewards are in heaven. He's not gonna pay you with, you know, lattes. The rewards are in heaven. But we're we are ready to influence this culture for good. Okay, where do we start? How do I be a light? Well, like I said, most people assume politics, right? Social activism, humanitarian efforts, but that is not what God says He does not tell us to protest, to lobby, to vote even. I mean there wasn't such a thing as democracy in scripture. He doesn't even say work for systemic change. He doesn't. He does not say improve society. He says Be ready to give a defense. 1 Peter 3:15. But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you, to give an account for the hope that is in you. But with gentleness and respect. Defense is the Greek word apologium. It's where we get the word apologies, right? That's not I'm sorry. But it's a defense. An apology is a defense, which is why whenever anyone says I want to give an apology. I'm like, so you're not asking for forgiveness. But that's just a grammar thing. Anyway, so we're to give a defense, but with gentleness and respect. We don't argue with people. Don't look for a fight, right? Don't feed the trolls and sink to their levels. Be ready with answers, because the questions in the fight will come, but do it with gentleness. Christianity is actually the only religion that invites you to examine it, to question it, because God has all the answers. There's no inconsistencies. There's no mistakes in the Christian faith because God is the author. Don't be afraid. What? They're not going to find the one inconsistency that mankind has yet to find. God is perfect. So how do you answer? Here come two words that I love saying, very hard to spell, and they kind of tune out a lot of people. Presuppositional apologetics. I love presuppositional apologetics, right? So let me explain. How do you answer the questions the world brings to you? How do you prepare yourself to defend the faith so that you can be salt and light and influence this world? Well, presuppositional apologetics. We find it in Proverbs 26, verses 4 through 5. It says Do not answer a fool according to his own folly, lest ye be like him. Answer a fool as his folly deserves, lest ye be wise in his own eyes At first this can be confusing. Do not answer a fool, lest you be foolish. Answer a fool. So he is not foolish So what are we supposed to do? Right? Know your audience. If the guy is a fool and he doesn't want any answers and he just wants an argument, do not engage him. When your child comes to you with a question, though, you can tell whether he's asking for an answer or whether he's asking just to be wise guy. Apply that discernment here. Because it's important that when we answer the specific questions that they are asking, the Bible does have to get answers, so we don't get stuck there. So when a person comes and asks you, how can you know that there's a God? Oh, right, I practice this. I remember it. I know how to say how there's a God. Wait a second. Why are you wanting to know if there's a God? Because now I need to answer you according to your folly. I don't think you really want to know how to know there's a God. I think you're just coming here for a fight and an argument. Right? Do not pick on their smoking mirrors that they throw out at you, the red herrings, the straw men. Don't get caught up. and debate why we should raise minimum wage, Christianity is just a fairy tale, Jesus believes in socialism. These are distractions. The fool wants to debate these points all day long. And you will be playing whack-a-mole. Do not do it. It accomplishes nothing. The Bible says, do not answer the questions, otherwise you will become foolish like him. Answer the worldly philosophies behind the questions. You see, God says, pull the rug out from underneath of him. Answer a fool as his folly deserves, lest he be wise in his own eyes. Show him he's standing on nothing. I think of Wiley Coyote if you remember the uh cartoon I hope I'm not oh I'm I'm not that old. Roadrunners running, Wiley Kylie's chasing after him, right? And Wiley all of a sudden stops and realizes I'm over the canyon. Right? Do that. Be roadrunner to the other person. Oh, you just go ahead, give all those arguments. Um yes. You can't make that argument because you Don't believe in truth. So show him you have nothing to stand on. If you take God out of the equation and are not starting from a biblically informed worldview, you do not have a platform to make any argument of truth, validity, of reason. Sorry, Nobel Peace Prize, you don't have a biblical worldview, you're a fool. Pastor Lee used the analogy that a man without a biblical worldview is a man made of water, swimming in an ocean of water, trying to stand on a platform of water. The point is, we step back and we answer a fool by pointing out where they are foolish so they do not walk away thinking how smart and wise they are. Too many times they want to sneak over on our platform, our platform of truth and and perfectionism, and then attack us from it. Kick them off that platform And if they're not going to believe in an all-powerful creator God who is perfect in all of his ways and calling them to submission and forgiveness of their sins, they cannot argue. They need to go on their platform of water. Good luck. What is their biggest folly? Their biggest folly is not thinking biblically. Thinking they can reason apart from God instead of under submission to Him. Figure that out. Hear that in their argument. Point that out to them and let the convicting hand of the work of the Lord humble them. presupposition. They have a they suppose something, right? But they have a presupposing of something. And that's what you want to get at. What if they're presupposing? I will tell you, my presupposition is that God is true, His Word is true, He created everything. Let's have a debate. Good luck finding truth outside of a God who is true and made everything. That's my presupposition. That's my biblical worldview. In order to do this, ladieso, to show these inconsistencies and weaknesses of the worldview, we've got to understand. We've got to understand how to discern a biblical worldview versus the lies of the world. That means we need to go back to school. And I don't mean any of the ones in this area. Apologetic school. Biblical worldview school. The Bible says you have to defend your faith with gentleness and respect, so no name-calling, just to show you what I mean. Here's a few phrases. I want you to hear the phrases and think if you can identify What would you call that? How would you argue against that, right? What's the underlying worldview? God helps those who help themselves. We hear that. We hear it in different ways. I'll just I just need to get a little stronger first, and then I'll go to God. He helps those if we help ourselves. Well that is the philosophy of self-helpism. How about science and Christianity are at odds because science uses facts and religion uses faith? Well, what is that? That's naturalism. And that is teaching all of us you can't believe it puts our faith in opposition to science. It's not true. God made science. I'm not saying there's no God. I'm just saying since you can't know everything for sure, you can't know that for sure That's skepticism, right? And that one's easy. Well, if you don't know for sure, well then why are you for sure saying we can't know for sure? All right, all right. That view is fine for you. But what's true for you is not true for me. Well that's postmodernism. And that is what we are living in. And it's almost what we were living in. We're entering in a newism. How about this? You have to accept me as I am because I am living my truth. How many times have we heard that? That's moral relativism. How are we going to defend against that? What does the Bible say about that? Guess what a lot If I feel it's true, then it is true. And my feelings are your responsibility. Do not trigger my emotions. I cannot continue to endure the emotional distress of being a girl when I feel like I'm a boy. That is injustice. Well, what is that? That's the philosophy or worldview of emotionalism. We are ruled by our emotions. All religions are equally valid. We should all just coexist. Pluralism. Have faith in yourself. Awaken the spirituality within yourself. That's mysticism, right? New spirituality. If you love me, then you must accept me. And we need to fight against the oppressive capitalistic hierarchy and demand equal all equality and justice. That's Marxism Gender biology is unfair, and our seemingly democratic society is really about men controlling women. Girl power. Well, that's obviously feminism. Isn't it funny you never see backpacks or t-shirts with boy power? Oh no, that'd be oppressive. We believe that social justice is at the heart of the gospel. Jesus would have fought for the rights of the LGBTQ, the feminist. BLM, we need to continually rethink our beliefs as Christians in light of our changing understanding and ongoing experiences. That is the modern Christian church, known as progressive Christianity The author of our book, Becoming a Woman That Pleases God, encourages women to choose five areas that they would like to become an expert in. She uses the word fast. I prefer expert. That you would like to become an expert in. And then she says, this is an old book, create physical Manila file folders, right? But you know, tabs on your phone, you know, what whatever whatever works for you these days, right? And then start putting information into your folder. Articles that you've read, podcasts that you've heard Um magazines, seminars you've attended, sermons you've heard, a book that you're reading. Ever you just read everything on that subject You dive into it. You learn it. Spend time with those who are best skilled in that area, picking their brains. Seek and sharpen your expertise. A wise woman will develop a personal worldview by cultivating her mind and elevating her thoughts, grasping the principle of salt and light. How can you shine a light on pluralism, mysticism, Marxism, emotionalism, feminism, progression Christianity, skepticism, moral relativism, naturalism when we don't even know how to define them? How can you you're gonna get caught up in a debate of whether or not being gay is okay or not okay? And that's that's up here. We need to say no, there's a God of truth He loves you. He hates your sin. He has said right. He has said wrong. He has created. You need to understand these principles, right? And do it with gentleness and love. So I I I get this kind of sounds like nerdy theologian talk, right? And I I admit I'm nerdy theologian. But why does it matter for us? We are very busy women. I'm a very busy woman, right? Very busy That's why there's that popular mean. Ain't nobody got time for that. You know, like I feel like that's half of my response to Lesson today. I just don't have time for that. So why do we study critical race theory? Why would I have time to do that, right? First of all, my son is five What does it matter about critical race theory? I've got time. Well, first, because we're commanded to be self-in life, and it's not just my son that I interact with It's not just him that I'm responsible for. God is commanded to influence all of the darkness. And it glorifies God when we shine, when we preserve, when we defend. Second, so first we just need to obey the Lord. He commands us to do it. Second, because we need to guard our own faith. The devil is very crafty. He knows humanity and he knows human behavior. He's had thousands of years. To study us. And the Bible has said there's nothing new under the sun, and no temptation has ceased to except what is common to man. We're not that special. These sins have been happening for thousands of years. It never ceases to amaze me how little credit we give to Satan. He has been a student of human behavior since the beginning of creation. We're not hard to figure out, and he's got each of us pegged. He knows exactly what motivates us, and he knows exactly how to manipulate one woman as well as an entire nation, an entire empire away from the light. Do not think your faith is just fine with very little effort on your part into it. We can be deceived and persuaded so easily to believe the crafty lies of the world I mean, you know, yeah, just lots of examples. But don't let yourself be deceived. Learn how to spot a snake in the grass. in order that you can guard your faith from folly. This doesn't mean you can lose your salvation, right? But it does mean you can lose your influence. It can mean you lose your saltiness, your effectiveness to shine bright for the Lord. That's all that Satan wants, to shipwreck your faith. Just take that Christian, sideline them. And he moves right along. Which brings me to the third point. Because we need to influence and preserve society. He cannot take my salvation away, but he can sideline my influence. If you are not wise to the foolishness of the world and also strengthening your ability to discern all this like crafty webs, then how can you possibly be an influencer for righteousness? An influencer is someone who is bold, loud, certain, and strong. If you have Instagram, you know what I mean, right? They know their product. They love their product and they put it in your face. This is what we're supposed to be to a discaying world. But we're to be winsome, persuasive, persuade them towards the beauty of Christ and against an entire world that is drowning out your influence Seek to learn these philosophies, these isms and foolishness of the age, but you can identify them and attack them at their base, their foundation, and therefore be an effective influencer of the Lord. Why? You already have a large following, right? Macy's not be thinking that you've got a large following, so we're not going to ask you to be an influencer, but you have a very large influence. And some of them are underage. Which brings me to my fourth point. Protect our children. Notice I didn't say protect your children. Some of you may not have children But that doesn't mean you do not have a responsibility to protect this young and growing generation of the church. We want our children to think biblically and to discern in this wicked world Thinking biblically isn't merely knowing Bible verses, although it's a great place to start. Thinking biblically is about taking what we know from the Bible, understanding how the principles presented in the Bible then apply. To specific circumstances and situations. What is the most commonly asked question of children? Why? We must be able to answer this question as well. They will come to us for answers of their faith I heard one woman say when I was growing up, it was, how did Moses part the Red Sea? Whoa. But now it's, was there really a Moses? How do we know that there was a Moses? Why? Little children from the very beginning of their age are being influenced not to question how does God work, but to question the very existence of God. Is it true? Is it right? Why is my mom true? I don't think Lisa's not here, so I'll pick on her. Evelyn asked her if she was Lisa was telling her in Togo about, you know, this is Christ, he is true, Allah is not true, Islam is not true. And Evelyn goes, Isn't that just what the Muslim mommies are teaching their daughters? Like, oh my goodness, at seven years old, that's what she said? What'd you say? Because it's true, right? Your children are looking at you and saying, I actually don't know that I believe your authority. Spoiler alert, she did a pretty good job Um, but that's what we need to do. We need to protect our children. We have to understand we can't be found without answers, because if they ask us and we don't have an answer, what did we teach them We taught them God doesn't have answers. The Bible doesn't have an answer. My teacher had an answer. My friend had an answer. But mommy, the church, my Sunday school teacher, my friends, they didn't have an answer We do not want our children thinking they have to choose between science or religion, or that their faith is at odds with wisdom. We don't want our children to look at the government or society or at each other as their savior because they know instead the battle's already been won by Christ. He alone is the savior We want them to know what constitutes trustworthy evidence so that they can never claim there is no evidence for God. We want them to know what I said. We want them to know that truth is exclusive and that excludes falsehoods We want them to know there is right, there is wrong, and society does not get to define those right. There are foundational principles of our faith. If you cannot explain and defend them, you are allowing the foundation to erode, which leaves our children as easy prey for Satan to doubt what we are saying and to believe the worldly thinking. After all, how can our children accept the truth of Christ unless they already know that truth itself exists and is not up for interpretation or debate? How will they know to reach out for Jesus for help if they are taught that all they need to do is to look inside of them, that everything resides within? Many of our children go to school. It's obvious that if they go to school, whether public or Christian, right, you cannot check out if your child is at a Christian school They're away from your influence. The influence of the church. The body of believers for eight or more hours a day, five days a week, and that excludes band practice and soccer games and sleepovers. Already we have a greatly diminished influence over these children. We're just simply not there. If a child goes to school outside the home, we have a great responsibility to influence her with great strength, knowing we have less time and therefore less influence. The fight is harder there, and we need to be ready and excited with enthusiasm to come alongside these little kids, each and every one of you. Each of us should take our role of salt and light very seriously to our children And if you homeschool your children, do not be deceived, thinking your children are better sheltered from the influence of the world and need less of your attention. How much time, if your children are at home, are you devoting to teaching your children how to spot worldly lies and philosophies? Are you overly focused on scholastic and achievements? What do you spend your time on shows them what is most valuable and most important. And I was homeschooled, Christian school my whole life. I can count on less than ten fingers the amount of friends that I have that are still faithfully walking with the Lord. It is not a shelter. Let's teach our children to think biblically before they're presented with the questions that challenge their faith. The greatest protection we can give to our youth is to equip them to face the cultural lies head on. It's not good enough that we tell them that is good, that is bad. That's what we do in our toddlers. As they grow up, they're going to want to know why. And they'll begin to question and challenge. And we need to train them to use their critical thinking skills during every lecture, every movie, every song, every YouTube video, every podcast, every tweet, and yes, every sermon they hear. Children have questions, and if we don't have answers, they are left to the world. The world is assaulting the Christian faith Instead of defending it, we're just winking away in silence or even apologizing for speaking up, right? Apologizing for our position of influence or being not sensitive enough for their emotions apologizing for not understanding the oppression that the baby boomer generation has caused, promising to take more time to reflect and listen to those experiences that may be different from ours so that we can learn how to be more inclusive and sensitive What is happening? When you do not give a well-researched clear defense of what you believe, the doctrine that we teach here at the church, the way that you live, you're teaching them God doesn't have the answer Hope Bible Church doesn't have the answers. The Bible doesn't have the answers. Christianity itself does not have the answers. That is why I love that Ken Ham names his ministry, Answers, in Genesis. Because he recognized that kids and others They're not getting the answers to their questions. And the place to get the answers in the Bible, the very first verse, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. A lot of answers in that verse, right? Boom, right out of the gate. So we need to understand those isms that I mentioned and not roll our eyes and not think I don't have time for this. I'm late, I've got work to do, my kids are painting the walls, you know, I just don't have time to study these things. No, we have to make time. We have to be equipped so we can equip the younger generation to be salt and light to their peers when they go off to college, when they get assaulted. Some of us need a reminder that we are salt and light. Right? We are here on earth to influence those around us. Remind each other. Encourage one another. We're in this journey together. But we cannot influence people with what we don't know, and we cannot preserve when we have lost our saltiness. I just want to encourage all of you, it might sound nerdy, but please take time to dive into apologetics. And I want to bring some resources because okay, okay, I do, I do, I want to, I want to learn. Where do I go? Right? Well, there's not actually a a a great class that I could send you to on apologetics The best person that knew and taught presuppositional apologetics that I know in my entire life was Tom Leek. So I can point you to his teachings. He's got a lot of lessons that we can point to if you want to start there. A lot of my notes came from him. Thank you, Sue. Thank you, Tom. And Then secondly, um Roger Sender, I don't know if you've met him, he loves this stuff. If you just sit down and talk with him, he truly, you will just be encouraged. and your mind will explode and walk away and you'll have dozens of resources, for instance. He recommended Every Thought Captive. This is a study manual for the defense of the Christian truth. I've read it. It is a very good book. Alright, every thought captive. Oh, it is by uh Richard Pratt. Richard L. Pratt Jr. So his father was Richard L. Pratt Jr. Um and then there is the ultimate proof of creation resolving the origins debate. This is by Dr. Jason Lyell, L-I-S-L-E, The Ultimate Truth. Also a fantastic book. Uh, this one. I Don't Have Enough Faith to Be an Atheist by Norman Geisler. Really great book. This is a study guide. The actual book's a little thicker. Don't be discouraged. I don't have enough faith to be an atheist. There's another one I didn't have with me that Ken Ham wrote called Already Gone. If you want to have nightmares about what's going to happen to our precious children in Sunday school That's the book to reefs. And I do want to read I I you know I mentioned to Glennis earlier, Glenis and Ricardo have dedicated throughout this pandemic to pouring into our children. And that's like that I'm sorry if I'm going to embarrass you. That's an example that I'm talking about. No children here at the church, but saying these children need truth, they need answers Because what Ken Ham's book is saying that research has found, children that go to Sunday school are more likely to leave the faith than those children that had never gone to Sunday school at all. Because they're taught these are stories, just like Little Red Riding Hood It's a story. And they're not taught how to defend it. So, already gone. Really great book. And then this one I just came across. This one's a little more digestible, okay, called Mama Bear Apologetics. I actually hate the title. Feels a little too trendy, I guess. But the work inside is fantastic. She goes over all of those isms I talked about and she She takes them apart very systematically. This is the lie that they're saying. This is the truth from scripture. This is what you're going to hear. This is what you should say This is what they're saying, this is what they're really meaning. How you tell your little children, how you tell your older children. It's a fantastic I avoided it for so long because I thought it was too trendy, and I'm sorry that I did. It's a fantastic book. Mama Bear Apologetics hashtag roar like a mother. Um it says come along, right? But her name is Hilary Morgan Ferrer. F E R R E R They have a whole website, they have podcasts, they have resources, a lot of stuff on there. I I don't know if the whole podcast is good. Have not searched the depth of their resources But this book is good. I can do that. And then if you like, if you want to go a step further, my good friend RC Scroll wrote a book, Consequences of Ideas. It was it's such a good book. I used it when I was in college. Uh Pastor George Lawson actually recommended it to me. I was in a philosophy class at a secular college and over there just like why are they debating their existence? I don't get these men. What is this stupid thing we're learning? And R. C. Sprohl, who majored in philosophy, goes through Aristotle, Plato, Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Rene Descartes, John Locke, David Hume, Emmanuel Kant, Karl Marx, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Sartre, Freud, Darwin. And he explains to you what they're saying, what they're thinking, and what the Bible has to say about it and how they all work together. You can't have Nietzsche without having uh Jean Paul Sartre. You can't have it. It's so amazing. Anyway, fantastic book. In the foreword, I want to leave you with one uh the the stories that R. C. Spr Sprohl gave in the beginning of his book, Consequences of Ideas. He said that after he had graduated with his undergrad in philosophy He needed a job and he went to get a job and apparently this was fourteen years after World War II, our student school was older. P. S. You went to seminary with Mr. Rogers. So he was trying to get a job. America was like, I'm sorry, you got your degree in what? Philosophy. And so the guy said, here, you must like to think. Here's a broom. Go sweep the parking lot So it was like a grocery store something in his job after going to four years of college learning philosophy was to sweep a parking lot so he could have time to think The guy said. And as he's sweeping, he there was a hospital on the other side. There was also a man they paid to sweep parking lots. They don't do this anymore. I mean the state of our parking lots are atrocious. So there was also a man sweeping the parking lot And one day they met and they talked and the gentleman just asked him, Oh, you know, well what what are you doing? Well, you know, I'm working my way until I can find a job. What was your major? Oh my major was philosophy. Oh interesting And the man asked him a question. He was a German immigrant, and he asked him a very specific philosophical question, to which RC was like, how does a man sweeping parking lots have such a deep philosophical question They answered it and they engaged in a very deep philosophical conversation. And so we had to ask, I'm sorry, how are you so trained in philosophy? He said he was a doctor of philosophy at a German university when World War II began. He taught it at the school. And he didn't agree with the Nazi philosophy So the Nazis killed his wife and his mother and father and his daughter, and he escaped with his son to America. And R. C. Sroll said it did not lose the weight and impact on him That America thinks so little of philosophy that it puts you in the parking lot sweeping because there's no other use for you. And Nazi Germanism realized It's so dangerous. Philosophy is so dangerous that they have to murder your whole family to silence you. And I want to encourage you, the world gets it. The world gets that philosophy is dangerous. And we are the salt. We are the light. Do not let them silence us. Do not let them put us in the parking lot sweeping. We're going to put ourselves back in there, stand up on the podium, and reach out to this nation. To those around us, influence society as light, pointing them to God, capturing them from the lies, the snares of the devil, and helping them understand that Christ is the answer, He is the light. That's my encouragement to you ladies. I've spoken much longer than I wanted to. I told you it was gonna happen. But thank you for listening. Are there this is a a little bit abnormal. Are there any questions? We're just gonna do a little Q<unk>A This way. I didn't prepare anything. But does anybody have anything they would want to ask? It's okay if you don't. I said a lot. It's okay. If you just need to digest. But is there anything further, any of the resources? I love presuppositional apologetics. My family says it's because I love to debate, but that's not it. I loved seeing that's not true. And I love the look on someone's face when they realize Oh, and they see the light and they see God and that beauty of the Lord. I love that's why I love it. Anyway, any questions? Any thoughts? Stories? Karen has a question for those online that cannot hear. I was just wondering if you know would be the Bob Lodge's question. Do you have a question that I think Oh, off the top of my head? No, I was just petrified and like, dear Lord, don't let Jamie ever ask me these questions. No, I mean it's it's uh okay, how would we respond to someone that's that's pluralism when someone says, well but they say the religion is true. Right? So what's true for them, why are you why are you saying their religion is false? Right? So when someone comes at you and says that, yes, because God says that there's true. How can there be truth apart from a God that's created of everything If there's not a God who hasn't created everything, then how do we get truth? We get truth by, well, whatever we think is truth Okay, so if we all just decide whatever we think is truth, how can you condemn anything? Right? So all right, well why is your God of the Bible true? Well very simple, because he said so. And then we can get into the, you know uh the closeness of the debates of Muslim I I tell you was developed seven hundred years after you know Christ died and Muhammad changed it. Oh I have a new word from the Lord. It's just very interesting how all these religions have a new word from the Lord as if God needs to improve upon his word. In which he said doesn't change. We have more, and then you can get into the evidences. People are really concerned about that. But as little children, I would simply want to point the children back to because God is truth. There cannot be truth apart from God And God says it's true. Therefore it is true. It may seem cyclical, but trust me, they're cyclical too. And that's a presuppositional apologetics is. It's taking that person and saying, you think you're starting from a base of moral superiority? Let me just show you how you're going like this with your argument too. Because they won't say, well, you're just arguing in a circle. Mm-hmm. But at least I'm admitting that. You're not And I'm admitting my starting point is God. So yeah, of course I'll always go back to you. God. Anyway, that's I don't know, that might not be super helpful. You can send them my way. I'll snow them with words. Yes. you said uh towards the beginning a book that I recently read is called Tactics a book by Gregory Kupel and it's a game plan for just sucking your Christian convictions. He tells or teaches people how to tell where someone questioned Was it the group above their questions by asking more questions exactly down to where what methods you're going to use to present themselves? Exactly. So she's saying there's a book that she read that helps the Christian understand instead of just hearing their questions, um, how to let me ask more questions so that I understand what you're actually saying And as an example of that, I was telling some of the ladies that uh we had my family over for Mother's Day. One of my uncles made a comment that sounded like he's a Christian, that sounded like he was saying God accepts homosexuals. He loves them and he accepts them. And a couple of my family members are like, ah, you know, like, oh no, what's happening? What's going on with me? You know And so I started talking and and I just made me realize I I know this guy. He isn't very well taught. Ver very genuine though. Very genuine, but not well taught. And I just sort of said, I don't think I've understood you. Can you ask your question again? I'm I'm not sure I understood what you're asking. And what he was saying was simply, I don't think Christians can lose their salvation. I was like, all right, how did we get there? We got there because someone made the comment Someone professed to be a believer and then abandoned their faith and became a homosexual, which was the honest thing to do. I don't think someone can lose their salvation Alright, so we're not talking about homosexuality at all. Okay. Right? So it's asking questions, pausing, listening, make sure you really do understand That's the gentleness. That's the respect, right? That it says be sulfur and light. Shine your light with gentleness and respect, with good works, humility, win some persuasive. You know, that's that's what the Lord wants us to do. Yes I don't know if there's a a right answer to this, but I'm curious what your thoughts are. In regards to the workplace. The workplace, okay. Because everything's everybody is now awoke and every everything is accepted And so in the I know I'm I'm wearing a house. My previous employer. Okay, yeah. Um Supporting workflows that directly contradict website and not having I mean you have to do your job, but how do you feel very solved? Right. Knowing that it it is it is kind of easy. Sure. At that point. Yeah, so Lauren is asking how as a Christian do we support workflows in the workplace that um have the result of maybe being even anti-Christian, are you saying or like what would you Not necessarily anti-Christian, but going against our moral. Going against our morals. Okay. Okay. So like when your coworker comes in and they transitioned And how do you support that like what do you do? How do you interact with that? Is that what you mean? In that realm. In that realm. Essentially like enabling it. Okay. We both have workflows We build workflows to make it happen in the job. Okay, well I used to work for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. And I remember sitting in my desk looking at the project that I was supposed to be sending $55 million to India for sonogram machines. And everyone was celebrating this. This is fantastic. This is good. Mother, you know, maternal health, fetal development. This is fantastic. But then recognizing my coworkers are celebrating and not because of maternal and baby health etc. , but because moms could now choose to abort what child they wanted. They could see the gender. And recognizing that although it said on the contract for maternal and fetal health development What they really meant was let's give these women the right to choose to abort. And that's when I recognized, yeah, I am supporting murder by my working here, right? That was a really hard moment. What do I do? How do I interact with these people? Well first of all, I truly was the only Christian in that environment, the only other woman that called herself a Christian was the most flagrant center of the bunch. So it was very hard to say. Yeah, we're Christians. So What do you do in that moment? You just shine as a light. You can't stop your work when people come and they interact with you when they talk. Right? This isn't about picketing. This isn't about wearing a t-shirt that says you are wrong You know, that's not that's not what it means as a Christian. But it's taking those opportunities when you're talking one-on-one, when you're an individual. And I did that with my boss at the time. She was this was her contract, that's why everyone was celebrating with us I just said, you know, I overheard, you know, this guy talking about this rejoicing over here. Is that really the point of the contract? And she goes, Oh no, no, no, no. We would never say that. I said, that's just, you know, I know we uh I know you know I'm a Christian and it just it it's hard for me to work in line with what feels something that's so opposite of my my faith and what I believe is right. And oh no no no no no 'cause the moment you even just say something gentle like, well y you know, this is how I believe, they gotta accept you They have to listen and it gives an open door. And then of course now you're you're gonna be watched more closely because you stood up and you said you were a Christian. But then embrace that you're watching me. Well then that means that When this project is deadline and it's hard, I am delighted to rise above my emotions and my you know exhaustion and show grace. When that person responds that way, I'm delighted to rise above. When that person comes in and we're setting up, we're setting up a whole pipeline of how do we deal as a workplace with these people, we just You either say, I leave the job, right? That could be when you remove yourself from that, or you could simply say, you know, I realize there might be a better way to help them. And maybe we can help them by first talking with them and interacting with them. You know, what are we going to do with people that disagree with them? Why are we not allowing their opinions to also be considered? You know, we need to make sure that everybody feels safe To have their beliefs and opinions. Just things like that, you throw their platform back in their face. If everyone needs to feel safe, well then I also need to feel safe And I'm I'm not going to I'm not going to abuse them, but you know, we need to make sure that they're not going to abuse me too or others. Hypothetically speaking You know. Yeah, Glennis. I'm living back. Glennis is living back. I'm actually ending a thirty-three year career of teaching because of that very thing. And um about a week ago I had a conversation with my head of school And it was the most difficult conversation I've had in the workplace ever. And I told her, I said, as a Christian, I have problems too diversity of education initiatives that you're doing at this school. And she said, well, can you give me an example? And I gave her example about something called the week of noise. Which was a whole week of celebrating with the LGBTQ community. And I said, and we were told That as teachers, we need to be ready to support. I'm in an all-girl school and there are girls who struggle with gender. We need to be ready to support them I said, how would you recommend I support the student who comes to me and says, I need I need support in this. As a Christian, what would you tell me to do? And she said, well you can't tell them this to sin. I said, well, I say here we are. I said I guess for some spaces there really isn't room for closing voices this day. And so I said, this is why I'm retired as the Wow, ladies online, Glenis has an amazing testimony um that you missed. Uh you should come next time. Um But she's being curious to know we're done. That is great. That is so brave, Glennis, to stand up. She's been a teacher for 33 years. This school is now bringing in um Telling children, girls, that they can be safe to transition, helping them feel safe to question their God-given gender. One of many things. But it made Glenith have to go to her principal, the head of the school, and say, How do you suppose that I'm supposed to do this as a Christian. And that's the light, right? Now you are moving your removing yourself from the society, but you are removing yourself with a spotlight. You are telling that woman, listen, Christ says I cannot. So what are you saying I should do? Well I'm saying cour the headmaster says she can't tell them it's a sin. And that's when Glenn said, Well then that's why I'm retiring. And I think that that is such a hard I mean, you want to talk about putting yourself out there Getting ready for what's gonna come, and you know it's gonna come. We know as Christians in this world you will have tribulation. They will persecute you. They hate the light, darkness, love, it's darkness. So we know there's persecution. You know But Glenn, that was brave. You obeyed the Lord. You did not fear man more than you feared the Lord. You said the fear of the Lord's the beginning of knowledge and wisdom And I follow him. And so what can man do to me, right? Neither death nor life nor breath nor height future and principalities and what can keep me from the love of Christ? And you shown a light in that environment. Glenis, thank you for that. Very much for that testimony. And this is who's teaching our young kids. Amen. Thank you, Glennis. Elsie, you had a comment. Oh me. I am booked Very good. I got it from the Creation Museum. Which one? The same one? Um, you the three lines. Okay, World Religions and Cults. World Religions and Cults. And this is a three writer series It's a series? It's a series, it's three lives. Three volumes. Three volumes. Wow. Um Christianity were good double when this is um Mormons and the different Christianity cults. Um So like the different Christianity cults and Mormonisms and things like that. Volume one. Volume two is logistics And mystical religions. Ah, mystical religions. And volume three is mete materialistic and naturalistic religions. Which one we'll save that again? Material is um actually Naturalism. Yeah. Yes. Sarah, thank you for that resource. You said he got it at the creation? Yeah, written by um Bodie Hodge. Oh Bodie Hodge, I know him, for sure. Uh ladies, thank you Sarah for bringing them up. If you go to Answers in Genesis, um their website, they have so many resources. And the other thing I meant to say Is there is a streaming service that Answers does called answerstv. com. It is so worth it. Children love it. Older people love it. There's so much on there. There's so much questions and answers and unique engagement on world views. There's a fabulous talk. There's like It's a preaching conference, there's got Al Muller and John MacArthur and and then there's you know episodes of like out hike and seek in the wild for kids and I mean anything you could think of. What do we do about the genders? Talking about the constellations and the stars. How was the earth formed? Where did we get volcanoes from? And what about the layers and the rock layers? What about the dinosaurs and the fossils and Tons and tons of information. You know, what about all the spirited isms of the age? So Sarah, thank you. I I didn't mean to cut you off. Did you have more resources or was that just the the volumes you were trying to show us Oh well uh I encourage you if you if you were a road trip, go to Good recreation museum later gives you information about um worldview and and it really Wait, oh my god. I agree with Sarah. I agree. You can, now that we have our masks off, get on the road, drive yourself to Kentucky. It's better than Disneyland, I promise Yep. My son wants to sleep in the ark. You can do that. Hey youth group, do we have youth group people online? Your youth can we could plan a trip of the women's ministry. You can sleep overnight in the ark Yeah. All right. All right. It's not as cozy. It's not as cozy as a cookie. The youth would love it more. Fine, I'll be a chaperone. But I'm just saying Sarah's right. It's um it's amazing what they've done at the museum and they they they attack world views. That is what Kenam's trying to with this whole thing. So answers TV Answers in Genesis. And then the other one I was thinking about, there was a movie called Is Genesis History? It is online, freely available on YouTube. It's like an hour, two hour-ish Amazing. But if you go to their YouTube channel, they had a lot of extra footage that they couldn't fit into the movie. So they put that on there in 20 minute increments. And and Google We on YouTube. So YouTube? YouTube weeks, whatever, Doug Petrovic. When you and I know it sounds weird, but if you do is Genesis History, Doug Petro, it'll pop up. He was our first missionary that Hope Bible Church supported. He was um uh starting a seminary in Novosibirsk, Siberia, Russia. He wasn't Russian, so with a name like Petrovich, right? He was American. Started a seminary there teaching Russians, native Russians and Siberians, the Word of God, training them to be pastors, sending them out into their back into the Siberia. craziest parts of Russia. That seminary is still thriving today. Doug and his family left, went to Canada because he just felt that there was a lack of Christian scholarship in the realm of archaeology. And so he went to the University of Toronto, which apparently is like the heart of where the world accepts archaeological like knowledge, and he got his doctorate there, and he now is one of the leading voices in the world on specific Middle East archaeology and he knows where the Tower of Babel was. Look it up. He honestly I was watching it and I was like, I don't understand half of what he's saying, but if Doug says it I believe it. Like I just he says it's there. So looks good to me So in Genesis History, they they go through so many fun questions. My five-year-old watches. He's learning about plate tectonics. Because these videos are so fun and graphic and anyway, it's just you cannot s you can't walk away from all of that going, I don't know, maybe the world has points No, it's just fantastic. So anyway, I've keeping you way longer, ladies. I'm so sorry. Thank you for indulging me. It's a very important topic topic. But you're gonna go out today. And you're going to be confronted with the world and you're going to get a worldview. You're going to get one of those isms and you're not going to know it. And you're just going to be like, maybe not even in like defending of you know someone against it, but it's just going to assault you and you're going to be wondering, uh And your children are gonna hear it. And we've got to send our face, it's gotta be salt, it's gotta be light. In this rotting, decaying world. Imagine the day after, the moment Christians are raptured. Can you imagine what the world is gonna be like after that? Let's make a missus. Yes, Carrie. Create your folders. Create those folders. Pick just five. Like what you know, like you know, poor Glennis is over there does like all this transition thing, you know, and you're Lauren, you were talking about it too. So maybe you want to get into that moral relativism. Well it's my truth, so it's good for me, and you can't, and you have to accept my truth. So maybe you're gonna do a dumpster dive in that. You can come to me. Virgil Zender, our elders, they can direct you to really good scholarship. I would start at Answers in Genesis, you know, tons of information there. Um and and just start Feel free to run resources by me. Sometimes they can not be great, right? Even the uh uh that book Mama Bear uh The alo whatever, Mama Bear apologetics. She's called it the chew and spit method. Ooh, chew this. Yeah, but spit that part out. You know, so there's resources that you're gonna have to come across that you're like, this is good, this is not good We would love to help you. Women leaders would love to help you sort of start in the beginning so that you don't have to spit so much out. But we send you towards folks that you can mostly just chew through in the beginning. We'd love to help you with that So um anyway, and yeah, think of our children. Grab my little son, do not let him be persuaded by any false doctrine. Smash it. It's totally fine by me. Scot a lot of questions. All right, ladies, I'm going to close in prayer. Just thank God. Thank him. Gracious Father, thank you that you are the light. We are not left in darkness. I think of the the song The World Moaned in Darkness that we sing in Christmas time, that we were pining in darkness And then your light burst forth. Your son, Christ, came down. He is the light of the world. And you have blessed us and given us the great privilege of reflecting your light into a dark world. Dear God, I pray we embrace your light. That in roles we're put in like Lauren and Glennis, that we have to stand up amongst great persecution to ourselves, maybe even losing our jobs. God, we would not falter. We would be salt. We would stop the decay. As if we will not stop it. We would slow the decay. Only you can stop it or we would be influencers. We would influence this culture. Our friends our homes, our church here at Hope Bible Church. We would influence one another for good works and good deeds that glorify the Lord, to be greater light, to shine. This world is getting darker God, I believe you are coming soon. We are heading towards the days of Noah. And God, let us be saltier and lighter and brighter than ever before. We need training. Give us the right sources, Lord. Give us the time. Help us to prioritize so we can see how important this is. And dear God, protect our youth. The world, Satan is after them. He catches them while they're young and makes them ineffective for the rest of their life. God help us stand in the gap while they are young to protect them against the deception of the world, may we show them how to discern, how to perceive, how to defend the faith that is defensible, the only one, Father, with all the answers, no inconsistencies. Thank you for this. We can stand on this solid rock. We are not on water. We are not on shaking sand. We are on the truth of your very character. And we praise you God. Thank you. May we glorify and magnify you today for it in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen