Well, as we continue to worship by focusing our minds on the Word of God, would you take your Bible and turn with me to John chapter 8? John chapter 8 is page 894, if you're using one of those blue Bibles, 894, our text, if you received and looked at Life at Hope. Which we always encourage you to look at each week. Our text was advertised as John 8, 12 through 20, but we will not get past verse 12 today. We're willing, we'll come back and finish that section next Sunday. Two testimonies serve as both a grave warning and a word of hope. The first testimony is of the man that we know of as the Apostle Paul, but who was primarily called Saul. In his earlier years. Saul was a zealous Pharisee who basked in the light of the law of Moses. He always thought he did what was right. And if he ever did err, he did what the law said you need to do to make it right. Saul, if you talk to him, would tell you he saw life with clarity. He served God with zeal. He led others in the light. Here is the grave warning. Saul was blind to the blackness of his soul. Until the true light of Christ shone on him on the road to Damascus, he could not see that he was lost in darkness. But when the light of Christ, brighter than the noonday sun, appeared to him, he realized how blind he had been, and his soul awakened to a whole new life. Here's the word of hope. That can happen for you today The second testimony is of the man, one of the men, who hung on the cross next to Jesus. We don't even know his name. We are told this man was a criminal and a robber, perhaps even a murderer and an insurrectionist. Much of his life was carried out in the darkness And he knew it. He cared nothing for God. He even joined in the mocking of Jesus, at least at first, on the cross. Here's the grave warning of his life. If you live in rebellion against God, you may end up Sooner or later, with the darkness consuming you and bringing about your tragic death That would be the end for the other man on the other side of Jesus, but not this one. Though his life was filled with evil, and he stood at the precipice of hell in a remarkable act of mercy. The light of Christ shined on him and penetrated his heart. And he believed, and soon he followed Jesus into paradise. Here's the word of hope. It's never too late to see the light of Jesus and belief. No matter what you've done or how long you've done it, the light of the world can penetrate any soul at any time. We live in a world of darkness. And in our passage, Jesus proclaims himself to be the light of the world And he promises that whoever follows him will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. This message is not only for you who are still walking in darkness, but for all of us who have seen the light and yet battle with remnants of darkness in our own soul. And so follow along as I read. I'm going to read verses twelve to twenty, and we'll focus in on verse By the way, if you didn't see the video I made where I am not preaching John seven fifty three to eight eleven, that's on YouTube. You can find the link on in Life at Hope. And that will explain why we're skipping over to John chapter 8 verse 12. Follow along as I read Again, Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. Jesus answered, even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I come from or where I am going. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. Yet, even if I do judge, my judgment is true. For it is not I alone who judge, but I am the Father who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me. They said to him, Therefore, where is your father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple. But no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. Our passage falls on the last day of the feast of Booths. For the last seven days, the people of Israel have gathered together in celebration. and festivities. They've commemorated how the Lord carried them through the wilderness for forty years after he delivered them from slavery in Egypt. Much of their activities as they went along throughout that week were commanded by God in the law of Moses. The instructions in Leviticus 23 focus on the offerings to be given and the booths that they were to live in in remembrance of the tents that Israel lived in for forty years. The instructions in Numbers 29 focus on the sacrifices, emphasizing the need for forgiveness and cleansing. And then the instructions in Deuteronomy 16 emphasized the mandatory attendance by all Jews to this annual celebration and how they were to also celebrate God's provision of grains and grapes every year in the harvest. during the Feast of Booths. Now, nearly a thousand years after the first Feast of Booth in the land of Israel, in the Promised Land. Israel returned from exile and rebuilt the temple and the city and celebrated once again the feast of Booths. When they completed rebuilding the temple. In the four to five centuries between the return to the land and the life of Jesus, two traditions developed which became integral parts of their celebration of the Feast of Booths, both of them representing both something in the past or present as well as anticipating the min the coming Messiah. The first of those traditions is the water drying ceremony, which we learned about when we looked at chapter seven, when Jesus said, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. And if you weren't with us, you can go back to those last two messages in John 7 to learn about that ceremony and how Jesus played off of it to proclaim himself to be the Messiah. The second ceremony, the second tradition is the temple lighting ceremony. The temple lighting ceremony represents two things First, it looked back to those days when the glory of God resided in the temple. And second, it looked forward to when the Messiah would come and give light to the world. The Temple of Jesus' day had two courtyards in front of the holy place. The first courtyard was known as the Israelite court. That's where the men would come to bring their sacrifices to the priests. At the end of the Israelite court was the Nicanor Gate, the narrow passage through which you one would go. to go from one court to the other. There'd be fifteen steps down into the court of the women. It was the called the court of the women, not because it it was exclusive to women, but because that's as close as Jewish women could get to the temple itself, the the temple proper. That court was much larger because it would allow uh men and women to congregate uh in that court as the more uh smaller number would make their way to the Israelite court for sacrifices. Between the women's court and the Israelite court was the treasury. The treasury was simply a place where there was uh the s uh offering Boxes were stationed, there were storage areas for the ritual trumpets and perhaps other instruments. And that's where verse twenty tells us Jesus is standing as he says these words between the Israelite court and the women's court in the treasury. At four corners in the court of the women were seventy-five-foot-tall pillars, each with four large bowls at the top. These were really massive candles. And at the end of the first day of the feast, four young men would place ladders on each side of one candle. They would climb up those ladders with about ten gallons of oil, and they would pour their oil into the nearest bowl, and this they would do for each of the four candles in the courtyard. Having made wicks from used priestly garments, they would then light those four candles, and the light that was created could be seen from great distances. In fact it was said that there was not a courtyard in Jerusalem which was not lit up from the light. Under this light, one author described, pious men, members of the Sanhedrin and heads of the different religious schools would dance well into the night, holding burning torches, singing songs of praise to God. The Levitical musicians played spirited music with harps, lyres, cymbals, trumpets, and many other instruments without number. This dance party, if you will, would continue throughout the night until dawn. And right before dawn, two priests would prepare themselves at the Niconor gate with their trumpets waiting for the signal. The signal was a cock crowing, and once they heard the cock crow, they would begin slowly to descend those fifteen steps down into the women's court, w at each step uh blasting a series of trumpet blasts. And then once they reached the floor of the court of the women, they would s uh blow long blasts as they made their way to the east gate, often called the beautiful gate. And then when they reached the east gate of the temple, they would turn around so that Their backs would be toward the rising sun in the east, and their faces would be toward the temple, and they would say these words, and this is the key. Our ancestors, when they were in this place, turned their backs to the temple and their faces toward the east, and they prostrated themselves eastward toward the sun. But as for us, our eyes are turned to the Lord. This is in reference to that time centuries before when The Lord, through a vision, took Ezekiel the prophet to the temple to show him the idolatries being committed by the people of Judah. He took him from one place in the temple to another. And finally, Ezekiel 8. 16 says, He brought me to the inner court of the house of the Lord, which is now, or by the time of Jesus was known as the women's court. And behold, at the entrance of the temple of the Lord, which is the east gate, the beautiful gate. Between the porch and the altar were about twenty-five men with their backs to the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east, worshiping the sun toward the east. In response to this gross idolatry, the Lord said to Ezekiel, Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations that they commit here that they should fill the land with violence and provoke me st still further to anger. Behold, they have put the branch to their nose, therefore I will act in wrath. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity Though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them. Ezekiel chapter 10 then records how the glory of the Lord manifested through a bright cloud departed from the temple. And the people who were there in that moment were so occupied by their idolatry that they didn't even notice. It was not long after that that the Lord sent the Babylonians to destroy Jerusalem and the temple and carry the people of Judah into exile. Though the history of the lighting temple lighting ceremony is not known. Sometime after the people returned. To the land of Judah. They rebuilt the temple. They began celebrating the Feast of Booze. They established this ceremony to recall How the glory of the Lord had dwelled in the temple. And effectively committing themselves every year to true worship of God. So the lighting ceremony looks back to that time when the glory of God resided in the Holy of Holies, that inner sanctum of the temple. But the ceremony also looked forward and anticipated the coming of the Messiah. Isaiah 9, verse 2 anticipates the coming Messiah when it says, the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelled in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. And then later on in Isaiah 42, the Lord prophetically speaks to the Messiah. In another prophecy saying, I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations. To open the eyes that are blind, to bring out prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison, those who sit in darkness. So the Messiah, according to the Old Testament. Was to be the light of the world With that background in mind, we're now ready to consider these words by Jesus, his proclamation, and his promise. So that we might know that Jesus is the light, and so that we might have the light of life. Consider first the proclamation. Look again at chapter eight, verse twelve. Jesus says, I am the light of the world. I am the light of the world. Again, it's now the last day of the feast, and if the lamp uh we're not told if the lamps towering above Jesus were out Or if they were still burning when he says these words, but whatever the case, there is no mistaking his meaning. These lights that were intended to point back to the glory of God in the temple and point forward to the coming Messiah have now served their purpose, that Jesus, the Christ, the Son of God, stands before them. This is a clear, dramatic, and unmistakable declaration that the Messiah has arrived. The glory of God has returned to his temple. Not as a bright cloud in the way in which he left, but as a person. And not to dwell in the temple and so remain hidden from the people. But to live with his people so that they can follow him. The shadows of the past found their fulfillment in the person of Jesus Christ. Remember that when the people of Israel left Egypt, Exodus 13, 21 says, The Lord went before them by uh by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light. that they might travel by day and by night. That pillar of fire, along with the pillar of cloud in the daytime, manifested the presence of God among them and made it possible for them to travel as easily by night as as they would travel by day. And more than that, it guided them, directing them around the wilderness for forty years according to God's will. But that pillar of fire was a shadow of a greater reality In Leviticus 24, which not incidentally follows immediately after the instructions of sacrifices for the given uh for the feast of booths. In Leviticus 24, the Lord gave Moses these instructions for the menorah in the tabernacle. He said, Command the people of Israel to bring you pure oil from beaten olives for the lamp. That a light may be kept burning regularly. Outside the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, Aaron shall arrange it from evening to morning before the Lord regularly It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations. The menorah, that seven candled golden candlestick. In the tabernacle and later in the temple was to be lit every night and to be kept lit throughout the night until the morning. Now, the purpose of that is not explicitly stated in Scripture, but it seems to be that it was to be a reminder of the pillar of fire, which also was only seen at night. That menorah lit at night was a shadow of a greater reality. By declaring himself to be the light of the world, Jesus proclaims that he is the greater pillar of fire, that he is the greater lamp of the tabernacle. He is God's presence among them. And for those who follow him, he shines his light on their path and directs them according to his will. But there's more that Jesus means by declaring himself to be the light of the world. In the Scripture, darkness is often a metaphor for ignorance. And so light becomes the metaphor for knowledge. And with knowledge comes understanding, and with understanding comes wisdom and comfort and hope. And with wisdom, comfort, and hope, one can live life With confidence. Psalm 119, 105 says, Your word is a lamp unto my feet and a light to my path. Verse 130 says, the unfolding of your word gives light. It imparts understanding to the simple. By declaring himself to be the light of the world, Jesus proclaims himself to be the word of God that proclaims the truth and gives knowledge and wisdom. Which is why at the beginning of his gospel, John identifies Jesus as the Word, who is the light of men and the glory of God, full of grace and truth. Now, more specifically in the scripture, darkness is also a metaphor for living specifically in ignorance of God. Not just ignorance in general, but ignorance of God specifically. Not having divine revelation, therefore being relegated to a life of groping in the dark. Never knowing what's right and true and good, always stumbling about in suffering and misery By declaring himself to be the light of the world, Jesus proclaims himself to be a revealer of God. And he reveals God not as a man pointing to God, but as God making himself known to man. In other words, he does not point to the light of God. He is the light of God who shines on the earth. And so, in proclaiming himself to be the light of the world, Jesus declares himself to be the greater pillar of fire and the greater lamp in the tabernacle. The revelatory word of God and the manifestation of God Himself. He is the presence of God among his people. He shines his light in the darkness. He guides his people. He is the giver of truth and knowledge and wisdom. He is the manifestation of God in the flesh. In short, he is the Messiah. We move then from the proclamation to the promise. The promise. Look at the second half of verse 12, where Jesus says, Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Before we can understand the glory of this promise, we have to understand the reality of darkness. Apart from the light of God manifested in the person of Christ, the world is covered in darkness. Colossians 1. 13 describes the world as the domain of darkness. This is to say that the world apart from Christ is the realm where darkness reigns. And just as the earth without the light of the sun and the moon Is covered in darkness, so the world of mankind without the light of Christ is covered in darkness This is to say that the world is wrapped in moral and spiritual darkness. It is void of the love of goodness and void of the knowledge of God. J. C. Ryle put it this way: In ancient Greece, Egypt, and Rome, in modern England, France, and Germany, and we could add America, the same report is true. The vast majority of men neither see nor understand the value of their souls, the true nature of God, nor the reality of the world to come. Notwithstanding all the discoveries of art and science, darkness still covers the earth, he says. Just consider what has happened in the history of the world, where the truth, morality, and knowledge of God was either not known or where it was despised. Or consider what people do when they don't think anyone will see. Darkness and anonymity breed all kinds of evil. Ephesians 4 18 says that those who do not know God Are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. Those who walk in darkness do so because they do not know any better. They are ignorant. And like a corpse that doesn't know it's dead and can only do what dead things do. So the unbeliever is void of the life of God and can only do what those who live in the dark do And what is that? Well, Ephesians 5, 3 to 4 gives us a sample list: sexual immorality, impurity, covetousness, filthiness, foolish talk, crude joking, and idolatry And speaking to the followers of Christ, Paul says there, do not become partakers with those who do such things, for at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. In other words, those activities are the kinds of things practiced by those whose lives are characterized by darkness. 1 John 2 11 says, Whoever hates his brother is in the darkness, and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes. Using that example of hating your brother, John explains what it means to walk in darkness. To walk in darkness is to be blind and therefore to live your life not knowing where you are going. When you live your life not knowing where you are going, you end up in all kinds of dreadful places. You might find yourself in an abandoned building shooting up whatever drugs you can find. You might find yourself surrounded by empty bottles and cans, not knowing what happened last night. You might find yourself waking up to somebody whose name you do not know. You may find yourself constantly fighting with your spouse, blaming them for what you know deep down are your own problems. You might find yourself mistreating your kids because your life is spinning out of control. You might find yourself in financial ruin because you long left wisdom behind in the pursuit of riches or pleasure. You may find yourself in jail for crimes committed after a long series of compromises Those are awful places to be. But they are not the only kinds of places that someone who walks in darkness may find themselves. You may find yourself living a comfortable life, wondering why it is that you have everything that people say or think will Make them happy and solve their problems, and it hasn't made you happy, and it hasn't solved your problems. You may find yourself in a well-structured home with obedient children and sufficient provision, assuming that as long as You do what is right and you give generously, God will accept you. Or you may find yourself caught up in a frenzy of religious activity Serving others, even teaching the Word of God, seeing crazy things like demons cast out and miracles performed It would be a dreadful thing to find yourself in those kinds of places thinking you're doing everything right, not realizing you're walking in the darkness. To walk in darkness is to be ignorant, alienated from the life of God, and therefore not know where you are going. To walk in the darkness is to not have that North Star that guides you. Day in and day out you do whatever Seems right for that particular day. And sometimes that leads you to high levels of success and accomplishment. Other times that leads to dark and dingy rooms that reek of waste and death. Whatever the outward circumstances may be, walking in darkness always leads to brokenness and misery and sorrow and lack of peace and satisfaction and uncertainty of the future and hopelessness. Jesus encountered throughout his life those who were walking in darkness. From the rich young ruler to the Pharisees, to the tax collectors, to the sexually immoral, in the end, the thieves on the cross. And now, here in John 8, he stands before these pious Jews and their religious leaders at the end of their spiritual high at the feast of Booths, knowing that they are walking in darkness. And he makes this promise. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. This is more emphatic than it appears in the English. The word not translates ooh may. The adverb oo means not, the adverb may means not. Now in English when we say not not that's a double negative making it a positive. But in Greek it's an emphatic These words together are often translated, never, by no means, not at all, never again. If we can put it this way, Jesus makes the promise: those who follow me will not, no, not ever, by no means, not at all, ever again walk in darkness. Never again will you be without my light. By no means will my light be snuffed out in your life Clouds cannot obscure me, night cannot overtake me, pollution cannot diminish me, and walls cannot block me. Not even the ground itself can shield you from my light. Jesus can make this promise because his light is not like the light of the sun that burns out in the heavens shining its rays, but they can easily be blocked. No. For those who follow him, the light of Christ burns within you, sending its rays throughout your soul. A dramatic transfer transformation happens to all those who follow Jesus. They go from being defined by darkness. To be defined by light. This is what Jesus means when he says here that you will have the light of life. The light of Christ is the glory of God revealed in the heart, which jolts the heart to life. 2 Corinthians 4:6 says, For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. It's as though our hearts were dead cold rocks. But when God shines his light into the heart, the heart springs to life and burns with fire, radiating life to the rest of our body. And once the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ has shone in your heart, you're given eyes to see. And ears to hear, and a heart to understand, and a will to obey, and strength to work for his good pleasure. Listen again to Ephesians 5. 8. At one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. If you follow Jesus, you will not ever walk in darkness because you will never be in the darkness. How foolish would it be to have perfect vision and live your whole life with your eyes closed? How much worse would it be for someone who has the light of life in them And yet walk in darkness. This is so unthinkable that John writes in 1 John 1:5-7: this is the message we have heard from him. that is from Christ. And we proclaim to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. So if we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie. And do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. It is true that because we live in a world that's dominated by darkness, and because we were darkness, those who follow Christ. That even when the light of Christ burns within us, there's an alluring factor of darkness. But the life of one who has the light of Christ will not be characterized by darkness. Knowing this, when the Apostle Paul explained what the redeemed life looks like, he said in Romans 13, the night is for gone. The day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the daytime. Not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarrelling and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. My friend, some of you have the light of Christ in you. And though you are walking in the light in many respects, there are all other aspects of your life where you Your life mirrors those who walk in darkness. Though you're in the light, you do the deeds of darkness. And the Holy Spirit would call to you from Ephesians 5. 11 and say, take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. Beloved, if you have the light of Christ, if you have the light of the knowledge of the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ in your soul, if you have the Spirit of God dwelling within you. Why do you speak the way you did when you were darkness? Why do you act in the ways that you did when you were darkness? Let the light of Christ burn away that fog of your former life The Spirit goes on to say in Ephesians 5, but when anything is exposed by the light it becomes visible, for anything that becomes visible is light, therefore it says, Awake, O sleeper And arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. If you have the light of Christ. Let it shine in those dark corners of your soul. When one who has the light of Christ does the deeds of darkness, it's not because the promise that Jesus makes here has failed. The promise is not that we would never sin again, but that the light of life will never be taken from us. Now for whom does this promise apply? Did you notice the condition? Jesus says, whoever follows me. In the Gospel of John, we've seen that the key word that we come across time and again is the word believe. And so it's almost jarring that he doesn't say here: whoever believes in me will have the light of life. So why does Jesus say follow and not believe? Well, by this point in his ministry, as he's six months closer or six months away from the cross ahead of him. Many have said throughout his ministry that they believe in him, but as we've seen, the vast majority of that expressions of belief have been superficial. People believed what they wanted to believe about him. People believed their expectations about him, not in him himself. And when their expectations fell short of reality, they simply stopped believing. I wonder if there's someone here who's tempted to do that. You've claimed to believe in Jesus, but life hasn't worked out the way you expected it would. What you hoped believing in Jesus would do for you hasn't happened. Your life hasn't improved, and it feels like he has let you down. Christianity isn't working for you, so you're considering giving it all up. If you've had thoughts like that, please hear me. You are not believing in Jesus. You are believing in your expectations. Jesus is not defined by our desires. He is a person. And not just any person. He is the Son of God who is sovereign over all things. And his will is not subject to our desires. And so when Jesus does not meet our expectations, you know what we should do? We should stop believing in our expectations and start believing in Jesus, who alone is worthy of our worship. Well, by using the word follow here, Jesus is not adding something to the requirement to believe in him. He's defining what real faith is. True faith in the Son of God is, listen, true faith in the Son of God submits to him. True faith submits to him. The faith that saves doesn't merely look at the light and nod in approval, it prostrates itself before him. The faith that saves does not acknowledge the light and then walk away. No, it orients itself around the light. To be clear, it's not the following itself that saves, but the submission of the will that saves. Think of it this way: true faith doesn't ask, Jesus, where are we going? before it decides to believe. Superficial faith wakes up every day asking that question, where are we going today? And the moment it doesn't like where Jesus is leading, it walks away. True belief in Jesus says, My Lord and my God, wherever you will. I will follow. And you know why you can follow him Because Jesus is the light of the world. He is the giver and the sustainer of life. In him are found all of the treasures of wisdom. and knowledge. He is the very definition of all that is good and right and true. And he promises that he will never leave you or forsake you. There is no place you can find yourself where his light does not give you life. Psalm 139, 11 and 12 says If I say, surely the darkness will cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you The night is as bright as the day, for the darkness is as light with you If you have the light of Jesus, you can say with David in Psalm 27:1, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? You can trust and follow Jesus out of the darkness because when he found himself in the darkest of all places, entombed in a cold Dark rock, it could not hold him. In the prologue of this gospel, John writes this about Jesus: In him was life And the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Six months from when Jesus makes this proclamation, the forces of darkness collude together to snuff out the life of Christ in death. And for a moment they succeeded. But three days later, the light of the glory of God burst forth from that tomb, and Jesus walked out. And so if the darkness of death itself cannot overcome Jesus, there is no darkness in your life from which he cannot rescue you. So believe in him and follow him Now there's more that we can draw from these words in this passage. Next week we'll come back and look at the proof of this proclamation. And this promise. But I want to bring this message to a close by urging you to consider that when Jesus proclaims himself to be the light of the world and he promises the light of life to those who follow him He hands his followers the greatest gift not only to enjoy, but to pass on. Every year our community spends millions upon millions of dollars doing its very best to come alongside and help Those who are in the shadows of society. Those who are addicted to drugs and alcohol. Those who are abused and mistreated, those who are homeless, those who are debilitated by all kinds of mental illnesses, so-called, those who are unable to get a job or crushed under financial ruin. Do you know what light of hope tens of millions of dollars can buy? Do you know how much hope the sincerest social worker or therapist has to offer? None at all. No hope, no joy, no peace. Our world has nothing to offer those who are lost in darkness. What do we have to offer? We don't have millions of dollars, at least I don't. We don't have homes that we can help people move into. We don't have medical care that we can provide. We have the hope of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We have boundless joy and endless peace. We have the fountain of living waters and the bread of life and the light of the world. We can offer what no one else can. We can set before a lost and dying world the remedy for their darkness. We can proclaim the good news that the light has come and if Anyone, young or old, rich or poor, educated or not, if anyone would but believe and follow him, he will have the light of life. Hope Bible Church, may it be said in Howard County and beyond that the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. That those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness, on them light has shone. So I close by asking two questions of each of you. First question: Are you following Jesus? Second question. If his light is burning within you, how can you shine your light all the brighter? May we individually and collectively shine the light of Christ to those That God has put around us in your family, in our community, in our neighborhoods, in our schools. Let us not put a bowl over our light, but let it shine forth far and wide. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are the light of the world. It's hard to even comprehend. The significance of that in its fullness. But for those of us who have followed you, we have experienced your light in our life. We see you in your glory and your beauty. We've received from you the forgiveness and redemption of our souls. Lord, help us To take what you've given to us and to offer it as freely and generously as you have given it to us. Would you cause your light to be seen today in the hearts of those who do not yet know you For Christ's sake, Amen