All right, let's let's bow and start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day that you have made. We thank you for the great joy that it is to gather as the body of Christ and worship you on this Lord's Day. We thank you especially for your your word and how you re r have revealed yourself and revealed your plan of redemption in your word. And we thank you for this opportunity that we have over the next hour or so to gather around your word and to uh study it. We pray, Lord, that uh through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds and uh enable us to learn what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We pray, Lord, that as we study your word, we would uh make it a part of who we are and uh that we would truly be doers of the word and not just hearers, that we would apply your word to our lives. And we pray these things in Jesus' name Amen. So here we are in part number 23. So we're in a 39-part series studying the revelation of Jesus Christ, the book of Revelation. So this lesson is going to be called the Seventh Trial. Trumpet and the War of the Ages. So we've got um uh we're starting into a section of scripture that is a little bit unusual. Uh from from this lesson all the way through the end of Uh chapter fourteen is kind of um a recapitulation of history, uh if you will. And then also it's a uh looking forward to events which are about to unfold. Um and so we're gonna have the War of the Ages and we're gonna have a prelude to that war here in this lesson. Uh so we'll talk about the seventh trumpet. The seventh trumpet sounds here in eleven fifteen and we're gonna look at the Praise for God's sovereignty, some proxisms of rage by the nations, and plan for judgment some promise of communion, and then we'll look at the prelude to the war to end all wars. Uh that was the name given to World War One, but obviously World War One did not end all wars. But this one that we talk about here in the Book of Revelation will end all wars. In fact Um and so in this prelude we'll look at the woman, the dragon and the male child. So we're gonna look at the end of chapter eleven and the beginning of chapter twelve in our study today. Uh but first we're gonna look back at we're gonna review what we did last week. So last week we looked at the first part of chapter eleven, uh Revelation chapter eleven through uh one verse one through fourteen and we looked at the two witnesses. Uh but first at the very beginning of this is a curious event. John is given a staff and he's told to measure the temple. And so he does. He measures the temple. And we talked about the fact that this is best understood as significant. Signifying God's ownership, His possession over His people. God is measuring off Israel, symbolized by their temple. Um we there's the the image of the altar and those who worship. uh in the temple. And so this is the the tribulation temple. Um the f the first half of the tribulation is under the patronage or protection of the Antichrist and the Jewish sacrificial system is restored as we have prophesied in the book of Daniel. And that the reinstitution of that temple worship reawakens interest on the part of Jews in their Messiah. Um and many will realize during this process that it's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins, as we see in the book of Hebrews. Um but the reawakening of this interest in the true Messiah provokes jealousy in the false one and Um and so we get there's consequences, uh the Antichrist reacts. Uh John is told to leave out the court of the temple, uh uh the the Gentile portion, the court of the Gentiles, because this is just focusing on the nation of Israel that's the um this the symbol there is the temp the part of the temple that that hosts that holds the worshipers who are the Jews and so he s specifically excludes that. Uh court of the Gentiles Uh there's given a time frame here, uh which we've seen uh before and which we'll see again of forty two months, uh twelve hundred and sixty days, three and a half years. Uh this corresponds to the evil career of the Antichrist uh the second half, the last half of the tribulation, we see that. We talked about that last time. Uh then we see the two witnesses who are given authority. They prophesy, they proclaim to the world that these disasters to come from the Lord during the second half of the tribulation. There's a specific time given once again, twelve hundred and sixty days. is um taken from Zechariah chapter four, the two olive trees and the two lampstands, and there's great speculation about who these witnesses might be. One possibility is Moses and Elijah. There are other possibilities. And we're not told for sure who these two witnesses are. They could just be two men that are not really um tied to any previous figure. Uh but they have uh special they're given authority, uh the scripture says, and they're given particular signs, they're given particular uh abilities. Uh if anybody attacks them, fire comes out of their mouth. They're given the power to shut up the sky so that rain won't fall for the whole time of their prophecy, which is three and a half years And they're given power to strike the earth with plagues. Uh God protects them all the way till the their their time of ministry is finished, and then the beast uh that came up out of the abyss. Well this is the first reference to the beast. Uh there are thirty six references to the beast, starting with this one and uh going all the way throughout the rest of Revelation, especially in chapter thirteen and seventeen. Uh this beast is the Antichrist. Uh we see that for sure uh in ver in chapter thirteen. So we'll get to that, but we can see from the rest of scripture that this is definitely the Antichrist. Uh he's described as the beast here, and the beast kills these two witnesses eventually, um and everybody sees it. Either on TV or live stream. But it everybody sees that these two witnesses uh were uh pain in everybody's backside and then there the the beast kills them and um And then uh they're just left there for three and a half days, their bodies to be seen on live TV and livestream. Um and then the the Dead Witness Day party uh comes to an end when they come back to life as we saw last time. God breathes the breath of life into them. They stand on their feet. And then God calls them up to heaven. And all of this is witnessed by the whole world. Live T V, live stream, witnesses are dead, bodies lay there for three and a half days, come back to life, and ascend into heaven on live TV and live stream. Uh So that's what we saw last time. Uh any questions about what we went through last time before we started to do okay, so op if you open your Bible with me to Revelation chapter eleven, we're gonna finish out the last few verses of chapter eleven and then So Revelation chapter 11, starting with verse 15. This is the word of the Lord. Then the seventh angel sounded And there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever. Who can tell me what song borrows its lyrics from Revelation 1115. The Halloween chorus. The Halloween chorus is that that part of it there is from Revelation. It's a quote of Revelation 1115. All of uh Handel's Messiah really is just quoting scripture, but uh but that particular Halloween chorus is from Revelation 1115. fifteen. And the twenty four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worship God, saying We give you thanks, O Lord God the Almighty, who are and who were, because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign. And the nations were enraged, and your wrath came, and the time came for the dead to be judged, and the time to reward your bondservants, the prophets, and the saints, and those who fear your name, the small and the The great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth. And the temple of God, which is in heaven, was opened, and the ark of his covenant appeared in his temple, and there were flashes of lightning, and sounds and peals of thunder. And then continuing in chapter twelve, a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet, and her head a crown of twelve stars. And she was with child, and she cried out, being in labor, and in pain to give birth Then another sign appeared in heaven, and behold a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven diadems. And his tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she gave birth he might devour her child. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God and to his throne. Then the woman fled into the wilderness where she had a place prepared by God, so that there she would be nourished for 1,260 days. Alright, so what's happening here? Let's uh let's take a look. First, as usual, I will give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur So this is uh John MacArthur's uh opening paragraphs in his description of this section of scripture. He says, The sounding of the seventh trumpet marks a significant milestone in the book of Revelation. It sets in motion the final events leading up to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ and the establishment of his earthly millennial kingdom Since both the seventh trumpet and the seven bowls are said to finish God's wrath, the bowls must be part of the seventh trumpet judgment. The seventh trumpet sets in motion the final consummation of God's redemptive plan for the present universe. During its tenure will come the final fury of the day of the Lord judgments, chapter 16, the final harvest Of judgment on earth, chapter eleven and sixteen, and the lamb's defeat of the kings of the earth, chapter seventeen, culminating in the final climactic triumph of Christ at Armageddon, chapter nineteen. The sounding of the seventh trumpet. Signals God's answer to the prayer, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, from Matthew 6. That answer sweeps through chapters 12 to 22 as God finishes his mighty work of reclaiming creation from the usurper Satan. Although the seven trumpet sounds in seventh trumpet sounds In chapter 11, verse 15, the judgments associated with it are not described until chapter 15. Chapters 12 to 14 are a digression, taking readers back through the tribulation. to the point of the seventh trumpet by a different path. They described the tribulation not from God's perspective, but from Satan's. The opening campaign of Satan's War of the Ages took place in heaven when he rebelled, Isaiah 4. Chapter fourteen of Ezekiel chapter twenty eight one third of the angels foolishly and wickedly cast their lots with him. None of them could have known what the eternal consequences of their choice would be Wanting to be like God, they became as much unlike him as possible. When Adam and Eve plummeted into corruption by choosing to listen to Satan's lies and disobey God, the human race became embroiled in the cosmic war of the year. In fact, since the fall, the earth has been the primary theater in which that war has been fought. The final battles of Satan's long war against God are yet to be fought. They will take place in the future during the last half of the seven year tribal. Tribulation period, the time Jesus called the Great Tribulation in Matthew 24. The Lord Jesus Christ will effortlessly crush Satan and his forces in Revelation chapter 19 and send him to the abyss. For the duration of the millennial kingdom, chapter twenty. After leading a final rebellion at the close of the millennium, Satan will be consigned to eternal punishment in the lake of fire, Revelation chapter twenty. The seventh trumpet will sound near the end of the tribulation, launching the brief but final and devastating, bold judgments just before Christ's return in power and glory. Chapters 6 to 11 describe the events of the tribulation up to the sounding of the seventh trumpet. Chapters 12 to 14 recapitulate that same period describing events from Satan's vantage point. In addition, the latter section, section uh chapters 12 to 14, takes the reader all the way back to the original rebellion of Satan At the very beginning. The chronological narrative of the tribulation events then resumes in chapter 14. So you see what he's saying here? This this digression in 12 to 14 is not it's a departure from the chronological chronological stepping through of events. And in fact, as we'll see in today's lesson, part of chapter twelve goes all the way back to Satan's rebellion against God at the very near the very beginning. Um and so this we're stepping out of a chrona It's important to s to see that before we launch into what we're gonna talk about today. Okay, so let's go back to the scripture and go walk through this verse by verse. Got a lot to cover today. Okay. Uh so then the seventh angel sounded and there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever. Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah. Yeah, that's the Hallelujah chorus there. Um th though it's uh uh so uh no I won't be singing any time uh up there up there on stage. Um so uh as I mentioned And as MacArthur said in his introduction, though, its effects of the earth were delayed, as with the seventh seal was delayed in chapter eight. Uh and that response was this exhilaration um that these things were about to take place. So there were loud voices in heaven um uh essentially praising the Lord and praising the fact that these events were about to take place. Um this proclamation is connected to the effects of the Seventh Trump even though they haven't happened yet At this point in the revelation, there's unrestrained joy that the power of Satan is to be forever broken, and Christ is to reign supreme as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And so with the defeat of the usurpers, The question of sovereignty of the world will be forever settled. Uh it's been settled, but it's about to the culmination is about to come about. Um and and think back, w during Christ's earthly ministry, one of the things that that Satan offered Christ was all the kingdoms of the world, remember? And so um Jesus refused uh at that time to do it on Satan's term and in the wrong time, but he's gonna take those kingdoms in his own in his own terms in the right time uh here in these events in Revelation. Uh the use of the singular term kingdom of the world, not kingdoms of the world, but kingdom of the world introduces an important truth. All the world's national political, social, cultural, religious groups are in reality one big kingdom under one king. Uh that king is known in scripture by many names and titles. The adversary, first Peter, the evil one, John seventeen, the God of this world, Second Corinthians four, the Prince of the Power of the Air, Ephesians two, The Roaring Lion, 1 Peter 5, the ruler of the demons, Mark III, the ruler of this world, John twelve, the tempter, first Thessalonians three, and most commonly the devil and Satan. Though God scattered this kingdom at the Tower of Babel in Genesis chapter 11, Satan still rules over the pieces. God ordains human governments for the well-being of man, as we see in Romans chapter 13, but governments refuse to submit to him or acknowledge his sovereignty. Acts chapter four. So they are essentially part of Satan's kingdom. So uh then we see some other interesting facts. The tense of the verb ginomi, translated has become here, is what Greek grammarians referred to as proleptic aorist. That's a really weird, uh really weird word, but it's a tense in Greek That means an event that's in the future, but it's so certain that it's spoken of can be spoken of as if it's already taken place. Um and so has become that tense in Greek means It's a future event, but you can talk about it in the past tense as if it's already happened because it is so certain. Um and Greek is a language which is very rich in these tenses that we don't really have in English. And this is this is one of them. So though this event is future from the point of the progress of John's vision so far. Uh it's so certain that the verb form used views it as an already accomplished fact using this particular Greek um tense. Uh we also have the phrase the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. Which emphasizes two realities. Curios Lord usually refers to Jesus throughout the New Testament. But in the book of Revelation, up to this point, it's typically been used of God the Father. that Greek word, Kyrios. Um and this emphasizes their equality of nature. Um this phrase also describes the kingdom in its broadest sense, looking forward to divine rule over the creation and of the new creation. So this is ri there's rich text in here, in this particular passage of scripture that that gives us theological truths if we're willing to look there. No differentiation is made between the earthly millennial kingdom and the eternal kingdom. As Paul did, for example, in 1 Corinthians 15, he did make a distinction. Here no distinction is made between the millennial kingdom and the uh and the new heavens and the new earth. So the end of so what that tells us, I think, is that the end of the thousand years, the millennial kingdom will merge into the eternal kingdom. Uh Christ starts to reign at the beginning of that millennial kingdom, and he never stops raining. He reigns and rains and rains and rains. Millennial Kingdom moving right into the new heavens and the new earth. Once the reign of Christ begins, it changes form perhaps, but it never ends. And it's never interrupted. And that's why the everybody in heaven is so excited about what's what's about to happen. The reign of Christ is going to begin and it's never going to end. Uh the glorious truth that the Lord Jesus Christ will one day rule the earth. permeate scriptures, not just here. Uh the Song of Moses in Exodus 15. Uh it indicates that as far back as the Pentateuch, uh the books of Moses, the scripture anticipated the moment when the Lord Jesus Christ would be And it continues throughout Scripture. You see in Psalm 2, Isaiah 2, Daniel 2, Daniel 7, Micah 4, we have this looking forward to the day when Christ will reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And now it's about to happen with the sounding of the seventh trumpet, and everybody in heaven is really excited about it. Um and so to sum up this the day of the Lord and the coming of Christ's earthly kingdom. Zechariah wrote, Zechariah 14, 9, and the Lord will be king over all the earth. And in that day the Lord will be the only one, and his name the only one. And so Zechariah fourteen is a long description of the day of the Lord, but the end of that description puts it that way. And that's a good way to put it. The Lord will be the only one, his name will be the only one on that day. And everybody in heaven's really excited that we they finally gotten there at this point in the in the revelation anyway. Then uh verse sixteen continues and then And and so we've seen the twenty-four elders before, and the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worship God, saying, We give thank Give you thanks, O Lord God, the Almighty, who are and who were, because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign. So the elders are just as excited about it as everybody else So who were the elders? What did the elders represent? So um uh the first th this particular group uh God rep uh uh John talks about they represent the glorified raptured church. That's who the twenty four elders are. are. So the church has been raptured at the beginning of the tribulation and the elders represent that raptured church. And they're eagerly waiting for Christ to take back the earth. And so this is their joyous cry. Um their prayers for the kingdom to come have been answered. The Lord's Prayer, the part that says, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Here it is. That day has come when that uh that prayer is answered. Uh the elders' praise focused on three of God's attributes. Ponto Crator, Almighty, describes God's sovereign, omnipotent, irresistible power. And nine of the ten uh New Testament references uh to using that Greek word are in this book of Revelation, Almighty. Uh that word for it's translated Almighty here. It has the sense of God exercising his all-encompassing will by means of his irresistible power. And so that's what the elders are focusing on there. The phrase then who are and who were expresses God's eternity. Um as the living God, we see described as the living God over and over and over in scripture, uh, especially in the Old Testament and the book of Hebrews, uh, God had no beginning and will have no end. Also, he was in that he was existed from the eternity past, and he is in that he exists now and for all eternity future. This way of expressing God's eternity we've seen three times before in the book of Revelation, chapter one It was in there twice and chapter four. He was and is. And in those earlier cases, the phrase also who is to come was added. So the first three times, who was, who is, who is to come. This time we don't get to who is to come. Why don't we get who is to come? Because in this w in this particular case we're talking about the the fact that he has come. Um and so they that phrase has left off. Because this was describing the This is this is the culmination and he has come. Uh since the present passage viewed Christ as already having come and established his kingdom, that phrase is not repeated here. Uh there are little nuggets like that throughout scripture which uh i th they could be easy To miss, uh, but the Holy Spirit really knows what he's doing when he puts this scripture together. Um amen and amen. So this time we don't get to who is to come because there he is. Um and also interesting, the Antichrist tries to describe himself in similar terms. We'll see in chapter seventeen who was and is. He d he tries to describe himself as like that 'cause he's a poor imitation of the eternal king of the universe. He's a cheap knockoff. Uh he's trying to but he's trying to use the same language for himself. Um you know, Satan's been trying to imitate God from the beginning, um and his beast, the dragon who gives his power to the beast. The beast tries to do the same thing. You see that in chapter seventeen. So the elders Uh also praise God for his sovereignty because he had taken his great power and begun to reign. Um and so this uh you have taken lembano is in the perfect tense. And the perfect tense in the Greek means you started something and so whatever that something is goes on forever. So you have taken that the way that Greek is structured means you've you've taken this you've taken the reins, this this great power begun to reign And you will reign and reign and reign and rain and it'll never end. Because that's what the Greek uh perfect text uh tense means, uh here in that sense. Um and then just as an aside, Um there are sometimes attempts to u to interpret this as the church reigning. Um and and I I think that that doesn't do justice to what this scripture is talking about. So attempts to equate this glorious reign of Christ over the whole earth, with any past event or with the church, is contradictory, I think, to uh especially this passage. Particularly this passage. There's no way this text can be fulfilled except by the universal reign of Christ over the whole earth going on forever and ever and ever and ever and ever, uh as the prophets had predicted for so so long. Um okay, continuing. Uh so so what's the response uh so that so we've seen a response in heaven to the f the fact that this is gonna be the culmination and the reign of Christ and it's gonna go On forever and ever. What's the reaction of the nations? So we see here in verse 18, and the nations were enraged. And your wrath came, and the time came for the dead to be judged. The time to reward your bondservants, the prophets and the saints, and those who fear your name, the small and the great And to destroy those who destroy the earth. So the trem seventh trumpet vision reveals Um no that the no longer afraid. So in in chapter six we saw that people were terrified by what had happened in the um in the SEAL judgments and the first few trumpet judgments. Um but now the nations are define and enraged at the prospect of Christ's kingdom being established over the whole earth. So the verb orgizo, uh translated we're enraged Uh that Greek word suggests deep seated ongoing hostility. Uh so that Greek word doesn't mean a momentary emotional fit of temper. It means a settled burning resentment against God. Uh Um it's it's a really um i they're in a bad uh they've put themselves in a in a bad position. Not not this is not a um a temporary discontent. This Greek term has the has has this this deep-seated hostility uh and uh connotation to it. Um i the the nations have turned on God and they are set and determined in their opposition against God. That's what the scripture is telling us here. Eventually they will assemble armies to fight God. in chapter sixteen and we'll see the culmination of that in chapter twenty. Uh with no desire to repent of sin, uh angry resentment and hostility against heaven, uh will drive the nations to gather for their destruction. at Armageddon. So they are set against God. So those unbelieving rejectors will have wasted their opportunity to repent at what they acknowledge as God's judgment back in chapter 6. Now we've seen m that it's likely based on what we've seen in the past that there are some that repent. Uh but by this point the ma vast majority have set their face against God. Um plunge into the depths of hostility and rejection to be punished eventually uh in in eternal hell. So the coming of God's wrath, uh like the coming of Christ's kingdom, is so certain that it's once again spoken of as already having happened. Your wrath came. It's the same Greek tense. That it's something that's still in the future, but it's described with this Greek tense is saying that it's so certain that you treat it as if it had already happened. Same Greek tenth tense once again with his wrath. So the coming of the kingdom is described that way. The coming of God's wrath is also described that way. Uh the verb erchomai, uh it translated came as another of this same Greek text, uh great same Greek tense. It's uh a future event tree that' as if it was uh had already happened. Um and so those who think that a loving God will not pour out his wrath on them cling to a false and dangerous hope. That's a bad place to be in. Uh thinking that uh God is love and so therefore He he's not going to uh uh he does he's not also uh consumed with wrath against unrighteousness. Um pretending that those things are are not um compatible and that that God is only love and He's not uh He's not a judge as well is a dangerous uh false belief. Um uh that that God will one day judge unbelievers is a constant theme in Scripture uh not just here but uh old testament as well. Uh Isaiah twenty-four, twenty-six, thirty, Ezekiel thirty-eight and thirty-nine make clear from Old Testament times all the way forward that God will judge. unbelievers. Um and so not only will the seventh uh trumpet signal the outpouring of God's wrath on earth, but it will also indicate the time has come for the dead to be judged. Uh very interesting. Uh Time here translates kairos, uh which refers to a season, era, occasion, or event. So it's it's the season for judging the dead is what it's saying here. Uh the establishing of Christ's kingdom will be a fitting time for the dead to be judged. So remember we're talking about these events which are about to happen, the establishment of his kingdom, and it's also then time or the season or the occasion, the right occasion for uh the judging of the dead. And uh there's a list there of um judging the dead and then also rewards. And so judgment will uh first be uh first of all be the time for God to reward His bondservants, the prophets, the saints, those who fear his name, small and great. And so this judgment is positive and negative. Negative and positive. So a a negative judgment on believers, but a positive reward. of prophets, saints, those who fear his name, all all the the believers. So what are what are these rewards? So uh does the Bible talk about rewards actually? Um as as a matter of fact it But of course, uh remember, uh the power to serve God in a way that's worthy of rewards Is itself a gift of God's grace. So we we don't earn these rewards on our own, uh, by our own power. Um it's a gift of God's grace to have the ability and power to be able to serve such that you're worthy of rewards. That itself is a gift of grace. It's grace all the way down the line. But in fact, the Bible does does describe rewards for those who serve faithfully. Paul wrote, Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward According to his own labor. Now that labor is in the power of the Holy Spirit. That labor itself is in the power of the Holy Spirit. But the scripture is clear that that labor Even though it's God who gives us the power to do that labor, labor in obedience in the power of the Holy Spirit is rewarded. Uh we see that uh described by Paul, uh First Corinthians chapter three, we see it described by Jesus in Matthew chapter five and chapter ten, Mark chapter nine, Colossians chapter three, second John chapter eight, we have descriptions of rewards For faithful servants of the Lord. And the time for those rewards is now come in John's vision. The reward promised believers is that they will inherit the kingdom in both its millennial and And eternal phases. Believers are also promised crowns, including the crown of righteousness, 2 Timothy chapter 4, the count, crown of life, James 1 and Revelation 2, and the Crown of Glory, 1 Peter chapter 5. So the reward Words are promised. But just remember that the ability to serve faithfully is itself a gift of God, uh God's grace. Um so we have this judgment uh will destroy those who destroy the earth. Uh th I I this um probably um I I wish it didn't need to be said, but it but I'll say it anyway. This is not a reference to those who pollute the environment. This is not a this is this text is not a proof text for environmental activism. Um this is talking about those To pollute the earth with sin. Um, and that includes all unbelievers, especially in the context of Revelation, the false economic and religious system called eventually we'll see it called Babylon in chapter nineteen, Antichrist and his followers and Satan himself who is the ultimate destroyer. Satan is uh the destroyer. Um so that's what this is talking about. Destroy those who destroy the earth. Destroy the earth by polluting it with sin. That's what we're talking about. about here. Not those who don't recycle. Just to be clear. The Apostle Paul wrote that the mystery of lawlessness, this is in 2 Thessalonians chapter two is already at work in the church age. So the mystery of lawlessness was already at work. Uh but during the tribulation it will reach its pinnacle of destructive activity, shredding the very fabric of society in every evil way. So things get worse and we've we've followed this theme through uh the book of Revelation with the seal judgments and the trumpet judgments, and now we're about to have the bold judgments, worse and worse and worse and worse, uh the mystery of lawlessness that Paul described. And so what's so if we look all the way back to the beginning, man is given dominion over the earth. Genesis 128. Um they're supposed to rule over the earth. Man instead fell into sin, and so of course Genesis 128 is before the fall. So the Dominion Man Day, Dominion over the Earth, man has given Dominion of the Earth as the pinnacle of God's creation before the fall Um and then man falls into sin and throughout history has continually corrupted the earth instead. Um when that corrupting reaches its apex, God will destroy the earth and create a new one. We'll see that in Genesis chapter twenty one. one we'll get a new heavens and a new earth. And we've seen that as a theme in Scripture going back to Isaiah. Uh we also get a description of it in Second Peter chapter three. And then we get a description of the temple Um and this illustration of um the access to God through Christ. And so this is a word picture here of this vision. And the temple of God which is in heaven was opened And the ark of his covenant appeared in his temple, and there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and an earthquake and great hailstorm. So uh so what are we talking about here? So uh during the seventh Trumpet um is the promise to believers of unbroken fellowship with God forever. So there's terrible things coming for unbelievers, but for believers, the opening of the Holy of Holies, uh the fellowship is symbolized. by the imagery, um the opening of the temple of God which is in heaven, the place where His presence dwells as we saw in chapters four and five, and uh revealed the Ark of His Covenant. And the Ark symbolizes the covenant God has promised to man is now available in its fullness. So remember the Ark of the Covenant was in the Holy of Holies, and only the high priest could go in there, and only once a year And what happened when Christ was on the cross and uh he said it was finished, what happened to the veil of the Holy of Holies? It was torn from the top down, uh, symbolizing that the the Ark of God's covenant was now available through Christ, His presence. You could approach God in His holy of holies through Christ. And this is another word picture of the same thing. uh that John's seeing in his vision. The temple and uh there's the Ark of the Covenant open for all to see. There's no curtain across it. There is the Ark of the Covenant Um and so this is God's promise uh to his uh to the believers. Even in the midst of his judgment on unbelievers, the fury of his wrath, uh he throws open the Holy of Holies. Um as part of this whole vision, John sees also this. The Holy of Holies open with the ark right there. Um and draws both drawing believers into his presence. So uh the ark symbolizes God's communion with the redeemed because it was there that blood sacrifices were offered to atone for men's sins. And uh and so Christ's sacrifice had uh had had satisfied um uh a prop propitiation for God's wrath once for all time and there's the ark open for all to see. Uh so it's a great word picture. Um we get both, we see God's wrath We also see there's the Ark of the Covenant open to all who come through Christ. And of course we also get Earthquake, lightning, and hail again, as we've seen many times, uh associated with God's wrath. Earthquake, lightning, sounds, peals of thunder, and hailstorm. Okay, so uh but along with the ark uh there were flashes of lightning, sounds peals of thunder, uh similar events associated with God's uh majesty and glorious heavenly throne. We saw in chapter four, uh we saw in also in chapter eight We'll see again in chapter 16, uh, that associated with his judgment come peals of thunder, lightning, and earthquake and hailstorms So the message then of the Seventh Trumpet is that Christ is the sovereign, King of Kings and Lord of Lords That is about to happen, and it's so certain we use the Greek tense that that it looks like it's already happened. Um so he's one day going to take rule of the earth away from the usurper Satan and from Earth's petty human rulers. And history is moving inexorably towards this culmination. And so these words have been written uh for two thousand years, uh nearly two thousand years. Um but they're still written in the Greek tense as if they had already happened because they are so certain. This is where history is leading uh is the the the uh the teaching of all of scripture pointing forward to this event in the future. Ah, so let's take a breath. We're finished with chapter 11 and I'm about to launch into chapter 12. Any questions about what we've gotten here at the end of chapter eleven? There's a lot here. Yes, go ahead. So yeah, so um there are a couple of places in Revelation that say that their hearts were hardened and that they uh they didn't repent, th those who were left didn't repent. And I think in in M most cases I take that to be a blanket a kind of a general statement about what most people are doing. I don't I don't think those things that we've read previously say that w when it says that uh and they they didn't repent, they hardened their hearts and didn't repent, I don't think that means that one hundred percent of all the people hardened their heart and didn't repent. Uh because we keep getting these description of saints that come out of the Great Tribulation. So somebody's being saved because we see that. We see this these saints that are saved out of the tribulation. So obviously people are being saved in spite of the fact that the general You can generally describe people as being unrepentant. So it seems like not. It seems like that's correct. That you don't have uh you know big mass revivals with e you know everybody you know everybody repenting. You don't get that But you do get people being saved, I think. I think that's the general story that we're getting. Right. And so yeah, th so there is some there's some mystery to us here that that God elects uh and so he knows from the very beginning of time who is going to repent, who is g going to regenerate through the Holy Spirit and and grant faith unto repentance. Um and yet we're commanded to evangelize the lost. And so those two things are obviously not incompatible. God doesn't do that. He doesn't he's he's a consistent, he's a God of order. And so um it it can be a mystery to me. Well why do why do I why should I bother to preach the gospel, to proclaim the gospel, to pray for somebody that's that's not saved when God's already decided from the beginning whether he's gonna repent or not. He's going to grant him faith under repentance. He's going to grant him regeneration from spiritual death to spiritual life. Why should I pray? Uh why should I pray for anything for that matter. If God is sovereign over everything, He already knows what he's gonna do, he's gonna do what he's gonna do, why should I pray? And yet we're we're we're commanded to pray. And so there's there's many a real answers to that question, yeah, Larry. Yeah, the Bible is common, but we use the means. Yes. And it varies by the needs that use these to the object. Yep. Yep. Yeah, all the way up to the bowl full of the prayer of the saints being tossed down on the earth to to yeah, uh, at one point. Yeah. So uh so there's lots of things that we wrestle with. Um why why does God do it that way? Um but in the end, um we need to have Faith. And by faith I mean trust that God is good and that His way is the right way. And it's not a blind faith. It it's a faith based on everything we read in Scripture about how trustworthy God is. And so trusting God is not a blind leap in the dark. It's a reasonable, rational thing to do. It's a r it's a reasonable conclusion to make that, well, uh I c I've read about this God. He's a faithful God. He's a promise keeping God. He he he does what he says he's gonna do. Um so I have reason to trust him. And so it's reasonable to have faith. Christian faith is reasonable faith. Alright. Uh I gotta get through a a lot still. So let's uh Uh let's turn to chapter twelve. So uh chapter twelve, the first few verses we're gonna go through here, a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun and the moon, and under her feet And uh the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars, and she was with child, and she cried out being in labor. in pain to give birth. So here at the beginning of chapter twelve, uh we before describing the final war, we're going to get to the final war. John first introduces the main characters involved. The woman is Israel, the dragon is Satan, and the male child is Jesus Christ. Christ. I'll just clear that up from the very beginning. Uh the first thing John saw in his vision was a a great sign. Uh the first of seven signs that we're gonna get in the last half of Revelation. We'll get a sign here in uh chapter twelve and chapter thirteen. We'll get two more in chapter fifteen and chapter sixteen and chapter nineteen. We get these great signs. And uh the the Greek word is mega, which uh which we use in in English. Mega great. Uh it appears repeatedly in this vision. Mega, mega, mega, mega, mega. Everything John saw seemed to be huge either in size or in significance. Everything is described as mega, great. Samayan sign describes a symbol that points to a reality. So the literal approach to interpreting scripture allows for the normal use of symbolic language, but understands that it points to a literal reality. So it's a symbol that points to something real. In this case, the description plainly shows that the woman John saw was not an actual woman. We'll see that when we get to verse 17, for sure. The woman is the second of four symbolic women. identified in Revelation. The first was an actual one but had a symbolic name, Jezebel, in one of the letters to the churches. She was a false teacher and symbolizes paganism. Uh so this is the second one. The third one is depicted as a harlot and appears in Revelation seventeen. She represents the apostate church. The fourth one will be described in Revelation chapter nineteen as the bride of the lamb. represents the true church. So this is woman number two out of four, symbolic women. Uh some argue that the woman in the present vision represents the church, but the context, especially when we get to verse five, she represents Israel. The Old Testament pictures Israel as a woman, the adulterous wife of the Lord, and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Hosea, whom God will ultimately restore to himself, Isaiah chapter 50. A reference to the Ark of the Covenant. uh uh towards the end of uh chapter eleven that we just saw adds further support for identifying the woman as Israel. Uh so Israel's presence in the seventieth week of Daniel's prophecy is in keeping with God's promise to her of a kingdom, Isaiah 65, Ezekiel 37, Daniel chapter 2, Zechariah chapter 8, and also national salvation. in Zechariah 12 and 13 uh and then Romans 11. So John saw that the woman, he has a description, there's a vision Of course in in this this is all symbolic, but it points to a spiritual reality. You saw the woman was clothed with the sun and had the moon under her feet and her head a crown of twelve stars. Where have we seen that symbol before? Of the sun and the moon and the stars. Joseph's dream. So this is using imagery from the Old Testament from Joseph's dream in Genesis chapter 37. The sun, in that case, the sun represented Jacob, the moon, Rachel, and the The stars were Joseph's brothers in that dream. In this vision, the wimp woman is clothed with the sun, reflects redeemed Israel's unique glory and brilliance and dignity because of her exalted status as j God's chosen nation, which we saw all throughout the Old Testament. Um having described the woman's attire, John noted her conditions. She was with child. Uh that's also a familiar Old Testament imagery describing Israel. Uh that the woman is pregnant confirms her identity as Israel. The church cannot be a mother since she is not yet married. Being pregnant, the woman cried out being in labor and pain to give birth, just like a pregnant woman in labor feels pain until the nation of Israel was in pain, waiting for Messiah to come forth. The cause of the pain is the persecution by Satan, who attempts to destroy the mother. The nation was in pain when the Messiah came the first time, so will it be at his second coming. Pain for the nation of Messiah. Israel represented by this woman. Now we get a second character, the woman's mortal enemy, dramatically portrayed by another sign appearing in heaven. We'll get to verse 9. We're not going to cover verse 9 today, but verse 9 clearly identifies the great red dragon as Satan. Satan of course is not an actual dragon any more than Israel is an actual woman, but a malevolent spirit being a fallen angel. So these are symbols pointing to a reality. The woman symbolically points to the real nation of Israel. The red dragon symbolically points to the real Satan. Um so the symbolic language describes him, uh pictures the reality of his person and character. Um only in Revelation is Satan described as a dragon. Before that he's called, among many other names, a serpent. And he appears, of course, as a serpent in Genesis chapter 3. And described as a certain uh serpent by Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Uh so a dragon is much more terrifying. Nobody likes snakes, but a dragon is even more terrifying, especially one with seven heads. Um so that's what John sees. He sees a dragon with seven heads uh and ten horns. Um So in the Old Testament, the same Hebrew word translated dragon, Isaiah 27 and 51, is also translated monster or sea monster. In Genesis one, Job seven, Psalm seventy-four, one forty-eight, many different passages. That same word. Um and so remember, so how do we figure out what a uh what a Greek word means when we're talking about the Old Testament. How do we know that? From the Septuagint, so there's a Greek translation of the Old Testament that the Jews did before the time of Christ, and so we can look, we can find Greek words in the the New Testament and look at the Septuagint to see if they appear in the Old Testament, those same Greek words. So that's how we how we can make this comparison where this word dragon, the that Greek word here in the old in the New Testament, we can look at the Septuagint. Two agenda, see if that Greek word is used anywhere in the Old Testament. And it is. Uh to be a monster or a sea monster. Large, ferocious, and terrifying animal. Let's see. Then the dragon is further described as having seven heads and ten horns and having seven diadems on the seven heads. So a seven-headed monster that rules the world with crowns. Um Satan has been allowed by God to rule the world Since the fall, and will continue to do so until the seventh trumpets sounds. The seven heads were their seven diadems, diademma uh royal crowns symbolizing power and authority. So diadema is royal crowns. Uh not a victor's crown as we saw previously. It's a different Greek word. This is royal crowns with uh symbolizing power and authority. Uh represents seven consecutive world empires running their course under Satan's dominion Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece, Rome, and the Antichrist future empire. Um so There's some speculation there, obviously, because those these empires are not listed here, uh but we do have uh some descriptions of the future and the Christ Empire in chapter 17. And we have had uh prophecies about various empires um throughout Scripture as well. And it's obvious that God has used secular nations, pagan nations, as uh to do his will, uh to execute his judgment in the past. But we will get a final kingdom ruled by the Antichrist. and the s the speculation about the ten um we get a description of what looks like a ten nation confederacy, let me put it that way. Uh the ten horns represent the kings who will rule under Antichrist. We'll see that in chapter 17. And we get a prediction of it all the way back in Daniel chapter 7. So Satan's evil influence Influence is not limited to the human realm, of course, but extended first into the angelic realm. And so as I mentioned at the very beginning Uh this section chapter twelve to fourteen is kind of a digression and it describes events going all the way back to the beginning. This sweeping of the third of the stars from heaven goes all the way back to Satan's fall. And so we've stepped out of a strict timeline that's going through uh events at the end times and and some of these descriptions go all the way back to the beginning. Um and so this picture of the dragon's tail sweeping a third of the stars from heaven, that's a reference to um the Satan's angels, Satan's fallen angels, um the this um uh the idea that when Satan fall fell he took a third of the angels with him. Um so these stars be are uh were were originally belonging to heaven and that's their proper abode, but these angels depicted symbolically as stars, and we've seen that before. We saw in Revelation chapter nine, we see in Job chapter thirty-eight as well. Um this is uh a symbol So we get description in Isaiah chapter 14 of Satan's fall, also Ezekiel chapter 28, and we see this repeated again that he swept a third of the angelic host with him. And along with their defeated leader, those evil angels were cast from heaven to the earth. So they threw them to the earth. Um, and so there's your seven headed dragon there. Uh that's the best picture I could find. It's a little blurry. So that's a seven headed dragon there, and notice that one of the heads has got three horns on it, so that you can get up to ten, I guess. Is that right? No, that's still still only be nine. Uh some one of them one of the others must have two. Oh yeah, one of the others has two. Good. So there's ten horns there. Uh seven heads, ten horns, seven crowns. Uh the pregnant lady standing there, the dragon getting ready to devour the child. Uh notice his tail is is sweeping stars out of the sky. Um so this is some face John seeing something, some vision that symbolizes Israel and the and Satan, but it's in the form of this fantastical uh these fantastical symbols. Um and so then we see that the dragon is standing before the woman, and the dragon stood before the for the woman at who was about to give birth, so that when she gave birth he might devour her child. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the nations with an iron rod and her child was caught up to God and to his throne. So what are we seeing here? We're seeing that uh Satan has spent all of history uh tr trying to persecute the people of God. So Abel was righteous, obedient man, so Satan prompted Cain to kill him. Uh we had this uh bizarre event in Genesis chapter six of uh Satan trying to uh corrupt man. During the period of the judges, Satan used Israel's pagan neighbors to try to destroy them. During the divided kingdom, the Messiah Messianic line, the the line from David to Christ. Twice Dimble uh dwindled to one child, uh almost almost wiped out. There's one le one person left. Uh still later Satan inspired Haman to undertake a genocide against the Jews. So Satan has been trying to to destroy the the Jew the the uh God's people, um, all the way back to Abel and all the way forward through the nation of Israel, uh Satan has been desperately trying to destroy them. Um and so here and here he is depicted as trying to destroy the child that Israel's giving the birth to, the one special child that Israel's giving birth to. So he failed to wipe out God's people all along throughout history. history and he's de he he's def desperately attempting to murder the Messiah himself. And so Satan attacked Jesus through Herod who attempted to kill the baby Jesus. So th that's what this is symbolizing here. The outset of the Lord's earthly miss ministry, Satan tempted him to mistrust God. Uh he tried to use the people of Nazareth to kill Jesus. uh but he passed through their midst. Um his attempts Satan's attempts all along to try to uh pervert or uh kill Jesus during his earthly ministry all failed uh because his hour had not yet come. Uh and then even the devil's seeming victory at the cross was really his ultimate defeat. And that uh that's described in Colossians chapter two and Hebrews two and first Peter three, first John three, over and over again that what seemed like Satan's victory um turned into his ultimate defeat. Um and so in spite of Satan's relentless efforts throughout history, what we've we've we've seen described, Israel still gives birth to the Messiah. The Messiah is still born. The male child. So the male child is the Lord Jesus Christ The fulfillment of prophecy going back to Genesis 3. 15. Son of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Judah and a descendant of David All the prophecies of who the Messiah would be, Jesus fulfilled, and he's born in spite of the efforts of the dragon The dragon has been trying to prevent this all the way from the very beginning, all the way up to during Jesus' uh earthly ministries trying to kill the child that Israel's giving birth to. So this is a recapitulation of a really all of history here. So we've stepped out of a uh minute by minute description of what's happening in the end times and we've looked back all the way to the very beginning of Satan's fall And we've and now we're talking about the incarnation, uh, Jesus' birth and earthly ministry. Um so um S Satan's unable to prevent it. Uh nor will Satan be able to hinder Christ's coronation. He will rule all the nations with an iron rod, it says here, during his earthly millennial kingdom. So um this uh the the Particular Greek word that's a translated rule here has a connotation of destroy as well. So uh between Christ's incarnation and his coronation came his exaltation when we was caught up to God and to his throne as his ascension. So we get a description of that here. So we have uh Christ's birth, we have Christ's uh ascension as well described in this passage of Revelation. Um so he's caught up to God in his throne when he uh was was exalted into heaven. Um so and that signified the the the resurrection itself And then his ascension into heaven signify the Father's acceptance of his work of redemption, Christ's work of redemption. In spite of all this, of course, Satan doesn't give up He was unable to stop Christ's birth. He's unable to to stop Christ's resurrection and ascension. He will be unable to prevent his rule as well. And yet, Satan still assaults God's people. He's already instigated the genocidal massacre of Jews in Europe. During World War II, as well as the death of countless thousands throughout history. So Satan, if nothing else, is persistent Uh he keeps losing, but he keeps fighting. Um so during the tribulations, Satan will increase his efforts to destroy the Jewish people so that the nation cannot be saved, as the Bible promises. So there's all these prophecies, Zechariah chapter. 12, we got uh Romans chapter 11 about Israel being saved, and so Satan's gonna try to prevent that too, just like he's tried to prevent all the rest of it. He's going to try to prevent that by trying to massacre the Jews during the tribulation, uh, through his beast. Um and so uh the woman flees into the wilderness where she had a place prepared by God so that there She would be nouris for one thousand two hundred and sixty days. So one thousand two hundred and sixty days that's once again three and a half years. So what is that That's the second half of the tribulation, the great tribulation, the Jewish nation is going to flee. Um will that be every single person? Probably not Because there's going to be somebody still there in Jerusalem that the two witnesses are preaching to during the second half of the tribulation. But God will frustrate Satan's attempts to destroy Israel during the uh the Great Tribulation. Uh by hiding his people, just as the Lord uh promised and predicted in the all the discourse in Matthew twenty four. Um the Antichrist desolation of the temple will send the Jewish people fleeing into the wilderness. So the abomination that causes desolation, that really kicks off the second half of the tribulation, the Great Tribulation, will cause many Jews to flee. And Jesus described that in Matthew chapter 24. So we don't know exactly where they'll flee. There's a description in Daniel chapter 11 that makes it seem like it's it will probably be east of the Jordan, south of the Dead Sea, in the land which was previously occupied by Moab, Ammon and Edom. That's what Jenna chapter eleven says that they will flee to. Uh the Moab, Ammon, and Eden. And if we go back in history, the geography of that says east of the Jordan, south of the Dead Sea. So wherever their hiding place is, they'll be nourished by God. Um so uh oh we've run out of time. Apologize. So uh let me just um uh stop I'll stop there. Um any last minute question before I close this up in prayer? All right, let me uh close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time together with you and your word. We we thank you for uh the fact that you've revealed all of these things to us and ple please Lord help us to use it as motivation uh to share the gospel, uh to share the gospel with people um because we know what the end is and we know what the end is for unbelievers. and it's not a pretty thing. Uh help us to use that as motivation, Lord. We thank you for the opportunity we have now to worship you as a corporate uh body of Christ and pray that our worship will be acceptable in your sight. And we pray these things in Jesus' name.