Uh uh the difficulty of the theology Uh there are certain things that God really just doesn't give us a nice simple verse, concrete verse to say, this is what this aspect is. But nonetheless it's good to wrestle with these things Because we do have a God that's huge and deep and and um uh so we don't want to this is not just a uh an exercise and uh who's smarter or who's theology. It it we're trying to get to know God. Um and and and I don't want to um uh kind of diverge from that. Uh when I w was going to college it was one of the things that opened my eyes. There they're um we're all theologians. That's that's the first thing we we're told. And we do. We all have a theology. Um and it but uh in school and in a discipline, some professors are theologians and that's their profession. They're professional theologians. They're getting paid for it. The other ones tend to be Bible expositors or exegetes and When I say exegetes, they they're into the interpretation, the grammar, uh the that's their specialty. They they they uh look at um uh tear uh a verse apart and you know what is the historical background uh the whole thing. So and I just bring that up just to remind you of these different disciplines that that are there. Um I am certainly not a theologian. Um if I if I have any gift at all, it's probably more for being able to look at some of the detail in and Uh I just I had God put on my heart from and I think he saved me through I just wanted to know the truth. Uh and It was that was kind of a nice thing when I went to seminary. I wasn't biased with I wasn't a Calvinist, I wasn't a uh anything. I was a Methodist and we didn't believe in hardly anything. So we're all going to heaven. So I didn't have any of these prejudices. And so I was wrestling with uh uh election, predestination and and all that. And I was going back and forth and uh all I I didn't really care which one was true. I wanted to know I want wherever the truth is going to lead me, that was where I'm willing to go. And that's what I want to say. We have to be open to the point of Falma truth wherever it will lead us. And you'll see scholars sometimes kind of deny certain things because it doesn't really fit with their theology. And so that's the tension between the two. Any good theologian had better be a good exegete and Because all theology comes from the Bible. And having said that, I'll just stop at that spiel, but this is what we're going to wrestle with a little bit today. Um I had down here Lehman Strauss, Bible. org. It was an article I read on atonement. I kind of outlined the study from his. I used his structure But as I read some of the things I didn't necessarily agree with his um take on certain aspects. So uh the primary sources I looked at and I didn't have that many to do was uh Ryrie's basic theology. It's a good theology. You may not agree with all of his things, especially if you're totally reformed. But he's he's clear, he's concise, and he does uh present the other uh uh uh reformed and aspects that he may not really line up with. Uh he's pretty much reformed. He he's uh evangelical, he he's a believer, he's good Um also looked at um I like Chaeffer who was uh founder of uh Dallas Theological Seminary. He has a multi volume theology and and he is uh Uh again, he's he's basically reformed. Uh there are some things that some of the hard Calvinists might not agree with, but um he's really good at explaining things and he puts it down on that level Uh the other one was uh Wayne Grudom as a big uh theology and a lot of people use it and um even MacArthur was saying, you know, look, I don't agree with everything Grudom says but virtually all of us have his theology sitting in our library, so let's not deny that. He he's good. He puts it down again on a on a level of uh we can use All right, that's all intro. So the sin's a problem, right? The primary focus of all Christian doctrine is uh Christ's atonement for sin. That's the problem. We have, let's keep it in two real big categories. Adam sinned, right? God knew he was going to sin. It was a plan. But he also had a plan for redemption, we saw aspects or uh uh little foreshadowings of that, right? Uh uh the enity between the woman's seed and Satan's seed. So uh we we saw that. Um sin's a problem and that's what atonement's gonna deal with Uh 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. I mean, this is this basic gospel, right? For I delivered to you as of first importance Okay? This is of first importance. What I also receive, that Christ died for our sins. That's it, right? Here's the solution. It's of first importance. Christ died for our sins. Here's the solution, guys. Great. according to the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, according to the scriptures. So Paul states that w uh right was his first importance. Christ died for our sins. He made um Our sins uh made Christ's atonement necessary, right? Uh Westminster Confession uh definition says this Uh sin is any want of conformity unto or transgression of the law. Excuse me, or transgression of the law of God. So y you know, it's a little old English. Is any one. Uh in other words, any thought, any deed, anything that is coming, uh uh action is coming or or transgression is the actual action. But think about it, the heart, uh our motivations, all of that, any of that core is is sin. It's a good simple definition. It's nice and concise. Romans 14, 23 says, whatever is not of faith is sin. So think about that, right? So that whatever we think, act, do that is not preceded by faith in God and led by God is sin. Yeah, that's a lot, isn't it? Well Christ, we're in trouble, aren't we? That's the point. And this is what we're gonna look at. We're going to go through some aspects of it. So the Bible speaks of many ways we can sin, right? But the most grievous uh sin is the rejection of Jesus Christ, John 16, 8 and 9. And he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin, because they did not believe in me. And this is what we're going to unpack, right? You know the other one too, Romans 623. This is uh uh right, one of the key verses for evangelism, right? You read them down the Yeah, all of the sin and fall short of the glory of God. We say this, but um we're gonna we're gonna be thinking about this. What are some of the aspects? Um Now Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin excuse me, is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord, right? Excuse me. God is loving and merciful, but holy and righteous. God must judge sin and his penalty must be paid for. That's what he's saying. God's not so much he's a judge, you know, f from our worldly perspective, for those who are saved, you know, oh God's a judge. And sometimes we can even begin to use our Christian attitudes, but um That's who he is. He's separate from sin. We need to, you know, that's one of those things we could spend forever contemplating. God is holy, totally separate from sin. Uh, you know, because of Jesus uh uh bridging that gap and coming down and living, it's it's easy to get into, you know, you uh patient, merciful, compassionate. He tolerates sin, he lived among sinners Uh but no, God in his essence is holy. When we have a true idea of holiness and uh sinfulness of man, then we have more of a comprehensive view of atonement. Atonement is sufficient for all men, but is uh is uh uh efficient only for those who believe We're not gonna get into uh limited atonement or what the extent of the atonement some of them would say. Uh but but it's just that. Um Even R. C. Sprohl, who's uh definitely into limited atonement, said, you know, uh he doesn't like that term. He says, look, God is sufficient for sin. And I think we'll see this go as we kind of look at this and and we can uh uh because as we move forward this is that we think of uh uh I don't want to get ahead of myself. Let's just say we'll we'll kind of get to this a little bit. So atonement, that being said, um, in order to praise we're gonna look at the effects of the atonement. So in order to further define and understand the atonement of Christ, let's look at some of the effects as it regards God and then as it regards man. So the first one is satisfaction So Christ uh so a sinful man uh uh for a sinful man to enter into a holy presence of God, that person's sin must be paid for in order to satisfy a holy and just God, right? So the doctrine of substitutionary death of Christ uh is the means of satisfying the law Uh the justice of God when Adam violated God's commands he sinned, acted contrary to God's nature I said for a man to come into the presence there must be a payment for that sin. That's what he said. The wages of sin is what? Death So in the Old Testament we see the sacrifice of the innocent animals, right, is the payment of uh for the sins of the people. Sacrifices pointed to the ultimate sacrifice of Christ, right? Hebrews ten. By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ once for all. Now we got into that a little bit last week, okay. Um what's the difference between the Old Testament economy for atonement? They had to sacrifice daily, right? If you don't have any study of Hebrews or read through it You see that he just goes on and on about Christ being our high priest because it's so huge. He's not like the old priest Um so how is it is God is satisfied with the substitution of Christ's death in place of ours? Okay, so I worded this and well uh even if it sounds a little confusing, uh these are kind of my words. Um Well well I'll I'll see if we can explain it, even if I get you lost. So if we owe a debt to someone, a person to whom we owe the debt is not uh concerned about who pays it. as much as he is or as he is about receiving the right payment for which he is owed. On a simple level, right, if somebody if um You're in debt to somebody or you have purchased something, let's just take it on a really practical level. I owe money for that purchase, right? I can't just give 'em anything I consider uh for payment for that that that debt I owe, right? He wants a certain currency or a payment. Maybe he'll accept solid gold, I don't know. He probably he m I doubt it and he probably said too much I don't want to deal with that. He wants dollars, something he can transact with I can't give him my baseball card set or you know what I mean or it has to be satisfied. Now we laugh, but think about it, that's what we're looking at here. Do not move this beyond. that point. God needs the right payment to be satisfied. And uh let me go through it but we'll we'll kind of consider that f from different points, right? Um The soul that sins is guilty and the wages of sin is death. A fellow human could not die for another sin if he is also guilty of sin himself. For how could the one who is already condemned to die give his life for another in order to pay for that person's guilt? Right? The only satisfactory payment for the guilt of sin is a sinless and holy son of God. What I'm saying is there is that um You know what the reason we can't die for another person is because we're already in debt. That's like going to your friend and asking him to pay for your debt and he takes out as one of these people that has twelve credit cards and he keeps giving a credit card, you know, and they go now there's nothing left on that one. Right. He's got no money. He's got credit cards, but he has no he has not had the payment So think about it, there is only one satisfactory payment It's the payment we're looking at. God's not just satisfied with anything. You can't you can't satisfy This sin. So when you think about it, think about the other aspects we can look at. Um uh well let me read through some of these. So so how we look at uh uh uh Christ as being the payment. So it's uh again, we see this all the time. Scripture speaks of Christ's sinless nature. For you have been called for this purpose since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps, who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. Right? No sins, no deceit in his mouth. Now again, think about that. Deceit in his mouth. We know from other scriptures, right? What comes out of a man's mouth proceeds from his heart, right? He speaks from what He's really is on his heart, his mind, his thinking. Um it's true, right? He all his thoughts, his actions, his motivations, his will Everything was right with God, was holy. And now before we before and before uh consider one thing Christ, we we think of Christ as that whole Christ is what, a hundred percent And a hundred percent so we're going it's it's a different uh I'm human. But think about he was a hundred percent man. So even though This is Christ. He he didn't have a sin nature. He was he was born sinless, which we weren't, right? We were born under Adam's sin. It was imputed to us. Uh Romans five twelve. May want to turn there real quick. So we are sinners. And that's where that real th yeah. Where are they? Uh yeah, five twelve. Yeah, therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned So we that that's another big topic there, imputation of sin, how did that come? Uh but Regardless of wha how you say it, we were born in sin. Right? David, Psalm fifty one, I was conceived in sin, my mother conceived me in sin. Right? So we that's our nature. So he the only thing I want to point out is that to me this is uh huge. There is this humanity where God stepped down in this humanity, he took on this humanity. We will one day be sinless. We we're born in sin, so now we we have the uh uh obligation to overcome it. But to me it it's God just again, I've said this before, God just didn't make a creed from heaven and declare us righteous or make us holy or make us uh acceptable to him or say, you know A man, the God man nonetheless, but a man had to come down in time and space a and and live this out. And that's why they say Christ is perfected. His perfection was he was perfect and he and he perfected by actually going through uh the tasks, the events, the the trials, the temptations, and doing it. Uh do you see how that he came down, how that lifts us up as Human God. This is how this this is something to to meditate on and think about. God is this relationship is huge uh for him to do this. And it's our humanity Uh we joke about it when one of the Bible studies is you know, we talked about being perfect in heaven and uh uh one of the guys is saying, Are you sure God? knowing ourselves. It's hard to really think about that. Thought, deed, and action and everything. But d uh no deceit was found in his mouth. Um For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with one of uh with our weaknesses, but one who was tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. He made him who knew no sin to be sinned on our behalf, so that we might become the the righteousness of God in him. That's that's huge, that in him Anytime you see it uh that's a theological thing. When you're reading to the Bible and you especially in New Testament, you see in, in, in Uh i it's not always, but look at it so many times. Our blessings, our our salvation, our righteousness, uh justification, you name it. It's in, in, in Christ It's a it's that imputation. We got imputed sin through Adam, but we got in imputed uh sin through Christ. Righteousness. I mean uh imputed righteousness through Christ And that's what you'll see in the Romans 5, 12, 5, 12, and on, you see the balance between the two, Adam, Christ. Adam, Christ, sin, righteousness. Um so yeah, as uh we become the righteousness in him. Uh Uh so you know that uh he appeared in order to take away sin, and in him there is no sin. Do you see the correlation? In him. We are in him. Well it's it's his righteousness, his his uh spirit that that's making us alive. So, satisfaction. Just that. It's what will. We're talking really not so much yet. We're talking about the aspects of atonement and satisfaction This is what's going to satisfy God. Not some of these so uh so when you think about it, you think about satisfaction, think about all these religions and and works and everything they're doing. They're zealous, they're they're uh they're putting energy into it, uh they're trying to recognize whatever, uh something other than themselves, but Is it going to satisfy God? No way, right? It it's there's no satisfaction in all these other religions. There's only one satisfaction. It's a person. God's restoring that relationship. It's personal. You're going to hear me say that over and over again We can't control it. It's the person. We need our our thing is is um if there's anything on our will it's um Recognizing we got a problem. We might call it repentance. Right? But you gotta recognize, man, this ain't working. That's what I said. There's something's gotta be something better than this And there is. It's recognition. And the betterness is in the person. He's the satisfaction. No one else is going to satisfy this payment. Propitiation, this is the big one. This is um so Robbie defines propitiation, I kind of uh paraphrased it, but it's his definition. Defines propitiation in relation to salvation as placating or satisfying the wrath of God by atoning sacrifice of Christ. So it's propitiation. So there's a satisfaction, but what are we satisfying? Well, God ha there's wrath, right? God's wrath had to be satisfied. This is clearly taught in the Old Testament. 2 Kings uh 13 3 So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel And he gave them continually into the hand of Hazael, king of Aram, and into the hand of bin Hadad, the son of Hazael. So God's wrath, right? God was angry. The Lord was angry. He was angry against Israel. He is, there is an anger against sin. He hates sin. Ezekiel 818. Therefore I indeed will deal in wrath. My eye will have no pity, nor will I spare And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, yet I will not listen to them. Okay, he'll deal, right? I indeed will deal in wrath. There's an God will Bring justice. Alright, so the wrath of God in the New Testament, John 3. 36. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not obey the Son will not see light, but the wrath of God abides on him 118 familiar with this one. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness We know later in that chapter God does what the people who worship idols and not Him Anybody know what does God do? He turns them over. That's a bad thing. Three times he says it in that chapter. He turns them over. I think God's turning over the United States of America. Hindering us from speaking to the Gentile so that he may be saved, with the result that they will always uh fill up the measure of their sins But the wrath has come upon them to the utmost. Alright, so for the food of propitiation here. Christ's sacrifice was a provision full of propitiation Now uh Romans three twenty-five, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith This was to demonstrate his righteousness because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed So there is some debate about this passage. Um I'll deal with it briefly. It's uh Uh Robert says that Paul linked uh propitiation with the death of Christ uh in this passage. Some debate this passage because of the use of I have to throw a Greek word out at you, but it's hilostereon. Uh though and it's most of them interpret this as a place of propitiation rather than uh hilismos is is used in first John two. And I'll show you the difference in a second. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. So in Hebrews 9. 5, and above it, and above it were the cherubim of the glory overshadowing the mercy seat. But of these things we cannot now speak in detail. So the word for mercy seat is hilostereon. Okay? Uh and so a lot of them say uh well let me read what I wrote. A and many see this as a place uh where propitiation was made Uh Ryrie says that both of the meaning are in view. The Lord was a satisfactory sacrifice for sin, and therefore the place of propitiation was made. Lehmann Strauss, again, one of the outlines I use for this, he says that Christ Himself is the mercy seat sprinkled with his own blood. And I think that's right, you know, uh again, uh there's some debate about that, but nonetheless, the propitiation, the satisfaction, the atonement uh was made in that blood And Christ is that. Again, in 1 John 4. 10, and this is love. Not that we love God, but He loved us. and set his son to be the the propitiation for our sin. Now a couple of things I want to note there, uh, because I got off on a uh Uh we're talking first we looked at satisfaction and we're looking at um uh propitiation, right? The the means of it. Um The Son is to be the propitiation. Look at 1 John 2. 2. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins. Not his death. You notice that? He says, he himself, Christ, is the propitiation. So it's one of these things, Scott and I were talking before class, there's certain things that are just so wrapped up and God doesn't unpack them. Theologians tend to do this And we have to be careful because we can say too much or too little, but but the the ramifications though is okay, even though Number one, be willing to wrestle with this. Uh uh I think this is a good distinction that they bring out It does it's not. It's not like uh again his death, and and we'll look at that a little bit later with the two of propitiation or expiation. Uh talk about that a little bit. It's relational, it's more. And and God uh He did Christ died, but more than that. He rose from the dead from the dead, right? He intercedes for us. That thinks, yary. You can't Oh I get it. All right. Um now there's a hand. Yes, no, I think the one thing I really appreciated in looking at this this week was that looking at propitiation, especially the reference just Romans three twenty-five and this kind of idea of propitiation being between Christ and the Father. Applied to us, but between Christ and the Father, in uh Romans three it's it it kind of tells us what we're to do and it's just believe in faith And I just thought that was really convicting in the sense that there's nothing I can do ever to satisfy the wrath of God except believe that it was completely satisfied in Christ. And that's why satisfaction sounds like, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I got all that. But you need to consider w what you're saying, right? Uh what i i I agree. Yeah, well of course we can't because we don't have the currency to pay for it. No way, no how. I mean, whatever y you know Sometimes we make it so r I I do this too. It it gets so theological and uh it's just like well what are you know uh what are the connections to that? Works? Nothing. It's not gonna satisfy 'em. So and you're you're echoing the same thing I'm saying in a different way. And and that's what I say that's what when you kind of wrap your mind around it, you there's different ways you can uh articulated and it would be different from me but if if you get back to the essence of the point that's the key and to comprehend that. Yeah Yeah, our our job is to be in. That brings us to cling to the solution. Yeah, that's the work. Yes. Um two two and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. Yeah. Seems like it has a omissions uh mindset to it to once you are saved, okay, this is this message and this belief is for the entire world Right. And that's where the rub comes with limited atonement and Uh those who say that God died for the whole world, I'm not going down that path because to be honest with you, I'm still wrestling with it. I think R. C. Spohl is right. I think the Ryaries who doesn't believe in limited atonement. But i i d I mean he's he's he's not saying that everybody's gonna be saved And and and and again it's one of these theological things that we have to wrestle with. Um, you know, they will say, you know, uh I'm just going to talk about this very briefly, but you know, certain passages say, uh, you know, Christ uh you know Jesus said, you know, I lay down my life for the sheep And so they use passages like that to say he's not laying out of light for everybody. Um The key here is again, let's stay with with the the the essence that Christ is the sufficient and only sufficiency. I Ryrie would tell you the same thing that uh the the ones with limited atonement would say Uh he's faith came from God. Right? God opened the eyes so we could believe. Again, I say it all let's use scripture. What I'm saying is that Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, right? For by grace you are saved Through faith and this not of yourselves. Is this to the grace or is it to faith? And m a lot of them say it's to both. Uh and I believe it's both. I know that I did I I I needed God came and opened my heart. So we can set aside that. But yeah, it's it is for the whole world. And and anybody who anywhere comes to faith I i if you you uh the problem with having that, it's alive and active. Anybody who comes to faith is gonna come through Christ But he came out of a Muslim background or a Hindu or w it doesn't matter, right? Jews, Gentiles, it's through Christ. So, um Yeah, uh that I'll stop with that because again, this this is one of those uh debates that goes it's a long one and and there are good men on both sides of this. Good scholarly, good good well learned men. But again, the essence I wanted to point out is Christ is the propitiation. He himself is the propitiation. He sent his son to be the propitiation. Um it it's that that relational thing. So It when you look at these passages, look at the interconnection. Uh I like Ryrie points this out. Think about it. You know, we we read this a lot of times and you know, take the to really learn something, take it apart, dissect it. Uh, well, what are we talking here? What are the concrete things? Sin, sacrifice, blood, propitiation. And look at how they're all interwoven with each other, right And you're kinda you always anytime you do that, you're always defining sin, you're defining propitiation, you're they they define each other Uh you know when a lexicon uh uses a word and defines it, uh when I say lexicon is these are uh typically the scholarly ones, their definitions are are n not fulfilling. They give you pretty much one or two word definition. But what they give you is a is they give you all these references. And he goes, okay, here's how he used it in this sense. And he gives you the references to it. Uh and so how do you interpret the word? The way you use it, it's the way society or culture uses the word. It's how you define it Who uh you can have these technical definitions but when uh we it's kinda like the economy of the of the age. What uh how do people talk and uh God used language in in the and the way that people communicate it. So um That's how uh uh it's like any of you all ever looked at a Oxford English dictionary? Uh y and they have the you can see the the evolution of the word, how the meaning changed, you know. Um I always use the one gay. I mean, remember back in the day it used to be gay, you know, uh uh have a gay old time. It was have is now it's Got a new definition, right? We don't think of that old definition at all. Well you know, a lot of words do that. Um But that's how you define a word. So but so look at the interconnection with all these and these these concise words and all these passages, how they they interweave with each other. You need do you need a sacrifice? You got blood in there? Somebody's gonna have to die? It's satisfying propitiation, appeasement Right? And and it and it's taking care of sin. So look at these distinctions here. And I I thought this was was helpful. Um Propitiation uh and uh in these verses above have to do with placating the wrath of God, right? Expiation, which you may have heard tossed around is the removal of guilt of wrath due to the penalty of sin uh for a sin committed. It is impersonal in nature in that it removes penalty but does not restore the relationship Propitiation removes the wrath or penalty and restores the relationship with the one offending Now think about it, you could uh you could just put down a practical term because that's what Christ does. Uh he he does he doesn't just pay the penalty, he's restoring a relationship. There was that wrath of God. That's what had to be satisfied. The wrath of God is not so much it's for sin, right? Let's let's let's Keep keep the main point. We are sinners. That's it's not so much it's Well let's just keep it the main point. It's sin. That's what is wrath against. That's what is being appeased here But he's doing more than that. He's bringing back a relationship of sinners to a a a relationship where the wrath is no longer there, the enmity is isn't there Substitution, man, I'm out of time. Um Trying to think what I should skip to. Let's just read Isaiah uh fifty-three We know that substitution is um let me here we go again. I never put the I didn't put the verses out here. It's uh Isaiah fifty three, four through six. But you know, it really should be pretty much that whole thing. He's uh uh we substitutions never said it's like the Trinity They're gonna uh price as a substitute. He's a substitution area, Thomas. Uh vicarious, we like to use that one See, you're not going to find it in the Bible. But it's like the Trinity, right? You're not going to find a Trinity in the Bible, but the Bible talks about it. So let's just read this passage. Surely I Greece, he himself bore He himself bore, right? And our sorrows he cared. Yet we ourselves esteem stricken smitten of God and afflicted, but he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquity, and the chastening for our well-being fell upon him And by his couraging we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, but the Lord has caused the iniquity of all of us to fall on him I think this is almost clearer than this is Old Testament prophecy. I mean think about it. Is it not? It spells it out. I mean, it's there So we see that uh, you know, it God does have a substitute. He will accept a substitute. Again, think about it. Satisfaction? He can pay the price. He's the he's he's a satisfactory payment. Right? Uh the wages of sin is death. He had to die for our sins. He died for our sins. Yeah, Christ accepted him again, and Christ accepted his payment. It's like we talk about with satisfaction. He's he satisfied the payment. No one else could. Again Think about too while you're thinking about substitution or satisfying the payment. Again, think about that in Christ, that relationship and that that interweaving of all of these doctrines again, right? He's really accepting Christ in us and that how that plays out. I mean again, but think about those uh those passages. You want to look at some of the ends, look at go back and look at Ephesians, that first chapter, and all those blessings. in heavenly places, in Christ. You're going to see in, in, in, right? That's God's working His plan to us The biblical definition of reconciliation is to be changed the relationship between God and man from one of anger and wrath to peace and harmony. Again, uh we see this re it's a restoring of the relationship. Uh we need reconciliation because God has put uh uh because sin has put enmity between God and man, right? Romans five, nine and ten. Um so look at this. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled Excuse me. To God, through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Again you can see how I said uh Christ is uh is the propitiation, not his death. He's his his death He it's more than that. It it encompasses more. And you see that here. We shall be saved by his life. It's it's uh he intercedes for us, he continues it. But we're saved from the wrath of God. Right So we know that God's anger is against us. Um and right? We were enemies, we're reconciled through his death Right? So the relationship is restored. Um let's see, what do we have here? So I said that, I pointed that out. We are reconciled to the death of the Son, for he made him who knew no sin to be sinned on our behalf Right? Second Corinthians five twenty one, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. My righteousness is is is given to me. It's it's Christ's righteousness that was given to me. Um I didn't write it down, but in that Romans 5 passage, you look at the grace it was given to us, and it says, and the gift of righteousness God gave us a gift of righteousness. You'll see that in in that passage. 2 Corinthians 5 19, namely that God was in Christ, reconciled reconciling the world. issue again, reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation Right? So we are reconciled to God, right? God is active in bringing the reconciliation. Um The sum of God has uh uh took the initiation or the initiative to reconcile the enmity between God and man as a result. This was accomplished by the death of his son uh Christ's righteousness, right? By his grace, uh through faith, we're able to trust in the one who bore our sin and gave us his righteousness. So redemption And y when you look at this, you talk about uh different areas of the marketplace of redemption. Uh Romans six, six and seven Knowing this that our old self was crucified with him in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so we would no longer be slaves to sin, for he has died is free from sin. So we were slaves. We needed to be purchased, right? The Israelites were slaves in Egypt. We're slaves to sin. It said, General, all man is a slave to sin. See that in Romans six that whole the that whole chapter. Right? No longer present your members as uh slaves to sin or As your bodies is to unrighteousness, but present them to God. Um Galatians four, four through seven. But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive adoption as sons. Because you are sons, God has sent forth his spirit into our hearts, crying, Abba Father, therefore you're no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. Uh then an heir through God. So we were born right? Christ was born under the law, he lived under the law. Again, he took on all of that so he could fulfill the law for us. Right? So that he might redeem those who were under the law. And we are under the law, right? It's God's holy law. We're we're sinners, we're separate. And God that's why I say, think about it in this humanity. God lived it out in in time and space and and practical uh experiences Price of redemption for sinners remains the same. Shedding of blood, right? As a substitute in place of the sinner, Christ will fill the payment of the payment Uh Hebrews 9, 27, 28, inasmuch as is as is it is appointed to man to die once And after this comes the judgment. So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time for salvation without reference to sin. to those who eagerly await. So we have this we have redemption. We've been bought He had to uh come and live. We have satisfaction, propitiation. All of this kinda comes under this term we call atonement. And think of the aspects o of it. And each one. God is being reconciled back to man, if you would say, but he's doing that by providing salvation, reconciliation through Christ. Right? So he's definitely reconciling man because man was at enmity with God You see that as you witness the people, you sometimes you talk the gospel and people can get angry. They hate God, right? Jesus said it, right? If they hated me, they hated my Father also, right? Because he revealed God Right? God God the light came into the world, but men loved darkness rather than light, right? Because their deeds were evil, so they want to hide. We when we bring the gospel we we bring light So most of this w uh we've all been uh familiar with, we we hear this, um Guess you can read through this or really out of time. But think of these different aspects. Think of the the things that would that God accomplished when when he did this Uh it this is wasn't arbitrary. This is who he is. He had to accomplish this. He is righteous, he is holy, he can accept sin. We don't want a guy who can accept sin. We want a holy and righteous God. And that we we feel that gap then, how far we are from God.