The world takes pride in their learning and in their education. This statement needs little proof. A few examples though might help. Slogan for the National Association of Educators, the NEA, is Great Public Schools for Every Child. That's a noble purpose. Under the mission statement for the University of Maryland, for all you TERPs out there, online it says this. To realize its aspirations and fulfill its mandates, the university advances knowledge, provides outstanding and innovative instruction, and nourishes a climate of intellectual growth In a broad range of academic disciplines and interdisciplinary fields. MIT has this statement: the mission of MIT is to advance knowledge. And educate students in science, technology, and other areas of scholarship that will best serve the nation and the world in the 21st century. Harvard's purpose records this. In brief, Harvard strives to create knowledge, to open the minds of students to that knowledge. And to enable students to take best advantage of their educational opportunity. Some of you from Johns Hopkins may be interested to know what the purpose is of your school. They say that their aim is, quote, not only to advance students' knowledge, but also to advance human knowledge generally through discovery and scholarship. That's why you're studying so hard. Here's another. The central mission of the University of Southern California is the development of human beings and society as a whole through the cultivation and enrichment of the human mind and spirit. The principal means by which our mission is accomplished are teaching, research, artistic creation, professional practice, and selected forms of public service. And these are all fine learning institutions of this world. As a believer in Jesus Christ, One who has this book before you, we still have some questions as we read things like that that we need to ask. What is real knowledge? What is true knowledge? What should our minds be opened to? What constitutes a complete quality education, and who decides that? The learning that these institutions speak of, and many others like them, is education that starts with man consults man alone and ends with man's conclusions alone. It constitutes what the Bible calls the wisdom of man. God declares, though, in this infallible book, that he has made a fool of human wisdom. He declares that the cleverness of the learned he has rejected, literally, set aside. Since that is what he says, and that is true, where does that leave the mission of human learning? Even if students do learn to read, write, and do arithmetic, the three R's, or advanced students gain technological understanding, or there are advances made in medicine Were great businesses started, law practices that are successful? What true and lasting value does any of that have? Given the esteem and the prominence of education in this society in which you were raised and in which you were trained, I think we need a solid answer to those questions. A solid answer from God's Word. And so we turn once again this week, part two of our series to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verses 18 through 31. Please follow along as I read. First Corinthians 1, 18 to 31. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For indeed Jews ask for signs and Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To Jews, a stumbling block, and to Gentiles. Foolishness. But to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world of shame The wise and God has chosen the weak things of the world, the shame the things which are strong, and the base things of the world, and the despised God has chosen. The things that are not, so that He may nullify the things that are, so that no man may boast before God. But by His doing You are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification, and the redemption, so that just as it is written, let him who boasts Boast in the Lord. Well, we're in the middle of this great text of Scripture. The proposition of this text simply is this: God's wisdom is antithetical to the world's learning. God's wisdom is antithetical to the world's learning. In fact, God has designed it so that through his wisdom, they in their wisdom would never come to know the truth. This is part two, as I said. And we're learning from this text a very important lesson. And we're learning through a series of propositions that would seem upside down to our educated world. A number of statements that at face value seem reversed, seem backward, seem to stand on their head. We already learned three of these last time in verses 17. through twenty. We began actually at the end of verse 17, and we already considered in our last message three upside-down propositions. First, that wise speech voids the cross. He says that in verse 17. Second, that a foolish cross delivers mankind And third, there is a God who actively opposes the wise. This seems strange. Does it seem to be reversed and wrong? It seems like it should be the other way until you understand the passage is talking about two different kinds of wisdom. And we ended last time with Paul's question at the very end of verse 20, if you would look down there, at the very end of verse 20, a question which really stands as a statement, a challenge to the world. And to everybody. The question is this: Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? What's the answer to that? Yes, he has. And he did it on purpose. Yes, he's made foolish the wisdom of the world, and the proof of that is going to be found in the verses that follow, which we encounter today. Look with me then at upside down statement number four in verse 21, and that is this, the educated never learn. The educated never learn. Verse 21, for since in the wisdom of God The world, through its wisdom, did not come to know God. Stop right there. Notice the transition words for sense. A payday garb for sense. That just simply shows that Paul's about to make an explanation of what he has just said. He's presenting truth in what follows to support what he wrote in verse 20. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? Yes, for since in the wisdom of God now that phrase right there means God's wisdom. Remember the wisdom of the wise was a possessive statement. It means man's or the wisdom of man or the wisdom of the wise means their wisdom in verse 19. The educated man's wisdom or the philosopher's wisdom. So the wisdom of God means also God's wisdom. It's a wisdom that He possesses, that's His, and it comes from Him. It's a wisdom that we have revealed to us in Holy Scripture. The wisdom of God means God's understanding, the way God sees things and knows things to be. It's the wisdom he possesses in his mind, in his thinking. It includes the way that God has arranged things to operate in this world, the way He's planned things to work out. In God's wisdom, he has so ordered things to be that notice right there in the middle part of the verse The world, through its wisdom, did not come to know God. That's how God designed it. That's his wisdom. The world, through its wisdom, would not come to know him. God's wisdom determined that no matter how much the world would learn, they would remain ignorant. They would remain in the dark Doesn't matter what speculation, what education they would receive. The world, of course, the word cosmos means the unbelieving world of humanity. It doesn't mean the the planet itself, but the people. Well you say, why doesn't he just say unbelievers here instead of the world? Well, because unbelievers dominate this world in which we live. They're the majority. They're the majority party down here. They're the majority race. They dominate the planet. And by and large, the way they think defines the way the world of man runs. There are far more of them than there are true followers of Christ. The world is not the planet, it's the people who populate the planet. There's a system of thinking that accompanies that. The world is the sinful the unregenerate and rebellious world of mankind. Jesus himself used the word world, cosmos, this way in John fifteen, eighteen. He said, If the world, that's the same word cosmos, hates you You know that it has hated me before it hated you. And then in 1 John 2. 17, John writes, the world is passing away, and also its lusts. But the one who does the will of God lives forever. So the world doesn't do the will of God, doesn't probably even know what the will of God is. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 2 to go to Paul's writings. reminds believers that this is the state that we were in. We were part of the world before we came to Christ. It says this, in which you formerly walked according to, listen, the course of this world. The world has a course, a tract, a way of thinking, and we were part of that. And all of that, Ephesians 2. 2 says, is according to the prince of the power of the heir of the Spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. So the world and its wisdom is actually controlled by evil. The powers of evil. And so the people of the world listen then to what the world says. The world has wisdom, the world has education, and the people who are part of the world system find their ears gravitating to listen to what they say. That's what Brother Quincy was preaching on 1 John 4 and verse 5. They, the false prophets, are from the world, it says. They're from the world. Therefore, they speak as from the world, and the world what? Listens to them. They turn their channel and listen to that message. It's what they want to hear. It's what they believe. So the world's wisdom is the consensus of what lost people think, what perishing humans have concluded is truth, if they even word it that way. And so naturally, it is what they love to hear. But God purposely did not use any of that human learning. In fact, God just utterly rejected the halls of learning and academia altogether. He could have said I'm going to educate people about truth in those venues, in those forums, but I have purposely decided that that's not where I will educate them. They won't gain knowledge of truth or salvation or me that way. Through all of their wisdom, all of their learning, notice in verse 21 again, they did not come to know God. They did not come to know God. That is an indictment of the entire world. The world of education, the world in all of its learning, all of its classrooms, did not come to know God That tells in one phrase the limits of their understanding. That is the folly of their entire educational system. The sum total of their best reasoning falls short of even knowing God. It expresses the ignorance their educational system leaves them in, even to this day. The pulpit commentary puts it this way: These words might be written as an epitaph on the tomb of ancient philosophy. and of modern philosophy and science so far as it assumes an anti-Christian form. End quote. So here again we see another one of these backward statements because the world's education, education doesn't bring you to know, doesn't bring you to understand. particularly to know God. They're educated, but they're left ignorant. They're left ignorant of the most basic reality in the entire universe. God. They missed that one. Now you might be saying, wait a minute, now that's not their purpose. Don't you know that, Pastor Leek? They're not there to teach about God. I mean educational institutions these days, they leave that kind of learning to religious groups, to churches, and synagogues and mosques and the like. They just teach the sciences and technology and literature and economics, you know, the arts, athletics. That's what they're about. They just teach people how to think and reason, to open their minds to new paradigms, keep you abreast of the latest discoveries Launch you into a career of continued research. And they're pretty good at that. At least the better institutions are. If they didn't get God right, that's okay, isn't it? My oh my, how worldly even our thinking can be. Even church people who by and large were trained in a secular educational system themselves. have a hard time coming to understand what Paul says in these words. How we can lower and dishonor not only God, but his word and not even realize we're doing it. I guess that's what we would expect, since most of us, as I said, were educated in secular modern America. People, do you not understand that if the world doesn't get God right, they didn't get anything right? The verse says they did not come to know him. They don't know God. Say, who's God? Their creator! The one that made them and everything else they're studying in school. From language to science, they don't know him. He is the creator of all things, all things. Molecules, atoms, protons. I don't even know the names of the new things. Neutrons. God upholds every nanosecond in which they live and breathe. And they have no clue what the most brilliant mind in the universe is doing. No idea. Nor do they understand his purpose. And with all the skills and learning, they don't know for what purpose to use it. They're clueless about the meaning of life, people, because they're clueless about the one who gives life And worst of all, they have absolutely no salvation. They have no eternal life, for eternal life is defined by Jesus in John 17, verse 3, as knowing. God. And knowing Jesus Christ, whom God sent. Proverbs 1 says the very beginning, not the end, but the very beginning of wisdom is what? The fear of the Lord. And they don't have that. They don't fear his wrath. Romans 1. 31 describes unbelievers just simply this way. They are without understanding. In Psalm 49, 20 it says, Man in his pomp, yet without understanding, is like the beasts that perish. He has no understanding. Yes, the Book of Romans says that there's a general knowledge of God that all men glean from creation and their own conscience, being made in the very likeness of God. This is true. And though most people know that there is a God out there of some kind, somewhere, doing something, and they do see the evidence for that in creation, yet they don't really know who he is. They have no positive relationship with him. In fact, this very passage describes them as perishing. Remember what that means, right? It means they're being destroyed, they're passing away, they're being put aside It means that all of their educational degrees will do them no good whatsoever. They're still perishing. And they can't stop that. They're going to grow up, get an education, graduate, go on, find work, enter into a career, achieve, gain the praises of men, and then die and God destroys them. It's over with. And not only them, but everything that they did, and everything that they created. It's all over with. They talk about bettering mankind, releasing potential from within, serving society, making life better for future generations to come. But they and all that they do are perishing. That's verse 19. God has set it all aside. He's destroying it all. Every work of their hands Every creation of their minds only has a little bit longer to last, and it's headed for the giant divine junk heap. The brilliant, unbelieving scientist, thinker, journalist, researcher, artist, politician, in the end, has achieved nothing. Because he or she doesn't do it for God, nor in a manner that would glorify his son, Jesus Christ. And so nothing that he does will last. You don't think God's going to build his kingdom on their learning, do you? Ecclesiastes 1-2 says, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. That's looking at it from an unbeliever's perspective, and that is true. That is their life and education. They even fail to serve mankind. They even fail to open the mind of man to the truth. Even the greatest achievements, the Egyptian pyramids, which seemed to last so long, Stonehenge, all of that. Doesn't have too much longer to last either. They're like sand castles awaiting the wave of God's judgment, and all that man does will not last. Revelation 21, 5 through 8, picture of the end time, says, He who sits on the throne, notice his position. He who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. And he said, Write, for these words are faithful and true. And then he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without cost. He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son But for the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is The second debt. Do you see now the ridiculous nature of what is going on in our world today Can you see it? The world which is blind to God, unable to comprehend his purposes, knows nothing of the future of this planet, doesn't even understand the past. Nor the human race its studies from that profoundly darkened, ignorant position, wants to enlighten its students It's funny if it were not so sad. They even charge money for us to pay. The best this unbelieving world, which has rejected the revelation of God, can muster, can never rise above their blindness. The world is still bowling to zero when it comes to God. Every course completed, every diploma received and signed still comes up as a giant goose egg with God. And you know what's fascinating, and I don't want you to miss this from this passage, because this is the thing that struck me, I think, the most, is this isn't just the way things are. These are the this is the way God has planned for it to be. He designed to catch man in his pride and lock him into his ignorance while he boasted of his knowledge. God is designed to trap man in his ignorance and in his pride. I don't want you to miss that in this passage. God has done this as judgment on the learning and intellect of human beings. Look down, for example, at 1 Corinthians chapter 3, if you just flip forward a moment to verses 19 and 20. 1 Corinthians 3, 19 and 20. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God, for it is written, He is the one who catches the wise in their craftiness. And again, the Lord knows the reasonings of the wise that they are useless. He captures them Jesus said this in a prayer when he sent out the disciples and they came back. He prayed to the Father and said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants. To bathe. Yes, Father, for this way was well pleasing in your sight. Who's going to tell God, you know, I don't like the way, I don't really like the way you've arranged things. He hid it from the proud. That alone tells you why most educated people God. The irony is that man is proud of his knowledge, but God uses his pride to keep him in ignorance. Garland so eloquently puts it this way: by contriving a means of salvation, that is impenetrable to human wisdom and does not meet its criteria of solid evidence and sound reasoning, God made human wisdom useless. Paul denigrates human wisdom that is tied to the human condition, circumscribed as it is by partial knowledge, susceptible to self-deceit, and twisted by the proclivity to become infatuated with status. This wisdom fails to comprehend, appreciate, or submit to God's wisdom because it is fatally flawed by egocentrism. Worldly reason is opposed to God because it is blinded by its own conceit and pride. Well, Romans 1. 22 puts it a little bit more simply. Professing to be wise, they became what? Man is judicially blinded by God. He is not allowed to see. Obadiah verses 3 and 4 says, The arrogance of your heart has deceived you. That's man. Today, the wisdom of this world, through its philosophies of life, continue to spread their ignorance. They say their doctrines, such as most people are basically good. All religious paths lead eventually to God. God would never send people to hell. Have you heard them? Many people today, even churches, claim there are many ways to God. Have you noticed that God definitively states right here, they did not come to know me. None of those other paths lead in any knowledge, saving knowledge of God. Yet we might say that all the channels and the pathways of the world do end up in the same place, in utter ignorance of God. We should know by now in Western society that education is not our messiah. Educated people commit crimes and atrocities against each other all the time. People were lauding the Enlightenment in Europe, but then Europe fell into two brutal world wars. Do you think we would have woken up by that? Nazi Germany was one of the best educated countries in the world. And educated people are indulging in gross sexual sin right here in the good old USA at an alarming rate. And they're finding new educated and intelligent ways to advance their depravity. You know, I was thinking if everyone in the world was instantly educated up to the doctoral level, what kind of a world would we have? We have a lot of very smart fools who couldn't get along with each other. Again, as I said in the first message, I'm not saying don't get an education. I'm not even saying never go to a secular university. I know there are complex questions that you have to deal with there And kids, in case you're uh wondering if I'm giving you divine endorsement to skip your homework, forget it. I'm just telling you what God ultimately thinks of all the halls of learning on this planet. This is God's perspective of all the learning, every classroom that's going on. That doesn't start with his truth. And I guess I'm urging you, value greatly the wisdom of God above all else. Where is God's wisdom dispensed? Well, upside-down statement number five. God is pleased to bless a foolish message. God is pleased to bless a foolish message. That's the second half of verse 21. God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believed. Beloved, that is such a loaded statement. Because man is proud, he has no idea of the greatness of the cross. But God purposely chose the message of the cross to impart true wisdom. That means the gatherings of simple Christians who are hovered around a book like this, studying it, listening to it as you are now. can bypass all the halls of learning and enlighten to ultimate reality and a personal knowledge of our wonderful Creator and deliverance from impending judgment simply through the cross. God appointed the preaching of the cross to educate people unto life and all that comes with that life and salvation. God chose to reveal his wisdom in the scripture and in the proclamation of scripture, not in academia and in its lecture halls. God is happy to do it this way. He wants to do it this way. Notice God was well pleased. You do ke'o, well pleased. God thinks well of this. It's what gives him pleasure. Yes, God takes pleasure in some things. We read in Matthew 3. 17, God said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am what? Well pleased, right? Colossians 3. 20. Children, be obedient to your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. God's sovereign pleasure allows him to do as he pleases in this universe. And he is pleased to bless the message of the cross. Beware of any teaching which would not affirm God in his rightful, undisputed control of all events in human history. The one true sovereign God, who is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, has chosen the message to be believed. He has chosen the only way back to Him and back to knowledge. And it pleased Him to use the message of the cross to save those who would believe. And nobody can say to God, What are you doing? God was pleased with this to save those who believe. Write it down. Saving people through the preaching of the cross pleases God. Saving people through the preaching of the cross pleases God. God has called for public education, and God's call for public education is the public proclamation of the cross. And so the message of the cross is to be preached. That's the purpose, so that it would be preached and people would be saved. It says it right there. How important it was to preach that message then. Maybe even more important it is to preach that message now. That verb preach, by the way, is an interesting word, Kerusso. It pictures a herald going out before the arrival of someone like a king announcing his coming, announcing some message that he had. The role of a herald was not to be creative and come up with his own ideas and messages and deliver them, but rather to deliver exactly what the monarch said to say. Hear ye, hear ye, comes the king, and he announces whatever it is that he wants announced. This kind of preaching, therefore, is not to be sophisticated. It is to be simple and direct and clear. Like one shouting out a message in front of a king who was arriving in town. You know, people these days have a hard time listening to preaching, don't they? I mean that's why a lot of people don't come back here. They don't really want to listen to preaching. They have a hard time, particularly with strong, authoritative, dogmatic teaching kind of preaching. So I want to listen to that. It's not easy. It's not easy. That is precisely what the preaching of the cross is. It's what it is. The cross is an authoritative announcement to the world that there is salvation. In Christ, but he must be believed. That's what Paul's communicating here. It pleased God to save us by this foolish preaching of the cross. God sends out men everywhere to proclaim this foolish message. And he knows it's going to be considered a foolish message, and he tells them, go out anyway and preach it. They're going to think that's crazy. Go preach it anyway. They're going to think that's stupidity. Go preach it anyway. That's why churches must always have as a priority the preaching of the cross. Because people only get saved by hearing and believing the gospel of Jesus Christ, crucified, dead, buried, and raised. Like Paul just wrote in verse 17, if you glance back there, the preaching of the cross is the priority, not baptism. Churches who minimize The preaching of the cross minimized their ministry. Some churches really magnify the sacraments. They're the things that accomplish things. Paul says baptism is not all that important. What's important is the preaching of the cross. You see, you and I are saved not because we're baptized, but because we heard the preaching of the cross and we what? We believed it. Notice it says, not to those who heard, not to those who listen only, but to those who believe. What is believing? Believing starts with hearing and with understanding, but many people hear and they understand, but they don't believe. Many people do. So believing is also accepting what you hear as true. But many even do that, and they're not saved. They understand Jesus is the Son of God. They accept that as a fact. They even may accept the fact of the resurrection and the cross of Christ. But believing also includes trusting, trusting in Christ, casting oneself upon the mercy of Christ who died for my sins. And until there's trust, there's no saving faith, there's no believing. Paul was saved from his sins back in Acts chapter 9. He was saved by what? Hearing the message of the cross from Jesus. And he believed and he was saved. Cornelius in Acts 10 was saved from God's wrath. He was listening to the foolishness of the cross, and he said, That's not foolishness, that's truth, and he believed it. Lydia was saved in Acts 16 by the foolishness of this message. She was listening. It says God opened her heart to believe, to respond to the gospel. I was saved from an eternal fire of hell. Most of you, I pray, all of you were saved because you listened to the message of the cross and you believed that God saves your soul from hell. When someone says they don't believe because you see they're educated and they're a skeptic and they know better, all they're doing is uttering the words that will condemn them. How much better to believe in Christ and not trust in your own wisdom so you can be saved? What does man know? Listen, many who are in those very halls of learning after a while begin to understand how shallow their education is. They begin to pick up on all the circular reasoning they're hearing from class to class to class, the constant baseless speculations of pompous professors, the dead end of the philosophical systems that they've been analyzing, the shifting sand of public opinion that people think this is true and they're very confident and then a decade goes by, no that's not true, and they're still very confident. The groundlessness of secular education, what does it stand on? And then the lack of fulfillment that they sense in life. And then they come to Christ for true wisdom. True wisdom. God's wisdom. You can do that today, beloved. If you're there sitting in your seat and you do not know Christ, you could say, Christ, I open up my heart and my life to you. Come in and teach me true wisdom. I believe in your cross. I need your mercy. There is no salvation through education. There's no salvation through the books of learning. There's none. God doesn't accept it. It comes to those who believe this message. Jesus was crucified on a cross to pay for your sins, and he was raised from the dead. Trust your eternity on that. Jesus must be Lord and Master. Believe in Him. I pray you do. One more upside-down statement for today. We'll save the rest for next week. Number six, God proclaims a message. that he knows people don't want to hear. This is number six. God proclaims a message he knows people don't want to hear. That's kind of crazy, isn't it? You're telling me that God knows that people aren't going to listen to this, but that's the message he's sticking with? That's exactly it. That's his message. He's not changing it. He's not adapting it. Well, you know, we're all getting better and improving, and here in the modern age, we really need to update that Christian message. God says don't change it, it's the same one. Look at verses 22 and 23. For indeed Jews ask for signs, and Greeks search for wisdom. Verse 23, so God bends and changes his mind and no. We preach what? Christ crucified. What good did that do? To Jews, a stumbling block, and to Gentiles, foolishness. Hmm. Hmm. Didn't seem to work. Jews asked for size, he says. He's extending his thought here The Jews, when they are confronted with the claims of Christ being their Messiah, they said, give us a sign. How do we know? Give us a miracle. Sign means a miracle, a miraculous sign, something dazzling. Yeah, see the sign, then we'll believe. Give us the miracle, we'll believe. Give us a power display. You know, Elijah did that, Moses did that, we have that in our history. Give us something miraculous. We want to see it, and when we see it, we'll believe. The word ask there, by the way, in this context is more like demand. I te'o. It means it can mean a demand, and indeed that's what they did of Christ. They demanded a sign. In John 6. 30, for example, they said to him when he multiplied the loaves, believe it or not, what then do you do for a sign that we may see? Well what about all those multiplying of the loaves? I guess that doesn't count. You know, you just saw a couple of fish and a couple of the loaves and everyone's eating and sh what then are you gonna do for a sign? So we may see and believe you. What work do you perform? See, the irony was Jesus was doing thousands of signs. He was healing the sick, raising the dead, cleansing the lepers. They wanted something more dramatic. Something like Satan suggested. You know, go up to the temple, throw yourself down, this is what's going to happen. The angels will catch you before you land. Everyone will see it and they'll be dazzled and they'll crown you as the Messiah. That's spectacular. Matthew 12, verses 38 and 40. Then some of the scribes and Pharisees said to Jesus, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation craves for a sign, and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. In John two, the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? Jesus answered them Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up. You're speaking of the resurrection. All Jesus would give them as a great sign was the resurrection. That's it. You get one. And there were many, many Jews after the resurrection of Christ in Jerusalem who believed. But there were still a great many who did not. Why? Not because the evidence wasn't there, but because their hearts were wicked. Some people are like that today, are they not? Well if I could just see a sign, if I could just get a miracle, something really special happened in my life. Then I would believe. God's under no obligation to do that. Oh, I see. You're not believing in me now there because I'm not doing any miracles. Well, I'm sorry, I didn't really realize that. Let me just stir up the water or something. Let me let me just do something here. God knows they're not going to believe they see a miracle. He understands their heart. That's not the problem with them. God is under no obligation to cater to the doubts of man. That's what Jesus meant when he said, An evil and adulterous generation wants a sign, but it won't be given to them. Change your hearts. Repent of your heart. Then you'll see God's glory and power at work. And Paul did signs, by the way. In 2 Corinthians 12, 12, he says, The signs of a true apostle were performed among you, you Corinthians, with all perseverance by signs and wonders and miracles. But you know signs alone can't help you. Why can't they help? Because even the powers of evil can duplicate signs. Revelation 13, 13, it says the false prophet in the end times will perform great signs. Great signs. So that he even makes fire come down out of heaven to the earth in the presence of men. What's more certain than a miraculous sign? The Word of God. The Word of God. We have to know what God says, and we won't be deceived by false sign. And then Paul turns to the Greeks when he gets past the Jews. He says, Greeks, they're not asking for science. What are they doing? They're searching for wisdom. They're searching for it. They were doing this diligently, they ta'o, to seek for earnestly. They spend time examining truth, trying to probe the meaning of life. What were the gods up to and what does it all mean The Greeks really were infatuated with their teachers and with their wisdom. From that lofty place of eloquent speculation that they had in the ancient world, they really looked down on the rest of the world. Sure, the Romans had conquered the world, but they were a bunch of brutes. Yeah, they did a lot of action, but they weren't thinkers like us. And then there were the barbarians who were worse But there was no light in their reasoning to guide them. Their thoughts were nothing but the expression of blackness, like the blackness of a night sky without any star. The philosophers in Athens, when Paul showed up preaching, called him a seed picker. They jeered at his message of a bodily raised Jew. Nevertheless, God refused to give them a brilliant set of words from heaven to dazzle their philosophical minds. Could he have done that? Of course he could have. He refused to do that. So Paul next writes, but we preach Christ crucified. That's it. That's the message. That's what we preach. It didn't satisfy the expectation of the Jews. It didn't satisfy the searching of the Greeks. That's because people back then as well as now aren't seeking God. They're searching for something else that they may call God, whether it be a false God, a vain philosophy, or a happy experience. But God keeps telling all of his heralds you keep preaching the gospel. Keep telling them of Christ crucified. By the way, that verb crucified, it's in the perfect tense in Greek. And that indicates that not only is it accomplished, but it stands accomplished with completed results that last to the present. The results of the cross extend through time to us. Christ stands crucified. That one crucifixion has a continuing vicarious effect for anybody today who will believe. There's no need for any more crucifixions in the world today, no more sacrifices to be brought to God of any kind, no more laying Jesus on an altar. The crucifixion is an accomplished and effective event in human history. To preach a Christ who continues to be sacrificed on an altar is to deny Christ crucified The message is that Christ is already crucified, not that he needs crucifying in the present. Why was this message so offensive to all of them? Well, he says to Jews it was a stumbling block. Galatians 5. 11 also calls it the stumbling block of the cross, a stumbling block, a scandalon, something you'd be running through a pathway with many rocks in that society. There'll be a rock protruding out of the ground, and you're foot would hit it, you'd trip, and you'd stumble. That's what the cross was to the Jew. It was stumbling block. A stone in the way. Frankly, a crucified Messiah, as we talked about last week, was an insult to a Jew. You can even see this From the way the Jewish leaders responded to Christ when he was hanging on the cross in Matthew twenty seven it says they were passing by, hurling abuse at Jesus, wagging their heads And saying, you who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. They're mocking it. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. The same way the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking him, saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. He's the King of Israel. Let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he delights in him. For he said, I am the Son of God I mean, it was all preposterous to the Jews. They couldn't get past that. That hanging on a Roman cross, being executed by our enemies, that's our deliverer? Forget it. It was an insult to them. The Jews expected the Messiah to come and defeat their enemies and reign. They wanted a political victory. But this Messiah was was hanging on a tree, dead, crucified. You know what the law of God said about that. If a man has committed a sin worthy of death and he's put to death, and you hang him on a tree, his corpse shall not hang all night on the tree, but you shall surely bury him on the same day. For he who is hanged is accursed of God. That's our Messiah. According to the Jewish leaders, Jesus committed a blasphemy and he deserved the death penalty. The capital punishment today we have what? We have the electric chair, gas chambers, lethal injection. Time's past. Firing squad, the rope, chopping the head off in the guillotine. Europe burning at the stake. All kinds of bad things, right? Crucifixion was the worst. Crucifixion was the worst. Naked, bleeding, scarred, pathetic Plactered to a tree, helpless, disgusting. That's Jesus. The cross is offensive to man because of its meaning, too. Because even if they were to get past the ugliness of the scene, they still would be hearing the message of the cross, which is what? That's what God thinks of your life and your sin. Look carefully at it. He's rejected it. You're not good in his presence. If he would do that to his own son to save your soul, what does he think of you, oh man? It's the message of the cross. Is that offensive? Well, yeah, that's offensive. That wouldn't fly too well. That's why a lot of churches don't want to preach it anymore. This doesn't fit the spirit of the age. I mean, we're trying to work on our self-esteem. Can't get there that way. But Galatians 3. 13 said, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a what? A curse for us. God has rejected sin, and God will reject man if man clings to his sin. But God is willing to have mercy. God provided a way back. That way back is the cross. But if you're going to get there, beloved, it involves a negative view of yourself, a lowly view of yourself. You see, um, you don't have anything to bring to God. You don't have anything that he he likes, you don't have anything that he accepts, then nothing you can bring say, look at me God, here's what I bring. You don't have anything. I don't have anything. We don't have anything. Nobody has anything to bring to God. It's a negative view of self. You draw near to God only by accepting the fact that you deserve what Jesus got on the cross. You deserved it. That's what you earned with your life. Your sinful life is so offensive to God. He wants you to see how offensive it is. And now he commands you to believe in that message, and he doesn't care if you're offended by it or not. Because you've offended him. Isn't that kind of a far cry from what we hear these days? Are you with me on this? Are you? It's really become fashionable for our seeker churches to let their community know, hey, this is a safe church to visit. No sin talked about here. It's all pleasant here. No judgment. We don't even bring our Bibles. You don't need any of that. That's just so nice. Who wouldn't want to belong to a church like that? Um, but if you don't talk about sin, then how are you going to talk about the cross? Hey, if you're not going to mention sin, what's the big old cross doing behind them in most churches? What's the purpose of that? See, because Jesus went there to pay for our lousy sins. Oops. Gotta miss the cross. Jesus said, pick up your cross and follow me. Is that what we hear today? Well, don't believe me, just go listening. There are good preachers out there, don't get me wrong. Do you hear the word cross that much anymore? Do you? I don't mean in here. I mean out there. Just listen. Listen for the word fulfillment. I think you'll hear it. Happiness. I think you'll hear that. Listen for the word wealth, the word riches. That'll be there. Now listen for the word crucified, dead, killed, buried, sacrificed, slaughtered, rejected. Can you hear that? Where's the Kergama? Where's the preaching of the cross today? We preach Christ crucified. Evidently, we don't do that anymore. Someone once said, God does not die for junk. They're right. God doesn't die for junk. He died for something far worse. Because you see, junk is useless to God and he can toss it aside, but the human race is an offense to God, enemies of God, rebels against God. Jesus came and died for those who were his enemies. That's worse than junk. And if someone says otherwise, they're not preaching the cross. They got the wrong cross. I read a sermon online this past week. A preacher said these words. Today I argue that one of the chief problems with the American church is that we have attempted to tame the Lion of Judah. We have sanitized, sugar-coated, and psychologized our faith to the point that it is bland and unthreatening and mediocre to a fault. Our problem is that we have ceased to be radicals, as was the early church, because we've forgotten that the cross is a radical thing. My hat's off to that preacher. He's understanding. Jesus predicted it. Paul preached it. The reformers had to dig it back up after centuries of being buried and proclaim it again to shake all of Europe. Our evangelical forefathers were ridiculed by the educated elite for bringing it up in modern times. And now our marketeers are making it more user-friendly. Where is the pain and the shame of the cross? I believe loyal preachers still say with Paul. In 1 Corinthians 2. 2, I determine to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. A foolish message to the Greek and Gentile world. You know, people still don't get the cross. Now it's a little more revered because, well, there's a billion people that claim to follow it, so There are a lot of people out there who'd be offended if you make fun of it. Was it NBC that wouldn't let Madonna be on a cross recently? Even they were understanding, gee, that or is it CBS, I don't remember. That might offend Christians. From a distance they go, yeah, it's a message of Of love or injustice. Oh, look what they did to poor Jesus. He was such a good man. They don't get the cross. They don't know what it is. They don't understand its message. How could an executioner's cross hold an ideal that would advance mankind? Matthew Henry gives this quote: Our living through one who died. Our being blessed by one who is made a curse, our being justified by one who was himself condemned. Was all folly and inconsistency to men blinded with self-conceit and wedded to their own prejudices and the boasted discoveries of their reason and philosophy That was the Greek then. That's the educated man today. There's no status that you and I can gain. By clinging to the cross. No status in this world at all. But I tell you, there is a blessed, eternal inheritance and victory that every single person who clings to that cross in this this present life will receive. And that's Paul's burden as he begins to talk about, hey, the weakness and the foolishness of God is greater than that of men. And how Christ has become to us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Christ has become that to us. What a blessing God brings to those who cling to the Cross. Our Father and our God we ask for more insight about that blessed cross and for courage to stand with it And to accept whatever sh whatever shame you bring our way. We confess, God, that we secretly want to be honored and liked in this world. We hate the fact of being shamed. But we pray you would give us such insight and loyalty that we would understand that our eternal blessings came from that cross and we would love it and cling to it all the days of our life. And that this church would be dedicated to proclaim the message of the cross until he comes. And we ask it again in Jesus' name. Amen.