Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning, just another beautiful morning where you have sustained creation once again. Even now, all things are being held up by the word of your power. And as we gather around your word to learn and grow and be edified and encouraged, I pray, Lord, that you would uh increase our understanding. Give us spiritual wisdom so that we might walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. And especially as we think about issues related to personal struggles. We thank you for your patience with us. And for all that you provide in aiding us to work toward victory and overcoming these things. So help us, Holy Spirit, give us understanding in Christ's name. Amen. Well, so far in this class we've been laying the foundation of how to overcome personal struggles. We've looked at the big picture of the believer's life. In broad strokes, we we outlined the flow of the believer's life from being born into sin. And then upon regeneration, beginning the process of sanctification, we're being molded like Christ, and then ultimately culminating in glorification, where we completely become like Christ. Now that truth of the certainty of glorification gives us hope that no matter how much we struggle in this life, There will come a day when all of our struggles will be over. Every tear will be wiped away. And all vestiges of sin will be eradicated. And we will enjoy perfect holiness and all of its benefits forever. I tell you what, the longer I live the Christian life, the more I am eager. For that day, I'm so sick and tired of sin in my life, and seeing the ravages of sin in the lives of others. Now after that we looked at the biblical process of change. There are many therapies in the world, all of which are really invented theories by people who have an honest desire to help people. But because they've rejected God's word, they have to then invent some type of methods to try and improve people's lives. And the only way to do that, lacking any objective source of truth and wisdom, is really just trial and error. Well, let's see if this works. Oh, that helped a little bit. Oh, that didn't help. And so there's just a whole lot of trial and error in the therapies of the world. Well, praise be to God that we don't have to rely on trial and error because God's word gives us a definitive process that guarantees to bring about true and lasting change. We are, as we saw, to put off the old man, literally, to take off that garment to renew our minds, to think the truth about whatever issue we're needing to change, and then to put on the new man, to begin to put into practice that truth, living out the righteousness. of Christ. And as we do those things, each and every day, we will over time overcome our personal struggles. And then we spent the last four weeks doing a deep dive into the heart. The heart is the control center of life, as we saw. It's the core of who you are And it's what drives everything that you think, say, and do. Your thoughts, your beliefs, your convictions, your desires, your values and priorities and commitments and decisions and intentions. all take place in the heart. And so the only way to overcome personal struggles is to understand what is going on in the heart. If if we skip the heart and just try and address behavior, then whatever outward change might take place will not be true growth. It will not be sanctification. And it will not last. So again, if you've missed any of those sessions, you can find them on the sermon audio page. The link is in the Hope Book group, or if you don't have access to that, you can contact me and I'll send that link to you. Today, we're going to lay down the last footing of the foundation, and starting next week, we'll start to address specific issues and common struggles that people face. So this last footing that we're going to address today is the recognition of the nature of personal struggles. Namely, that they are battles in what we often call spiritual warfare. Spiritual warfare. Up until now in the foundation we've been kind of looking at the person who has been struggling. Uh and we've been uh Addressing kind of what's going on here in my heart, in my life, how I am to change in the process of change Today we're going to kind of change out the lens on the camera, as it were, and see things that we can't normally see. We're going to look at a different plane of existence. And that plane of existence is, again, the spiritual battle. Friends, we are in a spiritual battle. You In your life are in a spiritual battle. I am in a spiritual battle. And that battle wages seven days a week, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Back in 2014, I was pastoring a church in Washington and Halloween was two nights before Sunday. It was a Friday. And Friday night of Halloween, they had a family-friendly Halloween party in the community center, which is where our church met And then Saturday night, they had an adult Halloween party. Well, when I walked in Sunday morning to get start getting setting up for church, Everything was as it was, probably in the early morning hours of that party. All of the decorations were up There were you know ghosts and cobwebs and goblins and witches hanging and you know placed at various parts around the room. There was, of course, themed wallpaper uh all around There was the stench of alcohol that just was very thick in the air. And the floor was sticky with with the alcohol. It was it was a mess and it was an evil mess. You could almost sense wickedness and evil in the room. Well, we we did what we could, but given the time constraints, we weren't able to clean everything up. In fact, probably most things were still there, and especially the smell and the stickiness of the floor. And what I told the church that morning is what we see and feel and smell in terms of wickedness and evil that is so represented It's just a visible representation of what is always there, even though we don't always see it and smell it and feel it. We don't normally sense the darkness. We don't normally walk around our home or our workplace and feel that, oh man, this is icky. This is this is gross. This is dark. But it's there, and we ignore it to our peril. In fact, I would say that one of the main reasons people have a hard time overcoming their personal struggles is because they don't realize They're in a spiritual battle. They don't know who their enemy is. They don't recognize that enemy's tactics. And thus they don't employ the full range of armor and weaponry that God has given us to fight this very real spiritual battle. Now, I'm sure that most, if not all of you, readily agree that we're in a spiritual battle. You've you probably haven't thought, no, I disagree with that. I don't think he's he's right. But I I think it's still helpful to show you uh this reality from scripture and to re really to remind you uh because it's so important. And these are passages that you know if if you're in a position at any point to minister to someone else, these are good passages to go to and show them the significance of this spiritual battle. Just listen to Ephesians chapter 4, verses 26 and 27 We've looked at this as an example of the process of change, but again, Paul writes, be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger, and do not give the devil an opportunity. When a person is struggling with anger and they're living an anger, anger-filled life, the devil is right there happily taking advantage of the opportunities uh of that sin. He is actively involved and engaged there. Or consider James chapter 4, verse 7. James chapter 4, verse 7. Submit therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Submit therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Well, what's the context there? Well, starting in verse 1 of chapter 4, he's talking about the desires of our heart that give rise to the conflicts and the fights that we have with one another. And he talks about how we often try and make ourselves a friend of the world. In other words, we we like the things that the world likes, we want the things that the world wants. And so we strive after those things, and in doing that, we be we become at odds with those who want the things that God wants. Or really we just become at odds with anyone who has different desires than ours. And so there's pride that is inherent in our conflicts. And the necessary solution to that is to grow in humility. And so James talks about that in the preceding verses to verse 7. And so as a result of these wrong desires that lead to conflicts and the pride and the humility, the conclusion of that section is: submit therefore to God. Humble yourself Flee, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Because the devil is the one who is actively desiring for you to grow in pride, to imitate him in that sin that caused him to be thrown out of heaven. And then finally listen to First Peter chapter five verses eight and nine. This is first Peter five, eight, and nine Peter writes, be of sober spirit, be on the alert, your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. But resist him firm in your faith, knowing that the same experiences of the suffering of suffering are being accomplished by your brethren who are in the world Now this is just a few verses before the end of the book. So this is basically some concluding remarks. I think what he's saying here is he's he's thinking about all of what he's written in the first four chapters of of the letter, and he's concluding with Be on the alert. Your adversary, the devil, is prowling around. Well, what are the kinds of things that he writes about that the devil is seeking to devour believers with? Well, suffering, first of all, most of the letter is really narrowly focusing in on the subject of suffering. But there's different kinds of suffering. There's a suffering that comes upon us because of persecution, because of those in the world who are seeking to cause us to turn away from Christ and re and reject our faith. There's uh slaves who are being mistreated. And so they're suffering unjustly under harsh masters. There's wives who are suffering because of sinful husbands. There's husbands who are suffering because of sinful wives. There's a variety of situations. There's the world who is mocking the believers in chapter 4 because they don't engage in the same kind of sexual sin. that the world relishes in. And so there's there's a variety of kinds of suffering that that the evil one is seeking to use to stamp out believers by causing them to reject their faith, to turn away from the Lord. And he's saying here at the end of the letter, don't let that happen. Yes, you're suffering, but resist the evil one. Don't succumb to his temptations to turn away from Christ. So those are just three passages, and I only chose those three because they're kind of the main ones that we're relatively familiar with. But they show that the evil one is actively engaged and involved in the sufferings and the sins of life. to take advantage of us and to do battle uh in in our lives. So, beloved, the the devil and his angels are keenly interested in devouring you and me. They have a vested interest in what happens in our lives. What that means is when we talk about devouring, what that means is their desire is to see us at least become useless in God's kingdom. Or, if he can, to conscript us into his army to be useful in his kingdom Remember there's a passage, I think it's in 1 Timothy 5, where Paul talks about the evil one capturing women to do his will, I think, if I'm remembering that right. But at the very least, the evil one wants to make us useless in God's kingdom. And so we need to see our personal struggles for what they are: a spiritual battle Only then, when we see it that way, will we engage in the battle with the right mindset and the right resources to overcome. Now, to get started in this, the first thing you need to know is the last thing that the devil wants you to know. The first thing that you need to know, and the last thing that the devil wants you to know is that the war, the spiritual war, is one. When we say we're in a spiritual battle, what we mean is we are fighting in the victory of con of victory. We're fighting in the context of victory. Jesus Christ has defeated the forces of darkness. The war at large is over. And now we're fighting skirmishes, really, and defeating the vestiges of the enemy that has already been defeated. So think about the meaning of Hebrews chapter 2, verse 14 in this regard. We've looked at this, or at least I feel like uh we've looked at this at some point recently. Uh Hebrews chapter 2 verse 14 says Therefore, since the children share in flesh and blood, he that is Christ, he himself likewise also partook of the same. That through death he might render powerless him who had the power of death, that is the devil In other words, the primary power that the evil one has at his disposal, excuse me, is the power of death. And it's not just the the power to kill, though that is among his powers. It's the power to convince people of the temporary nature of this life as being the most significant reality. In other words, if if the devil can convince you that the span of this life is what's most important, if he can help you to think about from the day of your birth to the day of your physical death as being all of what matters, then he can get you to do and think all kinds of foolish things. That's the argument of Ecclesiastes, right? Vanity of vanities, as Solomon sought to explore the meaning of life and And how should we think about all of the different activities of life of joys and sorrows and pleasures? His conclusion was, unless we view God view life from an eternal perspective, if we only think about the things of this life, it's all going to be meaningless. And therefore, we should just eat Be merry, be happy, you know, fulfill your own pleasures and desires. Nothing else matters. In fact, Paul even says the same thing in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 when he's talking about the resurrection. If there is no resurrection, if this life really is all there is, then let's eat, you know, be merry. Because nothing else matters. But when Christ defeated death, when Christ rose from the dead, he overcame, he defeated that power. Because now we see this life is not all there is. In fact, there is an eternity of life that is most significant. The years, whether it's 30, 50, 100 years of this life are just a An imperceivable fraction of the whole fullness of your life and your existence. And therefore, we should live this life in the context That's what Christ accomplished when he defeated death. He helped us to be convinced that this life is not all there is. Well, understanding that the war is won is crucial because it gives us hope. Again, our hope is that no matter how much we struggle, no matter how much we falter Our enemy is defeated, and the day will come when he will be thrown into the lake of fire, and we will no longer have to deal with him and his minions. Our battles are hard, but they will end in complete victory. So with all of that kind of as an introduction of the nature or what we're talking about in terms of spiritual battle, we want to spend the rest of our time looking at Ephesians chapter 6. I think most of us are familiar with Ephesians chapter 6, the passage of the armor of God, but let's turn there, let's look at it, and really see how this plays into our personal struggles. Now, we won't be able to study this passage in detail. In fact, when Pastor Leake preached this in 2016, he did it in four sermons, no surprise there. Uh when uh Pastor Plumley preached this in 2013, uh he did it in two messages. Uh and then I taught this at at uh my previous church uh uh years ago in three or four messages depending on where you break the verses. So we definitely won't be able to cover everything But uh hopefully what we cover here will be helpful again in the context of overcoming personal struggles. So To start with, you can see in your notes that there's kind of two major sections that I want to cover here. First, verses 10 to 13, we're going to draw out a couple main points as to the nature of the spiritual battle, and then Verses 14 to 17, we'll look at each of the pieces of the armor. So let me just start by reading verses 10 to 13 of Ephesians 6. Paul writes, Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the full armor of God so that you will be able to resist in the evil day, and having done everything, to stand firm. So again, two main things I want to draw out of these verses here. The first is that the main goal of spiritual warfare is to stand firm. It's to stay standing. It's to stand up. This is a posture of defense, if you will. We're not trying to gain new ground When we engage in spiritual warfare and spiritual battle, it's not like we're trying to obtain new territory from our enemy. Why? Because again, the war is won. All of the territory has already been won by Christ. So our role now is just to stand firm in the ground that Christ has won. Nor are we, in a sense, trying to defend God's territory as if, hey, if we falter, Satan's going to win back some territory. That's not the kind of defense we're talking about because again, he cannot obtain any more territory than he already has. When we talk about the spiritual battle and territory, we're really talking not in terms of land, as we often do in physical battle, we're talking about people. Christ has already purchased, obtained, uh caught in uh in terms of his uh who he was seeking to uh gain for himself. He's already won his people And Satan can't do anything to take them out of Christ's hand. So there's no territory being won or lost in the spiritual warfare. All that's being done is that we are seeking to be s to stand firm because what the evil one is trying to do, and we'll talk more about this, is he is trying to take as many prisoners of war as he can, and what that means is he's trying to take them out of Out of usefulness in God's kingdom. And so our goal in the spiritual battle is to keep from falling and to continue to serve our Lord and to be faithful to Him. Alright, so our our the main goal of spiritual warfare is to stay standing, to continue to be useful in God's kingdom as his soldiers. The second idea I want to draw out of these These initial verses here is the idea that the devil has schemes. You see that there in um at the end of verse 11 that we are to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. These are plans, these are strategies that the evil one has. If you have not read the Screw Teeth Letters by C. S. Lewis That needs to be the next book you read. The Screw Tape Letters by C. S. Lewis. You may find you may well find yourself in that book in terms of uh the content in thinking through spiritual warfare. In that book, C. S. Lewis imagines these two demons who are writing letters back and forth to each other, one who's kind of like a supervisor demon, training demon who's who's telling his his protege how to tempt or or distract or how to otherwise just wreak havoc in in some Christian's life in order to to destroy the work that God has done. And so there's this ongoing conversation between these two devils. And while of course the concept of demons writing letters back and forth is is to purely fictional. The content reveals that C. S. Lewis had a high level of understanding of what we could call the schemes of the devil He understood how the evil one works to destroy the work of God in people's lives. You know, the devil is not omnipresent. He's not everywhere. He's not omniscient. He doesn't know everything. And he's not omnipotent. He doesn't have all power to do whatever he wants. But he is fast, and he is uh uh uh super intelligent, and and the devil and his angels have been studying mankind from the very beginning, so they know how we tick. They know how to oppress people, how to tempt people, how to influence them in a multitude of ways. So what are those schemes? And just from a I guess a higher level, consider these eight ways. You have them listed out in the notes. If you didn't get the notes, you can download these from the Hope Book group and and have these uh for later. But these are just kind of eight ways, all helpfully starting with the letter D. Most of them I got from somebody else. But uh eight ways in which the the devil schemes to to do harm in a believer's life. The first that we could say is that he works to distance believers from God and others If he can separate a believer from their relationship with God or isolate them from other believers, if he can get them off by themselves. You know, we see that strategy with animals, right? That sometimes when there's a herd uh and and uh uh carnivores are seeking to get one of the herd, they're gonna get the weakest one, they're gonna isolate it so that they can come in and attack it. And the evil one does the same thing. He does that by uh working in someone's life in such a way that they stop reading the word. They stop going to church. They stopped paying attention to spiritual things. They stopped being concerned about being part of an active part of the body of Christ. And so once he gets someone isolated, then they're so weak that they struggle to put up a fight against him. A second thing we could say is his scheme is disobedience. He just works to cause believers to become disobedient to the Lord. to reject or deny or otherwise ignore what God's Word says about how we are to live. When a person comes to Christ, when they declare Christ is Lord of my life, what they are in effect saying, or what they should be saying in their mind is, I will now obey Christ. And not the evil one, not my desires, not my flesh. I will obey Christ. I will do what he says. Well, if again the evil one can get us to stop doing that, to stop obeying Christ. then he will make us ineffective in the kingdom of God. He can also distract us. He seeks to get us busy with all kinds of meaningless things, or at least things that are not as important. He can cause us to um be engaged in good activities that aren't necessarily bad or wrong in themselves, but Which then take away from time to be more active in God's kingdom or serving in the church, doing things that are more important. In fact, I would venture to guess that in today's society of the American culture where when life is so easy, distraction is probably one of the most significant things that the evil one does in people's lives. Another scheme that we can identify is he casts doubt and distrust in the things of the Lord. Right? This is what he did with Eve. Did God really say? You know, it causes us to question the character of God, the sovereignty of God, the goodness of God, the wisdom of God He casts a lot of doubt and causes us to distrust the things that God's word says, so that we'll be less likely to live according to it. He also works to create doctrinal deviation. So we see even in Scripture how early on There were men raised up within churches who had some things right. They had it enough rights so where the the church would trust, hey, let's give this guy an opportunity to teach and and influence our body But enough distraction that or deviation that they started going askew. And then before long they're teaching overt false doctrine and then cut leading people astray. One of the ways that sometimes happens today is someone gets so fixated on one particular area and that becomes their soapbox as we call it. And because they they deem that as almost the most important doctrine, then they set aside other things and they get their doctrine out of skew. And so it's not always false doctrine. Sometimes it's just uh imbalanced doctrine You know, perhaps emphasizing the law and holiness and de-emphasizing grace, or emphasizing grace so much that you de-emphasize obedience And just with all kinds of imbalances, people can get distracted and become ineffective. Of course, discord and division is another way that the devil works. He doesn't want the body to be the united group that it is, the united body of Christ. He wants to separate us out So he causes conflict and division and brings anger among the people of God. Discouragement You know, there's so much to be discouraged by in the world. There's so much corruption. There's so much sin in our own lives. And so he can work to just discourage us in our life and cause us to just kind of go in on ourselves. and not have the courage to live for Christ. Of course, deception, just in general, any way that he can cause us to believe lies and twisted truth and half truth. The devil does all of these kinds of things in order to make believers ineffective in the kingdom of God. He's working hard to capture as many of God's people as he can to make them ineffective in their responsibilities before the Lord and in their roles as ambassadors for Christ When we have personal struggles, one of the natural results is that we become less useful to the Lord When we're overwhelmed by depression or anxiety or other emotional or behavioral struggles. We tend to become self-focused because we recognize there's something wrong and we're typically not thinking about how can I serve others, how can I encourage others, how can I be a witness for Christ I mean, obviously when we're beset by doubts ourselves about God, we're not going to be very likely to be sharing Christ with others. When we're stuck in our lives, we're not likely going to be helping others who are stuck in their lives to get out of sin. When we're discouraged, we're not likely to be able to be to encourage others. I mean, all of those things make the evil one happy He is delighted when we become ineffective because of our personal struggles. You might even ask yourself, even now, if you're going through a personal struggle or you have in the recent past that you can remember relatively freshly as you think about these different schemes which have been operative in your life In what ways has our adversary been successful in minimizing your effectiveness as a servant of the King of Kings? How has he distracted you or distanced you, isolated you? How has he caused you to doubt and distrust the Lord? How has he discouraged you? Those are all manifestations that the evil one is at work in your life. You see, understanding the nature of personal struggles as a spiritual battle is important because if we see it that way, then we know what the solution is. The solution is not just try harder, do better, or suck it up and just cope. That's not the solution Nor is the solution in spiritual warfare to take medication for non-medical problems, as our world is apt to do today. God has given us the supplies and reinforcements we need to engage in the spiritual battle. I mean, no matter how much you feel alone, personal struggles are not isolated to a person by themselves. There are spiritual beings, both evil angels and righteous angels who have a vested interest in the situation. You have God Himself who is has a vested interest in the situation. More than that, you are surrounded by fellow soldiers of Christ who who would who are ready and able to surround you and lock arms with you and help you get your Footing. One of the key failures of many therapies in the world is that they allow a person to stay isolated. Problems are kept secret between the struggler and their psychiatrist or psychologist. So many people suffer alone. I mean maybe that's one of you. Maybe you've just been struggling on your own because you've been afraid of what other people would think of you, so you keep your struggle secret. Maybe you've isolated yourself because you don't think that God could use a broken person like you. Maybe you think people wouldn't believe you if you told them what was going on in your marriage. Whatever is the case, let me reassure you that you are not alone. We have the Word of God, we have the Spirit of God, we have the people of God. We are literally surrounded by reinforcements, so there's no need for us to engage in the spiritual battle. Alone. But having said that, when you get up in the morning, you have to get dressed yourself. Right? You have to put on God's armor yourself. You have to develop skills with the sword yourself. So let's look then at verses fourteen to seventeen. to uh examine these various pieces of the armor and weaponry that that God gives us to be able to engage in the spiritual battle Now if you've heard teaching on this passage before, uh it's common to think of the pieces of the armor as reflecting the kind of armor that the Roman soldiers would wear. In fact I have in my office, I think Maybe I got it last year at the pastor appreciation, I don't remember exactly. Uh maybe it was a gift from someone else. Uh uh you gave it. Yeah, that was a gift from Rachel. Thank you, honey. It's uh a statue, if you will, of a Roman soldier's outfit. uh the their armor and with a a card that you know links each one and and obviously Paul wrote uh Ephesus from uh a time when he was imprisoned and so he was surrounded by soldiers and so it's it's certain that he was influenced in his thinking by looking at these soldiers. But but even more than that, Paul was steeped in the Old Testament And as we look at each piece of the armor, we'll see how he draws not just the visual illustration from the Romans, but also but even more importantly, the spiritual significance from the Old Testament. especially as it relates to Jesus Christ, the Messiah. So let's let's just walk through these one at a time. Hope we have time to get through this. I'm less than halfway through my notes. Alright, the belt of truth. Well, first let me go ahead and read verses 14 to 17. Paul writes: Stand firm, therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. In addition to all, taking up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish the flaming arrows of the evil one And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And we're going to end there for today. So the first piece of the armor is what we call the belt of truth. The text in verse 14 doesn't use the word belt, but that's clearly what's implied. When you think about a Roman soldier and the fact that they wore a belt, that belt served multiple purposes. One of them was not to hold up their pants, right? Because they didn't wear pants So it served other purposes. First of all, it held the uh served the purpose of holding equipment, uh, whether it's you know a place to anchor uh a banner or uh a uh um a spear uh or hold the sheath or the sword. It held their equipment. Another purpose was to anchor the breastplate. The breastplate that they would wear would be tied to the belt so that When they're in battle and of course running and doing all their things, the breastplate's not just flapping up and down. It would be anchored down to the belt. It also served the purpose of tucking in their tunic, right? That's what they wore, and so when they needed to have uh swiftness and agility, they would uh bring up the tunic and tuck it back into the belt Also, uh it served the purpose of supporting uh the the torso. You know, many people today necessarily wear uh a thick belt to support their lower back when they're doing heavy lifting and and work. And that's also another purpose of the belt. They would support them because they would they would carry a lot of equipment and especially the a shield. And so all of those things would weigh them down And they needed something to support them over the long haul. Well, the text literally says, stand firm, therefore, having fastened yourself with the truth. In other words, wrap truth tightly around you so that you won't be flailing around in battle. Wrap truth tightly around you so that your equipment will be secure and won't fall off. Wrap truth tightly around you so that you will be strengthened in your movements. That's the idea here. You see, God's truth given to us in the Scripture provides us a complete worldview. It not only reveals God to us But it also tells us how we're made. It tells me that I'm a complex creature of biology and spirituality. It tells me of the reason for existence, the person, the purpose and meaning of life. It tells us about the world and why it is the way it is. It teaches us to look at government and music and culture and movie and morals and science and education and church and work and religion and everything else through the lens that God would have us view it from. The truth of God surrounds us as a solid interlocking belt That frees us to live and move in this world. And it also holds us and supports us in everything that we do. The reason the truth is such a fundamental part of God's armor is because lies are laced through every scheme of the devil. Satan and his demons proliferate bold-faced lies, half-truths, fibs, false doctrine, twisted truth. Satan's arsenal is carried along by false views about God, false views about human nature, false views about the world. I mean, virtually every truth of God that He's laid out in His Word is matched by the evil one in some way with a falsehood, with a lie. And so we need to have the truth wrapped around us so that we will not be influenced by those lies. In Isaiah chapter 11, we read about the reign of Christ in the millennium. And what it says is, righteousness shall be the belt of his waist and faithfulness, the belt of his loins. So speaking of the Messiah, the Messiah in the millennium Will have a belt of faithfulness. Now, in Hebrew, the word for faithfulness and the word for truth is the same word. Faithfulness, truthfulness, it's the same word. Jesus, who of course is the Messiah, is wrapped in the truth. It supports everything He does. Remember, when he stood before Pilate, he said, you know, for this reason I came, for this reason I was I was born into this world to bear witness to the truth. He often said, truly, truly, I would say to you throughout his ministry, he taught the truth, he preached the truth, and of course he said to his disciples in the upper room, I am the truth. No one stood more firm in spiritual warfare than Christ, right? So if you want to stand firm In your battles, you must fasten truth around your waist. When we struggle Whatever that struggle looks like in our life, it's often because we are not tightly girded, fastened, held together with the truth of God. Sometimes it's because we don't know the truth, and so we just we just don't have the ability to use that, have that wrapped around us. Sometimes we kind of have a loose belt, if you will. In other words, we know we know the truth, and we might say, yeah, I know this is true But it's not, we're not tightening it around ourselves saying, I have to trust this, I have to believe this, I know this is true. We're not allowing the truth of God in those situations to support us when it's needed. And so we need to make sure that we are fastened with the truth of God for battle. The second armor that we have here is the breastplate of righteousness, as he says in verse 14, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. Many have forgotten that this is God's armor, and they would tell you that this is your righteousness, that if you want to fight well in the spiritual battle, that you have to live a righteous life. But the problem is that Fighting with a breastplate of your own righteousness is like wearing a coat of mail when you're fighting natives with blow darts. There's plenty of holes for those little darts to get through if you're using your own righteousness. What we need is an unassailable breastplate that will protect us at all times without fail. And it's only the armor of God that such in the armor of God that such a breastplate exists. So when Paul writes, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, he means having put on the righteousness of Christ. Now, where how how can we demonstrate that? Well again, I don't think that Paul is so much thinking about a Roman soldier's breastplate here as much as he is thinking about Christ's armor And we can see this in Isaiah 59. In that chapter of Isaiah 59, the prophet looks to the future. When the Lord sees the hopelessness of his people Israel, and he he writes this in verses 15 to 17, the Lord saw it, again, the hopelessness of his people, and it displeased him that there was no justice He saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate. So in this uh prophecy, he's again seeing the helpless Sness of the people of Israel. He's saying that there's no one to intercede, no one to bring salvation, and so the Lord says, I'm going to provide My own Savior. I'm going to provide my own Messiah. And the way he's going to be able to accomplish this is by wearing a breastplate of righteousness. This is the Messiah coming to rescue his people, and one of the characteristics of the Messiah is that he will wear a breastplate of righteousness. Of course, that Messiah is Jesus. And we know that he lived a perfect life, that he was sinless in every way, that he completely fulfilled the law of the Lord. And when a person places their faith in Christ, recognizing their own sinfulness, what God does is he declares that that person is righteous. And what that means is that God Clothes that person with the righteousness of Christ. He sees this person as if they are wearing the perfect garments Of Christ's righteousness. One of the schemes of the devil is that he loves to oppress people with guilt and shame. In Revelation 12, 10, he is called the accuser of the brethren. He loves to remind people of how sinful they are. How broken you are. Look at what you've done. Look at how weak you are. Look how easily you fall into temptation. He loves to remind people of their sins of the past. And he effectively convinces a lot of people that because of their past and current struggles, God can't use them. They are not worthy. They're too broken. They're damaged goods. If you're wearing a breastplate of your own righteousness in a spiritual battle, You will fall before you can even raise your sword. Because those accusations will penetrate right through and you will be able to say, Yeah, yeah, that's right. I I am wicked. I am a sinner. I am weak. I am broken And you will become numb to the point of ineffectiveness. But if you're wearing the righteousness of Christ, You can remember that your place in God's kingdom has nothing to do with your own righteousness. It has everything to do with what Christ has done for you. You can remember actually that God uses only broken people, and the more broken you are, the more powerful God shows Himself to be. So don't forget that you wear the righteousness of Christ. Wherever you sense guilt and shame seeking to oppress you and demean you and tear you down. Just remind yourself of who you are in Christ, that you wear the righteousness of Christ. Well, the third piece of the armor is the shoes of the gospel of peace. And he puts it this way in verse 15: having shod your feet with a preparation of the gospel of peace. There were two different sandals that the Roman soldiers would wear. One is kind of something similar to what we would wear, sandals that are kind of come off and on really easily. But the other one would be one that wasn't just wrapped around the feet, it would actually get wrapped around the ankles and up the leg so that they wouldn't come on and off really easily And of course these would be the ones that they would wear in battle. Not only would they be wrapped around further up the leg, but they would also be studded underneath with nails. They would be like what we would consider to be cleats These sandals were built to endure marching far more than regular sandals. Of course, this was part of their strategy. Effective strategies that the Romans used was they would march long distances in a short period of time and surprise their enemy. They could do that because they had good sandals Their sandals provided endurance and stability. And as the Romans got further north as they were conquering territory, The climate got wetter, it got colder, they were often fighting in muddy terrain, and they needed those nails to keep them stable during battle. In the same way, you and I, if we're going to engage and overcome spiritual battles, we need both endurance and stability. Your feet must be stable. They must be fitted and tied with footwear that will enable you to stand firm for the long haul. During sunny days, during rainy days. When there is calm, when there's a storm, stability and endurance is required. Now the question is, how does God's armor, what is this preparation of the gospel of peace that gives us stability? during these times. Well, though the word preparation I don't think is the best translation. This Greek word is actually only used here in the New Testament, so it's a little difficult to define. But it is used several times in the Old Testament, in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. So we get some word pictures of how to think about this. And I think the best passage that that uh kind of gives us a an image of what this looks like is found in Psalm 89. I think the verse is in your notes. I forgot to put the the verse in in my notes. But Psalm 89, one of the verses there reads, Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. There, the word which in our passage is translated preparation, in Psalm 89, it's translated foundation. It's a firm foundation. You can say, what is it that holds up God's throne as he is sitting on it, ruling and reigning over all things? Well, the answer is righteousness and justice. Without those two things, righteousness and justice the throne of God would crumble. So when we come back to our passage, Ephesians 6. 15, and it says that we're our feet are to be shod, or we're to be wrapped with the preparation of the gospel of peace We must understand that the gospel of peace is the preparation. It is the foundation of our life. It's the foundation upon which we stand. It's the footing that we strap ourselves into. So we need to ask, how does the foundation of the gospel of peace prepare us and give us stability? for the long haul as we meet the enemy. Well let me ask you this question, especially to those of you who are married, but you can certainly apply this in in your household with your family relationships. When you are at war with your spouse or with your family or your parents or your children, when there is turmoil in the home If you're having a difficult time then at work or your finances are non existent or school is overwhelming or your work relationships are strained, Does being at war at home make all of those challenges easier or more difficult? Well, I think we would all agree it makes them more difficult. When you're at war with the people closest to you, your life is set on edge, and it doesn't take much to topple you over. On the other hand, if there is peace at home, if there is peace among your closest relationships and your family and your friends, you might have a hard day You might be having a difficult situation in life, but you know that you have someone to turn to. You know that you have someone who cares about you, who will shoulder your burdens, and who will strengthen you for tomorrow. Peace at home prepares you and stabilizes you for the battles outside the home. And I think that is exactly how the Gospel of Peace prepares us. And stabilizes us for the battle against our enemy. The gospel of peace, of course, is that good news that at one time we were at war with God. We were his enemies, and though he had never done anything against us, we were utterly in rebellion against him. But God, in his infinite love and mercy and grace, sent his son, Jesus, to pay the penalty for our rebellion. He paid the price for our sins, and in so doing, he drew us near to God and made peace. Jesus Christ is our peace because he made peace between us and God possible And when you confess Jesus as Lord, believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you that the war between God and you is over, and there is Peace. There's no more condemnation from God, no more hostility from you to God, just everlasting peace and joy. So when the missiles of the enemy comes, when the ground shakes and when life feels like a whirlwind, ready to pick you up and toss you around, you can remain steadfast in battle because you know I am at peace with God. I can go to God. I can draw strength from being in God's presence through prayer and in his word. I can know that Christ is interceding for me and the Holy Spirit is praying for me. No matter where you are, no matter what your circumstances, whether you're in the heat of the battle or in the eye of the storm, you can always return to the Lord in your heart and gather strength. Knowing that no matter what else is going on, there is peace between you and your heavenly Father Let's we have to keep trekking forward here. I'm probably gonna have to make some edits as we go along. Let's talk about the shield of faith. The shield of faith. There were two types of shield common among soldiers, one that was used in close combat, and then a larger shield that would be used as they were perhaps coming upon a city city and needing to protect themselves from arrows that would be coming their way. This large shield was about four feet tall, two and a half feet wide, and people were a lot shorter back then, so that would more or less cover one's whole whole body. These shields would be made of wood and often covered with some kind of leather or some other metal. And when possible, they would soak the shields in water so that if the enemy used flaming arrows, the soaked shields would not be affected by them. The large shield there is is what Paul is referring to here But as we've seen, Paul isn't creating the metaphors ad hoc as he's watching soldiers. He's thinking about the Old Testament. And he sees in the Old Testament the fact that the God is our shield I have numerous passages here. I'll just choose a couple. There is no one more associated with faith in Scripture than Abraham, right? It was to him that was it was first said Uh Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. Well, the second time that God came to him to reiterate his covenant and his promise You know, the things that God had called Abraham to do were pretty fearful. And, you know, leave your family, leave your hometown, go to this place where I'm going to tell you. And so God tells him in Genesis chapter 15, verse 1, Fear not, Abraham, I am your shield. Your reward shall be great. Now, we know Abraham didn't always believe that. You know, he lied in situations where he thought he might get killed. But when he did trust the Lord, the Lord always proved to be his Shield. Just give you one more for now. Centuries later, David spent uh years running from Saul. He was always fearful for his life and at various points thought that this was actually going to be the end of his life. But when Saul died, Paul penned, sorry, David penned Psalm 18. Which begins this way: I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised and I am saved from my enemies. You can just do a word search on the word shield, and you will find numerous passages in the Old Testament and Psalms and Proverbs in other books that refer to God as the shield of his people. I can't leave out Proverbs 30. Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in Him. The only faith that provides a shield for you in the troubles and difficulties of life is the shield of faith in God, who is a shield to those who trust in Him. Paul says here in Ephesians 6, that the shield of faith enables you to extinguish all the Flaming arrows of the evil one. As I mentioned, some arrows we know would be dipped in pinch and uh pitch and lit on fire before they were shot. at the enemy. And so the hope was that even if the arrow itself didn't hit a a person and and penetrate, that the the pitch itself would spread and fire would spread either on the person themselves or on the grass around them or on whatever uh whatever thing that it hit and would begin to destroy the weapons of of the enemy Fire itself has been used throughout history and still is as a source of fear. It strikes fear in the heart of man. You remember Shadrach, Meshach, and Bednego, how they were threatened with fire. And they said Hebrews 11, looking back at them, says that they quenched the power of fire. How did they do that? Well, you can read that passage in Daniel 3 yourself, but they trusted in God. That's how they quenched the fire. They trusted in fire. in God. And they probably knew God's promise in Isaiah 43, when you walk through the fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. Holding up the shield of faith doesn't prevent the arrows from coming, but it does prevent them from causing harm in your life. Whatever your struggle is, seek your refuge in God. Trust in His ability to protect you against the rain of arrows. We must always be trusting and believing in who God is, who He has revealed Himself to be for us, and all of the promises and all of the truth that He has revealed in His Word. Let's move on to the helmet of salvation. The word take, as it says there in verse 17, and take the helmet of salvation. implies that someone is giving you this helmet. And so you could also render this, receive the helmet of salvation. Who is it that holds out for us the helmet of salvation? Well, of course, it's nothing, it's no one less than the Messiah himself, who actually wore this helmet himself. Isaiah 59, 17, I read the first half of it earlier on, but the second half says, again, of the Messiah, he puts on righteousness as a breast bless breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. So spiritually speaking, Christ, as he was w uh living out his righteous life, not only was he wearing a breastplate of righteousness, but he was also wearing a helmet of salvation. He wore this helmet in delivering his people, and now he offers it for us to wear One of the reasons helmets were are and have been so important throughout history is because blows to the head in battle are almost always fatal. The helmet of salvation means that Satan cannot deliver a spiritually fatal blow. David wrote in Psalm 140, O Lord, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle. You know, when your victory is assured, and you know that you are fully protected, that there's really nothing that can harm you, What happens is that courage and confidence get built up in your heart and propels you forward to fight the battle. When Paul wrote to the Thessalonian church who were struggling with persecution, he wrote this in 1 Thessalonians 5, 8 and 9. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. God wants us to be certain of our salvation, to be certain that we will be saved in the final day. On the other hand, Satan wants us to be uncertain of our salvation. He wants us to be doubtful and questioning whether or not we will make it to the end. But so much of Scripture, Gospel of John, 1 John, are written so that we might know that we have eternal life. Satan would want nothing more than for you to be confused about and doubt your salvation. In that state of doubt, he causes us to lose all of our confidence in battle. He wants you to be so distracted that you will be looking around for hope rather than knowing that you have hope and thus living out in obedience He wants us to look backwards and not forward. He wants us to look at ourselves and not at Christ. So if you're not wearing it If you are uncertain about your salvation, if you are unclear about your eternal destiny, receive the helmet of salvation. Know the certainty of the victory won for you by Christ. That brings us then to the sword of the Spirit. Again, verse 17 identifies it as the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. There are two kinds of swords common among soldiers. There's the long broad sword, which was really meant to inflict damage no matter how or where it hit. But the more common sword was a short sword about 18 inches long, which would be used in close combat It wouldn't be swung around indiscriminately. It would be used to thrust and to strike with precision. It's the sword carried by the soldiers when they came to arrest Jesus, and it's the same kind of score sword that Peter used to strike what he was trying to do, strike the head, but he got the ear of a high priest's slave. The power of Scripture comes not from brute force. Hang on, I think I lost my place here. The power of Scripture comes not from brute force. Just because it exists, so here let me hit you upside the head with the with the Word of God, with a 10-pound Bible. It it comes it is powerful when it is precisely used in a situation This small sword is what Paul is referring to here. It's called the sword of the Spirit because it's the sword that he uses to accomplish his work in the world. said in John 3 that in order for you to see the kingdom, you must be born of the Spirit. And James tells us that we are born again by the word of truth. On his final night, Jesus said, the Spirit will convict the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. And of course, it's in the Word of God that we find out what are the standards of righteousness and judgment. If you want the Spirit to work in your life to help you overcome sin, endure suffering, and grow in righteousness, we need to take the Scripture and So that the Spirit ha we need to take in the scripture, that is, and ha so that the Spirit has something to work with. For example, Psalm 119. 9 says, How can a young man keep his way pure by guarding it according to your word? And then verse eleven, I have stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you We have to know the Word of God specifically as it relates to our particular problems and struggles in order for it to be effective in our life. Just as you cannot expect your body to produce energy without food, you can't expect the Spirit to strengthen you and help you without the Word of God. And in the same way that a man can't fly a plane just by reading the manual, but he needs detailed and extensive practice and training. So the nutrition that comes from the Word of God comes not just from general consumption, but from specific understanding and application. idea, the truths in general of God's revelation. It's actually the Rhema of God which refers to the specific words of God. You know, seldom does Satan attack the Word of God as a whole. Seldom does he say, throw it out, it's not worth it, it's worthless, it's not true. He knows, at least among believers, that that's not a helpful tactic So what he does is he attacks specific words of God, right? Just like he did in the garden with Eve, again, questioning specific words of God. He didn't he didn't challenge God as a whole. He just said, well, did God really say this? We see this specific kind of attack when Satan tempted Jesus, right? He first tempted him to turn the stones into bread, then he tempted him to jump off because the Word of God promised to protect Christ. He also promised him the kingdoms of the world if he would bow down and worship him. He tried various ways to twist the truth and cause Christ to deny or doubt God's goodness And each time Christ didn't say, No, I believe the Bible, I believe the Bible, I believe God's Word. No, he had specific words and truths that were related to the temptations that were coming upon him. And he responded that way to fulfill the scripture where it's written of the Messiah, Isaiah 49, verse 2, he made my mouth like a sharp sword. Isaiah 49, 2. He made my mouth like a sharp sword. There is no way to resist the devil except by the precise and specific words of Scripture. He won't flee from you if you just try and name it and claim it. He won't flee from you if you try and bind him and cast him into the abyss. You have to know the specific words of God as it relates to the temptations that you face. And use that truth in order to do battle. Goliath wasn't afraid of David with the sling. What he didn't know was how much of an expert David was. In the same way, I don't think Satan is really all that scared of a Christian with a Bible. Sees a Bible in a Christian's hands, like, hey, that's fine. As long as they don't know it, that's fine. They can hold it all they want. They can raise it up. But if they don't know it in detail, if they don't know it specifically, they're not going to be a problem for me, he thinks. So the question is for you, do you know the Word of God? Are you regularly taking it in in its various forms? Are you digesting it and meditating on it and memorizing it? Is your knowledge of God maturing and developing so that you can say, today, you know, I know the Word of God better, even if it's incrementally so than I did a year ago. Are you able to discern false teaching and twisted truth? Even scripture quoted out of context The rest of this class, Lord willing, starting next week, we will be looking at specific struggles, common struggles that people face. And that's what we're going to be seeking to do is helping all of us grow in how can I use the Word of God to address anger or anxiety or depression or the various other issues that we commonly struggle with. That's what we desperately need because we are in a spiritual battle. We need the armor of God. in order to overcome. You know, psychologists and psychiatrists, even many Christian ones, really have no concept of this. They don't view the struggles of life as spiritual warfare And so as a result, they unwittingly become the agents of the evil one by promulgating evil truths and lies and misinformation. But we have the Word of God. And with the truth, with the Word of God in our lives, with the Spirit of God illuminating our minds and helping us to understand the truth. And empowering us to obedience with the people of God surrounding us, encouraging us, admonishing us, we can overcome personal struggles and we can win the spiritual battles that we find ourselves in. So whatever struggle you have, get familiar with the armor of God. If you want more uh Detailed exegesis and explanation of the armor of God, go back to Sermon Audio and listen to Pastor Leek's four messages on this passage. This is critical truth for all of us. uh to understand, to know how to overcome our struggles and to live well for Christ. Alright, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. We thank you for this truth. We've really flown by it so quickly and And uh Lord help us to grow in our understanding. We know that ultimately it's your spirit that gives us understanding and enables us to put on that armor and to put it into practice. So help us, Holy Spirit. Help us not only to be able to put it on ourselves, but to minister to others who need to put it on and to encourage them in that endeavor. Prepare us now as we go into corporate worship. We pray for Pastor Lee that you would strengthen him as he brings the word to us. May you be glorified and praised. in that time of worship as we join our hearts and our voices together. In Christ's name. Amen