I love those songs that we started with. I've been singing the Reformation hymn all week because of just things that I've been um reading. So and that those first couple lines we will trust God's Word alone, where His perfect will is known, is a big part of the lesson today in that song All to Us We want to submit to Christ because He is all to us. So those were perfect introduction. And we'll get to this more later, but Teresa, we are just like so happy you're here in the next chapter that the Lord has for you, but we'll have you a part of things later, but we're very blessed to have you with us this morning. So today our study is specifically on submission. But submission is really our theme for the entire year. It's the focus of all our lessons. So whatever we do next Next month it's going to be on prayer and December is going to be worship, but underlying all of that is our submission to God. So you're going to hear about submission. throughout the rest of our our Saturday studies this year. It's the golden thread that's going to bind everything that we study and learn together. It is a discipline, like the chapter of Barbices' book says, the discipline of submission, the posture of godliness. So it is something that we have to learn, it's something that we have to put on And I actually I love the subtitle of the chapter that says it's the posture of godliness. So I looked up in the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, and one of the definitions for posture is a conscious mental or outward behavioral attitude. And so if we want to pursue godliness, if we want to live godly lives, we have to have a posture of submission before God. Now, when some people think about submission, they just kind of naturally go, oh well that has to do with with marriage, with a husband and wife role. Well, that's true. Some people their mind naturally goes to, oh well that's how we treat one another in the church. We we submit to one another. Well that's also that's also true. But the word submission is much more extensive than just those two applications. So I just made a simple outline today, and in your outline I think I put this this quote from Barbara Hughes, submission is central to our identity as children of God. And I love that quote It's central to our identity as children of God. And she also says if we want to be godly women, we will have a posture of submission to God. So if we have a life of submission to God, it's a blessed life. And so what is submission? I think I also put this in your notes. Submission is the attitude of surrender surrendering the will to a higher authority. Literally, it means to place oneself under. And who are our lives submitted to? Well, we're submitted to God. The Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs said, To keep under, that is to submit, the soul can submit to God at the time when it can send itself under the power and authority and dominion that God has over it. And I couldn't help but think of Jude 24 and 25. I love these scriptures. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory blameless with great joy, to the only God, our Savior. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time, now and forever. So he is our sovereign and we want to submit to him. So Barbecue says bringing our lives into submission to his will in everything is the key to being a godly woman. And you know, she also very um very wisely states, um, because she knows she's a woman, she knows our hearts, she says our instinct is to please ourselves. We naturally wish to define our own boundaries. rebelling against any outside authority. So submission is something that we have to learn. And that's why it's considered a discipline. Now Tom taught a series in 2016 on James 4, verses 1 to 10, and he called it the Cure for Worldliness. It was in six parts. So it's a it's it was a big series. I'm gonna take some of his material. I'm not gonna get all the way through his and all the way through James, but I'm gonna highlight certain things that I think we can really benefit from in terms of submission and what it looks like not to submit. So I'm going to highlight some of those things and along with Barbara Hughes's book I want to share that with you. So most of my material comes from barbecues and from Tom's sermons. So I want to go on to the outlines, the command to submit. So I'm going to read James 4, 7 to 10, for a little bit of context. Later on in the lesson, we're going to go back to verses 1 through 6, but I'm going to start with 7. And James says in chapter, so James 4, 7 to 10, submit therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your heart, you double-minded. Be miserable and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and He will exalt you So we're just going to focus on that first overarching command, submit to God. So submission is akin to obedience. It's not exactly the same thing as obedience, but it naturally leads to obedience. Often the word submit, we hear it when in terms of requiring Christians to submit to different authorities. But those authorities get their authority delegated from God. But here, James is instructing us to submit to the highest authority, which is God. And the verb form here indicates we're to do this ourselves. We are to submit ourselves to God. Well, how do we submit? to God. Well I know here being at Hope Bible Church we are all very well taught here. And we know that we submit By placing our will underneath Scripture, just like we sang about, where God's perfect will is known, we submit and put our will underneath Scripture. And why Scripture? Because it's God's word, it's his instruction book, it's his law, it's his commands, and expresses the will of God for your life. So I was thinking right now, Teresa, you you're thinking like you know the next steps for God's will for your life. But you're probably going to hit some points where you might be out there going, did I make the right steps? What's next? And I know just for me personally right now, I don't feel like I know what God's will is for my life. I've known what it is for a very long time. I don't know what it is. right now and I don't really know what to do. But I do know that God's will is contained in Scripture. And that's all that I need to know right now. Um there are plenty of specifics for me to follow and probably as I wait for all those specifics in my life to come about, God hasn't left me without direction. It's his will is right here. And right now I know I need to submit to him. So that's his will. The world doesn't like that concept of submission. It mocks people who follow the Word of God. And why? Because they're in rebellion to God and to his word. But we live in obedience to it. Anyone who doesn't follow the Bible, as God has given it to us, is in rebellion to the authority of God and has chosen to be loyal to the side of the world system. So no one who pushes the Word of God aside is submitted to God despite their claim. The best diagnostic of someone who is in obedience to Jesus' commands is stated in 1 John 2. 4. The one who says, I've come to know him. And does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not him in him. So obedience shows our submission to God. So I know, for me personally, that I have to work. Sometimes I feel like I'm even wrestling with God on submitting to Him, but we need to take our submission to God seriously. I want to encourage you maybe to do something, and I know I need periods of this, is perhaps you just kind of need to put some time out. in life because I know it can be very, you know, we just go, go, go. We have our our schedules, we have our demands, life goes on. Maybe you need to take a little time out. And maybe you need to just go someplace, even if even if it's for a couple of hours, just undistracted, get God's word out, place it in your lap. Sometimes I find it helpful to be out in nature. I took a little trip um in August and I just went to some parks and I just spent kind of the day in prayer and reading. And I know it really helps me to just kind of look out in nature because it just it just allows you to take in the power and majesty of God. We have to remember that God's the ancient of days. He's the Almighty God. He's the Lord Most High. And we need to get low before Him. We have to cease being angry at him for not answering our prayers till now. We need to not tell him, you Lord, you haven't brought this friend. And you haven't been giving me this job or this home, these things I I I deserve. You haven't given me the ministry that I thought I should have, the husband I long for, the health I crave. We need to say, right in the midst of all our wants and our heartaches, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Psalm 23 Bless the Lord on my soul and all that is in with me within me. Bless his holy name. Psalm 103. I need to continually believe my life verse that was there before Tom had cancer. In Psalm 119, you are good and you do good. We need to humbly say with the psalmist, the Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his deeds. Which acknowledges to the Lord you're right and just in all your dealings with me. And I'm ready to do your will. I'm ready to submit to you. I submit to your wisdom. I submit to your timing. I submit to your management of my life, Lord. So God's leading all of us here. We're his sheep. He's leading us beside the still water and the green grass. I think most of us in here know pretty well the life of Elizabeth Elliot. She was actually widowed two times, but her first time was when she was in another country. It was 1956 in her late twenties a baby. And um I don't really think she knew back at that time how God would use her. But we all know she probably for most of us has had a big impact in our lives because she humbly submitted her future to God. And I think submission to God and humility cannot be separated, even in verse 10 in James 4. Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord So if we're humble, we're going to put ourselves under his lordship. So don't miss this. You can write this one down for sure. Submission. is a glad agreement of Christ's authority over you. Submission is a glad agreement. Of Christ's authority over you. It's the fulfillment of what you confessed when you came to faith. And said by the Holy Spirit, Jesus is a s Jesus is Lord. That's what we talked about last month. The gospel. The gospel message that Laura shared with us last month. Barbecue's called submission the path to blessing and the path to joy. Psalm 1611 says, You will make me know the path of life. I'm sorry, you will make known to me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand There are pleasures forever. I was wondering, Teresa, if you could read Psalm all of Psalm 103 for us now. I think it just really expresses our relationship with the Lord. Bless the Lord O my soul and all that is within me. Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. He forgives all your iniquities and heals all your diseases. Who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good, so that your youth is removed like the eagles. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all who are upset He may known his ways to Moses and the back to the soul of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding his death as well. He will not always shy, nor will he keep his Anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our own good. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is this death past love for those who live in. As far as the East is from the West, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. As a Father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. For he knows our flame. Remember that we were back. That's for man, his face are like grass. He flourishes like a fla he flourishes like a flower of the field. For the wind packs over it and it is gone. And his face Remembers it no more. For the sickest love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to children's children, to those who keep his covenant And remember to do his commandments. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all. Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his work. Obeying the voice of his word. Bless the Lord, all his hosts, his ministers who do his well. Bless the Lord all his work in all places of his dominion. That's the Lord on my soul. Thank you. Do we want to be any place else? We don't. We want to be there's no place else to go. We want to be Under God's submission, all those beautiful things, I encourage you to go back and read Psalm 103 this week. Just meditate on it and think about your relationship with the Lord. So it is, that expresses the pathway to blessing and the path to joy. So I was thinking, you know, with this lesson, I was like, I could I could stop at this point and we could just really delve into what are some of the commands that God has for us. um, you know, to submit and word or just different things in the world. I was like, we could really go go deep with this. We could go with specific commands But what I decided to do is I thought it might be instructive for us to kind of look at the opposite side. What does life look like when we choose not to submit to God? And again, this is going to be not be exhaustive. I'm going to just take a few things from James, but I thought it might be instructive to our hearts to say, whoa, what happened? when I'm not putting myself under God's authority. And by the way, let me just put a disclaimer out here. Some people think, oh, Sue Leak, she knows she knows how to submit. I've seen her do it to her husband and and all that. I am still in the school of lifelong learning. I'm still learning in the school of submission. I'm I'm still learning to submit to God. So Uh I even asked the Lord, I said, as I'm teaching this, I said, may I be the the the main one that gets instructed this morning. So let's look at a life not submitted to God. I think that's on the back side. A life that's not submitted to God. So again, as I've mentioned, the world doesn't think in terms of submission. They don't get up in the morning What does God want me to do today? How can I honor God with my life? The world gets up and they think about self. It's an opposition to submitting to God So I'm going to go back to James 4, start in verse 1 and read James 4, 1-6, because I think it gives us a very sharp contrast to submission. It tells us about worldliness. And some worldness that was in the church that James had to correct. So James 4, 1 to 6. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lost and you do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility towards God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Where do you think that the scripture speaks to no purpose? He jealously desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us. But he gives a greater grace. Therefore it says God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So just a brief description of worldliness as the Bible describes it Focuses on the aspirations of our heart. And it reveals itself mostly through selfishness and self-elevation. What's best for me? What do I want to accomplish? How can I bring about the most happiness for myself? How can I promote who I am and want to be? So James reveals ways that our heart expresses our lack of submission and our love instead for the world. And that can be manifested by quarrels and conflicts. James asks a probing question. What's the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Quarrels and conflicts. Two nouns, both plural. Not one conflict or one quarrel, but many. And the plural indicates that there's a pattern of conflict in the churches. And it asks about the conflicts among you. James concerned about the community of believers, the church. So in and among these churches there was conflict. Of what kind? Well the first word is quarrels And it's a word normally used for warfare, battles and wars, a word that usually referred to prolonged combat Matthew 24, 6, Christ said, you will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars. That's one of the ways that it was used, talking about the end times. It envisions soldiers carrying out a full military campaign, so it's no small skirmish. And the second word, conflict. Similar to quarrels, but it refers more to battles or strife of any kind. So both words became expressions for open antagonism, church members at each other's throats. Arguing, or worse. And I think our modern church is not immune from such quarreling either. Churches can split because of worldly or unsubmissive mindsets. Fights break out between leaders. Feuds between members, even on lesser issues, that can lead to whole churches splitting. And often the fight is over power and influence. There can develop backbiting, jostling for position, even murderous desire. But it always starts in the heart. Just to show a comparison elsewhere in Scripture, Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 1220. For I am afraid that perhaps when I come I may find you to be not what I wish, and may be found by you to be not what you wish, and perhaps there will be strife Jealousy, angry tempers, disputes, slanders, gossip, arrogance, disturbances. And we can compare this to the wisdom of Philippians 1, 27 Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent. I will hear of you, that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. So James asks the source of these fights. And the answer comes in the second part of verse 1. Is not the source, your pleasures that wage war in your members. So James answers the question via rhetorical question, which of course demands a positive answer. Yes, this is the source, it's the pleasure on your insides. Pleasures is a word which refers to the bodily appetites and gratifications. But James is likely using the term more broadly here to include any strong desire from within. Where do those pleasures reside? In your members. That's referring to the bodily members. A cross-reference here is 1 Peter 2. 11. Beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers to abstain from fleshly lusts which wage war against the soul. So these antagonists which reside in our soul in our I'm sorry in our flesh Launch a war against the godliness of our souls. So again, here's a point you don't want to miss. The reason that there's battles and wars on the outside is that there's pleasures waging war on our inside. So you got that? Battles and wars on the outside, because there's pleasures that are waging war on the inside. Inside human beings there's this incredible longing. We want fulfillment. We want happiness. And there's a continuous urge for what we want. You know, often it seems to us that people can get in the way of us fulfilling these things. And when others get in the way of our longings Then that battle is on. The battle moves to the outside. It was raging on the inside. It moves to the outside and rages against those who are going to stand in our way. Quarrels, fighting, conflicts. So just remember conflicts within our heart result in conflict without. And you know, I've said this before, probably you have too. Oh, that person is making me so angry. The person's not making us angry. What's making us angry is our unfulfilled pleasures. The source of conflict is not other people. We can even think of the life of Cain. He had everything that he needed. But he had internal evil desire. That desire led to jealousy. That jealousy led to murder, murdering his own brother, Abel. So the inner cravings throw you into conflict with others when they get in your way But that unsubmissive heart can also be manifested, I think I have this as B, manifested by lust. James illustrates this by two parallel statements, and this is in verse 2. You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. So looking at that first statement, you lust and do not have, so you commit murder. Lust is a strong desire, and here it refers to a wrong and an evil desire. Here James is saying they don't have what they are lusting for. And that's very instructive, for it shows that that most lusting does not result in getting what a person wants anyway. I think there are times we maybe we've experienced or we've seen in others where people seem to get what they want. Things fall into place. They all line up and they're getting um things that they desire. Maybe, you know, they really desired that dream job or they really desired that income or their dream home or the dream relationship. We we can fill in a long list of, you know, things that we're we're wanting And I think people, when they get those, often they find out, because it's outside of God, right? They're they're looking to those things, that it really wasn't fulfilling after all. So money can't bring us joy and happiness. Usually it makes us bored and we we would like more. Um that relationship, well Maybe that that guy turned out to mu not be so perfect after all. That great car that you finally got? Got dinged. Somebody opened their car door and it got dinged. You know, things don't They don't last. So even when they get what they want, it just doesn't satisfy. And you know what? It's awfully frustrating to try to keep wealth and possessions possessions and positions of power. But most of the time you don't even get it. Lust don't end up in getting what you want. A person can wish, they can dream, they can have a burning desire, they can come up empty-handed and they have to live without and life gets disappointing for them It can lead to becoming sour and bitter. The consequence of lusting and not having can be devastating. It can get so bad that what James says is shocking. It says, so you commit murder. So we're not going to delve too deep theologically into this, but just in brief, some interpret the murder figuratively here, as we've heard Christ teach in the Sermon of the Mount that to hate your brother is equivalent to murder in the heart in Matthew 5. However, I think the easiest way to read this is that at least at time There was some conflict in the churches that got so bad, someone might have killed someone else, or at the very least, James's warning that this is where conflict will eventually lead if it's not controlled. Even in 2 Samuel 11, King David, who is a man after God's own heart, he's an example of lust leading to the murder of the husband of the woman that he coveted. So just think, if we're outside of Christ, if we're without Christ, man's a creature at odds with his creator. He's a creature made for worship, but he's dominated by a master called sin. And he worships, but he doesn't worship God, he worships himself. And he doesn't find satisfaction in it, only great frustration, followed by more lusting. Now that second parallel statement, point C, manifested by envy, it says you are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. So envious is to have jealousy or zeal for something, and it indicates a strong desire. But there's a frustration of the desire of envy. They're envious and they cannot obtain So they're angry and bitter and frustrated and so just like we talked about with lust, um if you're envious we can blame our lack of having things on others, spouse, kids, government, parents, boss Sometimes we can get angry with one another in the church because they stand in our way of getting something that we want. But ladies, those who are part of the body of Christ To come and sit together in the same room and worship together and come to the Lord's table and take communion together. should not go to war with one another. We're members of one another. So ripping others up and gossiping, tearing down reputation, spreading strife frustrated outbursts just tears us down. But that's where evil desire and envy lead to. Besides an unsubmitted heart being exposed in quarrels, conflicts, lust, and envy, maybe surprising would be the next part in your outline. It can be exposed or manifested in prayerlessness. Ladies, are we prayerless? What does James say? in chapter t in I'm sorry, chapter four, continuing in the end of verse two, you do not have, because you do not ask. So we have quarrels and fights and lusts and envy. But James adds prayerlessness here to that list of things that are going to be manifest in our lives if we're not under his authority, if we're not submitted to him. So you do not have. You're empty. You don't have things in your life because you do not have. So at times what's missing in our lives, the ever-present emptiness, might be there because we don't search for God's blessings and his gifts. You don't have because you don't ask. Ask for what? Well, James doesn't specify, but in the context, it must be the things that you need in your life. Bringing our needs and our desires to him. And I would s I would um emphasize being dependent on him. Being dependent on God. James is not correcting their prayerlessness because their lives are are too busy, but rather because they're too independent from God in how they live. They're not bringing to God their needs and their desires. So they're continuing to whack and to languish. Some things are absent from their lives because they don't ask. Kids can be a great example of this, right? Sometimes as parents, we know what our kids need and we're waiting for them to come to us. And it's the same with us in God. The Father wants us to learn dependence on Him and He requires us to ask. I can remember times earlier in my Christian life, sometimes I would cry about things, I would get frustrated about things, I would be anxious. And I realize I'm not bringing these to God. I'm prayerless. Prayerlessness or weak praying can show you really don't want what God gives though. Some believers don't bring their yearnings of their heart to God because they're pursuing what they want, not what God wants, and they know it. They're trying to be fulfilled outside of what God wants for their lives. They don't trust God in His will. They don't believe God cares about their happiness enough to answer in a way that's going to thrill them. They don't believe the things God gives will make them fulfilled. So worldly desire in the heart stifles their prayers. Is that us here? What is it that you're asking for? What pleasures are you seeking? And that pleasure and that lust and that envy because others have it? Does that eclipse your desire to pray to God about all the things that He wants to bring into your life? Another manifestation of being unsubmitted to God can actually be in prayer, but asking with wrong motives, which is what James talks about next in verse 3. You ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives so that you may spend it on your pleasures. Sometimes believers do pray. They make their request to God. And the outcome ends up being the same as if those who didn't pray at all. This second group doesn't obtain because what they want is too worldly to be answered. So why doesn't God give them what they ask for? So because God doesn't care about them? I know Satan would like us to believe that lie. Is it because prayer doesn't work? I think the world would like us to believe that Is it because we're praying to the wrong God? Well, there's lots of religions that would like us to believe that, that there's other gods to pray Pray for. But no, none of those are correct. We pray to the Lord our God. If your prayers aren't getting answered, we're asking with the wrong motives. Wrong motives is actually one word and it refers to moral evil in your heart. Wrong motives is fleshed out with the next explanation in verse 3, so you can spend it on your pleasures. Spend is a term that was used in the parable of the prodigal son, the lost son who was found. But before being found, he spent his father's inheritance on all his pleasures. And then he was empty again, literally and spiritually. He took what the Father gave him and blew it all for his own pleasures. He loved himself. So the same can be true for us sometimes. Those pleasures waging war inside of us become so strong they can invade our prayer life God, you need to get this for me. You need to work this out in my life. If you love me, you're going to get what I want. This is what I know how, what's best for my life You need to get it for me now. But God can't be manipulated, and prayers cannot be used as a means of personal gratification. The only godly way to pray is not my will be done, but what? God's will be done. He must be revered and obeyed, and your life has to be put on the altar to live for him I usually use the New American Standard Version, but I liked the NIV that Barbara Hughes put in her book of Hebrews 5. 7. It says, during the days of Jesus' life on earth, he offered up prayers and petitions with loud cries and tears to the one who could save him from death. And he was heard because of his reverent submission. James goes on to rebuke These believers for their worldliness. In um verse four and five, you adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the scripture speaks to no purpose He jealously jealouslessly desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us. So we're not going to go over those verses, but we have a rebuke. Again, I just encourage you, take some time. Just go to the Sermon Archives, make it a part of your quiet time, listen to that sermon series that Tom did, The Cure for Worldliness, James 4, 1 through 10. And let it minister to your heart But I also want to emphasize right here, verse six, because what does it say? But he gives a greater grace. Therefore it says, God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to to the humble. God is for us. He's going to give us grace if we humble our hearts and submit to Him. So in closing I just want us to, again, this is a whole not, you can do a whole quiet time and study on this, but Barbara Hughes mentions in her book Her chapter is mostly based on this. Christ's example of submission. We could do a whole study of seeing how Christ submitted to the Father. In fact, some of the discussion questions in the book have to do with looking at Christ's example. And if Christ, our Savior and our Lord, submitted to the Father, what do we need to do? So I would encourage you to study this passage and and um use the book. Maybe I can post those later on our Women of Hope page just for questions for your quiet time and just looking how Christ Submitted to the Father. But Philippians two, eight through eleven. Being found in appearance as a man, he, Christ, humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross For this reason also, God highly exalted him, and bestowed on him the name which is above every name So at the name of Jesus Christ, every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess. that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. He is Lord. He will forever be Lord. Let's Submit our hearts to Him. So that's the message of the Bible. It's clear. Jesus is Lord. And so let's, ladies, let's joyfully submit to His headship.