Well, if you haven't already, I invite you to grab your Bibles and turn to the book of 1 John, chapter 2. We are kind of going through a series in John. It's just kind of being meted out in stages. And so Every time the summer comes along and I know that other guys are going to be gone, this is a great opportunity for us to take a few steps ahead in the book of 1 John, but we are slowly working our way through the entire book. And what a compliment it is to the book of the Gospel of John on Sunday morning. And I am just so thankful that we are doing these two uh books, uh, because again, we're getting a lot of what John wants us to understand and believe so that our faith can be firmly and securely put in Jesus Christ our Lord. And again, I am so thankful for the opportunity to sit and to listen to the Gospel of John being taught It just inflames my heart when I get to 1 John to want to preach this because this is what the Christian life is all about as well. And so, uh we want to look today at first John chapter two, verses twenty-eight through chapter three, verse three If I can invite you in your in your mind this morning to put away the verses, well, keep the verses, but put away the chapters. This is one letter, and so the chapters seem at times to divide us up in places where maybe it shouldn't be divided, but at the same time they help us to locate things. So I'm going to just walk through verses 28 to chapter 3, verse 3. today. And we do want to jump back into this epistle. We want to do this by drawing our attention to the subject of one of the most distinguishing virtues of the Christian life. And I've already prayed to that end, but we are going to talk today about the subject of hope. Biblical hope. If I could define for you the essence of biblical hope, It would be this. It would be the confident and steadfast expectation that God is unchanging in regard to his promises concerning the Christian life. God is unchanging, and yet hope is our expectation and again confident hope that God will be a promised keeping God and He will fulfill His Word. It is not only the confident expectation that God will fulfill all of his promises for the future, but that everything that he has promised concerning the Christian life is indeed fulfilled in Christ Jesus for our present reality. And again This is something that we take to heart, we're encouraged by, and it motivates us again to live pleasing to the Lord. That hope not only includes a complete understanding and receiving of the forgiveness of our sin, but it really is the gift of eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. And this is because everything that we need for life and godliness has been granted to us in its entirety through the person and work of Jesus Christ our Lord. What I love about a clear and straightforward definition of biblical hope is that it is the one virtue which is meant to transform our entire life. And it has to do that by giving us an unwavering confidence in everything that God has promised and that He has fulfilled in Christ Jesus our Lord. That right now, as God gives us strength to endure the difficulties of this world, the trials, The circumstances that seem overwhelming and insurmountable, we have the absolute certainty that Jesus Christ has already secured for us A complete victory over sin and death through his death and resurrection for all eternity You couldn't be more secure as you are right now in your faith, knowing that you have eternal life in Christ Jesus. And that one day we will see him just as he is. John says, because everyone who has this hope fixed on him Purifies himself just as he is pure. These promises are guaranteed because of the hope that we have in Christ Jesus our Lord And today I want to encourage you by setting your mind again on heaven and not on this earth. I want to do this by having us to look at the assurances of true biblical hope so that we can be confident. and live a truly authentic Christian life in light of all the unforeseen circumstances and difficulties that come before us as we live our life in this world. And in order to do this, I want to direct your attention and your focus to 1 John 2, beginning in verse 28. Well, with your Bible open, please follow along as I read for you the text for today's study. John writes beginning in verse 28 of chapter 2, and now little children abide in him, so that when he is manifested, We may have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, You know that everyone also who does righteousness has been born of him And then chapter 3. See how great a love the Father has given to us that we would be called children of God. And we are. For this reason, the world does not know us because it did not know him. Beloved, now we are the children of God. And it has not been manifested as yet what we will be. We know that when he is manifested, we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. Again, one of the most important facets of a truly authentic Christian life is that believers have a hope that is guaranteed. Guaranteed. John says it is a hope that purifies, just as he is pure. Well, the Bible tells us that genuine hope is one of the most important, vital spiritual realities of the Christian life. And especially in light of Christ's second coming. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3 13, verse 13, one of the most supreme virtues in all of the Christian life is this issue, this subject of hope. Next to that is faith and love. And as I mentioned, true hope is the Christian's certain expectation regarding God's promise for the future. If I could put it to you very simply, biblical hope is the equivalent of biblical faith. In fact, John Calvin said that the word hope I take for faith. And indeed, hope is nothing else but the constancy of faith And I tell you, I would agree with him. Hope is really what anchors our faith to the promises that God has guaranteed for the future. And if there were a dividing line between fate and hope, it would be that faith involves trusting God for the present, whereas hope involves trusting God for the future. And yet it is very much the essential reality for every truly authentic Christian life, both here and now, and for all eternity. Again, hope involves trusting God. Faith involves trusting God And faith, hope, and love are so intertwined together that they virtually are synonymous when it comes to the meaning of the Christian life. And in this sense, hope is one of those tests for an authentic Christian life. And this is because, as believers, we hold fast to all of God's promises. We have this certain expectation, John says, that what God has promised us concerning eternal life will in fact come to full fruition. And this is why we have such certainty that Jesus Christ has already secured our victory over sin and death. It is because of what He has promised for the future. And again, I like how John Piper puts it in his book, Future Grace. He actually calls this faith in future grace. The reason he calls it this is because hope is the exercise and the anticipation of God's future grace, even though we experience that grace right now in its fullness. By faith we embrace what God has already said and done in Scripture. But true biblical hope is the certain expectation. That God will bring all of his promise promises to its ultimate consummation. The truth about These assurances is that that we have in Christ is that we can have a settled confidence and peace Knowing that God will fully accomplish everything that He's ever planned to do. These promises are so fixed and secure, it is because they are permanently etched in the very character of God Himself. One author put it this way, hope in God's promises is not a wishful longing, but a faith-filled confidence for the future. It is simply impossible to trust one of God's promises and not anticipate its coming true. To know God is to trust God. To trust God is to trust His promises. And to trust God's promises is to be sure that they will be fulfilled. And this assurance concerning the future, anchored in God's promises, is what the Bible calls hope. Hope. And this is why this virtue, along with faith and love, is absolutely essential for the Christian life. It is essential for describing an authentic Christian life. John Brosier, who is one of the founding members of the Christian Counseling Foundation, defines Christian hope as this. He says the hope that God has provided for you is not merely a wish. Neither is it dependent on other people, possessions, or circumstances for its validity. Instead, biblical hope is an application of your faith that supplies a confident expectation in God's fulfillment of His promises. Coupled with faith and love, hope is part of the abiding characteristics of a believer's life. This is the pattern of our life And so as believers in Christ, our hope is grounded in the exclusivity of God's graciousness, his faithfulness to accomplish everything. that he has promised in Christ Jesus. For in Christ Jesus, all God's promises are yes and amen. Amen? Again, this is so critical for the Christian life. And yet, we rarely connect this with his plans for our future glorification. This is what John is doing here. This is the kind of hope that we need to have and do have. And this is exactly what Christ has accomplished for us. What we need to be reminded of is that at the same time that God has been gracious and faithful in the past, He is being gracious and faithful in the present. And he will be gracious and faithful to all of his promises in the future. As a true believer in Christ, we can live with a certain expectation and anticipation. That God will accomplish everything that He intends to do and bring it all to its ultimate fruition in the Christian's life and in the world as He has designed it to be. It is this assurance of hope that strengthens and secures our present faith and our present love for the Lord. It guarantees a future consummation, and if I could put it Another way, hope is that expression of worship that lives at peace with the trustworthiness of God over every detail of life. There is nothing in this life that ought to shake our faith. There is nothing in this life outside of the will of God. Not the weather, not the conflict that is currently taking place in the Middle East, not the nations of this world. Not the economy, not politics, not family relationships, not your marriage, your children, your job, and certainly not the concerns and worries of everyday life Let me put it very simply. God is in control of everything. Every personal trial is meant to remind us that we need to be dependent upon Him. And this is what then motivates us. This is what emboldens us. This is what inflames our passions to seek and to declare and to proclaim the glory of God's name. It reminds us that each and every day we have the opportunity and joy to proclaim the integrity of God's character as a promise-keeping God. God will never fail you. People around you will fail you. The church will fail you. The world will fail you. God will not fail us. And again, in the words of one commentator, hope is a forward-looking, far-reaching, heavenly perspective, and it is not dependent on earthly realities. John Bunyan actually put it this way, hope has a thick skin. I love that. And will endure many a blow. It will put on patience as a vestment. It will wade through the sea of blood. It will endure all things if it be the right kind for the joy that is that is set before us. Hence patience is called patience of hope, because it is hope that makes the soul exercise patience and long-suffering under the cross. Until the time comes to enjoy the crown. That day's coming. That day will be here. So when it comes to the subject of hope, the Christian life is truly meaningless without it. And why do I say this? Because biblical hope is the very embodiment of God Himself. Without God, there is absolutely no point to this earthly life. In fact, when we're discouraged or distressed What are we exhorted to do? Psalm 43, verse 5 reminds us: put your hope in God. Why are you in despair, O my soul? Why are you disturbed within me, the psalmist says? Hope in God! For I shall again praise him, the help of my countenance and my God. God is our hope. Psalm 71, verse 5 tells us to do the very same thing. For you are my hope, O Lord Yahweh. You are my trust from my youth. As a child of God, there is no better place to be than to have our trust be in God Himself. Contrary to the world's opinion, God alone is the only true source of hope and help in the Christian life And so whenever we find ourselves despairing, worrying over the circumstances of life, wondering what the next day will bring. We need to remind ourselves that only God has the answers to those life problems and issues Only God can satisfy the troubled soul. Only God has proven himself faithful, and we need to put our trust in him alone. He is able to take care of every day. He is able to take care of tomorrow. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. Again, God is our hope. God is our help. The Bible tells us that the hope that God gives us is a gift of His saving grace. Paul says in second Thessalonians 2, verse 16, that our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father, who has loved us, has given us eternal comfort and a good hope by grace. That good hope is the promise of an abundance of God's divine assurances. And this then is what John wants to encourage us with today. I like to think of it as one of one gracious gift encompassing a bundle of gifts. I don't know if you've ever had one of those gifts given to you at Christmas time where it's one big box that has a whole bunch of other wrapped boxes in it, but I love that. And I love watching our kids dig into that. Because again, this is what we have in Christ Jesus. We have this great, encompassing, gracious gift that God has given us. But in that gracious gift of salvation, we have so many divine assurances. And John is just going to give us a few here. Again, the gift of God's divine assurances are those gifts that fulfill all of his great and precious promises to us. And those sufficient resources, then rightly applied to the Christian life, would indeed reassure us of our heavenly reward. So if you're struggling to find hope in a particular situation, Remember that hope that comes from God is a hope that is meant to lift you beyond your circumstances and to point you in the direction of the one who is faithful in all things. It is meant to lift our gaze toward heaven so that we can fix our eyes firmly on the author and perfecter of our faith and not on the imperfections of this world. Well, let's remember that biblical hope is meant to point us to God. It's meant to point us to Christ, and not on the circumstances of this life. It is meant to remind us of our source of unending joy so that our trust and our confidence is in Him alone. Psalm 146, verse 5 tells us how blessed, literally how happy and joyful, is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in Yahweh his God. Those who run to God for help are those who are the most happy, they are the most blessed, they are the most secure, and they are unfazed by the circumstances and worries of this world. Why? Because when we put our trust in the Lord, He produces in us a profound joy and happiness that transcends the very circumstances of life. And the reason this is true is because the hope that comes from God is fixed on what is truly real and what lasts forever, not what is temporal. Again, true biblical hope is the believer's ultimate eternal security. And this is because once a person is born from above, nothing can rob them of that hope. Nothing can rob them of their hope, because our hope is the person of Jesus Christ Himself Hebrews 6. 19 tells us that the hope that we have from Christ is an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and confirmed. And so what Christ has done for us by his death and resurrection is that he has attached the anchor of our hope directly to God himself. And that hope is both sure and confirmed. It is sure because it's connected to God Himself. It is confirmed because of the one who has accomplished all of this for us. And there is nothing, nothing that can break that bond. Again, this is the surety of our hope. Not the greatest attack on the Christian faith, not the insecurities of even the slightest doubt. Can sway us from our hope because this is how secure our eternal life is in Christ. And the reason we have such a firm conviction is because all of God's promises are fulfilled in Christ alone. And when Christ Himself returns, those promises will be brought to their ultimate fulfillment. Our hope will be fulfilled. And again, this is why Paul says in Titus chapter 2, verse 13, that we should always be looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, because we want our hope fulfilled. And it is and will be. And again, we know that when Christ returns, all of our hope will be completely fulfilled. God Himself is going to fulfill our hope with the fullness of Christ Himself. He is our blessed hope. Every believer who has this certain expectation will receive him as their great God and Savior. And so let me ask you here this morning, are you ready for that day? Are you living as if that day were already a guarantee? Because it is. John tells us that everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. And that really is the key verse to this entire section. Let me tell you, the hope that we have, the hope that is fixed on Christ, isn't theological, just theological, I should say. It isn't just intellectual. It is a quality and a perspective that transforms who you are and what you do. It changes the choices that you make. It motivates the drive of your heart, the intentions that dictate your will, and ultimately the works that prove your faith. It purifies you in a way that completely transforms your life. And it is this kind of hope, John says, that differentiates you from all of the false teachers, the apostate believers, and the unbelievers. who are trying to deceive themselves thinking they're in in the faith when they actually aren't. And why? Because they do not have this kind of hope. And again, if you believe that Jesus Christ is coming again, that you and I will stand before Him to give an account for our life, then let me tell you: biblical hope will transform the way you live your life. It'll change the way you think. It'll change not only the way that you see your life, but it will purify your faith and strengthen your convictions and your beliefs. It'll put true faith into practice. You will live out what you truly believe without even having to open your mouth. And it won't be a false faith that is detached from the way you live your life. Because John says you will be different from those. Who forsake the fellowship of the church, who deny the Christian faith, and who ultimately try and deceive the Christian faithful. And that's what we covered leading up to these verses. John says in the church there will always be impostors. There will be false teachers, there will be apostate believers, and there will be self-deceivers. The common denominator between them all is that their life will be marked by a false sense of hope and an impure lifestyle. The reason why this is this is because they're not the real thing. They're phonies, they're hypocrites. And the reality is they have no saving relationship with God, no hope. in this world. And again, when it comes to true saving faith, we have a hope that distinguishes us from the unbelieving world around us. And so from 1 John 2, verse 28 to chapter 3, verse 3, we are presented with five distinct assurances of hope that guarantee authentic Christian faith. Five assurances. Now I know that that was a long introduction into this passage. We're going to go through this pretty rapidly. It's very simple. It's very straightforward. But I love the way that John lays it out for us. And I want to look at each one of them just briefly. First of all, John says we have a hope that strengthens our confidence. It strengthens our confidence From the very beginning of this letter, John has been laying out for us the tests of an authentic Christian faith. And ever since chapter one, he's been addressing this issue of the nature of true saving faith. There's four tests that encompass this entire epistle, all five chapters, and today we begin the second test. The first had to do with whether you were walking in the light. That was chapter 1, verse 5, all the way through to chapter 2, verse 27. And again, this was the first test of an authentic Christian life. Now, beginning in verse 28 of chapter 2, we come to the second test. And this goes on to chapter 4, verse 6. Again, this answer to the question of whether we are walking in the righteousness of Christ Himself, not just the light of Christ. This again tells us whether our faith is real. Righteousness is what defines our actions It has to do with strengthening our confidence before God and living boldly as a witness of Him to the world John says, if we abide in him, then we will have all the confidence that we need to walk righteously with Christ. And we do not need to shrink away from him in shame when he comes. So again, this is a hope that strengthens our confidence. Notice again verse 28. John writes, Now, little children, abide in him, so that when he is manifested, we may have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. Again, the truth about biblical hope is that it has everything to do with living rightly before God and in a right relationship with God. The first assurance of true biblical hope is that it strengthens our confidence before God. It cements our convictions. It cements what we believe about God so that we can walk faithful to God. And so much so, John says, that we will not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. It does this by helping us to persevere in Christ, to build our expectancy regarding Christ's coming. And it does this by again helping us to preserve in, persevere in Christ. John uses the word abide. That's a common word that he uses in this epistle, and also in his gospel. Again, it has reference to that permanent, continual relationship that a believer has with Christ. It is the same word that he used back in verse 27 when he said this. He said the anointing whom you receive from him abides in you. It's at home in you. And you have no need for anyone to teach you, but as his anointing teaches you about all things, it is true. And not a lie, just as he has taught you, then make yourself at home with him. Like we said before, that anointing has to do with the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit. Not only does the Holy Spirit take up his residence in the life of the believer, but as a believer, we must learn to then make ourselves at home with him as well. This time in verse 28, John uses the word abide as a command, then, to cultivate that relationship with God. John says, as a child of God, it is now your responsibility to continue to make yourself at home with the Spirit. To make yourself at home with God. And why do we do this? We do it so that when He is manifested, we may have confidence and not shrink away from Him in shame at His coming. You want to spend time at home with the people you love, don't you? Likewise, we want to make ourselves at home with God And be so at home with him that when Christ comes, it will not be a surprise. Again, to abide is just another way of saying that we must learn to dwell with God. Because he is dwelling with us. It is to persevere in the faith, not to be moved or shaken by those who are the false teachers and apostate believers. But wait a minute, Mike. Isn't that the type of persevering that God has done for us? Doesn't God isn't He the one solely responsible to hold fast to us? The answer to that question is absolutely yes. But John says if you're commanding us to abide that strongly in Christ, How could a person have that kind of confidence and hope to do that when we are so easily swayed and prone to wander? The answer is this is something that we must do in response to the work that God has already done in us. As God has manifested Himself to us, to His Holy Spirit, as He has made Himself at home with us That should be so attractive, that should be so motivating, that our heart is compelled then to abide in him. To abide in Christ is an act of faith that expresses confidence, true confidence, and complete assurance in the saving work that God has already done in our lives. And here, John is linking our confidence to the expectation that Christ will ultimately be that Savior for us in glory. We are experiencing A shade of that glory now. Oh, what that day will be when we are with him physically in his presence for all future. And here we're talking, John is talking specifically about the second coming of Christ, our Lord. To abide firmly in Christ because of what He has already accomplished for us gives us confidence that our hope will be fulfilled. Just as I know now that God is dwelling with me, that I am at home with him, as he is at home with me, likewise I know without beyond a shadow of a doubt that he is coming back because he's promised to do so. And it guarantees hope because it demonstrates the unwavering trust in God's promise that Christ will return. In other words, abiding in Him gives us the reassurance that we can know without a doubt that Christ will return. And that applies to our unshakable trust in all of God's future promises. And again, depending on what you believe, John says, you will either have confidence in what you believe, or you will shrink away from him in shame at his coming. And we do not want to shrink away. To shrink away from him in shame is just another way of saying that you will be ashamed of how weak your faith really is. Here John could be referring to an unbeliever whose faith isn't genuine. But because of the context of this book and why this book was written to believers. I am convinced that he's talking about a true Christian here who may be ashamed because of their lack of faithfulness in abiding in Christ. This person will be ashamed because they didn't maximize every opportunity in preparation for Christ's return. Those who are expectant and have prepared themselves for Christ's return, these are those who truly abide in Him, and therefore they persevere even under the most difficult circumstances. And they have true confidence because their hope is in the trustworthiness of God. Again, John says this kind of hope God gives builds our confidence in the certain expectation and anticipation of Christ's return. It is an assurance of confidence because God has never failed to keep any of his promises. When God says I promise to do something, He has either done it or it will be done. And again, not only does that strengthen our confidence But it then leads to principle number two, which is it practices righteousness. And that brings us to verse 29. Notice again, verse 29, if you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone also who does righteousness has been born of him. It's funny, just reading that passage in light of the expectation of Christ's return and the hope that we have, there's almost this sense in which when you see somebody walking by faith and doing what the scriptures command and they are living and modeling the life of Christ, you can say to that person, I bet your hope is secure. And the answer would be absolutely. Absolutely. John says that the hope God gives is made visible by what we do. It is the evidence of true saving faith. Righteousness becomes the pattern of life for the person who hopes in God. And here John is completely unmasking the impostors who only say that they believe. He is saying to those who claim to be Christians but demonstrate an ungodly lifestyle, who really are you? Because you're not a Christian. The truth is they are those who do not practice righteousness. They may claim to be a child of God. They may say it with their lips. But the truth is they don't live it. And how do we know this? Because verse 29, John uses here two distinct Greek verbs for the word to know. He says, if you know intellectually that Christ is righteous, then you're also going to know by experience. that everyone who does righteousness is born of him. And I tell you, you'll know it. Yes. Amen. And that's because the Bible says that God acts in righteousness. Everything he does is righteous. And so also he imparts that righteousness to those who are his children. Psalm 11, verse 17 says, For Yahweh is righteous, and he loves righteousness. The upright will behold his face The Lord is righteous because of who he is and what he has done. He is always the one who does what is right because his judgments are righteous. If righteousness characterizes God, then John says you and I should also expect his children to behave in the same manner. 1 Peter 1, verses 14 through 16 tells us that true believers shouldn't act the way that they did prior to coming to Christ. Why? Because that's not who you are. He says, as obedient children, not being conformed to the former lusts which were yours in your ignorance, but like the Holy One who called you, be holy yourselves also in all your conduct. Because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. This is why a true believer will always be characterized by a pattern of righteous behavior. And again, not that it's perfect in every way, but that it is the constant direction of a person's life. who is characteristically different from that of their former lusts. A believer, a believer's true hope, is realized when he or she practices true and righteous Living. Those who claim to know God but refuse to live righteously discredit themselves before God and others And so here we see that if you are living righteously, true hope is an evidence that you are practicing righteousness. Not only does the assurance of hope strengthen our confidence and practice righteousness, but thirdly, true biblical hope reaffirms God's love. It reminds us that we are God's children. I love this. Take a look again at chapter 3, verse 1. We know this verse. We've quoted it probably ourselves. But here John says, see how great a love the Father has given to us, that we would be called children of God. And we are. For this reason, the world doesn't know us. Why? Because it does not know him. As we come to chapter 3, verse 1, John is literally overwhelmed with the thought of God's love being bestowed on him. Being bestowed on the church, on believers who are the true children of God. John says we're the recipients of God's magnanimous love. And how great is that? It's more than you and I would ever be able to comprehend. The phrase, see how great a love, is like saying, see how super, how colossal, how stupendous, how magnanimous, how incomprehensible is the love of God. Given to us. Because the truth is, that kind of love is the kind of God, kind of love God freely bestows on his children. And yet it's completely foreign to anything that we've ever experienced before God's love is so far beyond our comprehension, so far beyond anything that we could ever think or imagine, that it's hard to even fathom a fraction of it, which seems like what John is doing here And yet as God's children, his chosen children, he has freely given to us all of his love. We're the objects of God's unfathomable love For just as much as he loves his son, so God the Father also loves you and me. John says the Father has given to us his love. And as incomprehensible as that statement is, what it tells us is that God has given us all of his love as a gracious gift of his undeserving grace. And it should reaffirm us as his children. It is a gift that can never be earned. It is a gift that will never be deserved. And for eternity, it will be a gift, always a gift, that we will praise and thank God for. In fact, we will never exhaust. Our thanks for his love. John says all we need to do is to receive that gift, to receive his love. And we need to do so by faith. This is what transforms us. This is what changes us. And if you are sitting here this morning and you do not know Christ, His love is being poured out through Christ. Receive that love. Receive it. And again, as God's children, we are called into God's family. That means that He alone has allowed us to share in this heavenly inheritance. And through grace, through faith, by grace, through faith in Christ, we are given a new life and a new nature. And so what we couldn't do for ourselves, God did for us. He saved us, he sanctified us, and he did all of it simply because he loved us. This is why we are God's chosen children. And if that were not enough, John then gives an exclamation point in the middle of verse 1 by saying, and such we are. We are. Not only are we called to be God's children, we are God's children, John says. And that's the assurance of hope that He's given us. It is the reaffirmation of His great love. John then goes on to say in the rest of the verse. Again, for this reason the world doesn't know us because it did not know him. The truth is the world does not know God. Therefore, it cannot comprehend what it truly means to be the recipient of God's saving grace and love. John says, But you can? You can. How so? Because God knows us, and guess what? We know Him. We know Him. The assurance of hope That God gives us is that no longer, or that the longer that we abide in Him, the more we will become like Him and like Christ. And that brings us then to the fourth assurance of hope. The hope that God gives fulfills His promise to us by making us more like Christ, and so true biblical hope fulfills the likeness of Christ in us. It fulfills Christ's likeness. Chapter 3, verse 2. Beloved, that we are the children of God, and it has not been manifest as yet what we will be. We know that when he is manifested, we will be like him because we will see him just as he is. Do you know the day is coming when you're going to shed this carcass? When you are going to receive your glorified bodies, when you will be able to have the capacity to understand God in ways you cannot understand Him now. That you will be able to experience the love and the fullness of God's grace in a way that you cannot understand and experience that right now. That's what we're moving toward. The fulfillment of Christ's likeness in us When a sinner becomes a child of God, the moment that they come to saving faith, God makes us the promise that when he is manifested, we will be like him. Now we're not going to be like him as if to have the nature of God itself himself, but we will be like Christ in his glorified state. When he is manifested, John says, we are going to be what Paul describes in 1 Corinthians 15. The corruptible will put on incorruptibility, the earthly will put on the heavenly, the lowly will put become glorious. And when we see him, we will be like him, John says. Our bodies will be transfigured beyond anything we can possibly imagine now. And that's the assurance of hope that God gives us That the moment that we see him, we become like him in its fullness of all his glory. And that's the kind of assurance of hope that not only strengthens our confidence, it not only practices righteousness, it not only reaffirms God's love for us and fulfills Christ's likeness in us. But then finally it produces the assurance of absolute purity. Absolute purity. And now we've come full circle Because hope produces purity. Look at verse 3. And everyone who has this hope fixed on him. Purifies himself just as he is pure. Can you imagine being just as pure as Christ? If you know that someday you will be like Christ, then God has already given you the resources that you need to become like Him right now. And that's John's point. The promise of Christ will become your highest motivation, your greatest desire, because we know that when he appears, when our hope is fixed completely on him, we will not only be like him, but because heaven will not be a surprise to us. But it's because we will be where He always has designed us to be at peace in the presence of God Himself. Again, freed from the presence of sin altogether And how glorious that day will be. That certain expectation should purify our life here and now. And it will make certain that you belong to him just as he has promised to belong to you. Ultimately, you and I become whatever we worship, whatever the desire is of our heart. If we worship money, we become materialistic. If we worship power and prestige, we ultimately become cold and indifferent to others. It is important for us to remember that in the Old Testament, when the people of Israel gave themselves over to the worship of idols, their faith was revealed. to be something spiritually dead and lifeless, just as the stones they worshipped. Psalm 115 graphically tells us this Their idols are silver and gold, the work of man's hands. They have mouths, but they do not speak. They have eyes, but they do not see. They have ears but they do not hear. They have noses, but they cannot smell As for their hands, they do not feel. As for their feet, they do not walk. They do not make a sound with their throat And then the psalmist says this in verse 8: those who make them will become like them, everyone who trusts in them. That is what distinguishes us from the world. Again, we are like our Lord. We are living, and we are worshipful of the one true God. The point is you can be religious without ever knowing God. A false teacher, an apostate believer, they have no saving faith at all But those who put their hope in God, the Bible says they will become like God. John says that Christ is the only hope that we have. And only his work on the cross and his resurrection from the dead has the power to then give us this kind of hope and to save us eternally. It is the power of the gospel that makes us a child of God because it it leads us back to the one who is the Savior. Paul says, if Christ is in you, then you have the hope of glory. My prayer is that you will be encouraged to evaluate your own life here and now. Ask yourself, where is my hope? Those who have their hope in Christ will be strengthened to have the complete assurance of faith that God has given them. They will practice righteousness because they will be made to live like Christ. They will have the reaffirmation of God's saving love because of the depth of God's love given to us. They will fulfill Christ's likeness as a witness to the world, and they will produce an unimaginable purity of faith that will only grow stronger and greater in light of Christ's second coming. Oh, how we long to be with Christ. And I believe it's one of the reasons why John at the book of Revelation said, Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus. Until then, may we all learn to have an assurance of faith in God's future grace. To God be the glory alone. Amen? Let's pray. Father, thank you for your wonderful word. We thank you for the truth of the scripture. We thank you for the hope that we have because it is fixed firmly on Christ. Father, we are the ones Who have our hopes fixed for the future, a hope that is sure and steadfast, an anchor of the soul Father, we have opportunities before us each and every day to live out that hope by shining a light to an unbelieving world. Lord, I pray that you would so encourage us, motivate us, strengthen us, exhort us, command us. To share that hope with others that we would be able to show Christ to those who truly need Christ. But to show it to those who are ready to receive Christ. O Lord, to see the manifestation of that kind of hope. Gives us such joy because one day we will be in glory and experience the fulfillment of it Father, help us not to worry about the day-to-day circumstances of life. But help us every day to remind ourselves our hope is in you. We thank you, Father, for this, and we pray this. In Jesus' name, Amen