Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the peaceable wisdom of your word to remind us, God, to store up our treasures in heaven. That although we exist here in the temporal realm, may we not forget the eternality of our souls and that our real treasure is you Lord it's Christ and so while we seek to have wisdom to learn how to live here on the earth May we always not forget that you are our true reward and heaven is our true home. So Father, I pray that as Dr. Newheiser brings us this word That you would help our hearts to be soft and teachable in the the good soil. Your word would de have deep roots within our hearts. Thank you for bringing Dr. Newheiser all the way from California, this technology that I don't understand, Lord, that you are using to bless this church during these strange times. Thank you, Father, for the ways you serve the church globally and locally, Father. What a blessing Dr. Newheiser and Caroline are to the body of Christ. We praise you, Father, and give you glory in all things. Jesus' name, Amen. Okay. Um I Wanted to give just an overview of some topics relating to finances. I'm going to assume uh most of you are married and yet I don't want to ignore those who are not married. Actually I have advice for those who are not married as we keep going. And what I I wanted to take an approach that kind of How do we help people? And this could be helping some of you in terms of your own financial issues. It also can be in terms of, you know, like just like Laura was in the class however many years ago it was. uh how do you counsel your friends? We're all counselors, you know, Romans 15, 14, where Paul says, concerning you, I'm convinced you're full of goodness, full of knowledge, able to counsel or admonish each other and so helping others with wisdom and maybe you've got your financial house in perfect order but you have friends who are struggling. Um and one thing that I think about, like especially when you do premarriage counseling, is it can really help to understand the family background of a husband and a wife kind of as they go into marriage or even once they are married when you just realize well um the husband's family, you know, his parents were people who bought the latest gadget. They always had the latest phone and today's if it was today's technology. uh they buy now, pay later. Um then the wife's family might have been frugal, savers. Never throw anything away, you know, eat the food that's past expiration date because we can't throw anything away in the fridge even in terms of attitudes like a med debt, even kind of in terms of generosity. One of the real blessings in my life with Caroline is that She came from a family where giving of a certain percentage was just that's what should be done. And Caroline is by nature very generous. Actually the only financial conflict we've ever had in marriage have not been over her well we've had two. One is over she's unwilling sometimes to spend money on herself and so I have to go shopping with her and there's actually a nice outlet mall here in San Clemente She won't buy it unless I'm standing there and saying, yes, you can have it, yes we can afford it, it's okay. I realize some husbands have the opposite problem and and maybe you deal this way with uh your husband as well. Actually now I'm thinking of other So I've got three conflicts now. Um that would be one. Another would be Caroline is very, very, very generous, which is a great quality when you're usually the recipient of the generosity But uh when she is in our marriage she's had money of her own, and what she does with it is buy stuff for other people And if that were to run out, she'd want more money to buy stuff for other people. And so uh in fact we would said like especially early in our marriage when money was tighter, we'd say, well here's how much we can afford for Christmas gifts and That was in my mind a maximum and in her mind a baseline. And uh and so we had to work that through And I just remember w we've had very few conflicts over money, but I do remember one time, the only time I remember we had a conflict, and she's sitting here looking at me as I'm talking. And you know I w I've been around seminary students actually for the last 34 years, now teaching in the seminary full time. And a lot of seminary students, and I don't know if your husbands are this way, the conflict is over men who buy lots and lots of books And uh you know what's the book budget. In my case, uh several years ago, I had opportunity to buy a manuscript of a Spurgeon sermon that he had actually hand corrected you know 140 years ago or something. It was a lot of money. And Um sh it was the only time I've ever seen Caroline kind of initially hesitant, like, is this really where you want to be spending this money? And um I actually em embarked on a strategy of making more money in extra ways so that I could justify the purchase and I finally got it, but I also felt like I wasn't comfortable doing it unless we were united, which is a big principle about marriage as well. Carolyn and I do a lot of marriage counseling together. Actually, most marriage problems we do address together working with couples. And I found that most of the people like we have people coming at IBCD, that most of the people who came in for counseling over various issues Uh ma money was very often one of the issues about which they were having conflict, and yet My understanding would be that until the relationship is on solid ground and uh the really the the the bitterness, the uh animosity, the frustration is resolved. It's kind of pointless to try to get people to live by a budget Uh most financial problems are relationship problems where um and I've even seen c many cases where one spouse is spending money selfishly almost as an act of revenge on on the other spouse. And that's not the topic for today, and this is something I know Laura knows a lot about, and I'm sure many of you do. But so much of our marriage counseling is kind of generalized biblical peacemaking If you've seen the material by Ken Sandy, we actually keep in our Bibles these folders summarizing biblical peacemaking principles. There are a series of Audios with outlines actually on the IBCD website going through four-part series on biblical peacemaking where uh you get the log out of your own eye, uh you know, you learn how to biblically confront people. Galatians 6. 1. If someone's caught in a trespass, you who are spiritual, restore them gently. Um forgiving each other. Um I find it's a ex is kind of a Overlapping passage in in Proverbs I think it's chapter twenty-four, verse thirty. And this relates both to finances and to marriage. In verse thirty, he says, I passed by the field of the sluggard and by the vineyard of the men lacking sense. And behold, it was completely overgrown with thistles, and its surface was covered with metals, and its stone wall was broken down. When I saw it, I reflected upon it. I looked and received instruction A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and your poverty will come as a robber, and your want like an armed man. Now, the most obvious and direct application of that passage is uh the Bible commends working hard as a means to being financially stable. And that's really important. That's actually advice for if you're single, don't marry a sluggard. You will regret it most all of your life But I want to apply it a little bit beyond, which is uh I use this passage a lot actually in kind of generalized marriage counseling where There are some cases where a husband and wife are working very hard in their careers or they're working hard in their finances to the neglect of their marriage. And so they their finances are not like the Sluggards field. They've got money. They own their house. But their marriage looks like the Sluggards field because it's been neglected And living in North Carolina the last five years in a more rural uh part of the country compared to having been in San Diego for almost 30 years. that we drive a lot out in the country in North and South Carolina and you see uh fields of cotton or used to be tobacco, other things and You'll see some fields where, you know, it's neatly neatly in rows and uh it's thriving and there's a big red barn and it all looks like it has, you know, it's great. And then you pass by other fields And you can see that weeds and thorn bushes are kind of growing up and you can kind of see where the crops used to be and maybe even from past years it's trying to grow again but it's not been cared for. The barn is the paint is peeling, the barn is sagging. And there are many marriages that look like the sluggards field. And actually The sad thing will be some marriages which are doing great financially are doing terrible in terms of the relationship together. uh just like the the Sluggard's field or these fields I see in North Carolina, um you can see at one time this field was productive. At one time uh this marriage was happy. I've sometimes I've thought about even having people like bring in me your bring your wedding photos to the first session. And at that time you didn't have weeds in your field probably and it was fruitful and you were happy together And then as the marriage went on, it sometimes I mean it's not due to outwardly fighting and doing horrible evil things to each other, it's just neglect. Again, ironically, sometimes neglect for the sake of money And because you're not spending time together, you're not praying together, you're not ministering together, you're not communicating, over time the field deteriorates. And the process of biblical conflict resolution is weeding the field in terms of confessing sin to God and each other, forgiving each other. uh dealing with difficult issues. And until the field has had the weeds and the thorn bushes pulled, which the Bible gives us uh the power in the gospel. The gosk the gospel is a kinda like roundup or something. You spray on the weeds and They can die and you and you can have this new start. But if if that isn't h if the relationship is poor, Two people who aren't cooperating well in life probably aren't going to be able to do a budget together. Um Laura mentioned that excuse me Uh Caroline had completed uh 365 days, now she's pushing 370, I think, of ten thousand steps a day And that's actually been our investment in our marriage. Uh my job has been to make sure she never misses. And we go and that's another thing. Living in San Diego, there was always a nice time to go walk three or four miles Uh living in North Carolina, it's almost always way too hot or way too cold. But we go and we talk. And it's much more than a physical health, it's for the health of our marriage. Now, our kids are grown, our youngest child is in his early thirties, so we're in a different place than some of you. But we found that that time where we talk through things, we're both doing a lot of counseling and and she'll talk about her cases, we talk about the cases we're doing together and and learning from each other and what we've been in the Word, that that investment or a marriage is far more important even than the physical benefits of uh walking so much. But I think as you're looking in your own life or you're looking at helping others the the field has to be weeded and you know the marriage itself has to be in good shape before you can work well together getting out of debt, keeping a budget, saving, etc. Another area that's been especially highlighted recently, and I don't know how familiar each of you is with this, but there's a lot of discussion in, I guess, the church at large and in biblical counseling circles in particular of a concern that in some marriages uh one partner can be excessively controlling in the area of finances and that can be uh in the case of it's usually uh often a husband which there's a difference between saying we're gonna have a budget, we're gonna agree upon it, we're gonna work on this together, and yet the husband is leading uh but the wife is uh included in decisions and is respected. There are some marriages that are falling short of the biblical ideal of the husband living with his wife in an understanding way uh and leading her in a Christ-like way when there is one party who is excessively controlling uh and not really showing respect to his wife. In Proverbs 31 It says the heart of her husband trusts in her. And so in a godly marriage, uh the husband shows respect to his wife. And I mean, in one sense, they both should be living by a budget, and you know He in North Carolina it's usually hunting and fishing on which people spend their money. Maybe in Southern California it's golf equipment. Uh but There should be the the way they handle money should reflect the way a husband and wife should relate to each other in general, in terms of loving leadership, joyful, following that leadership. uh working through decisions together with the husband, you know, having the final say typically. Uh but in some marriages there is a problem with uh some have called it hyperheadship or uh not respecting and including his wife appropriately. Some men have not been trained to do this and of course I think this is part of Genesis three where you know the woman is told your desire shall be for your husband, but he shall rule over you. And so, you know, ideally in matters of money, again you're you're dealing with this like you should be dealing with the rest of marriage um making decisions together, working together. And I know uh what I know with godly wives is usually what they want even is not just to have their way But they want their husband at least to listen to them and to pay attention to their concerns and to take them into consideration. Um now I've as Laura mentioned the the more recent book I wrote, which is kind of the most comprehensive thing. the Money, Dead and Finances book. And it can be kind of used as a reference. I'm actually later on going to take one of the chapters in the book that I may be walking through a minefield, but since I don't know you, I don't know whose landmines I will be stepping on There are also there's a little tiny mini book with the with um New Growth Press specifically dealing with financial crisis and then there's one that could be good for a couple little thin thing, a thirty-one day devotional on financial issues. But uh you know question, well why why do people have financial trouble? And we've already read from Proverbs 24, some people are lazy. And it is really hard to be married to someone who is not uh ambitious and working hard. Now different people have different capacities and there there are some uh men and women who have a just tremendous skills and others who don't, but at least they should be diligent. I mean the woman in Proverbs thirty-one, you know, is one thing that characterizes her when when the king's mother is telling him how to choose a wife But this this woman is a woman who is busy working hard. She's a woman who actually contributes to the financial resources of the family. It's also a chapter where you have people today saying that profit is bad or capitalism is bad, but it says of the woman in Proverbs 31, she sees that her gain is good. The Lord has designed uh the the system, I guess, of finances, uh where you know the hand, Proverbs 10, the hand of the diligent makes rich. And then also in Proverbs 2229, I believe that's the verse where it says, Do you see a man skilled in his work? He will stand before kings, he will not serve ordinary men. That summarized in the book is you enjoy prosperity financially by working hard, not being a sluggard, but also working smart. Uh there are some people who have limited skills and if they're making $9 an hour, you could work a whole lot of hours and not be able to afford a very nice lifestyle, even if you're working 60 or 70 hours a week. There's some people who have skills that the market is willing to pay, you know, $100 an hour for. I had a friend who was an intellectual property attorney and he could in a 15-minute phone call make more money than perhaps I made in a day. because he had a unique skill, nationally recognized. Um and so, you know, in terms of financial trouble, some have financial trouble because they're lazy, but also some people uh don't have the skills to make a lot of money in a short period of time And the Bible commends the acquisition of skills. That's where you think of your children and to be choose an area to study that will produce income and it could be a trade. Uh plumbers make a lot of money where I live and air conditioner repairmen and people like that. So some people it's a lack of income and the Bible has solutions of gaining more skill than working hard And then some people are careless with debt, and you know the verses in scripture that talk about this verse Proverbs 22, 7 says, the rich rules over the poor, and the borrower becomes the lender's slave. One thing I tried to say, especially the most recent book, is the benefits of the timeless wisdom of the Word of God. The grass withers, the flower fades, the Word of God stands forever. And even though we live thousands of years after Solomon wrote Proverbs, uh And we have cryptocurrencies and online banking and all the complexities of our culture now. The basic principles of scripture are timeless and they apply and The Bible tells us that debt is unwise. The Bible and it would the Bible would teach a deferred gratification. And of course part of the problem will be that when people idolize money or what they can have With debt, uh, they can make foolish decisions. Dave Ramsey has become very famous for helping people to get out of debt by various means Actually, my pitch to the publisher about this book is I wanted it to be kind of an exegetically and theologically rich approach, uh not saying that Dave Ramsey's approach is all wrong, but wanted it to be more substantial biblically. But you know, there are people who get into financial trouble because of debt. And we s I mean this is at a governmental level, it's a corporate level, it's a personal level. And then some people have financial trouble but calamity. So you have businesses this last year with COVID where People were working hard and they'd established a good business, but it happened to be a business that was badly affected by COVID. You had a travel agency, you had a a restaurant that didn't have a way to do outdoor seating or what didn't you know some people struggled through it, okay we'll do delivery, we'll do this or that Um but you know bad things can happen, tornadoes, hurricanes, famines, droughts. Um and that's also We get further why it's so important to be connected to family and church so that we can be there for each other. When people are having financial struggles, rather than just starting with the bad fruit And if you look like at a tree and the bad fruit would be overspending and debt and um you know laziness or something. If Jesus said if you want to make uh the the tree you have to make the tree good if the fruit is going to be good. And so rather than just set you know helping people say, well boy, we need a budget, which could be the case Why do people overspend? 1 Timothy 6 says it's the love of money, which is the root of every kind of evil. And so when people make an idol either out of having money or out of having what money can buy, uh the root of every kind of evil, people have committed every sin. They've broken every one of the Ten Commandments I guess the tenth would be uh covetousness, the love of money, for the sake of the love of money. And so we need to replace that love with a better love. One of my favorite passages dealing with our propensity to make an idol out of various things, and this money is just one of the things to refer to is Isaiah 55, verses 1 and 2. Where the Lord declares, Ho, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. You who have no money, come buy and eat, come buy wine and milk without money and without cost. Why do you spend money for what is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfy? Listen carefully to me and eat what is good, and delight yourself in abundance. And so the Lord, in his great kindness to us, again we're tempted to say, wow, my friend I was with yesterday is about to buy one of the new electric Mustangs Wouldn't it be cool to have an electric Mustang? I get a red one and uh you know that would be so fun. Here I am driving my old Toyota. that is boring. I could have an electric Mustang. And I start thinking about how my life would be improved and you know, my neighbors would be impressed or whatever motivates me. It would smell good, it would go fast, it would I could feel positive of myself for being green or something. And I'm not saying it's sinful to buy one if the Lord has given you the resources to do so. But we we can tend to idolize it. Actually, the the electric mustang does not attract me. That Spurgeon manuscript uh did grip my heart a bit And the delay between when I got it and when I wanted it w part of it was somebody else might buy it first and then I will not ever have it. And um Then what Isaiah 55 is saying is why do you spend your money for what is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfy? Is that and this passage can be applied to people who misuse alcohol, who misuse inappropriate things on the internet Uh and material things where boy if I just had the iPhone 12 or 15 or whatever the lake next one is going to be, I got this clunky old iPhone 8 and you know and and but then when you get it there's this little buzz initially But then you feel about you know a week later you feel about the way you did when you didn't have that nice gadget. Because earthly things will never bring the ultimate satisfaction. And that's why the Lord is saying, that which satisfies your soul is Christ. He's the one who is the living water. He is the one who gives us the bread of life. You know, and it it's something free, without money, without cost. And so it's not just to to put off covetousness and put off the illusion that if I just had this thing I would be happy, but it's also to put on that my ultimate satisfaction comes from the Lord. It doesn't mean I can't enjoy the good things that God has given me. Paul actually repeatedly um warns against kind of a false asceticism. And so, you know, even when he instructs the rich in 1 Timothy 6 That God richly supplies us with all things to enjoy. He's not saying repent of being rich. It's just a secondary enjoyment. It's not the primary enjoyment. So we we put it in its place. So again, many make an idol, and we have a world which says, buy now, enjoy now Again, dealing with our hearts, which is positively like when Paul talks in 1 Timothy 6 and Philippians 4, Paul says, I've learned the secret of contentment. is to be satisfied in the Lord, to to be satisfied knowing that God has sovereignly given me what I have. And so uh actually like right now most of our friends in Charlotte are seminary students and their wives and these are people while they're um Their siblings and their friends from college are embarking on their careers and they're buying houses and they're driving new cars. And here are my seminary student friends And they're living in small apartments and they're working and doing church and they're being overloaded by mean professors like me with all this work they have to do. And it can be really tempting for them to say, wow, if I'd have just gone into business, if I'd have just gone into engineering or whatever, and those are legitimate things to do. But that uh to be content saying, God is giving me all I need. I have you know, Paul says if I have food and clothing with these I should be content. So it's It's learning to put the Lord first, to make him the object of our worship and satisfaction, to taste and see that the Lord is good. And then to be thankful um and to be satisfied in him that hi the treasure of of knowing him and growing in him is more satisfying than the empty promises that money and it's what it can buy can bring. Are there other reasons also in terms of financial troubles? James 4 warns uh That what's the source of quarrels and conflicts among you is not the source the desires that wage war in your members, you desire or you lust and you don't you do not have? Then he says, So you kill. And You know, you harm each other. Uh I've I've seen situations. So again, one of my early counseling cases with IBCD back in the 90s Uh there was a guy actually two like this where you have a a young husband who's working in a career, he's working very hard, and his wife is spending money faster than this poor guy can make money. And when we got to the root of it and you say, well why is she spending so much money? And she's going to the mall and she's buying, you know, eyeglasses that cost more than or sunglasses that cost more than half my wardrobe And initially we thought the reason was that she thought her her life would be happy if she had the designer eyeglasses and the designer purse. But as we got into it, we realized the real problem was she was envious of her husband's devotion to his work. And this was a way of kind of punishing him. Like you're gonna spend sixty hours a week at work and you're gonna neglect me and you're trying to make lots of money, well I'm gonna mess up the very thing you're trying to uh achieve. And so it's kind of back to the Sluckard's field as this guy's financial field was in good shape, his marriage was overgrown with weeds She obviously needed to repent of her uh sinful response to his neglect But he also needed to realize that his wife had in his marriage had more need than just him making buckets of money Um many people are just undisciplined and my verse for budgeting and One of my favorite verses in Proverbs is Proverbs 21:5, which says, The plans of the diligent lead to advantage, but whoever is hasty comes to poverty. And a budget is a plan, and it's kind of on the premise that God has, in his kindness, generally given us the resources we need But if we don't plan how we're going to spend them, we will run out of money very quickly. And so one thing I do in the book and others have done this as well, and we have said spreadsheets online you can try to fill out. But People, I think we all need to live within the means that God has given us and a budget where you make a plan, you know, can I afford this? Can I afford this? What is reasonable Is a very important aspect of being a good steward. And I use Proverbs 21:5 for being a steward of our time as well as we have a limited amount of time, we have a limited amount of money We want to use it wisely to honor God as good stewards. And if you don't plan, you will run out and you will go into debt Uh there's some people who will claim that budgeting is too difficult or they don't need a budget or the money's all gone out the door anyway. A lot of counseling has been sitting down with people and even going back over their expenses, trying to you know, with debit card or credit card uh statements trying to re you know, rebuild what they've been doing and where the money has been going and finding leaks that are You know, two Starbucks a day for a family on a tight budget is the difference between uh debt and uh savings perhaps Another verse I would use for those who would say they don't need a budget would be Proverbs 2612. There are also people who sometimes have uh unbiblical attitudes towards money. I've already mentioned, like in Proverbs 31, uh that She considers a field and buys it from her earnings. She plants a vineyard. And then in verse 18, she senses her gain is good. And so The Bible does not teach socialism. The Bible does not teach that profit is bad. Profit, be it profit from working or producing products is when you've people gladly give you money because what you've given them in terms of your labor or your uh product you created is worth to them to give up that money. It's worth more than the money they gave you because you've given them something valuable. And then another aspect I think is really important is that all work, legitimate work, is good. And that was something that Luther especially brought out in the Reformation. Pastors and priests and uh people in ministry would say missionaries today who are serving God Colossians 3. 17, whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to him, through him to God the Father. And then In uh chapter, uh later in the chapter, he tells even servants or slaves, whatever you do, do your work heartily is for the Lord and not for men. And so I think it really helps for us as believers, and this could be for some, you've chosen the vocation of homemaker. where you're spending your time being a help to your husband, training your children, doing ministry in the church. That's a vocation too, even if it's not paying you a ton of money. Or some of you may be involved in other vocations as well, to see this not just as a necessary evil, but as we beg the Bible begins with God Himself working And Jesus actually says, my Father is working even until now in the Gospels. And so work is a good and noble thing. And uh we we should see as working is our work as being in the image of God and for the glory of God. Uh when I finished the book Sorry, Charlie, I need something from me. So there you when I finished the book, um, I had to decide to whom to dedicate the book and I probably wisely dedicated my marriage book, which is similar to this, to my wife. But in this book, when I wrote the dedication, I actually dedicated the book To those who have given generously to my church, to IBCD, to Reform Theological Seminary, and they're people to whom God has given exceptional skill in their work to make lots of money So that we can have churches and missionaries and seminaries. And I'm very thankful to God for those people who chose to be generous with what they have. So work is a great blessing And some people have a really poor attitude towards work. So the next section on the law outline I gave Laura is just saying, well, what do you do when you're having trouble financially? Um and that's back to what I said is the the biblical formula of working hard and working smart. I quoted the verses in Proverbs ten. Uh the hand of the diligent makes rich. Do you see a man skilled in his work, he'll stand before kings. And so Some cases in families where things are tight, um it may be that if right now you have $17 an hour skill and you need to make twenty-five dollars an hour for the budget to work out rather than complaining to your employer he's not paying you what you want. You develop skills that make you more valuable to an employer so they'll want to pay you more. You You take a course, you become an apprentice, you you you increase, you have to increase either the hours worked or the pay per hour. And so the biblical formula for many people is gain the skills and God has made us differently and so you know like my wife you would not tell her to go become an engineer because that's not math is not her thing uh but there are other things she's tremendously gifted at. Uh so you in light of who you are, you uh you do that. And then I want to talk for a few minutes about the warning the Bible gives. And this is also again just the wisdom of the Word of God, written thousands of years ago Giving us warnings against various get-rich quick schemes. Proverbs twenty-eight, verses nineteen and twenty. He who tills his land will have plenty of food, but whoever follows empty pursuits will have poverty and plenty. A faithful man will abound with blessings, but he who makes haste to be rich will not go unpunished. And it's interesting that again, 3,000 years later, uh God has basically said if you want to earn money, there are two things you should do. You should work hard and you should work smart. You should have a valuable skill that people are competing to hire you because you're so good at what you do. uh and then you work long and hard and you know the multiplier so that's God's way of earning income and creating wealth And yet human nature is people want to find a way to make a lot of money very quickly without putting in much labor. And you know, we still, because we're still the boomer generation, we actually read the newspaper every day. Although it's kind of discouraging to do that. And I've noticed in the Charlotte newspaper, every single day on page two or three, there's a headline about somebody who won a million dollars or five million dollars in the lottery And uh the lottery is the ultimate foolish get-rich quick scheme, as is gambling, in that it it's irrational in terms of you have this one in millions chance and There are many people who can't can barely afford their rent and the food they eat, who are spending money. I think Dave Ramsey calls it a massive tax on the ignorant or the foolish. uh to and they call it the education lottery. Well if people were educated they wouldn't waste their money, uh especially if it's money they can't afford to spend when they have other responsibilities. But there are other ways as well where you know here's a way that you can without much effort, without gaining any new skills, you can make a ton of money and solve all your financial troubles. Those almost always end badly. And so now I'm going to walk into a minefield, not knowing, and this may produce questions, but one of the chapters in my book, and so I want to I want to say it very carefully, Is one way that people and many wives actually try to improve their financial situation is various home-based businesses And I think that that can be a good thing. Um you know, we have friends who like teaches piano lessons and she can uh you know, with her kids around she can teach the piano lessons and and add money Uh the one of the most common ways of doing this, and this is again where I I appreciate my ignorance of I don't know what your situation is, is uh through various multi-level marketing um uh operations. And I did write a chapter, the the book is in a question and answer format, and I wrote a chapter saying should Christians participate in multi-level marketing organizations? And this is something that I've observed actually when my wife and I were first married Uh there were various multi-level marketing groups. And one thing I've observed is they typically enlist or recruit Christians because usually with multi- it's called network marketing is another marketing is another way of describing it is you operate among family and friends in your personal network to get them to buy your product or even better to get them to sell the product so you can make money off of them selling it under you And churches have been probably the most common place where these organizations have thrived because we're networked We've got a group of uh you know 100, 200, 300, however many people, 500 people who trust each other, who like each other. Um and I've seen uh but even I'll tell you a story from we were first married. And I want to start off by saying I think this is a matter of Christian freedom And I would not say thou shalt not participate in a network marketing organization, but I would give you some cautions about that Um when Carla and I were first married and we just graduated from college and we kind of engaged in a church where I'd been converted in high school and it was really different. Now we're engaging as adults rather than kids And I remember uh we had a two or three different couples invite us over. And I thought, oh, how nice is that? They they have hospitality and they want to have us over and want to get to know us But then it was long before the dessert was served that they started making their pitch. And back then it was Mway. And again, if somebody here's doing Mway, I'm not judging Mway, but in this case uh I realized the reason I'm here is not because they want to be my friend. The reason I'm here is they want me to start selling Amway under them. There was another one that was actually an insurance and investment thing that people did. And it kind of go it can go through a church organization on the virus might be a bit um a pejorative analogy, but you know, it it can kind of spread through and and different people handle it different ways. There was one couple when they asked us and I just said, no, I know about Mway. I'm not really interested in Mway And then they just carried on, they were friendly after that. That was better. But I had a couple of other experiences. Like as soon as they realized I was not a prospect. that uh they didn't want to talk you like you know I they didn't exactly show us the door, but I'm not even sure they wanted to give us the dessert And so these are these again they they can have benefits, but there is some some risk. But again, in the book I say you're free. You know, in Proverbs 31, the woman is buying and selling things. And so You can, you know, it's it's a freedom that some people have. And actually I'm speaking from the perspective that in the church I was a pastor in in San Diego We had a couple groups of people who were involved in various multilevel marketing or network marketing organizations, and some of them were incredibly successful And I actually mean it's kind of funny, I almost think the church's budget was probably greatly enhanced assuming these people were giving out of what they made. And and I could never tell them this is not what you should do But I think it is also appropriate to to recognize some potential warnings. And I did some research you know, online and various resources terms of some risks with multi-level marketing or network marketing, and that is that Statistically, most people who participate in network marketing don't make money. Um the the percentage who make a lot of money, there are some people who who make a tremendous amount of money, but it's it's very small. Uh one estimate was that probably 1% or less could actually earn a living through their network marketing. Um and then many people who do this wind up being dissatisfied in the end Another concern would be uh in s again I'm not speaking about any particular marketing or thing. I'm not referring to Amway or oils or whatever in particular, but in general it's an inefficient way of develop delivering goods. You know, if I want to buy I was going to think of something like cosmetics, which I don't buy, but my wife wants to buy cosmetics, it would make sense that if you go to Costco where you know, the ma the where it's extremely efficient, they've got pallets of cosmetics and you can buy that, that's gonna be cheaper delivery cost than an individual having to come to your home and give it to you. And so, you know, having you know that much kind of time being invested is going to increase the price not only the fact that you have to pay the person who's bringing you to cosmetics has to get his cut, her cut the person above them in the network and the person above them in the network plus the company. And so there's gonna be a lot less markup if you're buying it from Walgreens or Costco Um and again there's an example like laundry soap might be a more appropriate example that you're if you're buying a giant tub of laundry soap from Costco, there's gonna be a lot less mark a lot less markup on that than if you buy it from somebody who brings it to your house. Now the way that they'll overcome that is say, well, but our product is completely different than any other product, which is why you have to get our product, which I'll address that in a minute Another concern is that it's very awkward to recruit family and friends where you know many of us would find that uncomfortable. That's the major reason the most common reason why people drop out is that. I've already given you an example. I can strain relations. And then I'm also concerned that there there are potential sins that could be associated. I'm not saying it always happens But one could be a greed. And again, greed can be true of other ways of making money as well, but When we were first married, when Charles and I were first married, we actually uh we would house one way we supplemented my meager income when we were first married. is we would house sit for people. So uh the mom and dad would go on vacation and we would watch the kids for a week. I'd go to work and I'd be the dad and uh Caroline would be home with the kids all day And there was one family uh that was well off and they were involved in a multi-level marketing organization. What was interesting is is they were all into it and following the scheme that all over the house there were posted pictures of fancy vacations. Vacation in Tahiti. You know giant sports car you're gonna get. Uh all the possessions. So it's it's like it was a psychological motivation that you need to go out and sell and recruit. And I mean even like on the rearview mirror of their car that we would drive and there's just all over the place are slogans about making money and pictures of how great it would be. And I felt uncomfortable about that. Um, you know, that again, First Timothy six, those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction. So that becomes a focus. Another concern would be there can be uh a violation of I think it's the Ninth Commandment in terms of false or misleading c claims being made. Uh And then again, it would be an individual thing. So I know people who are aware of these concerns, who are involved in network marketing and are trying to avoid them But a concern would be there's often an overstatement of the likelihood of success. If you get involved in this, you can make so much money when really The likelihood is fairly small. Sometimes there's an oversell of what the products can do. I'm going to give a specific example Of some products that have health claims. Actually, some products that have health claims even that are like psychotropic drugs, where if you rub this product on your head You're now gonna your anxieties will be relieved. Well, the Bible has answers for anxieties too. Be anxious for nothing and everything by prayer and supplication with Thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to God and the peace of God which passes all understanding will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. And yet no, this this stuff you put on your head, that's going to make you calm. It's going to relieve your anxiety Um there have been cases even of claims of kind of miraculous cures in the place of uh what medicine from conventional medicine can do uh that is not supported necessarily by data and there have actually been we had cases in our church where these claims were made and it did not happen and um and then sometimes just overstating claims of expertise where uh implying you have medical knowledge or scientific knowledge that aren't um You don't. Uh another concern would be just misusing relationships with other Christians where I've been concerned sometimes that if these people were as zealous for evangelism as they were for getting people to sell their product. uh we probably would have a lot more people in our church. And so look at the danger of looking at other people as prospects for your business, especially in the context of the church. as opposed to looking to other people as uh brothers and sisters with whom you share. Ray Deathhorne states, nobody likes to find out that an apparent friendship is nothing more than a sales strategy Uh and this is the thing in our church we had to kind of talk to some of the people, not telling them they weren't if they were perfectly free to engage in multi-level marketing or network marketing. But to be really careful about that, which is kind of the last one is sometimes the multi-level marketing can almost come create a community which is separate from the church where you had the in-crowd who were involved in this group and they were all kind of tight and if you were in that group you were a bit excluded Or even they're so engaged that they have meetings all the time about their group that it uh keeps them from the church. So That's just an area of caution. Like I said, I have no idea whose toes I stepped on or what landmines. Maybe none, but I will you know I'll leave it there for now. A few other things before I stop and take some questions. I've already talked about the Bible says uh avoiding debt. The Bible teaches that preparing for the future is wise. There's a lot in my book about savings, insurance. I I hope each of you has a will, especially if you have children, so that uh your people left behind will know your wishes for who will take care of them and you know you want to be a good steward of your resources. And a will is a loving act towards the people left behind so that your wishes will be known and they can be followed. Another thing I've already mentioned would be to have strong ties with your church community. A picture of the early church was when people were committed to the church. and they were in poverty, uh the others came around them, so there were no poor, there were no hungry among them. A big emphasis there in the church was caring for widows and orphans. And so It's very sad sometimes when Christians face calamity, professing Christians, they're not connected to a church, then they show up asking for help when they weren't members to begin with. Um and then ultimately we put our hope in God and not in our wealth Um I have a few other principles in the outline I'll skip over because of time. I just wanted to bring you to kind of my favorite uh thought on finances, which is Second Corinthians chapter eight, verse nine, where it's interesting how When Paul is appealing to the church in Corinth to give for the support of the poor in Judea during the famine, the basis of his appeal is what Christ has done for us. He says, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. And so it's kind of an irony because in Proverbs, taking on the debt of others is treat it as like one of the most foolish things you could do. Co-signing for somebody's debt, being surety for somebody else's debt. There's even a warning in Proverbs like if you cosign for somebody, they may take your bed out from underneath you. And yet here it says Jesus co-signed our debt. Jesus took on the debt we could not pay. He impoverished himself. to take away the debt of our sin, which was an infinite debt. And then not only did he make, he did not just merely make us debt-free, but he enriched us with his righteousness He didn't just pay off the debt of our sin, but his righteousness is imputed or counted to us so that now we are spiritually rich. And those are the riches that matter. The treasure he's acquired for us, the the standing we have before God. And that's how Paul motivates the Corinthians to give generously because In light of Christ's grace to you, and in light of the fact you're rich in the way that matters, that is what empowers you to see money as a tool to glorify God, to help others, and not as an end of itself. So I will stop there and see if anybody has any questions about what I've said or anything else. Okay, well hi, I'm coming back up. During um okay, hey. Um during the lesson I had quite a few women um bring questions back to me here in the room. Dr. Newheiser, first I just want to say thank you. Um I feel that um it's still an appropriate word to use for the wisdom the way the Lord's gifted you is balanced. I I believe that there's truth and grace in the way that you administer the word and I'm very thankful for your knowledge given to us today from the word So I have one question I want to start off with because it goes to the topic of removing the weeds and thistles from your field in marriage. What if the wife is the higher earner in a home and that's creating conflict in marriage the spouse is is a sluggard already um and resents her higher income and there's constant conflict and arguments. Uh is there a way to um have an equitable or a separate account. Can the wife have a separate account for her money so the husband doesn't keep spending all the money of the finances when he's ignored good counsel and wisdom Um what sort of advice would you give to a wife that's just struggling in this situation? Okay. Um so I guess I would want to know a lot more. The situation you've described is becoming more and more common. And I've seen situations where the wife earns more But the husband is diligent in his life anyway, and so there are tensions, but the husband is faithful to what God has called him to do, and he's a guy that may Have $15 an hour skill and he's got a wife who has $50 an hour skill. But it maybe he winds up doing more around the house, which is kind of a role reversal of the traditional marriage. Um but I've seen situations where the wife, even though she's earning more, is not resentful, bitter, controlling. And the husband is appreciative and works hard as well, where it can work. What you were describing, especially if the husband is lazy Uh these are sins that there's no easy solution immediately. But I would say if he professes to be a believer, the wife has the right to Galatians 6, 1 to confront him if he's in sin. And quite frankly, being a sluggard is a horrible sin. There's no greater fool in Proverbs than the sluggard. And so if he is acting like a sluggard, I think she has the right to confront him, and if he will not listen, then you're in Matthew 18, and she has the right to get help. And some husbands will abuse their authority by saying, well, you're not allowed to get help. Well, the Bible says you can get help. Matthew 18 doesn't say after you confront the other person and that they won't listen to you. If it's your husband, you gotta stop if he tells you to, it says if you will not listen, then you bring in two or three others. And so uh and the purpose in Galatians six one is you want to restore him. It's not just I want to win this fight. It's his soul is in danger to be wasting his life this way. And so I think if he professes to be a Christian, then I think that um She has the right to get help to address these root sin issues of selfishness, laziness, whatever else came along. I would say that another aspect would be as a church officer, elder, and his wife perhaps are giving her advice, let's say he's not a Christian, or let's say he's not listening. Um I would think that I have two places in the Bible I would go to say that there may be situations where for the sake of her family uh she would take action that he did not agree with. Uh and the woman in Proverbs 31 is not a micromanaged woman. She's a woman who's buying fields and selling stuff and her husband's there sitting in the city gate, not a sluggard, but he's with the elders of the land. But she seems to have control over her finances and is not microman being micromanaged by him as she contributes to the family But my real example would be 1 Samuel 25 with Abigail, where Abigail's foolish husband, Nabal, was going to bring the family to utter ruin by insulting David, who was about to wipe them all out And Abigail essentially goes completely against her husband, and she's portrayed as a woman of wisdom and discretion as she takes resources of the family, which is a whole lot of food, which is wealth to them to feed David's people to save her family from utter disaster. And so I think there could be situations that are so extreme where the wife could segregate her savings, her inheritance. And I would say again to be under the counsel of an elder wife while she's doing this. But I've seen cases where s this I think would could fall into the realm of hyperheadship where you have a man who is lazy and his wife is making a bunch of money. I'd even see he's using it to buy drugs, he's using it to you know, be gamble or whatever. I don't think submission means she just hands over the paycheck to him to snort, smoke, and gamble it away partially as a steward of what God has given her, partially as um you know for the protection like Abigail was doing towards her own family. I watched two cases that broke in hindsight broke my heart where women with in one case it was a husband, he wasn't a real slugger, he was just extremely unwise And she got an inheritance and he just blew through it. And the other one was kind of a sluggard, but same thing. Is rather it they You know, she you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars from a mother who passed away and the the foolish husband uh they had nothing to show for it because it kind of enabled him not to work. And so yes, I think there could be circumstances with under the care and oversight of godly counsel where a wife might uh protect that money from a foolish husband. Thank you. That was very helpful and wise, even to my own heart just thinking about that We have a another question saying, can you speak to the financial risks that are inherent in entrepreneurship? You know, you're talking about the MLMs. I think you actually handled that very balanced in my opinion. But but how to best establish and maintain a business in a financially and biblical sound way when you're trying to be an entrepreneur. And to start a business. Right. That's almost a whole other book to tell it in detail. But I think the verses I was quoting about do you see a man skilled in his work, he'll stand before kings is they're There are people whom God has gifted as entrepreneurs. My brother in law. Uh the like the the people who enable me to work full time in ministry, there's some of them that are just really good. There's some people that make a lot of money, like I've A son who works for Amazon and he's super skilled in computers and he makes more money than the rest of us put together. Uh but there are other people who just know how to run a business. These are, I think, God-given skills And so part of it is you have to assess, just like I should not become a plumber. There's some people who should not become entrepreneurs. And if you have those skills, then yeah, yeah, you those are skills to me like being a computer programmer or a plumber and you're trying to find an opening and and there's great risk and there's great reward. Uh I think again we would not have business without entrepreneurs and some people are so gifted they can do that and other people ought to work for the entrepreneurs and help them to be successful and it's kind of a a self-assessment thing. There's not a right answer. Everybody should be an entrepreneur or Uh yeah, so the risks uh I think a lot of times people who want to be entrepreneurs have not the skill and even they say, Oh, I'm gonna open a restaurant. Well Most of those fail. You know, there's some niche you see where you can provide a service better than other people that will is likely to succeed rather than just yeah, so some people Who aren't really good at it try, and some people who are good make a boatload of money, which they can use for the glory of God That's a very helpful answer. I am married to an entrepreneur and the daughter of an entrepreneur and can tell you I am not an entrepreneur. There's a skill set for that. Speaking of skills, a sort of a tandem question here. In first, in what ways can an acquisition of skills be used in running a home for a homemaker that would then go on to benefit and save money uh for the home? And then is it ever wise to go into debt to acquire skills that would get more income? Yeah, yeah. So those are in my book, but I'm not gonna make you read it now. Um the woman in Proverbs 31 is an entrepreneur and has skills. She makes things that are valuable that she sells. So she She didn't she wasn't born with those skills, she acquired those skills somehow. And then she apparently she could buy fields and make more money and And so I think, you know, the g example I gave is teaching piano. But there can be there are a lot of businesses now where especially after COVID, people working at home and may be able to do marketing or they may be able to do tech support or yeah there's all kinds of jobs you can do where you try to fit it around your lifestyle with your children. Um husband, whatever your responsibilities are. So I think researching that in the in light of your personal aptitudes is good. I think it's a great question about going into debt to get a skill I write a lot in the book about avoiding debt, but for example, most of us can't pay cash for a house And you will in the long run usually be better off going into debt, paying about what you would have been paying in rent, and gradually pay off the house. And so there there are situations where like if you want to go to medical school, most of us can't pay two hundred thousand dollars whatever it costs to go to medical school, maybe five hundred, I don't even know what it costs But there's a high likelihood at the end of that process you're gonna have a skill which pays six figures and you'll be able to pay off the debt because of um the skills you've acquired. So I think it's a first of all, debt to me is a freedom. This is part of the balance thing. The Bible says debt and cosigning, for example, are unwise. It doesn't say it's always forbidden. It just comes with a risk of servitude. But there you know some people well I'll take this software course Well, do some research that okay of the people who have taken the software course, well if I'm making forty thousand dollars a year now and it's easily I can get seventy thousand dollars after spending twenty thousand dollars on the course Part of it is am I going to be diligent enough to finish it? Does my lifestyle give me time to finish this course? Do I have the aptitude to successfully complete it? It might be worth that if you're have a high level of confidence But the payoff is far more than what you're having to spend, knowing there are risks that you know you could drop out, you could be disabled, other such things. But there are many people who are getting degrees from, you know, are getting training. that does not actually improve their marketability. And sometimes they come out of college with mountains of debt and the jobs they're getting based upon that uh will not maintain that debt and you know that's I guess now they want the government to pay that for them. But I think you have to really analyze Is there a war that justifies the risk? And sometimes there is, but it needs to be carefully researched. And what attitude should we have regarding retirement and building wealth for the future? Yeah, I I love that question. And it's another the last section of the book is preparing for the future. And this is but let me speak, give you the big picture, that you want to acquire skills and work hard so you're earning as much money as possible to be wise. Then you're wanting to live within your means so that you have money left over. And then what do you do with that money left over? And so you have three or four places you can put the money. One is you can give. If you make a lot more money than you need to live, then you can give generously to the Lord's work, which is a great privilege. to participate in what God is doing and is a joy in life. You also can prepare for the future because someday you're going to need a new car. Someday you may not be able to work anymore Someday your kids may want to acquire skills somehow that you can help them with. And so you can save money for the future. The ant in Proverbs 6. uh prepares for the winter during the summer uh by storing up food and so planning for the future is wise So you'll you you know someday it's likely you will not be earning as much money as you do now. Someday your kids will need education. So you you save And then so you can save the money, you can give the money, and then a third aspect is you can improve your lifestyle. Say, okay, well I'm driving a 1992 Toyota Corolla And now I can afford the electric Mustang. Well, maybe that's not the best idea because now I don't have as much money. So you've got this, and the Bible doesn't give It'd be easier if the Bible says, look, give God 10%, you can do whatever you want, we'll give the 90%, or save 21%, and that'll always work. And so we're living with this tension of seeking wisdom, and you can't judge somebody if their lifestyle is more than yours. Uh debt you could say is unwise, but uh so you're yes, it's wise to save Uh it's wise to give, and we're allowed to enjoy the blessings of our prosperity. And then that's where as a husband and wife you're you're trying to work that out and you're constantly balancing among those three things Very helpful. I add to that uh I guess a little bit of an incentive. You know, you mentioned gambling. Um is there any wisdom that should women be investing or learning the skills of investing in stock markets or things like that? Yeah. So there's a difference You said gambling and then yeah, so I said stock market. Yep. Right. In my opinion would be that if you're investing in a company where, okay, ExxonMobil owns equipment to get oil out of the ground and turn it into gasoline and make solar panels, whatever all they do. And you're participating in what you hope is a company which is providing valuable goods and services to the community that is well managed, and since the bank is paying you nothing right now That your your money is going to work to be productive, that can be a legitimate means of investing. the and you participate in the growth. And historically investing in sound companies that pay dividends and produce goods and services can is You're not going to be able to say for retirement when inflation is two or three percent and interest rates are half a percent. So But there's a difference between that and day trading and timing the market where I I've I've counseled people before who read a book or they read an article on the internet and they want to quit their jobs and they figured out how they can sit at their computer screen all day long and buy and sell and do short options and game stop and everything else. Those are I think in the category of what the Bible describes as get rich quick schemes that generally lead people to poverty. And part of it is just the foolishness thinking, okay, here I am with my fifty thousand dollars And I think I can outsmart people in New York who have MBAs from Harvard who are managing billions of dollars. I'm sitting down at the gambling so that's sitting down at the gambling table and thinking you can outsmart them by day trading as opposed to something like my wife loves cracker barrel and she loves Southwest Airlines. And so we took her retirement money and put a chunk of it in Cracker Barrel and Southwest Airlines. They both have like gone up five times over in the last 15 or whatever years it was, because she liked the businesses and she it just sits there and it grows. So she's investing in businesses she believes in. That's I think a very wise answer. I have a more general question, and then one more after that if you we can impose on your side. Um just the concept of a budget, how would you define it specifically? And is it enough to have a general concept of where your money is going? Does everyone need to sit down and have those charts that you mentioned, every line item fixed and ordered and balanced? Right So here is something I did not put in the book, so don't tell anybody the answer I'm going to give you. I'm tap-teasing. Last night We had dinner with a widow where it's been in our church for 25 or more years. Her husband died about a year ago. And She is in her 70s and she's struggling with life. She's overwhelmed. And she's been kind of told, even by somebody in the church, that she really needs to have a budget And she needs to write down everything she spends and she needs to plan exactly what she's going to spend in every category. And basically that's what I teach in my book. That's kind of the Dave Ramsey thing as well as The plans of the diligent lead to advantage. And I think for people who are struggling financially, having a very specific budget is a great idea because they're on edge of debt and trouble. Um I think that but in her case to know in general where the money is going, and actually what I asked her, I said, okay, well you're getting your social security deposited your bank every month And you have she didn't tell me how much, but I had in mind it was probably a lot that your husband had in retirement accounts. I just asked her, okay, in this past year was you've been paying your bills. She owns her house free and clear. I said, has your bank balance gone up or down? She says, well it keeps going up. I said, I think you're okay. I'm not sure someone who doesn't like math, who doesn't like computers, and who is not as mentally capable as she was ten years ago I'm not sure she needs to be spending two hours a week trying to use some budget method because she's frugal, she's wise in exercising, I think you can afford to spend several thousand dollars. Yeah, she's Basically taking care of an ill husband for about ten years. She wants to travel. I think you can afford this. Don't fret about it. So that's contrary to the general wisdom I would give, which would be for most of us, my wife and I spent whatever the first 37 years of our 41 plus years of marriage writing down every penny And with kids and college and all of this, we had to be careful. Um I think you can had some people can get to the point where they're planning their expenses wisely without having to write everything down. But that by test would be Uh in addition is your bank account going up or down over month to month. It's also do you have the resources to buy the next car, to pay for a major repair on your house You have a certain amount of savings built up prepared for which we talk about in the book as well. So that would be my general answer. That's very helpful. The last question I kind of want to bring back to single women. One because I heard actually Lisa LeGeorge make this statement that Even if we're married statistically, most of us will end up single at some point, just how statistics run. So singleness for women happens on the front and a lot of times on the back end Um for a younger single woman, and by younger I mean like upper twenties into the thirties, um thinking about finances and budgeting. Um You know, what what would you uh advice and counsel would you give a young woman who, although desiring to be married, um isn't married, but what should she be doing to acquire wealth, save wealth, you know, but not look like a feminist? Uh so you know, and then on the On the other end, just I think you taught you covered it with widows, so I think that was that was there. But so I would say more for the career single women that have a desire to be married, but yet are not, um, how should they be looking at it And this goes along with what I see in the chat. It's a little bit different but overlapping with what you just said. So and again it's it's a little bit like the how much do you save, how much do you give, how much do you do lifestyle There's not a formulaic answer like this is the right thing. And she's already identified some concerns would be if you go to college And you become a veterinarian and you've acquired $200,000 of debt, and you never practice that, you're just gonna bring two hundred thousand dollars of debt into a marriage. it's gonna be a burden for your future husband. So you don't want to acquire a skill that's gonna incur debt that and then you may never use the skill. Um Oh, there are some skills, like my friend who became the music major and got a then when her husband went to seminary, she used to be able to get a free master's in music. And now taking lessons and composing and it fits around her. There's some skills, some things you could be trained in that and there are probably some things now even in terms of uh technology that you could do part-time that would be like the woman in Proverbs 31 planting fields and sowing things that would be that could be valuable during the course of a marriage without interfering with your desire to have children and to be at home primarily. Assuming God gives you a husband and a husband who can make enough money, you don't have to make a major contribution. So I think all the right questions are being asked. The other really difficult thing is you can't be sure when or if God will provide a husband. And rather than I've I've seen cases of a woman who is very capable, but just kind of taking a low-wage job while she's waiting for Prince Charming to come along in her his white steed. And she's in a job that doesn't really use her skills and she's not and it might be better for her to be prepared for the possibility she could be single for a while. and do something that utilizes the skills that God has given her, not going into overwhelming debt that would take a decade to get rid of. but to find some kind of career that or training that she could really enjoy, use her skills and make more money, which then she could bring into the marriage. And my heart aches. Actually now I'm supervising at RTS a lot of women who are counseling other women and the and these women want marriage and there are not enough guys that are the right kind of guy. There there but we live in a sadly fallen world where there are women who would make a great wife and they're waiting a long time wisely. I love She's Got the Wrong Guy, you don't want to settle. Um actually I'll tell you last night when I was speaking to this uh widow, she was saying, I really love being married. If you know anybody s any wonderful gentleman who loves music and conversation and he's in his seventies. A widower, let me know. And that's a good desire to have. It can seem like how could that happen Or, you know, for a woman who's in her early thirties and she yearns for marriage and she doesn't see anybody in her church. And I love the book of Ruth. Here's Ruth. She's a Moabitist, foreigner She was married for some period of time and didn't produce kids. It's not like she's a great prospect for carrying on the family line. And yet God is able to provide not just a man but a Boaz And so God is able to provide. Uh now I'm not I can't promise it will always happen, but He is able even when it seems difficult and unlikely to provide for Especially someone but again, Ruth's goal in life wasn't to find a husband, her goal in life was to honor God, which is what then attracted Boaz to her. Well Doctor Newheiser, thank you for wonderful time of discussion. I I greatly encourage that you're teaching us ladies that overall to be good stewards of our skills, our money. to honor the Lord and it brings him honor and glory and joy to us. I love also how you brought it back to those who have wealth and have the privilege and blessing of serving. I love that you dedicated your book to those. Um It just gives us joy as we see we have resources we can serve and uh it's compounded. That joy is compounding. So thank you for this wonderful treatment. Absolutely