Alright, let's uh let's bow and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for who you are and what you've done. We thank you and praise you as the Almighty Creator of the universe. We thank you, Lord, for uh this Lord's Day where we have the privilege of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you in various ways, and uh we thank you especially now for the opportunity to worship you through the study of your word. We thank you for your word. We thank you for revealing yourself and the truths about you and about your great plan of salvation in your word We pray, Lord, for the presence of your Holy Spirit to open our hearts and minds so that we can really truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We pray, Lord, that this word that we're about to study would be active in our lives. And that we would apply it to our lives, we would apply apply it uh individually and also to the life of the church, uh, so that we would be obedient. uh to Christ in our personal lives and obedient to Christ in the life of the church. We thank you so much for the love and grace and mercy that it took to send Jesus to die on the cross for my sins. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So here we come to part eight. Part eight. So we're going through the letters to the various churches, and we've seen a letter to Ephesus and Smyrna and Pergamum, and today we're going to be looking at the church, letter to the church in Thyatira. The church that tolerated sin. So this is what we'll learn today. We'll look at this letter uh what Christ has to say to his particular church in Thyatira in the first century, and by extension what he has to say to his church all throughout history, all the way through to today, to Pope Bible Church. So we're gonna look at the correspondent, who is it from? We're gonna look at the church that it sent to. We're gonna look at the city in which that church uh lived uh and had its ministry. We're gonna look at the commendation that Christ makes to the church. We're going to look at the concern that he had with this particular church. We're going to look at a command that he gives. to the church and then some counsel that he gives to those that are still faithful within that church. And so um you'll see that we um Of course Pat Moses is where John is, and then there was a letter to Ephesus, and then there was a letter to Smyrna, and then there was a letter to Thyatira, and now we're working our way inland uh uh Pergamum and then we're working our way inland to Thyatira. But first let's take a look at what we did last week. uh the letter to the church in Pergamum last week. So um we have this introduction last week that was uh the sharp two-edged sword uh referring to God's word in uh many places in the scripture. Uh and this is the description of Christ coming as the judge and executioner. Uh not very promising introduction to that uh church and Pergamon. Um they were um kind of a worldly church. They had mixed-inworldly practices. There is no record of how the church imperium was found, but we have the uh description in Acts chapter nineteen that the word went out, the gospel went out, uh and was preached throughout the province of Asia from Ephesus. Um there was a pagan culture of course surrounding uh the church at Pergamon. Uh they had a lot of um pagan worship of the different uh deities. They had temples to all the deities there on the hill Uh but there was v uh the most severe persecution came because of the emperor worship cult that was centered there in Pergamon. Um there was still a commendation for this church. In spite of the difficult circumstances around, they still um had most of the church were still maintaining their faith in Christ. Uh he commended them uh for continuing to hold fast even though they were there uh what in what he describes as where Satan's throne is And so, despite all the persecution they were suffering, they endured, and the believers in Curgumum were holding fast to the name of Christ. And of course, all was not well. There was the the majority. majority were holding fast, but they uh they did they did have some who were holding to false teaching. So some were holding to false teaching. So a small minority in this church and we'll see a a contrast with the with the next church that we see It's not a small minority in the next church. But in this church, it's a small minority that were holding to false teaching. And there were two specific heresies that Christ mentioned in that letter to Pergamum. Uh one was a uh a parallel to an Old Testament character named Balaam and the other one was a New Testament character named Nicholas. Uh so in Numbers chapter twenty two to twenty five we have the story of Balaam who tried to lead the people of Israel astray. God very severely judged the people at that time. And so uh the Lord Jesus threatens to do the same in this passage, similar to what uh what the Lord had done to the children of Israel, he wiped out twenty-four thousand of them in one day because they were following the false teachings of Balaam. And so that's why Jesus uses that parallel, the the serious parallel to the Old Testament. And then he mentions the teaching of the Nicolaitans So there were some within the group that were uh following the teachings of uh this Nicolaitans, which were similar to the teachings of Balaam. Um the Nicolaitans taught that Christians could participate in pagan rituals and orgies uh and they had seduced the church into immorality and idolatry, some members of the church. The majority of believers in Pergamum, however, uh didn't participate in this this errors, there was just some. And the of course the only remedy for sinful behavior is repentance. Um and so tolerance of sinful behavior is not good for the person that's engaged in that behavior and it's not good for the church as a whole. He concludes the letter with some counsel and encouragement. Uh he promises three things to the faithful members, uh the the majority that are still faithful, um s some of the hidden manna manna, which is a reference to Christ himself, and then a white stone and the white stone with a name on it. Um so the Pergamon church faced some uh the same choice that similar churches face if if there's uh beginning to be some uh false teaching of worldly influence Uh you could either repent and receive uh eternal glory or you could refuse to repent and face uh Christ Uh what he says is declaring war on them. Uh maintaining the path of compromise ultimately leads to judgment. That was the lesson from the Pergamum Church. Any questions about the Pergamum Church before we go forward to the Thyatira church. So another church, Thyatira, if you open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2 We're going to be looking at this is the longest of the letters to the churches, from 18, verse 18 to verse 29. So this This is the word of God, and to the angel of the church in Thyatira write, the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire. and his feet are like burnished bronze, says this, I know your deeds, and your love and faith, and service and perseverance, and that your deeds of late are greater than at first. But I have this against you, that you tolerate the woman, Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and she teaches and leads my bondservants astray. So that they commit acts of immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent, and she does not want to repent of her immorality Behold, I will throw her on a bed of sickness, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation. unless they repent of her deeds. And I will kill her children with pestilence, and all the churches will know that I am he who searches the minds and hearts, and I will give to each one of you according to your deeds. But I say to you the rest who are in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they call them, I place no other burden on you. Nevertheless, what you have hold fast until I come. He who overcomes, and he who keeps my deeds until the end, to him I will give authority authority over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces. As I also have received authority from my father And I will give him the morning star. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says. to the churches. So that's the letter we're going to take a look at today. So there's Diatira. As I mentioned, we have the the letters going from Patmos First to Ephesus and then to Smyrna and then to Pergamon. So it's going up the coast to the north and now we head inland and start going actually southeast to Thyatira for the next letter. So then first there's praises, praises of their deeds. their love and faith, their servants and perseverance. But then there's the criticism of idolatry and sexual immorality And it's not just a few like it was in Pergamon. It's worse here in uh Thyatera. Uh there's an exhortation to hold on to what you have until I come for those that are the uh the re the remnant, the faithful remnant within this church. And there's the r reward of the morning star, and we'll talk about that. uh as we go through here too. Uh so uh to start off um I'll just give you a little taste of uh MacArthur's intro to this section Uh so MacArthur says the Lord Jesus Christ has called his church to be holy and maintain purity by dealing with sin in its midst. In fact, the very first instruction he gave to the church was about confronting sin. Matthew 18, 15 through 17, if your brother sins, go and show him his fault in private If he listens to you, you have won your brother. So that's the first step of church discipline and uh the intention is to restore without it going any further So if if you go to your brother, you you talk to him about his sin, he repents, it's all done. Uh and that's the first step, and hopefully that's the only step that's necessary in church discipline. But if he does not listen to you, take one or two more with you so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every fact may be confirmed. And so if you can't win your brother over yourself, go get some help. Try to don't give up. Don't give up on your brother. Try to win him. Uh try to get others to help you uh win him over If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church, and if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. In other words, if you've tried and tried and tried to restore this brother and he refuses to repent, then you need to remove him from the midst of the church to maintain the purity of the church. That's church discipline. As Jesus instituted it for his church in Matthew eighteen. So the practice of church discipline that Christ instituted to maintain the holiness of the church has a twofold purpose, to call sinning believers back to righteous behavior and to purge the from the church those who stubbornly cling In either case, the purity of the church is maintained. After the birth of the church and the day of Pentecost, the Lord demonstrated his commitment to a pure church by executing Ananias and Sapphira. A very severe example at the very beginning of setting up the church that there there was there were those that were um outwardly professing to be part of the church, they were uh sinful. Uh Peter gave them a chance to confess, they refused, and the Lord struck him dead right on the spot, as an example at the start of his church about how serious he was about that. Uh despite the clear biblical teaching to the contrary, churches throughout history have tolerated sin Following a pattern like the Thyatyran congregation whose members were engaging in both spiritual and physical adultery through the insidious efforts of a false teacher those sins had become pervasive in the Church of Thyatire. It wasn't just a few. Uh the letter Christ addressed to its members was a sobering one and marks a new phase in the letters to the seven churches. There is a progressive worsening in the character of these seven churches as they depict becoming more and more influenced by evil, that downward spiral reached its lowest point at Laodicea. So from this point, Pergama's bad Diatire is worse. It's going to get worse all the way down to Laodicea. The letter to this church is the longest of the seven, though addressed to the church in the smallest of the seven cities. Diatire is smaller than any of the rest of those cities. It's an important message for the church. Today. Uh that's why Christ spent so much time on this one. False doctrine and sin are not to be allowed, even under the banner of love, toleration, and unity. There may be much that is commendable in church. It may appear on the surface to have an effective ministry, be growing numerically and even have cordial society, yet immorality and false doctrine if not confronted will bring judgment from the Lord. of the church. Uh John MacArthur and his commentary introducing this section. So let's take a look. Let's dig in. Any questions so far before we dig into the verse-by-verse look? Okay. So the introduction, very similar uh to the introductions uh to the angel of the church of thy tira right the son of god who has eyes like a flame of fire and his feet are like burnished bronze says this uh so once again we get um uh imagery pulled from Revelation chapter one, the vision that John had of the risen Christ, we get a part of the imagery from chapter one as part of the the greeting to each church. This time we get the title Son of God and two descriptive phrases drawn from that vision that John had. He's identifies him in all these letters. Um Christ identifies himself in all these letters by choosing phrases from the earlier vision. Uh and here are the phrases that he chooses focused on his role. as divine judge. Uh the first phrase, however, Son of God, it emphasizes of course Christ's deity, stressing the truth that he is one in essence with the Father, as we see in John chapter five. But the word is ac actually changed from Revelation chapter one. Revelation chapter one says son of man in one thirteen. This time it says son of God, and son of this is the only place in Revelation where we see this phrase, Son of God. Um so the emphasis is not on his humility as a man, his ab his ability to uh uh empathize with us, sympathize with us because he was a man. That's his role um as the high priest, the perfect high priest described in Hebrews. This emphasis on Son of God is um his divine judge as the divine judge. That's how he introduces himself here. And as the divine son of God, he has eyes like a flame of fire. Uh his vision sees all. Once again, he knows everything that's happening in every one of his churches. He did in the first century He has throughout all of church history and he does today. He sees into uh the true heart of each of his individual followers. And he sees the truth about each church, including Hope Bible Church. Nothing can be hidden from him Now this description of him having eyes like a flame of fire, that that imagery is used elsewhere as well. We'll see it in Revelation chapter 19. uh at his second coming. Uh it says his eyes are a flame of fire. We also see it in Daniel chapter 10. Uh there's a description in Daniel Daniel chapter 10 of him having eyes like a flame. of fire. And so uh because of Christ's penetrating gaze to see all Um w nobody can hide from that gaze. The church could have a good reputation in the community or even with other churches, but the eyes of the Lord sees what what really is. Then we have the second description is the description of his feet as being like burnished bronze. That depicts his purity and holiness as he tramples out impurity, uh, which is what he's about to do here with this church. And so this is, once again, like in Pergamum This is not a uh this is not a warm and friendly depiction of Christ coming to his church. It's a terrifying description. Um and remember These letters are being read out to the congregation. They never heard it before. A guy, you know, a guy brings the letter in, and they're all sitting out there, and he starts reading And imagine what they were thinking as as he's reading. Terrifying description of the Lord must have created shock and consternation and fear when this letter was read to the congregation at Diatira It came as a sobering realization to them that Christ will judge continual unrepentant sin. So keep that in mind as we go through these letters that these were actual letters that were read out to the congregation by these messengers who were taking them around. and this one particular is calling a particular person out who most likely would have been there hearing it. Uh, think about that. Um as in the case with the churches in Smyrna and Pergamum, the Bible does not record the founding of Thyatir. So we get lots and lots and lots in the book of Acts about the founding of the church of Ephesus and Paul's three year uh ministry there. And we have this single description in Acts chapter 19 that the gospel went out to the whole province of Asia from Ephesus and but we don't get any specific thing about how this church in Thyatira came about, so most likely uh it went from uh Ephesus. But we do get uh a depiction of a single person Who was from Thyatira in Acts? Acts chapter 16. Paul's actually in Philippi. He's ministering in Philippi, which is in Greece. And so Thyatira. Syrah's in modern Turkey, and so uh she had traveled from Turkey to Greece and met Paul and Philippi. In Acts chapter 616 it says a woman named Lydia From the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God. And it says that she was converted under Paul's ministry there at Philippi. But she wasn't in her home city Uh she had traveled. Uh verse fifteen records that members of her household also came to saving faith in Christ and were baptized. So Lydia and her household, that would have they would have been um residence of Diatira, but she was converted in Philippi by Paul. Uh it's possible that Lydia and her household participated in starting the church, uh, but it's probably more likely that the church was um a church plant from Ephesus and she became a member of the church. She was converted by Paul and became a member of the local church when she got back to Thyatire So from Pergamum, which is the northernmost of the cities that we uh look at of these seven cities, the Roman road curves to the east. And then it bends to the southeast to Thyatira. It's about 40 miles on the road from Pergamum to the next city of Diatira that we're looking at today. So unlike Smyrna and Pergamon, which were coastal cities, Diatira was built in flat country and lacked a necropolis. Uh it it had it's its lack of natural fortification played a significant role in its history. It was conquered over and over again. Um it was founded originally by one of the successors of Alexander the Great, so Alexander the Great uh his empire in uh uh the 300 BC split into four pieces when he died and so one of his successors Seleucus um founded this city of Tyra as a military outpost. to guard the North South Road from invasion from the east. It later changed hands and came under the rule of uh Lysimachus who also wrote Pergamum. Uh so Thyatira was kind of a gateway to Pergamum from the east. If you're coming from the east, in order to get to Pergam you had to go through Diatira, and the task of the defenders was to delay an attacker for z to buy time for Pergamo. In other words, Diatira was a speed bump. A speed bump to invading armies to slow them down to get time to send a runner to pergam saying the enemy's coming. Um so that's w that was their role. And they did it well. They got speed bumped many times uh throughout history. Um the vague army would come, they would smash the Tyra But they would hold them up just long enough for the Pergamum defenses to get ready. Uh so the city was repeatedly destroyed and rebuilt. Um and so the only references really to Thyatira in ancient extra biblical literature uh usually describes its conquest by an invading army. So they were famous for being conquered by invading armies. So that's the city of Thyatara. Um and finally at about one ninety B C so th uh the it was founded sometime after three hundred BC and now we get to one ninety BC. And it was conquered by the Romans. The Romans conquered it and next it to the Roman province of Asia, and then they had some peace. uh because they were just another city in the middle of Roman province of Asia. Uh then after there was some peace, uh they enjoyed f uh f a flourishing commercial trade. It became a commercial center uh and was noted for numerous guilds. Uh so in in those days guilds were l roughly equivalent to today's labor union. So they got together and they formed these guilds for each of the different trades. The main industry was the production of wool and dyed goods. Especially purple dyed goods dyed with the purple dye extracted from the matter root. But we have inscriptions, ancient inscriptions, that mention many guilds from uh the city of Thai Tyra, the Linen Workers Guild, the Makers of Outer Garments Guild, the Dyer's Guild, the Leather Workers Guild, the Taylor's Guild, the Potter's Guild, the Baker's Guild, the Slave Dealers Guild the bronzemiths guild, so they had a good for everything in Thyatira. Um and so Lydia, it makes sense that Lydia was um um that was the way she was described uh as one of these uh she was probably representing her guild there in Philippi. 'Cause Thy Tyre was a big commercial center. They did business all these guilds did business all over the uh the the Roman Empire. And so there was Lydian Philippi representing her uh Dyer's Guild uh most likely in Acts chapter sixteen. So unlike Pergamum and Smyrna, Thyatire was not an important religious center. So those two were centers of pagan religious worship. They tyre not so much. It was a commercial city. The primary god worshipped there by the Tyatyrans was the Greek sun god Apollo. but it wasn't the center of life in Thyatira like it was in some of those other cities. Nor does there appear to have been a sizable Jewish population. So there wasn't uh there wasn't a big Jewish population and the Jews are not mentioned in this letter. So the pressure faced by Christians and Tyreek came actually from the guilds. To hold a job or run a business, it was necessary to be a member of a guild Each guild had its patron deity, in whose honor feasts would be held, complete with meat sacrificed to idols, and much sexual immorality. And and so if you were gonna be if you were gonna do business, you had to be in a guild. If you were in the guild you were expected to participate in these feasts. And so Christians face the dilemma of attending those feasts or losing their livelihood So that's where the pressure came. That's where the pressure it wasn't from uh pagan worshippers, it was from pagans in these guilds that were uh peer pressure to conform to what everybody else in the guild did. Um and so how some in the Thyatirid church were handling the situation caused the Lord Jesus Christ's great concern. So as he had with the previous churches, Christ commends the church at thy tyra before voicing his concern. So that's the pattern He he's points first he gives him a pep talk, tells him what's right, then he comes to the the criticism after. So he starts with I know your deeds And your love and faith and service and perseverance, and that your deeds of late are greater than at first. So that sounds really good He assured them that he had not forgotten their righteous deeds, which he divided into four categories love, faith, service, and perseverance. So first, the believers at Thyatire were showing love for God and for one another. Uh the word is gape there, so it's the r it's the right kind of love. Um although that love was apparently fragile since there was not a strong foundation of unified sound doctrine. Uh in some ways Thy tyra was strong where Ephesus was was weak. Remember, Ephesus had lost the first love, but Thytira, at least the remnant Uh they were they were um commended specifically for having love here by the Lord Jesus Christ. So love first. Second, Christ commended them for their faith. Uh Pistis, faith, better translated fidelity or faithfulness. Uh the true Christians in Thyatire were were dependable, reliable, consist consistent. They had fidelity and faithfulness Faith and love are frequently linked in the New Testament. We see faith and love together here, like we do here In 1 Corinthians, in 2 Corinthians, and Galatians, and Ephesians, and Colossians, and 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, and Titus. So over and over and over again in the New Testament There's a link between love and faith. Uh and so those are characteristics, inward characteristics, love and faith. And if you have those inward characteristics, love and faith, they manifest themselves by outward activities of service and perseverance. Those who love will express that love through meeting the needs of others. That's what the service, the Achanas, um that Greek word means. It means to meet the needs of others. Those who are faithful and steadfastly persevere in the faith. Those who are faithful will per uh steadfastly persevere in the faith. So faith and love lead to service and perseverance in the and The Lord Jesus Christ commends the remnant there in Thyatira for being characterized by these things. Love and faith, leading to service and perseverance. Not only that, So the the faithful remnant is um maturing and growing in grace. Uh their loving service was becoming more consistent, their faithful perseverance growing stronger in spite of this uh the church becoming uh more and more characterized by those who were uh sinning. So they were growing grace, maturing in their Christian lives, advancing the cause of Christ. For that behavior they were to be commended. Any questions so far? Okay. But there's that word. But after that wonderful commendation But there's the word but but I have this against you that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and she teaches and leads my bondservants astray, so that they commit acts of immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. So despite the commendation that the faithful remnant got Um it was not all well with the church. Um the problem was not external persecution, not external pressure, uh from um the the the pagan idol worshippers or the or the uh the cult of Caesar worship. Instead it was the vicious wolves from inside the flock. Um and that's what one of the things that Paul had warned about in Acts chapter twenty. And so if you remember Acts chapter twenty, Paul's about to sail for Miletus, um and he calls the elders from the church in Ephesus to him. He's about to sail f uh from Miletus, uh from Miletus to uh uh to Jerusalem. Um He calls the the elders from the church of Ephesus and he warns them. And one of the things he warns them is that there will be vicinest wolves from among yourselves. He's talking to the elders now From among yourselves, you elders, will come vicious wolves that will try to tear apart the flock. And so here you have somebody that's a teacher in this church in Thai Tyra who's uh tearing apart the flock. Uh so the penetrating gaze of the Lord of the church had discerned a serious error here in Thyatira. And so he warns, I have this against you. Um so it's a singular pronoun actually, um and so um some have taken that to mean that he's very particularly admonishing the leader of the congregation. I have this against you, uh, Mr. Pastor who's elder who's leading this church. Uh the indictment is that you tolerate the woman Jezebel So tolerating this false teacher in their midst is what particularly Christ has against this church. Uh and the particular things that she's leading them to, he um he identifies them here. The sin apparently involving the majority of thy tired church members was twofold Uh first that they violated the biblical teaching that women are not to be teachers or preachers in the church. So um there's no uh biblical warrant for this lady to be teaching in the church at all. And then there's a huge problem with what she's teaching. Uh so they tolerated the woman Jezebel, called herself a prophet. They compounded their error of permitting her to teach by allowing her to teach error. As a result, Jesus declares she teaches and leads my bondservants astray into immorality of a wicked type. And so Jezebel most likely, uh, read a bunch of commentaries. Jezebel. But uh Jezebel is used as a type of the Jezebel in the Old Testament. um characterized like the behavior of Jezebel. Um most likely that was not her real name Uh but like her Old Testament counterpart, the woman at Thyatira, who falsely called herself a prophetess, succeeded in leading Christ's bondservants astray, so they committed acts of immorality And eight things sacrificed to idols. And so Jezebel in the Old Testament was extremely wicked and led Israel into the worship of Baal In the Old Testament. One might speculate that she may have espoused the philosophical dualism. prevalent in Greek philosophy. And so the dualism said that the body and the spirit were separate, and in fact the spirit was good, but the body was evil. Um and so when that was brought into the church, teaching held that the spirit is good, the flesh is evil, since God is only interested in the spirit its prefairs falsely argued. So their false argument was, well God's only interested in spiritual things. And so it doesn't matter what one does with one's body. And so you can spiritually worship the Lord in spirit and truth and then engage in pag pagan orgies because God really doesn't care about the uh what happens to the body. Um and thus according to Jezebel, it did not matter if Christians committed acts of immorality or a things sacrificed to idols. So the Bible, of course, teaches that true Christians can fall into sin. Uh in fact it says we will. Uh first John one six through ten tells it tells us goes a step further and says if we say we have no sin then we lie and we make God to be a liar. If we say and so John's very specifically in 1 John chapter 1, he identifies his audience as believers. And so he's talking to believers and he says, You believers, if you say you have not no sin, then you lie. Anyway, God to be a liar. Uh so Christians can do will fall into sin. But to lead other Christians into false doctrine or immoral living is a very serious sin when meriting the most severe punishment. So there's a difference between there's a difference, category difference, a level difference between falling into your sin to yourself and deliberately leading others into sin. Uh that's much worse. In fact, uh in Matthew chapter 18, shortly before he does the church discipline passage earlier, he describes the consequences for those who lead others into sin. Uh Matthew 186 says, Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him to have a heavy millstone hung around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. The little ones who believe, of course, are not physical children, but spiritual children, believers. He's using an illustration to show to talk about believers that there's actually at the in the instance there's a little child there, and Jesus said you've got to become like a little child. He's making an illustration that uh a believer is supposed to have faith like a little child. Um but when he's talking about um somebody who's leading one of these little ones astray, he's talking about somebody leading believers into sin. Um and it's so serious to lead another believer into sin that the Lord said death by drowning is a better option. Better for you. Uh to have a big stone tied around your neck and tossed into the deepest part of the ocean rather than if you're leading people into sin. Uh and then he continues Uh with this little uh phrase very interesting. I gave her time to repent. In other words, um she's been doing this wicked thing and um And contrary to the situation with uh Ananias and Sapphira, Christ didn't just strike her down immediately. He's given her some time to repent. However, she is not taking advantage of his gracious offering. She does not want to repent of her immorality. Behold, I will throw her in a bed of sickness, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation unless they repent of her deeds. So graciously the Lord gave the false prophetess time to repent. But the sad truth is people who love darkness rather than light They don't want the light. Um she did not want to repent of her immorality. Remember, this is somebody inside the church who's teaching inside the church And who's listening to this letter as it's being read out to the congregation, out there in the congregation. And those who are following her are out there in the congregation hearing this. Um that Christ is going to throw her onto a bed of sickness as she's listening to this being read out in the congregation with everybody around. Her blunt and final refusal to repent would lead to a terrible judgment introduced by the arresting word behold. So behold. Everybody pay attention to what I'm going to do. Throw her on a bed of sickness. Because she refused to repent. He declared, I will throw her on a bed of sickness. The words of sickness are actually not in the text. Um the the the Greek text just says, I will throw her on a bed. That's all it says. The translator's ad of sickness might conjecture that that could have been what he was thinking of. But it literally just says I will throw her on a bed In light of the finality of Jezebel's refusal to repent, in other words, she's had a chance to repent, and now Christ is finished with it. Um it's more likely that the bed refers to death and hell, ultimate resting place for those who refuse to repent. Uh so divine judgment was about to fall on Jezebel. She had been given her chance and now the chances are done. Uh but there's another group. Yes, go ahead, Larry. So uh so what I would speculate is that at least somebody in this church had confronted her and said, No, that's not right, what you're teaching is not right. She had heard those words from somebody and she had refused to repent. But it wasn't like the whole church Yeah, she was tolerated. She was still tolerated. Somebody had told her, No, you gotta repent of your wicked ways, and so he had so Christ had sent somebody to do that and she had refused. And so her opportunity was re to repent was done. But there's another group of people that still have an opportunity to repent. If you'll if you'll see uh the rest of this uh little phrase here Uh divine judgment was about to fall on her, and those who commit adultery with her, in other words, spiritual adultery with her that were following her, her disciples within the church, are also called out here uh he threatens to cast them into great tribulation. And this is not the eschatological tribulation described in Revelation 4 to 19, but some sort of distress or trouble that's going to come on them right now Right then in the first century. Uh since these were sinning Christians who would believe their lies, the Lord does not threaten to send them to hell does not threaten to uh immediately stamp them out like he did the false prophet. He promises to bring them severe chastising Um unless they repent. So they still have a chance. The those who are following her still has a chance. She's done. She's been given her chance, she's done. There are those in the church, many in the church who are following her And Christ says, y you still have a chance to repent. Um but unless they repent, uh, they're gonna follow her. Um so unless they repent. So he's given the followers of this Jezebel a chance. And then he names a third group. So there's those who are currently following her, but there's also evidently some um kind of another a whole new generation of people. Uh he this third group of divine judgment declared, I will kill her children with pestilence. Um and so not her biological children, uh I don't think this is referring to Bertha Spiritual children. So the church by this time was about forty years old, assuming it was uh it was a church plant from Ephesus uh shortly after the time of um uh Paul being there. So about forty years since its founding and so the false teaching had been around enough so that there was a whole second generation of errorists that had had arisen. Um and so the the word had in the past and um and uh killed Ananias the Sapphira. Uh but he threatens to kill these heirists with pestilence. And uh the actual Greek word that's translated pestilence there is death It's just the Greek word for death. And so literally it says, I will kill them with death. Uh, the children of Jezebel, the spiritual children of Jezebel. I will kill them with death is is the little literal Greek there. Um very severe, uh, what he's gonna do if they don't repent. Uh this another generation. So so you get the picture here in Thyatir. It's not just a little bit. It's not just the little the little bit of uh of wickedness is getting in. This is starting to characterize the church. You've got uh you've got this w woman Jezebel, she's got false teachings, she's got some original followers, now she's got a whole nother group. uh a whole nother generation of people that are uh that are rising up to follow along with her and teach the same things that she teaches. That's the picture that we get here in this letter. And Christ is not happy about that, and he is coming for judgment. Jezebel, her her chance to repent is done. She's done. There there are those that are participating with her that ha still have a chance to repent. Um and there's this next generation of followers who are starting to teach the same thing that she's teaching. uh her spiritual children and Christ is gonna kill them with death. Uh that's the literal in the Greek. I I will come and uh I will kill them with death. Um kill her children with pestilence, I will kill her children with death. Yes. if you compare the three right? I mean throw her onto a bed and that idea of sickness is sort of uh given for help in a way. Yeah. Then there's a threat of great tribulation for those who don't repent repent. And then there's strike children dead. Yes. Are you supposed to interpret any sort of degrees of those? Yeah, no, that's not Quite right. Um I think the uh the the focus is on um whether there's still an opportunity to repent. Um and so the the text says that um Jezebel's been given her opportunity to repent. and she's done. But the others have an opportunity to repent. Um but there's a threat if they don't repent. This is what will happen if they don't repent. Um and so It's and and the consequences are very serious and and it's not it's not easy to understand the Greek um y like like you said, throw her on a bed doesn't sound so bad Um but it's um i then that's I think that's why the translators threw in a bed of pestilence to make sure that's the um the concept comes through that it's um i this this throwing her on the bed is an analogy of uh of sending her to hell That's really what the analogy is. The others are not the the it doesn't say that the others have been already been given their uh opportunity to repent and they're done. Um it says unless they repent. Um and so that's I think really the focus is She's done, those who are following her will be um will be very severely um chastised in one case and eventually killed uh if they don't repent I think that's the the focus. And any others? Yes. And uh the original Jezebel did a similar thing. Um Ahab was the king of Israel, but Jezebel who was a princess of the Phoenicians came in and she was really running things. Right? I if you read the the passages about the description of what was going on in Israel Jezebel was really running things, not Ahab. Um she had kind of usurped the king's authority. Um and so yes, she's doing a very similar thing and I think that's w maybe one of the reasons why uh That's the analogy that the scripture uses that that calls this woman Jezebel. Yeah, so w whatever she did, she was able to warm her way in there and convince more and more and more people And so that she had uh spiritual converts, um, called her spiritual children here, that were proliferating in this church. Um and so uh Christ is coming for them. Yes. Is that an indication what those So uh the sins are uh identified as sexual immorality. and eating food sacrificed to idols. And so uh the picture I think is um kind of pagan revelry, um and the the Greek philosophical underpinning of that is philosophical dualism where you separate the spirit and the body and so what you do in the body doesn't affect you spiritually. That's the teaching of dualism. Yeah. And so one one of the interesting things in that vein is Um i in the Greek the phrase you tolerate that woman, Jezebel, that you is actually singular and not plural. And so, um i i Yeah, the top authority, the the person that were the elders that were in charge, um they weren't doing anything about this woman Jezebel. Evidently somebody in the congregation had confronted her, but the the people that were in charge They hadn't done anything about it. Um and and so you know, I I'll s we'll see what happens to Thyatera. Thyatera church was gone by the second century completely wiped out. Um and so yeah, the so if if you i the other the other thing to l I think to learn from this is uh church discipline, um, y you gotta nip things in the bud. You know, once they once they spread, um, it's really, really hard to you know, once the cancer spreads it's hard to deal with it if you if you catch it early y you can you can get that cancer but if it spreads in it's you know, a big giant portion of your body there's nothing they can do. And so the cancer had really spread here in in thyatira. Yeah. Okay. So Jezebel had hardened her heart, but there was warnings for her disciples to repent while there was still time. Uh the severe judgment promised to the false teacher and her followers again reveals Christ's passion for doctrinally and behaviorally Christ would receive glory when he judged. So that's the next thing that we see here. Um there would be ju glory for Christ when he judged Jezebel and her followers. When that happened, all the churches would know that he is the one who searches the minds and hearts. That phrase, the one who searches the minds and hearts, um is another confirmation of Christ's deity that's used in the Old Testament in reference to God. First Chronicles, Psalms, Proverbs, and Jeremiah in a couple places. So that's a reference to um uh the one true God, the one who searches the minds and hearts, and so that's identifying Christ here as doing that. And that's uh bringing glory to Christ. After he judged the church, all other churches will be warned. against the evil of tolerating sin. They would also realize that nothing can be hidden from the gaze of the Lord of the churches. So that would be the result. He addresses a word of comfort to those true believers who are still there. At the very end of this verse, I will give to each of you according to your deeds. And so those who are not following um um this Jezebel, Christ these then too. Um I will give to each one of you according to your deeds. So those who are not following uh according to their deeds as well Those who are innocent would not be punished with the guilty. Everyone that everyone will be judged by his or her deeds is a frequent Theme of Scripture. Matthew chapter 7, Matthew chapter 16, Romans chapter 2, 2 Timothy chapter 4, Revelation chapter 22. Everybody's judged according to their deeds. And Christ points that out here as well. So works have always been the basis for divine judgment. So divine judgment by works, salvation by grace through faith. Um and so the fact that uh works have been the basis for divine judgment does not mean that works are the basis for salvation. That definitely is not true. Ephesians chapter two, second Timothy chapter one, Titus chapter three. Salvation is by grace. So judgment based on works, salvation by grace through faith. See the distinction there? That's been confusing to people over the years that don't uh think that through clearly. The fact that uh judgment is based on works does not mean that justification is based on works. Those two are not the same thing. Um everybody see that? Any any questions about that. It's important. That's a very important doctrinal distinction. Very, very important. People's deeds reveal their spiritual condition. Uh that's what James meant when he said, I will show you my faith by my works in James chapter 2. So the deeds that you do reveal uh the inner man Uh now we can be fooled. Christ cannot be fooled. We can be fooled by somebody that seems to have uh good works and doesn't really. That there can i you can fool some some of the people some of the time. Uh but you can't fool all the people all the time and you can't feel for Christ ever. Um but in the main, um, if you know somebody well, if you come to know somebody well uh I will show you my faith by my works. That's what James says. Then Christ turns and and he and he addresses solely those who are still faithful. In verse 24. So starting verse 24, but I say to you the rest who are in Thyatira who do not hold this teaching Who have not known the deep things of Satan as they call them. So evidently, um uh Jezebel was identifying these some of the things that she was teaching as the deep things of Satan. Um uh I place No other burden on you. So in other words, he's been just scathing about these um uh these people that are Jezebel and her followers, and now he makes sure that the the rest of them, the faithful remnant, understand I'm not talking about you. I'm not talking about you guys that are the faithful Redmen. I have no burden to place on you. At the at the end of that, nevertheless, what you have hold fast until I come. In other words, don't succumb. You you guys are doing good. Don't Succumb, hold fast to what you're doing. Having warned the practitioners of false doctrine to pen, he addresses the words of comfort to the rest, those who do not hold to Jezebel's false teaching. Uh he further defined the true believers as those who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they call them, as the Jezebel and her Jezebel party calls these things the deep things of Satan, uh and you don't know those things. Uh It's good that you don't know those things. They evidently claim to be plumbing the very depths of Satan's domain and remaining spiritually unscathed. In other words, they were doing all these things physically, but they said that that didn't affect their spirit. So in their perverse licentiousness and false theology, they believed they could do so with it with impunity To the true believers who had not experienced this alleged deeper knowledge claimed by the heretics, Christ said, I place no other burden on you. These things, these warnings, these um severe consequences that I've been talking about for the Jezebel party That's not for you. Uh bearing the burden of seeing blatant false teaching and immoral living rampant in their church and having to resist the incessant solicitation and ridicule from Jezebel and her party, that was burden enough for the true believers to bear according to Christ. But unless they become overconfident, as he's um commending them He exhorts them, What you have, hold fast until I come. So keep on, keep it on. Uh the use of the strong word krato hold fast indicates that it would not be easy. Uh hold fast in spite of the difficulties is really the the uh uh the flavor of that Greek Greek word. Hold fast in difficult in difficulty. Um so the coming of Christ as it's related to the tyranny church was his coming to them in judgment. Uh but in a wider sense, of course, all believers are to cling to what is good, Romans chapter twelve, until Christ's return. Uh so that's an admonition not only for the Thai Tyrann church, but for all of us, really. And then the last few verses of the this letter, He U over Ka is a quote. There's a quote in here from uh the Psalms. Uh he who overcomes and he who keeps my deeds until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations. And he shall rule them with a rod of iron as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces, as I also have received authority from my Father. So to him whoever comes, Christ is going to give us authority as the authority has been given to him from the Father, and I will give to So these are promises to the faithful. He overcomes. So he overcomes. We talked about this in the previous letters. That means a true believer. And keeps Christ's deeds in contrast to those practiced by Jezebel until the end, steadfast obedience. Christ promises two things. First Christ will give such people authority over the nations, and they shall rule them with a rion rod. This is a reference to the millennial kingdom. the the the believers, the overcomers, the faithful will rule with Christ in the millennial kingdom, and that's described in Psalm chapter two as um willing nations with an A rod of iron. Those who remain faithful to Christ, despite being beaten and despised in this life, will rule with him In his earthly kingdom, the millennial kingdom, which we'll get to later in the book of Revelation. He also promises to give his faithful followers the morning star. Now there's some references to the morning star. There's a passage in Janet. Daniel chapter 12 and Matthew chapter 13. And that would seem to indicate reflecting Christ's glory Uh and that could be uh part of what he's talking about as well. Um also the morning star is a description of Christ himself. Um he and he'll take that title s very specifically in Revelation twenty-two. Revelation twenty-two identifies Christ as the morning star. Um and we know that Christ has promised himself to his followers. Um the one whom we We now know in part of 1 Corinthians chapter 13, then we will know fully, just as we have been known fully. So he knows us fully. And 1 Corinthians chapter 13 says, then Um when we're in his presence and glory in the new heavens and the new earth, we'll know him fully. Um and so i i I think when Christ is saying he's here, I will give him the morning star, I will give him myself That's that's what they'll get. They'll get me, um because he's later identified as the morning star. And so there could be two um uh facets to this. One is reflecting Christ's glory and one is the fact that we have Christ Himself. And we'll be given him fully, we'll know him fully in uh in the new heavens and the new earth. With our resurrected bodies. So these are big promises that he's making to those who remain faithful. Faithful. Big promises. And then of course it ends the same way as all the letters. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. And so all everybody's charged to heed the message of this letter. So that that warning, that uh admonition, that uh counsel is given at the end of each letter, hey everybody pay attention to what I am saying, the resurrected Christ, what I'm saying to this particular church, everybody pay attention to it. Not just that church of Tiatira in the first century. Everybody pay attention to it. The other seven churches And all the churches through history and Hope Bible Church in 2023. Pay attention to what I'm saying here. to the churches. Uh there's three important truths that kind of stand out here. First, this letter reveals the seriousness of practicing and tolerating sin in Christ's church. Uh and that God will judge continued unrepentant sin in the church. Second, that a pattern of obedience marks true Christians. And finally, God's gracious promise to his own that in spite of struggles with sin and error in churches, they will experience all the fullness of Christ as they reign within in his kingdom. Um and so this is the message of that uh this letter. Um now, uh the the bad news at the end. Um it's not known how many in that congregation responded to Christ's warning But tragically, the Thiotyran church as a whole apparently did not heed. History records that it fell prey to the Montanist heresy. So the Montanists were a group uh in the first century uh the late first century, uh led by a false prophet. who claimed continuing revelation from God apart from Scripture. He claimed that he had additional revelations from God. And so everybody needed to listen to him And the church, the church fell for that. The church of Thyatira fell for that. And the church completely went out of existence by the end of the second century. Um and so that church it was gone early. And so the church was in a bad way, and Christ warned them And uh ultimately they didn't heed the warning and that church disappeared. And so uh that's always a possibility for any any uh individual body of Christ. Uh when the t when Christ sets up his church, his church writ large, the all the body of believers, the gates of hell shall not overcome it And so the church is secure, uh, the whole body of Christ. But any individual local body of Christ um is subject to extinction. And the Thiatiran church went extinct not too long after the book of Revelation was written. Um and so that's a That's a real warning. Uh and that's been a warning that's been there in the scriptures for every church, uh, since the first century all the way to today. Uh but we need to eat. If if we uh um if we think that we are um immune to um you know false the Satan trying to worm false doctrine into our church and uh Satan trying to uh to worm uh bad behavior into our church Uh we're not. Uh we're not safe. We we need to be vigilant. And um so as I mentioned before, uh we as your elders we take that charge very seriously. Uh to to guard the doctrinal fidelity of the church uh to exercise church discipline, to guard the purity of the church. And we um we believe that the members of the church take that as seriously as well, um, that you do as well. Um it's a specific very uh uh it's a it's a specific burden to the leaders of the church, but not just the leaders of the church. In Thyatira there was at least somebody in that church that stood up to Jezebel and told her what she was teaching was wrong because that gave her an opportunity to repent. And so, uh it's all of our uh our our job to uh to to be uh vigilant about our own hearts and about the uh the the collective heart of the church, the leaders in specific uh in particular, but Everybody. Those churches like Thyachaira who fail to heed the message will receive divine judgment. Those who do heed its message will receive divine blessing. So that's what we learned today. We we talked about this church in Thy Tyre, we talked about who it's from, the church it went to, the city that they were uh in, the commendation that he made to the faithful remnant, the concern he had about this proliferation of false teaching, the command that he gave. to repent to those that still had a chance, not Jezebel, but others, and the counsel that he had to hold fast for those that were uh still faithful. Alright, any questions? Yes. Yeah, First Corinthians six, there's a man committing Incest essentially, yeah. Yeah. So in that case, Paul steps in, and in this case Christ steps in. Yep. How does this fit in with Matri 18? Because it's like there is no First, second, third, F. Yeah, yeah, so um I I think the lesson we get is that uh Matthew eighteen is broken down. Um and so uh Christ considers that they they've had their chance to do this internally and they haven't. And so for example his admonishment towards the beginning um y you tolerate this woman, Jezebel. In other words, y you haven't done I mean Matthew 18 should have been done, it hasn't been done. you you're tolerating sin, you're not following Matthew eighteen, and so I'm gonna step in. I I think that's that's where we are. And I think that's where Paul was too. Uh you know, the the way we hear that everybody knows about this You know, th that's there's no way that i y you uh Matthew eighteen could have taken place if everybody knows about it now and it's still going on And so Paul says, I I'm coming to take care of it. Yeah. Yep, good good point. Good question. Any any uh others? So so that that does happen and so that's what it take it to the church means. So take it to the that's how we take it. Take it to the church means And so you you've gone individually to him and he hasn't repented. You've gone a group of you to him, he hasn't repented. You take it to the church means you take it to the elders, and the elders investigate and talk to him and then if he doesn't repent after that, then we make the public announcement that they're like a Gentile or a tax collector. In other words, they're not one of us We we put them out of the church. And that has to be done publicly to make sure everybody sees that no, this guy's not not one of us. We don't identify with him. Um and so he's he's an outsider now and so we preach the gospel to him Uh like we do any outsider. So um it it if somebody just repents, then you don't go to the next step. I i uh any pla place along the way somebody could repent and and you don't do anything else. He's repentant. So if you go to him individually, he repents, it's done. If you go to him if he doesn't repent the first step, you go to him a group. If he repents, it's done No more steps. If it goes to the third step it comes to the elders. If he repents, then it's done. And then it doesn't get announced to the to the church. Yeah, I think that's right. Yeah, a and it's um it's not good for the person that's been tr caught in sin, somebody that's trapped by sin. And that's the picture. Somebody's been captured by sin And church discipline is to help him. Help him get out of that trap. It's not good for his soul to be trapped. You're trying to help him out of the trap. That's the really the picture of love. Yes. We don't understand. We don't hear it. So love him enough to confront the person's If you love him enough, you you will because that's what's best for 'em. Uh if you're if you're truly interested in what's best for that person, you'll love them enough to confront him about his sin. Yep. All right, we've gone past our time. I apologize for that. Good, excellent discussion. Uh let me close us in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for these warnings, these sober warnings that we see in this letter to the Church in Thyatire. And we pray, Lord, that uh uh you would give us the wisdom and discernment to be able to uh to tell if there's any issues in our church and to address them early and and and to make sure that we don't have any uh false doctrine or false teaching that uh creeps into the church or or any kind of wicked behavior. Uh we thank you for the uh the fact that you love us enough to uh to institute something like uh church discipline so that we can uh we can maintain doctrinal and behavioral purity in the church. We thank you for all that, Lord. We love you, Lord, and we are anxious to worship you together with all of our brothers and sisters here in just a few moments. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.