Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this day. We thank you for the great privilege to gather as a body of Christ on the first day of the week and to worship you We thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you for the opportunity we have today to gather around your word and study it We thank you for your sovereignty over all things, from the beginning of time all the way to the end of time, and every single moment in between. We thank you for your love and mercy and grace that you poured out on each and every one of us, especially in sending Jesus Christ to die on the cross for our sins. We pray, Lord, that as we study your word, you would fill us with your Holy Spirit and really teach us what you want us to learn from your word today and help us not only to be hearers of the word, but doers of the word so that in our daily lives and our walk with you that uh we would be filled with your word, uh that everything that we see around us would be informed by your word And that every thought of our heart and the actions of our lives would be in accordance with your commands. We thank you, Lord, for it. for you for who you are and we thank you for the opportunity to worship you today. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Welcome back to those who were at the women's conference last week. I heard it went very well and as a matter of fact I found out afterwards that the lady who was teaching at the women's conference was actually in this class Uh I didn't realize that, but she was sitting right up here in in the front and somebody told me afterwards that was her and that was the the lady that was uh teaching at the conference. Um so good. It's good to have you back. Uh ladies that we're that we're there last week. Okay, so we're on part nine of our series. We finished Revelation chapter one and revelation chapter two. We're going to be starting in Revelation chapter three today. And we're going to be talking about the letter to the church in Sardis, which is identified as the dead church, and no one will be known as the dead church. Not a good thing. So what we're going to learn today, we're going to write about this letter. We're going to learn about who the correspondent is, who is from, the church that it was written to, the city. And we'll notice a little bit different Same the pattern this time. Every other letter there's been a commendation, a praise, a giving. There's no such thing for this church. It's not a phrase to meet. He goes right into the concern and then the command. And then there's a little bit of a congregation towards the end. But it's a different pattern from all the other letters. No phrase up front for this dead church. Well first we'll do a little review, especially for those who uh weren't able to make it last week. So yeah, okay, so there we have the opportunity to listen, so hopefully uh you will do listen, but we'll do a review anyway. Um so the last letter was the one to find Tyler, the longest one. Uh the office letter is seven. Um as with the letters uh letters there's a identification of the sender. uh using imagery from the previous chapter, from chapter one. He's Christ, the Son of God, feet like furless bronze, eyes like flames of fire. It's kind of a terrifying description And have the Lord Jesus Christ, um, and a sober realization that He's coming as judge of underfit and sin. The Bible does not tell us um about the founding of the Church of Bathira, no specifics. There was for Ephesus, but the rest of these churches so far we've had no specific description in the rest of the New Testament about how the church started, except for the description in Acts chapter 19 that the word went out um uh that that uh uh the gospel went out from Ephesus to the rest of the province of Asia. We do get a description of one woman who was from Phiatira in Acts chapter 16, a woman named Lydia, and she meets Paul in Philippi during his ministry in Philippi. So she's not in Valley Tyler when she means Paul. She's actually in another city, uh in Greece. And she's from a a city in um in the province of Asia, in today in modern Turkey. But she but her name is mentioned in the Bible, a a woman, probably a prominent woman from the city of Hera So this is more this is starting to go inland. The initial three cities are on the coast and then you start going inland for this city. It became a part of the Roman Empire 190 BC. It flourished as a commercial center. It had these guilds, like the ancient equivalent of labor unions. It was not a particular center of religious worship and it didn't have a large Jewish population. So uh the pressure of this church didn't come from those kinds of things It came from the fact that people were involved in commercial activities and if you wanted to be part of a if you wanted to have a living, you had to be part of these guilds. And the guilds had some kinds of uh feasts and festivals with pagan revelry and you had a choice. Either you engaged in these things and you had a living Or you didn't and you didn't have a living. And so that was a um a point of kind of peer pressure or cultural pressure on the church. And the church at that power was not doing so well And that caused their their reaction to that was causing concern for the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise for them. They knew their deeds. And that they were, these deeds were in four categories, love, faith, service, and perseverance. And he talked about the fact that faith and love grow into service and perseverance. So the faith and love formed the foundation, the service and perseverance is the outworking of those internal realities in a true believer. Uh and these were growing for the for the true believers within the church. Despite that, of course, there were problems. uh all was not well at the church, uh they didn't have external uh persecution per se from a religious organization, but internal compromise Um so and there was this woman who was a prophetess, a color subhetess, and she's identified with Jezebel, who's an Old Testament uh person. It was the wife of King Ahab, the queen. of Israel. Um and that she of course led Israel into fail worship uh and and radian morality an idol worship. And the there's a parallel here to what was happening in the Kyasia, so that's why the name is used Jezebel. Um and so there was she was leading the serv the servants of Christ to commit acts of immorality, uh, anything sacrificed to idols. The Lord Jesus Christ had given this famous false prophetess an opportunity to repent, but she refused. So divine judgment was coming for Jezebel, but also for those that were following her. And then also for kind of a new generation that was coming up uh that were uh identified as her spiritual children. Now the scripture tells us that it was too late for Jezebel. Her opportunity to repent had come and gone But these others that were following her uh were called to repent, as if there was still an opportunity for them to repent. He after he's given this the dial warning to those that are followed the to the false prophets and prophetess and those who are following her, um he does give um um a kind of a um comfort to those who are uh the running those who are holding fast to the true teaching that are not holding to the false teaching of Jezebel. And he says, I I have no other burden for you. In other words, it's bad enough that you have to live in this situation with this false prophets and these people that are following her. I have no other burden for you, but don't become overconfident. He chose them to hold fast to what they have. MAES to me gives an additional comfort that whoever overcomes and keeps the deeds until the end Uh he gives these promises that they'll uh they'll be with him, um they'll have authority over the nations uh in the millennial kingdom. And he promises the morning star or himself, all of himself, eventually. So there's three important things that come out in our uh letter to Viatyr last week. Uh the the seriousness of practicing empowering sin within the church, that God will judge A pattern of obedience is what marks the true Christian. And God's promise to his own in spite of struggles with sin and error in the church is that if you remain steadfast, you'll experience the fullness of Christ reign with him in his kingdom. And then we we finished it up last week by uh noting that the church of Patira had disappeared by the end of the second century. It was completely gone. And there'll be a contrast with the church today. It seems to be in much worse shape, but it doesn't disappear by the end of the second century, like this type church does. Okay, so any questions about last week? We talked about this the letter to Fai Shaira Okay, let's once a letter of us to Osiris. If you open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 3, we're going to be reading the first six verses of Revelation chapter 3. This is the word of the Lord. To the angel of the church in Solus write He who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars says this. I know your deeds, that you have a name in which you are alive, but you are dead. Wake up and strengthen the things that remain, which were about to die. For I have not found your deeds completed in the sight of my God. So remember what you have received and heard and keep it and repent. Therefore, if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come to you. But you have a few people in service who have not served their governments, and they will walk with me and write, for they are worthy. He who overcomes will thus be clothed in white garments, and I will not erase his name from the book of life, and I will confess his name before my father and before his angels. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. So that's the word of the Lord, the message, the letter to the church in Sardis. So remember, we are the Patmas is where John is, and then there's seven messengers to take these seven letters and First one goes to Ephesus and then Smyrna and then Pergonon and then Thyatira and now Sardis. Most likely the messengers are elders pastors of each of the churches, dropping one off as you go. So they've dropped off one one guy in Ephesus and Smaria and Burger inside Cairo. Now we're done with this three as we get the Sarvis But they're taking copies of the whole book of Revelation, and particularly everybody gets to hear this letter read out. So this is a church that assembles and they hear their pastor tell them that they're a dead church. So just put yourself in the position The pastor comes in and says, Jesus Christ tells us we're a dead church. I have this letter from Christ himself, and he's identified us as a dead church. What is our reaction to? Is that more a fault of the people in the church or of the pastors? So it's a good question. It's a good question. There's a responsibility of the leadership. That's exactly right Uh however, God judges each person one by one. Um so I would say, oh, there's definitely a responsibility of leadership. Well regardless of your leadership, does that absolve you of your responsibility for Christ? I would say no. So um The the Bible describes a greater responsibility for those who preach and teach, but it does not say that uh therefore if you're under bad teaching you're not responsible. Uh it doesn't say that. You are responsible to leave and find another tree. Well that that's true. That's true. That's true. So here we have Saras and right out of the gate is criticism. Not a commendation right on the gate. You're dead. Then there's an exhortation to wake up. And then there is a praise that there is a small remnant. So this is different from some of the early churches where there was a little bit of difficulty in the church, but most people were okay. This is no it's just a very tiny sliver of the congregation that's still okay, a small remnant. Um and then of course there's a reward for those who remain steadfast, guessing they never brought it from the Book of Life. So we get started here with the typical greeting, very similar to the other letters, the angel in Church of Saurus, right? He has the seven spirits and seven stars, says, I know you these, if you have a name that you're alive. But you are dead. So we have the description of the divine author of this letter, and it's from the vision that John had in uh chapter one The letter to Sardis has an additional component that comes from Revelation chapter 1 verse 4 with this description of the seven spirits. So the seven spirits, that phrase Well I could refer to Alzheimer's chapter to the Holy Spirit described as the Spirit of the Lord of wisdom, understanding, counsel, strength, knowledge, and fear, that's seven. Not seven spirits. But what does the number seven really signify to the Hebrews? Completeness. Completeness. And why does it why does it um What percent completeness? Creation. Creation. Seven days of creation. So if God completed everything made the whole entire universe in in these seven days, and that was complete And so that was the number of completeness, and the Holy Spirit is completely holy. The ultimate spirit, the Holy Spirit, and so describe those seven spirits, the complete spirit in that way. There's also the Holy Spirit described as a lampstand of seven lamps. That's where the Jews get the menorah. That's in Zechariah chapter 4. But that's just another symbol of seven being the number of completeness. So the reference to the Spirit's fullness, Jesus Christ is represented in this church through the Holy Spirit. The seven stars, of course, as we've seen before, are the seven messengers or elders from chapter 1, verse 20. One from each of the seven churches, we'd like to carry a copy of the book of Revelation back to their respective churches. Uh his introduction of himself in this case does not uh hint at the severity of the situation in Sardis. We had that in previous ones where he had the Um, you know, the eyes like fire, you had the sort of double-edged sewer in one of 'em. uh doesn't s doesn't uh talk about the severity in the description uh Christ. Instead he depicts himself as the one who who has sovereignty and works in his church through the Holy Spirit and through godly leaders. So that introduction would have been a reminder to the Tyrus Church of what they lacked. Uh they were devoid of the spirit. The church itself was dead, uh populated by the unredeemed. Um So the s the seven um the seven spirits is what they didn't have in in this case. And so as with the last several churches, there's some details in scripture about the founding of this church in Sardis. Uh so most likely it was uh church appointment of people going out from the church that Paul established in Ephesus. So Paul spent uh three years pouring into the church in Ephesus and at the end of that uh that description of his ministry in Ephesus it says in Acts chapter 19 that the gospel went out to all the province of Asia from Ephesus. And so most likely that's what we see f in several of these churches here, that the the the gospel radiated out from Ephesus and it made it to Sardis at at some point. But we don't know exactly when and how that occurred. We do have from outside the Bible some descriptions of the church in service, and including a famous person called Melidon. uh who was an early apologist, one who lowly defense of Christianity, and he served as Bishop of Service, Bishop as overseer, pastor, elder of Sardis in the late second century. So a hundred years after the book of Revelation was written, the Church of Sardis was still there, and there was a a a girl and godly bishop Who was in running the church a hundred years after this letter was written? Unlike fire fire, which would have completely disappeared within a few decades after the book of Revelation Silvus was still there. He also wrote the early stern commentary on passages from Revelation, this man belito, in uh in Slavis. The letter does not speak of persecution. Why would Satan bother? If it's a dead church already, there's no need for the persecution of that church. Uh there's no specific reference to false doctrine or false teachers or corrupt writing. Yet some combination of these things must have taken place. Uh because the church is now dead. It's already dead by the time Christ is writing these seven letters. So something happens to cause them to be dead. But there's no detailed description of that here. Musciti itself, the city of Sardis, uh founded about 1200 BC Um it was one of the greatest cities in the ancient world, uh long, long before um the events that we're talking about here. It was it was the capital of a kingdom called Lydia, an ancient kingdom called Lydia that was fabulously wealthy. The man named Aesop, the famous writer of fables, Aesop's Fables, is reported to have been from Sardis. And much of their wealth came from gold. Kingdom of Lydia included this Pactolus river which was near Sardis. And archaeologists have found hundreds of crucibles that were used to belt down refined gold in the ruins of Sardis And uh supposedly gold and silver coins uh were first minted in Sardis. Um So it was an ancient city, it was a wealthy city, it had been the capital of this famous kingdom called Lydia more than a thousand years before it became part of the Roman Empire It it's uh its wealth and its trade primarily came because it was the western end of a famous road. So there was an east-west road But Starbut is the capital of the Persian Empire in Sousa on the east, and the western end of the world was farthest And so it was a main thoroughfare for trade and commerce in the ancient world. And there was Sardis at the end of this ancient road, and that made it uh both famous and wealthy city in the ancient world. It was an early similar wool production in the broadband industry. And in fact, Sartus claimed to have discovered how to dye wool, have been the original dyers of of rule that spread of course all over the um all over the world but service claims that they they started what they claim It was located about 30 miles from Thatatira, our last church. So they had about a 30-mile journey to the south from Thatira to get to Sardis. It was in a fertile valley of a river called the Hermes River. And today it's uh uh west central Turkey. There are a series of hills. They come out as ridges from a big mountain there, a mountain called Mount Timolis. south of this Hermes River. And on one of those hills is the city of Sardis, about 1,500 feet above the plain below. So up on top of a fairly substantial mountain. uh was the city's surface. Uh its location maybe then comfortable to attack. The sides of these of the mountain that it was on were extremely steep, so you couldn't come up on three different sides. Only on one side from the south was there any way to get up at all? And it was uh evidently a very steep and winding path. which would make it very, very difficult for an army to come up. And they could only come from that one direction, so it was really easy to defend Saras. So it was kind of known as a impregnable fortress city. The drawback of course was that the top of that hill was a limited area. And so as the city became wealthy and was starting to spread out, there was no more room to build anything. on top of this hill. And so they started building kind of a secondary city on the valley floor below. Um So the old sailors remained a refuge to retreat into when danger threatened, but the city had grown down to the valley as well. And then eventually, so that is where the kingdom in ancient history Eventually, closer to the time we're talking about, of course, Rome conquered everything. Rome conquered all of what is today Turkey, made it a province of Asia Including the city of Sargus right in the middle of it, and it came under Roman control at about 133 BC Uh a huge earthquake destroyed so Turkey is uh subject to earthquakes even today. We have big earth bad big earthquakes in Turkey Well it was a big one in eighty seventeen during the life of Christ that destroyed the city of Sartre It was rebuilt by Emperor Tiberius, who was the emperor at the time. And in gratitude, Sardis built a big temple in honor of Emperor Tiberius. The primary object of worship though was the same as in Ephesus, the goddess Artemis or Diana, but they had a third name and started that same goddess Sibeli. And so in the ancient world they they had many different gods, but they also had the same god with different names in different places. And so in Sardis they particularly called that goddess Subeli. There were hot springs near Sardis, celebrated as a spa in which the gods manifested supposed power to give life to the dead. Of course that's not a lot in the city whose church was dead. So in John's day, as we're uh so all the way fast forward to the time when these uh seven letters are going out. Cyrus was still prosperous, but it was in decay. Its best days were far, far in the past. It's weary days long past. And so both the city and the church had lost their vitality. So then after he's uh given this interruption saying, hey, you're dead, uh you may be pretending to be alive, but you're dead. Next, Jesus says this, I know your deeds, that you have a name that you've been allowed, you're a dead and wake up! And strengthen the things that remain, which were about to die, for I have not found your deeds completed in the sight of my God. Because the Sabbath Church was dead, Christ skipped the usual commendation. So every other church up to this point, there's been something good he had to say about the church first. Not here. Here, you're dead. Wake up. That's the most important thing. He wants us right into it without giving them any kind of praise whatsoever. He goes directly to his concern. Wake up. His outward appearance may have fooled men. So that phrase there, you have a name that you are a lot. So at least in our uh appearance it was still a church, it was still a thriving church, there were still people going there every Sunday for worship, but they weren't fooling the Lord Jesus Christ They couldn't fool the omniscient one who knows their needs, who sees into the heart of the church. And so this has always been the note of Christ. We talked about this before. He has perfect knowledge of everything. um including perfect knowledge of all of his churches, all those who claim his name, not only in the first century, but every century since And although it's in today, he knows which churches are alive today and which churches are dead. He has perfect insight into that With infallible knowledge, he pronounced the Sodist church to be dead. You may have fooled some people, he says here, but you can't fool me. This church is dead. And that has this is a warning, of course, not only for the first century, but it's included, the Holy Spirit included in the scriptures. For all believers of all time. Uh this is an important warning that um to to be doing a self-assessment. It may look okay on the outside, but what is it what's really going on in the church? Churches should be looking at that because Christ can see everything. And so there are many churches today, most likely, that have been defiled by the world, characterized by any decay, and populated with unredeemed people. I think we see this in the world today, those who have abandoned the truths of Scripture. So spiritual death in the New Testament is always connected with its cause, which is sin. We see that in Ephesians 2. 1, describing the enemy general as dead in their trespasses and sins We see it in Luke chapter 9, Luke chapter 15, and Colossians chapter 2, and 1 Timothy chapter 5, and 1 John chapter 3, the connection between spiritual death and sin. Uh phone connection there in scripture. So that would be the danger signs that a church is dying. So we have this warning, we have a church that Christ proclaims to be dead, uh, but in this particular case there's more than a specific identification of what went wrong. how how did they end up there? Uh it's not not described in there. So uh it's up to us to uh to do some um investigation of scripture and to um try to identify what things would lead to a church being spiritually dead. What are the warning signs? So, some of the words could be. When churches can tend to rest on past worlds. In other words, if the church has been great things for the world in the past, But then always all the church talks about is what has been done in the past, not about what we're doing now, what we're going to do next for the Lord, but always pointing back to things that have been done in the past If the church is more concerned with the forms of worship than spiritual reality, where the church focuses on curing social ills rather than changing people's hearts through preaching the life-giving gospel of Jesus Christ. If we have gotten away from the most important reason why a church exists. A church exists to glorify God and to glorify him by obedience to his commands. And so In Matthew chapter 28, Christ gives a command to his disciples to make disciples To baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and to teach them to obey all I have commanded you. So uh to to not only obey, but to teach obedience to disciples. That's the uh the reason for the existence of the church. And so uh if we stray from that reason for existence of the church then uh well that's a danger sign that the church has dying. It's gotten away from what Christ commanded the church to do, to make disciples. By preaching the life-giving gospel of Christ. So that's another thing that we can look for as a danger sign. Well, the church is both the same with material and then with spiritual things. That's a danger sign. When a church is more concerned with what men think than what with what God says. That's a dangerous sign. When a church loses its conviction that every word of the Bible is the Word of God Himself, that's a danger sign So there's many things that we can look at. We can do a self-examination of our own church to make sure we don't have these danger sounds of a church that is dying and which eventually Christ might come and say You're dead. You may have people fooled because you're still having worship service every Sunday, but I can see that you're dead. So these are some warning signs we can look at And so the bottom line is, no matter what attendance a church has, no matter what status it might have in the community, such a church, having denied the only source of spiritual life is dead. Um so back to learning here. This this a church a church in w at a time in the first century, a real church. Heard those words uh relayed by a messenger from the Lord Jesus Christ, you're a dead church. What a what an awful thing to hear. Uh we don't want to hear that and uh Hold Bible truth. We wanna want to hear that um uh the Lord Jesus Christ. So we need to be on our guard against the kinds of things that lead to uh the death of the church. Any questions or comments? Alright. Let me go on. The congregation starts with performing deeds. They were going through the motions, but these deeds, Christ declared, were not completed in the sight of my God. It was sufficient to give the service church a reputation before men. You had a reputation that you're a lie. The deeds were insufficient and unacceptable in God's sight There were the pointless, lifeless motions of the corpse, spiritual zombies, populating the Sardist Church, living alive. They've been weighed in the scales by the righteous judge and found one thing. Jesus said, judge them. They're dead. Just like the writing on a handwriting on the wall, meeny meany tackle parson. The Old Testament Hero Samson is an illustration for what's happening in the Sardis Church. So uh if you look back to the uh to to Samson, he had the amazing strength. Uh his life came to a sad and tragic end. He had this uh Tempest the Lai lady married She pressed Janssen daily with her words and urged him to reveal the early secret of his strength eventually after his soul was annoyed to death. By her constant crying, Samson told blind and truth. She cut his hair and lost his great strength. Not because of the haircut. He lost his great strength because of disobedience to God, personal disobedience to God. God had commanded him what to do, not to cut his hair, and he got his hair cut. It wasn't the hair that provided his strength It was obedience to God that provided the strength. This obedience to God caused him to lose the strength. And there's a tragic verse in Judges 16, verse 20. Samson did not know that the Lord had departed from him. How sad. The Lord had been with him all this time. He did not know that the Lord had departed from him. That's the church itself. Evidently they didn't realize that the church, that the word had departed from them. Once spiritually wild and strong, while blind and weak, not realizing that God had long since departed. So Christ suggests the command for the faithful remnant. There is a faithful remnant. It's not many, but if there's a faithful remnant, there's no point in talking to the dead at this point, he's talking to the those that are alive. Uh if the church was to survive, it definitely needed life. Christ laid out for them the path to spiritual restoration by giving them five steps to follow. First wake up There was no time for indifference. The ones that needed to look at what was happening in their church, evaluate the situation, get involved in changing things, confront sin and error, make a difference Wake up. The second was strengthen the things that remain, which were about to die. So they were there was a remnant there, but they needed to wake up and strengthen uh to hold on to what was still alive or it was going to die. Things here in the Greek is a neuter noun, it doesn't refer to people but spiritual realities. He's exhorting these true Christians and service to fan the flames of a dying spark of life in this church and fan it back into spiritual life. Our first step was to remember what they had received and heard. Go back to the scriptures. What have they received and heard in the scriptures? They need to go back to the truths of the Word of God, remember the gospel and the teaching of the apostles. By this time, uh Paul's letters were in circulation. And we see that in 2 Peter chapter 3. The rest of the New Testament had been written. So the truths of Scripture were out there for the church. They needed to uh get back into the Word To remember what they've been taught, to remember what God had said, to remember His word, um, what they had received and heard. They need to reaffirm the belief and the truth about Christ, sin, salvation, sanctification, all those things that are taught in the Scriptures. In the words of Paul Timothy, they would regard what had been entrusted to them, 1 Timothy chapter 6, to establish a solid doctrinal foundation to serve as a base for renewal. They needed to be in God's Word, the truths of God's Word, obeying the truths of God's Word. For them to give back to the truths of scripture, they need to keep them. They need to keep it and repent. Those two things, keep God's word and repent. So, Orthodox theology apart from obedient lies would not bring renewal. Keep the word and repent. With remorse and sorrow that believes that Saras were to confess and turn away from sin. And if they did these five steps diligently, that would bring revival. So there's a pathway Christ is laying out a pathway for those that are still the remnant, those that are still faithful, this is what you need to do to revise, revitalize, and restore life to this dead church. So uh and price gives a warning about what will happen if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come This picture of Jesus coming as a thief carries the idea of imminent judgment. We see it in Matthew chapter 24, Luke chapter 12, verse Thessalonians 5, 2 Peter 3, later on in Revelation 16. uh depictions of Christ coming like a thief in the land. Imminent judgment. The thread here is not religious, it is second coming per se. But the Lord would come and destroy the Sardis Church if there's no revival. And just like you did with Thyatira. Thyatira went out of existence, that church, uh, not long after uh the book of Revelation was written And he's warning that the same thing can happen to this service church. And of course it can also be extrapolated into warning of the judgment that faces all those churches at Christ's return. The only way to avoid the stricter judgment that awaits those who know the truth and turn away from it, as Hebrews chapter 10 says, is to follow the path of spiritual life. Repent and obey. So in the midst of this dead church with unregenerate people, there were a few uh true believers that remained. There were not enough to change Christ's overall evaluation of the church as a dead church. So his overall evaluation, dead church. But there were actually living true Christians within this dead church. And he had not forgotten them. He wants to make sure that they understand, I haven't forgotten you. I've identified your church as a dead church, but I know there are those that are true followers within even this dead church. God preserves a faithful remnant. That's a constant theme in Scripture, although in the Old Testament, also in the New Testament. And he had his remnant even in this day church and sorts. A few sincere believers among the hypocrites, a few humble among the proud, a few separated, sanctified among the worldly, a few spots of greed among the teres. So the description of the remnant is those who have not soiled their markings. Soil is from the Greek moleno. which means to stain, to defile, to smear, or to put it. Which is actually a uh the word that's used in the wood dyeing industry for dyeing or staining uh rules. So it was a familiar word to this city of people that were many people were involved in the rule dining industry. So garments in the scripture often symbolize a character. Isaiah 64, June 23, garments are a symbol for the character. Faithful women couldn't come into God's presence because they had not defiled or polluted themselves but manifested godly character. That's the word picture here with White Drummonds. Christ says to them, they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. In ancient times such garments were worn in celebrations and festivals, white robes. Christ's promises here in verse five and also in other places in uh revelation as we'll see, chapter six, chapter seven. Uh chapter 19, we have uh this um picture of word garments. We'll see this as a repeated theme in the book of Revelation. They're elsewhere one by Christ in Matthew chapter 17 and Mark chapter 9 and one by the angels in Matthew chapter 28 and Mark chapter 16 and Acts chapter 1. So this depiction of light incarnates. for Christ, for angels, and for those who are redeemed. So let's know that the measure of holiness and purity now will be given perfect holiness and purity in the future. Then by way of encouragement, Christ described the rewards waiting for those who participated in the revival. True Christians, as already noted, will be clothed in wet garments. We have the festive occasion of weddings for life's garments. We have a depiction of the wedding supper of the Lamb, which is coming in Revelation 19. Uh we also had incidents in uh ancient times of celebrating a victory in battle by wearing white robes. Um So believers write dramatic represent purity and holiness, and Christ promises to clothe Christians in eternal impurity and holiness. And then he goes on in the put on this. Further promise, every true Christian he will not erase his name from the book of life But will confess his name before the Father and before his angels. So this is a wonderful promise for those who are the remnant within the church that Christ makes this promise that um The the the name will never be erased from the book of life if you're a true follower of his. And that he will in fact confess your name before the Father. In John's day, and the day that these letters were written, rulers kept a register of citizens of a city, and if someone died or committed a serious crime, their name was erased from the register. Christ the King of Heaven promises never to erase a true Christian's name from the world of those who are names who were written from the foundation of the world in the book of life of the land who had been slain. So um and so Christ will actually confess every every um believer's name before the Father and his angels. Um And Christ had promised that through his earthly ministry in Matthew chapter 10, everyone who confesses me before then, I will also confess it before my Father who is in heaven. He had promised this in his earthly ministry, he's reiterating it here in Revelation in this particular way. But we also have Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter eight is uh the important most important scripture about the perseverance of the saints, the the fact that those who are Save can never be snatched out of Christ's hand. Um so we're running out of time, so I well maybe I already already don't think. And we know that God causes all things to work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of the Son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren, and those whom he created he also called, and these whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say these things? If God is for us, who is against us? Who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also within freely give us all things? Who will bring a charge against God's light? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died, yes, rather, who was raised who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us, who will separate us from the love of Christ. For I am I am convinced that neither death nor life, near angels, the principalities, and the things present There are things to come, nor powers, nor heights, nor death, nor any other truly thing that would be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so we have this promise. Nothing's going to separate us from the word of God that's in Christ Jesus. Great promise in Romans chapter 8. And so it ends the same way as the others with this admonition that's two individuals. So we've got the words for the church. But each one ends like this. He has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Not just this amorphous mass that's a church, but everyone who's got an ear. Hear this. Listen to what the Spirit says to the churches. Away what the Spirit says to the churches. So Uh we had a search of this church here, but there's a remnant that's alive, and they need to wake up. Um so he's calling to repentance. Any any kind of um sin in the life of any believer is uh Christ promises that he's faithful to uh forgive if we repent, to forgive and cleanse us from all unrighteousness is what the scripture says. So what happened in service? Did they heed the word? Did the revival come? Well, we have this extra biblical writings about this man named Molino. And this man named Melillo served as the bishop's artist actually towards the end of the second century, about a hundred years after this. So evidently the church was still there. We don't have great details, but Melito was a a good and godly man from the writings that uh we know of. from him and he was the leader of the church and it was still there a hundred years later as opposed to fatira image was not. So it's not too late for even for a terms that Christ identified as dead, it was not too late for the remnant. the true believers to take action and to re spark, revitalize that dead church. Um any questions? Sorry, I'll run us out of time. Let me uh let me close as we pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truths of your word. We pray, Lord, that we would hold fast. to those truths and that we would obey what you command in your word. Not just as a uh as a matter of a church body, but as individual followers of Christ, that we are called, each and every one of us to obey your word. And we pray, Lord, that we would be about the business that you set for your church to make disciples. to baptize in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and to teach each and every disciple that we may to obey all that you have commanded us. We pray, Lord, that the things that we do here at Hope Bible Church would be pleasing your sight and would bring glory to your name. That's what we strive for, Lord, as individuals and as a collective body of Christ. We thank you for the wonderful opportunity that we have now to worship you as a corporate body uh to worship you in song and in prayer and in uh the preaching of the word. We thank you, Lord, for all that you are and all that you do, and we thank we thank you especially for the great love That sent Jesus to die on the cross for our sins. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.