I have my son bring um a bunch of the books that I have at home that are blakingly apologetic. Um And the point of this act is all the input. Um the point of that But I have no intention to try to cover the whole domain of apologetics. I discovered apologetics. I take my freshman year in college as an undergraduate engineering student. Yeah, yeah. Um and the class was using uh a book by Geisler who at the time was my first apologist and then for years my favorite apologist You might uh hear the suggestion no longer my favorite favorite apologist. Um but um I do like it. There's nothing wrong with it, it's not my favorite. That's a great question. I was at a period of time in my life where I had grown up in a Christian home. Um I knew Christian principles. I certainly knew Christian stories. Uh but I lived however I wanted to. Um and I actually got to a place and I'm even sure how the Lord did it, but I was so of my own hypocrisy that I checked myself into a Christian college. Um I didn't even apply anywhere else despite the fact that I had great grade, straight sports on tests and everything else I went down to uh Christmas College in South Carolina. And I even went down with the commitment uh to get a degree in engineering. I don't know why, there was never any question in my mind that that was what I was going to do, so that's what I did. Um so I went down to a college and I thought if I waste four years of my life getting a bogus engineering degree, because what could this little Christian Collins possibly know about real engineering? hearing. Um I'm okay with that. As long as I know who God is when I mean and who I am before Him. I do not want to be a hypocrite any longer. Um and and I'm not sure I think about things wholly different today than I did then. Um I love apologetics because it's It's the footsteps to what we say we believe. It's the turning point between Christianity and hypocrisy. We should not say things that we don't believe. And we cannot say we believe things when we are not in the process Of walking in the midst of those things. I have a truth. The whole lesson today is about this. I have a truth It is true whether I like it or not, Ring. It describes what is real Maybe not what I can see all the time because there is a and I hope Daniel I know Daniel covered it. He described a uh set of uh drawings that he did last week, so I know he talked about it We live too often as though there were a realm, sorry for my small group people in here, I just keep repeating the same six facts over and over again and hopefully people enjoy it. um in between the natural, the seen, the scientific, the logical, the evidentiary, and the unseen or the supernatural And we live we live almost all the time until the natural defined our reality. We do that as Christians. And yet there is a supernatural reality. And there must be a supernatural reality because there are communicable and incommunicable characteristics of God, and God defines all truth. I don't really have any notes to teach to you anymore. That's really the substance of our class today. But I went to that school and I was tired of of living a h hypocritical life I took this class. I fell in love with apologetics. Uh I I think, I don't remember, I was a very busy undergraduate student. And then a very poor graduate student, which occupied my thinking. But I have more than enough credits as a result of this, despite a heavy loaded engineering to have gotten At least a minor in Bible, if not a little bit more than that. I took every class I could. Every class that would fit in my schedule I took I just couldn't get enough of it. I took every apologetics class. I took every class by any teacher that I had in apologetics that taught another course. I generally avoided the seminary teachers That a little too vague for me. I wanted I wanted to know how to do it. And they just wanted to like, isn't this a cute thought? I don't know Where's my point there? I don't I don't exactly know. But I have been studying apologetics ever since then. About six or eight eight books. I have been using extensively for this current study. I'll try to pull them off here. I got behind. And so lost track of a few things. Everything from a book on persuasions, which is a kind of a fictional, if you know screw tape letters, this is Doug Wilson. By the way, I buy authors all the time that I can't recommend to you. Don't be upset by that. So if you hear a name in here and you're like, oh my word, that guy's a heathen. Okay I I I've got books on the shelf by people that actually I got books that I didn't buy because I don't want my kids to see them at their age. Um but I've got books on Kindle and uh in some cases audio books Which I can't encourage you enough not to listen to. But I picked them up with an i idea of learning more about how to give an account of the faith that I hold here in a world that is totally against that, whether it's completely passively or completely actively, totally against it. Um let me also say that every book that I picked up on apologetics, this one where's the one we're studying? Wherever it is. Ah. There we go. Um Too academic. And it's not just a Geisler thing, it's all of them. Too academic. Help you build arguments or Help you learn philosophies to win arguments. I I don't actually care if you win an argument. And I hope that you don't either. This is the one we're currently doing. Alright, I hope that you don't either. I want you to learn how truly satisfying walking in Christ is. I want you to understand that there is no room for any doubt in our Lord. He is not mostly in a supernatural bucket or an ethereal bucket or an altruistic bucket, and he sometimes manages to stick his finger through into our natural lives where we live And breathe and have our being, where we suffer and grow and rejoice in sorrow and struggle and have ambition He is not separate from us. Any recognition of reality, any anything that is true Puts God at the top, who created all things, which necessarily I don't even know why I didn't know, so apparently we I'm gonna add live the whole thing. Um Out of late working on notes and here I'm not using them. Created all things. Colossus 1, 16 and 17 For by him were all things created, that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him, and he is before all things, and by him all things consist. So not only did he do the created order, which is logic, reason, science. Right? But also he is before all things. And he is responsible for the invisible things. And he has attributes which cannot be fully expressed here in the created order. We are not a sufficient reflector. The natural order is not a sufficient reflector. for the magnitude of our God. And even the communicable attributes that he shares with us, we don't get quite right. More loving, more present, more imminent, more faithful. And those are just the easy ones I don't care about winning arguments. I want to know my God. And then I want to be able to share him with other people when my life is lived in such a way that it provokes people to say, why? Why? You're in the same mess we are. How can you live that way? I I care about I I harp on marriages all the time There's a few reasons for that. Anza and I are going through some changes. Our kids are getting older. They're leaving the house. She's stepping away from homeschool. I'm finally six ads with my job enough. We're starting to rethink some priorities there. Pray for me. You know. Things and our matters are changing, and I'm thinking a lot about it, like how do I do it better, and how do I do it right, and how do I honor the Lord? What have I done wrongly? And how do I fix that? And how do you ever fix something you've done wrongly for at least 27 years, which is how long I've been married So I think about that a lot. I think about it a lot because over half of the marriages I know are falling apart. And to be honest, when Ans and I had a brief conversation, I can't remember what provoked the thought, but when we had a brief conversation about this recently that's been the last couple of years, I'm getting a little bit I said, how many marriages? How many people do we get together with? And you're just like, yeah, I just feel like I can rest These people s have a marriage that doesn't need to be propped up or worried about or handled or finabled or supported or you should say one. I, as you can tell, as I've never heard me speak, am prone to decorating speech, right? I uh I thought one of the ladies in our small group this week was gonna run out of the room screaming and and report me to the elders. I mean I she had a right to do it based on what I had said, which I said to provoke a response. And then I wanted to walk through that thing, right? But not Angela. She's she's she's more just the facts, man And she said, one. So I I care a lot about marriages. I don't want to discuss apologetics in terms of you winning an argument at work with somebody that doesn't believe that God's God. I want to teach you about a God that's so solid in his truths and his realities that you go home and you fix this. I want to teach you about identity. I want to teach you that your identity in Christ is the most noble dignified, valuable thing in all the world. Not because I want to be dramatic about, I don't know, this, that, or that, the other thing, but because that's the truth of it given in scripture. And there's so much crisis in this space. I want to talk about work, which is the same as school for some of us. I'm not interested in apologetics, so you can get one over on a professor or a co-worker or a supervisor. Be interested in enabling you to know your God in such a way that you see your work in school for what they are. They are the purposes of God for your life. In a period of exile, which is meant or described in the scriptures as toil, during which, and this is the part we forget During which the Lord is infinitely present with you, teaching you about who he is and who you are. And how you can walk with him in peace and glory and joy and in knowledge and in wisdom and in power There there's a joke. Uh it's from a book which I don't think I actually Uh pitch like this guy with a galaxy? The answer is oh I always fall. Forty seven forty two I think it's forty two. It could be forty one. Okay. I actually backed into it the wrong way. There is a concise encyclopedia of mathematics. It's about a yay decade. From CRC handbook, and you'll use it older enough to in engineers to actually use the old CRC handbook. handbooks from CRC handbooks and it lists forty-two. It lists all these numbers that have unique properties, but it lists forty-two. It's the answer to F Everything. Forty-two is the answer to everything. I don't have enough time to describe to you why that's true. Go back and either read the book, you got Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Is it raunchy? Okay. Maybe you shouldn't read it. Sis Trust me forty two answer to everything. Don't read the book. Um or watch the movie. I can't remember the movie at all. Um Inasmuch as they are the study of God is the answer to everything. And it has been a pursuit. Um since I was in college. And I will not be able to do justice to the work that is in those books in the next thirteen weeks But I can share those books with you. I can overview the trail for you to hopefully give you some highlights that are attractive to you. I can hopefully enable you with the idea that there is not a single person in this room that is an A called to the apologetic exercise and B capable of navigating the stuff that's involved Any author here that makes the idea that there's a couple here. Anyway, any author here that makes it seem so technical that you need a PhD. It's just lied. They've lost their way. And they got what I call the sophistry of men. Right? The foolishness of men. Okay, that was my starting tire. Let's pray to kick the class off. I I don't this is what it is, guys. You can either be saddened about who I am or entertained by who I am or I don't know, but this is what you get. Um Let's pray. Lord, you know exactly what is going on in my heart this morning. You know the challenges. Um that I face right now, you know that I have never been able to separate my studies from my the way they press on my life And I am so eager to see you magnified in the minds of those that are out here with me. so that there is conspicuous goodness nurtured and grown and made fruitful in the lives of the hearers. I want to find a way to balance the academic so that we understand that it is not um no rather So that we understand that our reasons for Christ are sufficient against all arguments. We don't have to be simple. We can go the whole distance. Anywhere with anyone at any time Because you are ultimately true. So I want to balance the academic nature of our study with I guess what I should call the discipleship nature of our study I want to have my life changed by knowing you better and trusting you more. And walking each day more consistently in confidence in the truths that I'm learning about him. I pray that you would allow that to be true week over week. Help my disordered thoughts this morning to be glorifying to you. In your name I pray. Uh don't need either of these books. Okay, so I handed you hopefully you have a copy of two things. You hopefully have uh the March 3rd lesson notes. Which should be titled Passionate Truth Seeking the necessity of apologetics to all believers. I pretty much summarized most of what I wanted to get across there. We'll come back and touch on a few points. This meeting in the notes that I have. Um Yeah, I mean there's stuff I want to say, but I think I'm gonna leave it alone. Daniel and I had a good discussion that sounds like he did a fantastic job, which is just so pretty. Um Last week's notes should establish what apologetics is, both according to a traditional definition, as well as my modified definition, insert all that I have said this morning as far as modified definition, right? I'm not interested in this and giving an account. I want to have a transformed life. I want that to provoke inquiry for the glory of the Lord. And with great confidence I want to share the truth. I guess I'll stop here real quick. Um if you look at uh K Two, it's important to come back to that. Right toward the bottom of the page, there's a section that says a modified definition. And that's the definition we will be using for what is apologetics. And our modified definition is it's a rational defense to the unbeliever, but notice I put in parentheses, and our own skepticism and secularism. Of our total confidence. Notice that. Our total confidence in the sovereign God leading us to a light increasingly transformed into that which Christ demonstrated as a result of the truth revealed through his creation, his word, and his work through the Spirit. A lot of words Important definition. Every part of it is necessary. So if you're highlighting or putting little aspect sheets next to things, stick one there. Please read that definition before you come in here easily. Tweet to remind yourself what we're doing. We are not bowing down at the altar of knowledge in here. Or at least I don't want to. And it would discourage me if I thought that I was helping you do that I am not weak in my thinking. I read books by German authors, German pagan authors called Leisure, The Basis of Culture. And it takes me weeks to read a hundred pages because two-thirds of it is in Latin. Luckily I have enough of a German background I can usually track it as German, but the Latin throws me. And Angel is not willing to sit there with me and interpret the Latin setup in mind. An amazing commentary on culture relevant to our studies, but geeky is all kids. I am not afraid to pursue these things or indeed in them. I am not willing to use them as my God. And I hope that you will not be either. And yet I don't know, you see what's that I have there. If you trust me. I'll say 80% of the books I have in apologetics are an homage to knowledge. With a nod to God. Not anything. My simple definition is that apologetics is a passionate truth. First in and for our own lives. Notice that. First, first in and for our own lives. And then so that we can give an answer to others that still do not know and believe the truth. And to be honest, despite the prevalence of it in most of the books over there about you know winning arguments is a very common phrase. I got news for you. There is not a single defense of that posture, that attitude in the scriptures. You give an answer to those that ask with meekness and fear and humility to And we want to see God's goodness opened, enabled, and magnified in their lives. You are not ready to be an apologist for the glory of the Lord until you have experienced forgiveness in your own life. You have understood God's love. This is right out of scriptures, by the way. You are not ready to be an apologist until you have experienced the forgiveness of the Lord, your heart is broken over those things, to you understand how wonderful God's mercy is is and his love is for you, that he sent his son to forgive you your sins, to work in your life every single day, in powerful ways that combine both of these spheres of our reality. And because of your excitement about what he has done for you, you cannot wait to invite others to that same thing. Then you are ready. Scott. You're saying that success is not measured by winning, but by glorifying God and loving people. The only thing I would add to that is a foundation for that, and that foundation is A desire to desire to fulfill the purpose that God gave you in creating you, in saving you. So that that that principle purpose is a necessary predicate to what you said. Other than that, I take no exception, so it's not a bit of a matter. I gave three things three or three things. I gave a number of uh But right below that definition I have as an aside, some reasons the Christians think like secularists and skeptics. And then I gave a false dichotomy between religion and science The tyranny of the idea of an expert, the myth of reliable research, a lack of reality related to I want to just ask real quick because I think it was unfair actually to throw that at Daniel. Um because I had done the research for those and they kind of said, here you go, this is These of my notes have added. I just want to ask, is is there any questions about those before I just skip them real quick? A lack of reality. Are you saying experience related to supernatural? Potentially, potentially, um Hemin and Holm a little bit because I think if we have eyes to see, we see the Lord working in supernatural ways more readily. I'm in a small group we're working through uh Luke passage and I was impressed as I studied verse by verse to it how often the ministry of Christ turns to bees. And that led me led me to be impressed with the depiction, which I think is I think it was in the notes someplace, to the depiction of the armor of God as that which was mostly against supernatural to see new supernatural influences. So I see be I I my contention would be that because we are blind to the supernatural, because we reject its prevalence in our day-to-day lives We often do not experience or do not know that we experience some influence for good or for ill from that new supernatural realm. I'm going to highlight the myth of reliable research real quick. Super cranial. I don't remember how I got to studying this. But I was reading a critique of some Dutch research that detained the global foundation for gender transition surgery. Sorry, real quick, free free on that with just a piggyback on that. Because especially within scientists go along with that idea of just completely not being able to understand supernatural the common refuse that when science gets to a point in which they can no longer move forward isn't then to then look at the look at the supernatural, but it's always we haven't gotten there yet. We will be able to find the answer if we're just not there yet. So they completely block out um possibility of the supernatural perfect ending. I was gonna try to try that last point on, but that's the perfect ending, right? Science is only able to speak about observational evidence, right? Observational logic, observational reason, observational truth. That necessarily means it's here, which by the way isn't bad, it's just what it is That's what we mean when we say science. So science is necessarily not able to speak about that which is not observable. Philosophy can conjecture in this space, and by the way, I think that's necessary and good Because a lot of philosophy creates ideas. Ideas, there's a book over there called this, ideas have consequences, and you would be amazed about how many of those consequences you swim in every day and don't even know it But your point is perfect. You talk about what's supernatural, you talk about miracles from the scriptures, you talk about having a reality is between you as a seen thing in the created observational order and the unseen, which was necessarily God And the uncreated order, and science says A, we can't comment on that. B we don't know about it. And C, we'll figure it out eventually, and it'll be natural. Well it won't be. Um so good good caveat. Uh Dutch research um global acceptance, trends, uh, proliferation of gender transition. The original Dutch research was uh primarily on uh pediatric patients I'll skip a lot of the details, but the long and short of it is the current American Medical Association I'll say position I'm thinking of myself more like dogma. Um I mean there's supposed to be this group of scientists, right? I just spent two weeks in uh medical compound in Togo with largely Christian uh doctors, but I was still left with this interesting uh impression is how I'll phrase it That to do medicine requires a certain confidence in oneself. It can be dangerous. And so there was just a lot of talk as the hospital interacted with people and as the hospital interacted with the Tokyoese government and as the hospital interacted with uh local government and infrastructure. There was it was just this lot you could You could hear it. And it wasn't overblown or unbearing or ridiculous, but you could still hear it. It was like, well, we're doctors and scientists. You should listen to us. We know. Well they may. They may. I I'm not saying they don't, but it's certainly a bias of that field of As a generalization, it's a bias of that field of study, that field of endeavor. And certainly the American Medical Association leaves themselves to be The representatives of reasoning science in the United States. And they have wholeheartedly adopted this Dutch research. And yet the secular author that I cited in here, who has no intention to support Christianity in any way, as a matter of fact, looking for ways not to get rid of gender transition or the idea that gender transition should be supported, but just to pursue the science where it leads. That's all he was trying to do when he wrote his critique of it, destroys The Dutch research. And already in Europe, things begin to transition back, swing back on the pendulum from where they had gone as a result of the Dutch research. say yeah we were duped we gotta fix our policies and procedures we gotta uh update our our clinical practices And in the United States, when there was a move in government to do that, AMA came out and said government shouldn't tamper with science, we know best. It's a little bit of the tyranny of an expert. It's a little bit of the myth of reliable research. I guess I want to challenge you when you read something that is incon hear, read, or are told something that is inconsistent with what you know to be true as a result of your scriptures, go research it. Do not deny it. Definitely do not affirm it. Go study. We give up too quickly. Well I'm this, I'm that, I'm the other thing. How could I possibly refute it? I don't know, give it a shot. Go ahead and study it, but I would caution to guard your heart because a lot of things are the enemy is deceptive and can lead you down paths that um you know, will will lead to other paths and questions and things, so maybe consider going alongside someone else or Say what you just said again. Going along with someone else. Yeah. Key. Super important. Right. We don't know what our own biases are. And we struggle to see our own weaknesses. Or we see them and we don't deal with them appropriately. But having somebody there they can hold in the hand or smack you in the back of the head is is super important, right? That's exactly right. And how many of us know people that have gone off the edge in in some private crusade about a particular thing? But I will talk to you again about the fundamental motivation there Right? What's the fundamental motivation? Is it apologetics to win arguments? A lot of these people that go off on these crusades, I I just want to win the debate I want to get out there and I want to be like you know Rush Lindball and talk radio and and win the debate, say the right thing and crush all the people that don't know anything It's not not our objective in apologetics. We want to live transformed lives. Totally stealing the end of my notes. We want to live transformed lives as a result of a certain promise of God, certain truths about God, and then to give an account of that to those that ask out of love. What? Um it's on the passionate truth seeking notes if you've got it. A three, Mr. Reliable Research. Mr. Reliable Research. But you're absolutely right. A couple of those books I said I had on Kindle earlier that I cannot recommend anybody. I picked them up because I was studying something, usually for a class or something else, or I was working on an idea because Angela had exposed me to a book that I thought was good and I was kind of pursuing the research and a couple of them I had to put down, right? I'm just Yeah, and that's a good thing. They were bad. Yeah, the Lord has put some people as watchmen on the tower and that's definitely a typical position, but then some others they can just jump in and you can really see the um the you know the the resentment build up towards the kings of the north. That's a great lead-in to our notes for today Wow. That's a great lead-in to our notes for today. We're going to define our two terms, truth and faith in particular. I'm going to start with uh a review of the type of apologetics. Um I had heard that the POWs were in the year, um, including uh Pastor POW, and so I thought I should protect myself with some caveats. I uh scoured I I keep a tremendous uh folder of resources that I picked up from the church over since the entire time I was in here So I have all the doctrinal statements and every set of notes that we have from every class that I've ever been to, even some of my own scratch notes with a stand-in about it. I scoured all of it for a church position on the type of apologetics that we approve of. And other than getting myself in trouble once in the past on this topic, uh I couldn't find a state position. And so I thought, uh oh, I don't want to hang myself by having tutor here. So uh here we go. I'm I'm gonna introduce three types of apologetics. I'm gonna tell you that MacArthur and company, um, at least in their hermeneutic studies, take a presuppositional position. I'll explain what that's looks like in there. Okay. Geisler takes a classical position. That's that first one we're going to do. And I'm not sure I ascribe to one over the other, and I'll show you why that's true as we move forward. Although I generally have a bias, just disclosure. I generally have a bias toward the classical natural. Let's talk about what that means. Classical apologetics requires the possibility of natural theology. The study of God based on the observation of nature, which formulation is credited to Thomas Aquinas. In other words, Thomas Aquinas was the first one to say, hey, this is natural theology, and this is what it looks like. It's ostensibly, this is overly simplistic, but it's ostensibly based on Romans 1, 20, and 21. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imagination. and their foolish hearts were darkened. This is an unregenerate group of people. It's actually all of us, by the way. We were all This is an unregenerate group of people, and he said, You can see the invisible and visible things about me sufficiently from the created order that you can know that I am a God, the God in power and authority. And that you owe me thanks. For all that you have and all that you are and all that you will be. That's an amazing statement. And it's not the only one in scripture. I have some more in a diagram In this diagram right at the top of the back of the first page, I've got some more scriptures that I hope to get a chance to look at, although I've This lesson is a travesty of logistics and planning, so uh mark it up to another one of my failures. Um Thomas Aquinas was the first one to fully codify this idea of natural theology. Natural theology says that we can know things about God, right? That's what theology is From the natural order, from the created order. And therefore we can reason about the existence of God and all that comes from that That's not fair. They would not say all. We can reason about the existence of God and things that flow from that from from the evidences that we see around us. That's to say that in If we only deal with observational sciences and logic reason science about them, we should be able to reason our way to the existence of God. Who is sovereign, authoritative? Um what what I'm sorry. What what's another word for item potent? Like the only thing that uh Exclusive is closer than unique. I don't know. Item potent. Look it up when you get home. Um that's the word I want. That's the word I'm going to use They need all of those things. So that's what not natural theology said. Classical apologetics picks that up and says, let's go. We're going to use rational arguments from the evidence about truth to talk about the existence of God and what's required of man. It was actually although he codified it per se Um Augustine clearly writes about it. You'll see the dates there, right? So Thomas Aquinas wrote about it in the thirteenth century, Augustine wrote about it in the first century, and Paul wrote Romans 1. as well as Colossians and a number of other verses that speak to a natural theology in um years right after Christ, right? So this is not a new field of study. It has a two-step process. First To prove the existence of God using natural theology, observable sciences, things that can be known from observation and the senses. And reason and logic, it puts a lot of burden on men. And I only say that because the presuppositional apologetic, that's what they object to most. And then once you get to that part, you prove the veracity of Christianity. If God exists, and He is powerful, and He is trying to express Himself through observational science. or observational truth, I guess that's how I should say that. Then it is not a leap to say that he's tried to communicate himself expressly Through not general revelation or natural revelation, but through specific revelation. And so they first through the existence of God, that's a much smaller jump to the inerrant um truth of scripture after that and then they progress. So it's a two-stage approach. Example proponents for this are Augustine, R. C. Sprohl, Geisler, and Turk, and many, many others. I just gave you examples here that you might know. Evidential apologetics skips attempting to prove the existence of God, either because they don't believe natural theology is possible. And we'll touch on why that they say that in the presuppositional apologetic. Um either because they don't believe it's possible or just because they think it's too hard. And and I don't mean they give up. They're just like, I I don't need that. This is a more efficient approach or a more effective approach. And so they stick with just the inerrancy of scripture. They basically start there And they say, hey, look, um, from uh hi a historical perspective, look at all the things in the scriptures that are true. From an archaeological perspective, look at all the things in the scriptures that are true. From a scientific perspective, look at all the things in the scriptures that are true. And so they kind of just keep going, stacking up evidence after evidence after evidence for the rat veracity of scripture, and then they go, if all of those things are true, in the way that they're true and at the time they were true, even when they were against what the prevailing theories of the day were, then isn't it reasonable to believe, fill in the parts that we would add about God and about faith and about the supernatural world that can't be achieved through observational science. So that's what an evidential apologist would do. Example proponents of that are Josh McDowell. So it's not not a lightweight in the industry of apologetics. As a matter of fact, he proves that by trying to write one of the thicker one of the thicker books, and this is only one of his many books. For you've parents out there. Oof I'm short, but if we bring For you parents out there that are interested in engaging your children on this, cool book This is like critiques. Um you can make it as simple or as hard as you want. You can get both books, get your kids to read this one, and then you read this one. And and then go from there. Um but there's some really good uh stuff in that we actually work through uh that with the youth group at one point in time. I never say things, but uh I'm I'm not sure they do think, but what was the title of the book? We can't actually New evidence that demands a verdict is Josh McDowell's principal work. Right. That's kind of his opus. And then Don't Check Your Brain at the Door is a co-work by a DM guy named Bob Hostettler. And it says right on the front, a book of Christian evidences. It's consistent with him being an evidential apologist. Presuppositional apologetics are really classical and presuppositional are really the two that I guess I'll say find tension in most Christian circles. Um presuppositional apologetics refutes the possibility of natural theology On the grounds that human intellect is fundamentally tainted by original sin and cannot reason to God. In other words, yes, we can see these things But our minds are so corrupted by original sin that we are unable to get from what we see to what is true. And there is a long precedent of good, I guess I'll say, uh philosophy and science That deals with the difference, the distinction between perceiving something, seeing it, and being able to engage it mentally Um so th this is not um marginal or or or trivial um uh adjustment to original classical apologetics. It is newer though, much newer, like in our time It's supported by some good scriptures. Romans 1, 20, and 21, excuse me, 21, 22, and 28, but they became feudal. in their thinking, unable to think anything that had any purpose or value, they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened, claiming to be wise. They became fools And since since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind. But notice that, uh just this is my commentary. Notice that is in the same passage that says, what can be known about God It was obvious to him from the created order. Indeed, it cannot. That's strong, powerful scripture. 1 Timothy 6. 5, among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth. 2 Corinthians 3. 14, their minds were hardened. That same veil remains unlifted because only through Christ is it taken away. That's specifically about the Jews. But it is a text that uh presuppositional apologetics uh apologeticists, sorry, that's a mouthful of consonants, um use quite frequently The presuppositions that are principally made are that the Bible is true and that it is in fact our only absolute standard of truth. And that the God spoken of in the Bible exists and that He is a creator or the Creator of all things. And then you'll notice I have a section that's called my own qualifications. 1 Corinthians 2. 14 says the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. I don't think anybody's arguing that when we talk about classical apologetics. You will never save a man solely through rational arguments and logic and reason. Right? Unless you are regenerated in Christ, you cannot do these things. There is no argument to that in any of these apologetic strands. Romans one, eighteen through twenty-one. Um I'll just excerpt it since I've already quoted most of it. Romans 18 says, ungodly and unrighteous men suppress the truth. That whole context for the natural theology from Romans 1, 20 and 21, is in the soil Of ungodly and unrighteous men who suppress the truth. So Paul knew what the audience was for God's statement that the observational truths revealed his nature and character. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them You're really not talking about what the capacity of man is in that sense. Does man have a depraved mind? Absolutely. Are we giving over to that in a way that would always prevent us from being able to approach God, to be acceptable to God, to find our salvation? Absolutely. There is nobody that is computing that or questioning that in any way. But in this particular verse, you need to wrestle with what God is doing, not with what the mind of man is doing. God has shown it to them. And he talks about invisible attributes, even, namely, right, he's very specific. Invisible attributes of God, but but specifically his eternal power and his divine nature. have been clearly perceived, that word's important, remember it, perceived. Ever since the creation of the world by the things that have been made, so that they are without excuse. Paul wrote both of these passages under the inspiration of the scriptures, 214 and 118 through 21. One said the natural person does not accept the things And then in Romans 1, it says, God has shown to them things about Himself, which make them completely inexcusable in the day of judgment. And I would draw to your attention the distinction between some of these words Natural person does not accept Underline, the things of God. The natural person has clearly perceived to the creation of the world the truth about God. That's what those two verses say. And so I draw a strong distinction between what we perceive and what we accept. I draw that same distinction in your lives I think if I was just careful to be as orthodox as possible, as theologically correct as possible, I could get you to agree with me on everything For days and days and days, and I talk fast and can pack a lot in the a little. I could get you to agree You would perceive the correctness of my statements. But would you accept okay? You wake up daily with the consciousness that your Lord has a very specific plan for you that day and that he intends to walk away. with you. Not in an ethereal sense, but actually walk with you. How do you reconcile the promises of God for goodness in your life now and in eternity? Most of you are so busy thinking about eternity, you're just like gritting your teeth in the now. Which by the way is unbiblical. It's unbival If you wake up with that idea that God has something for you to do today, that he had made you in his image, that your dignity before him is superior to all things other than himself That the cost of Christ is the proof of that, and the seal of that, and the encouragement of that, that the Holy Spirit is the investment of that in your daily life. All of history. All of history. has awaited the reconciliation of us to him. Starting in the garden. Again, sorry for you small group people. I told you I just keep recycling the same stuff. We talked about this on Thursday night when we small this a little bit because we're talking about the kingdom of God and it's in the garden separated men from God and it just kept getting worse And then God gave some small glimpses of what it would be like when his rule and reign, his kingdom was finally realized in its totality here on earth. That's what we throw out into the future in Revelation. And he gave some glimpses of that at Sinai, and he gave some glimpses of that in the tabernacle, and he gave some glimpses of that in the temple. Read the Psalms. Lord, if I can only be in your house, I know that things will be Okay, we'll be fixed, we'll be redeemed. And even if I go down to the grave, it will be okay with me if I can be in your house If I can be near to you, if you will walk with me, if you will not leave me alone, if you will not make me stay in my throne over there as a political ruler, I'm thinking of David here, right? Being hated. If you will not live make me stay out there doing my job. That you called me to do, but do it from me in a way that I'm somehow separate from you. Let me be in your house. And the New Testament through Christ turns that completely around. We no longer need to worry about going to his house. And by the way, the best they can do is stand in outer courtyards. That's the fastest they could do. People are leaving. Am I that late? Um That big or that bad, I guess. I didn't even know where. The best that they could do stand in an outer courtyard. Do you understand? You want a truth Here's the truth. You are the temple of God. You are the house of God. In all but one occurrence in the scriptures, that seven, the church. But in that one, it is very clear that it is you. Where's your life at right now? What trial with frustration? What walk? What challenge? What fear, what doubt? What ambition? What what turmoil, what busyness, what confusion, what health? Where are you at? Don't just listen to me ramble. Think about yourself. Where are you at? Are you walking in the truth? That a supernatural God is, by the way, one of his fundamental attributes, his immanence, his presence with us Are you walking in the reality of his presence in your life? Are you receiving the truth that you are perceiving through God's Word? You're nodding your head, no shocker, you know what the scripture said. But are you receiving that in your actual eyes? You you look like you want to say something, go ahead. Thank you. And reduce file that they take in us. But I won't always receive it until tomorrow. Or the excuse me, I don't always accept it until tomorrow after I live through. I'll do one worse. I perceive it, I accept it, I receive it. And as the smallest challenges and the irritations of my day enter in, I let it go. By the time I get home, my heart is unsettled I'm praying that I won't respond to my wife and my children in ways that pour the ugliness of my day into the preciousness of my home. I don't understand, and I'll I'll say this to you too. Don't stop calling yourself a Christian unless your hands are dirty. When you're digging around in the scriptures, looking for the gold that you need See you uh who run your life. If your hands are not filthy with the soil of God's word, which is not always treasure right up front, right Gotta look for the gold. But if your hands are not dirty with the filth filth is a wrong word, the dirt, the soil of God's work. That's that's hard the best word because it lacks the negative connotation, right? Sorry about that people Can we strike that for the record? Um of the soil of God's word. And you're holding the treasure that you have received there. That payment is precious to you you in your day that you are spending as the day goes by because you need it. Stop calling yourself a Christian out loud. Don't do it in the mirror, that's fine, but you're You're not glorifying God in that behavior. And if you find yourself poor, without the resources, without the treasure of God God's God, that's God's word even of God in your life. Don't be shocked if your fingers are not dirty with the soil Apologetics is about thinking, no matter where it leads you. No matter how hard the conclusion is. Apologetics is about being true. No matter how it feels or what it looks like, it's just true. Fantil is the principal proponent. I don't know where this book is, I don't have time to look for it, but Van Till is the principal proponent of presuppositional apologetics. He is an amazing theologian and reasonably humble guy given how much criticism he suffered and how he responded. It's right here. He also was a professor at the Form Theological Seminary. He heavily influenced a number of theologians that have come out of there that are amazing, like Frain. Who was one of his students? Who is also a uh I'll say a proselyte of presuppositional apologetics. I have a number of his books. He's an excellent author. He's wrong about a whole bunch of stuff, but he's right about a lot I am running out of time. I want you to look at this chart and then we will stop. You can discover what is true. And we'll talk about truth further down. But you can discover what is true from creation. Or from revel uh general revelation, or from specific revelation, which is the scriptures, and I shouldn't say or, I should say end, the Holy Spirit. You get truth from creation, from natural theology, take a look at those verses when you get a chance. All of those talk about creation hilarious who God is. Not suggesting, not hinting, not alluding to, but declaring who God is Propositional truths. We have no basis for a study of apologetics unless we can talk about propositional truths. A is true. If it's not true, or it's subject to one of the laws of thought that Aristotle came up with, law of non-contradiction, law of identity. Law of uh exclusion of the middle. I it is that's not the right phrase, but it's basically that if a proposition must be true or false, it cannot be both or either or neither. Right? It must be A is either true or it's not true. So there's an exclusion in the middle ground. It's important because since Aristotle's day that has been an accepted law of logic and yet we live in a culture that's like, eh? Who knows? Who cares? Why does it matter? So creation, natural theology, Psalm 19, Acts 14, Romans 1, foundational passages. They talk about natural theology. And that's where we will really spend most of our uh that will uh be the domain of apologetics in here A, because the book we're using, B, because that's the approach I want to take, one that's based almost completely on what I'll call evidence. Because the evidence speaks of God and demands a response from you and delight. Revelation is the scriptures. John 17, 17, thy word is truth. And there's a bunch of other passages there. I'll let you read it for the sake of time. And then the Holy Spirit, there is no point in being foolish about this. You cannot achieve truth without having God do a work in your heart and mind. There is no such thing as an unbeliever that is able to know the truth that we are able to know. He can know facts, or he can know facts, but not truth. It's not absolute. without God. So there's no point in avoiding that truth. And the Holy Spirit is influential there. And all of that truth is always about God. I will make a statement that I don't have time to support right now Um and that is there is no truth that doesn't come from God. That is not about God. What he does, what he says, what he requires, what he demands Everything that we hold to be true is about him. And I love that because it opens up the entire field. So so many Christians I wish I had more time, but so many Christians think that we need to surrender fields of rational thought, logic, philosophy, particularly science. We are so used to people telling us how to raise our children because they have a scientific theory of it and we're like, well we don't know what to do with that, so we're just going to abandon it. And by blind faith we're going to agree these other things. Well first of all it's not faith, it's blind I didn't have to make that point, but I'll come back to it. As a matter of fact, I object wherever the stupid book is, I object to the title of our book. I don't have enough faith to be an atheist. Right? And it compares what we do with Christ as some sort of unsupported thought process. unsupported um foundation of life. I am excited about apologetics because I I don't need I I can follow the evidence. It's not unsupported at all. And if you feel unsupported in your walk with the Lord, grow up. The scriptures call that mature in Christ. Study to show yourself approved. Be able to give an account. Be prepared to demolish arguments. That's right out of scriptures, I'm not trying to be Be prepared to demolish arguments from the truth that you have from Scripture. Yeah, comment or a question? Just a quick question. I thought I agree with the statement that the unbeliever can know facts, but they can know truth. How would you describe a Pharisee who knew all the facts of the Old Testament They knew that all. So they understood like again, they knew the Old Testament probably better than probably nearly anyone in the room, but they obviously didn't know the truth. Are you stating that the truth, they reasonably didn't know the truth, was because it didn't affect their lives? Yeah, that I'm not trying to be this statement isn't meant to sound be what it's gonna sound like. That's a super easy one because price actually could There's a specific scripture where he responds to them and says, You know they're giving an account, they're talking about their history. Seraph theology and all that they know and he's like, you know nothing. I have not opened your eyes to it, it cannot be revealed to you. Even that Corinthians passage that I read you earlier, where I if it's not open to you because I haven't opened it to you, he's specifically speaking to you. Jews and he said caressing the crowd of Pharisees. So in that particular instance I was just pumped and said scripture is pretty clear about that one. They hold no truth. They have a series of facts. They have a series of observations which have not reached the level of comprehension. And that's that's an important semantic when you're talking about science. But to observe a thing and to know a thing is completely different. So much so that uh a number of uh sociologists talk about how aggressive it is to know somebody. Like to look at somebody, nobody's too upset by it But to look at them and and have them understand that you are attempting to know them is an aggressive posture. It's the difference between observing something and comprehending something. One is invasive. One is just more than the observational piece. Pharisees Or people outside of Christ are able to amass a huge domain of observations, but without comprehension Oh you don't have time for that actually. I don't have time for anything. I this poor class you poor people. You might want to sign up for another class. Uh Doug, why don't you close us in prayer since you have some of your heart? Heavenly Father, I pray that you would open the eyes of our hearts so that we would know the hope of our calling, so that we would understand the power that's at work towards us who believe in you you and Heavenly Father, we would understand the inheritance that we have from the saints, God, so that we can proclaim your truth to the world. In your name we pray. Hey, bring these to find our term notes next week. I will finish up what we had and then move on to the next set of notes. So please bring them next week. No one is to God like that. The Duke speaker parasol. Knowing God like that.