Well, please turn in your Bible with me to John chapter 12 for our study of God's Word this morning. John chapter 12 Our text for today is John 12, verses 12 to 19, which is John's account of the so-called triumphal entry. The entry of Christ, which was done in triumph, as indicated by the celebration of the people, but which turned out to be quite different than what their expectations were in the end The triumphal entry is what is commemorated on uh Palm Sunday, which of course is today. Uh as you know, we don't If if you've been here for a while, you know we don't typically do a special message uh pertaining to Palm Sunday, but in God's providence and with a little bit of delay, uh as you know, we are here in this passage on this day But this is the day, Palm Sunday, when Jesus entered Jerusalem the week before his death, burial, and resurrection. This is one of the few accounts of uh that that all four gospels provide for us, and yet John's version of this account is different than the rest It's not so much a recounting of the event as much as an explanation of the event. We'll see that as we work through it. Follow along as I read John chapter 12, verses 12 to 19. The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. This is the word of God. If you are familiar with this event, as we read, you may have filled in your mind the details that are given to us by Matthew, Mark, and Luke. You may have been thinking about how Jesus sent two of his disciples ahead to Bethpage, the town between Bethany and Jerusalem, and told them where they could find a cult, and he explained to them what they should say if somebody tried to stop them or question them about the fact that they were taking this cult. You may remember that when they came back to Jesus with the cult, they laid their garments on that cult as a type of uh saddle, and then the people were putting both their garments and uh branches, uh palm branches, leafy branches, on the road as a a kind of red carpet as they made their way to Jerusalem You may remember that the Pharisees told Jesus to rebuke the people for what they were saying. And Jesus said, if these were silent, the stones would cry out. Maybe you remember that as Jesus came near to the city, he wept over the city and lamented. Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes These are all the details given by the other gospels that John does not include While we don't have precise dates for when the gospel was written, putting all the data that we have together, our best guess is that John's Gospel was written 20 to 30 years after the other Gospels Which means that his readers would likely be familiar with at least one, if not more, of the other accounts of this particular event as well as the life of Christ. Now, in general, John's purpose in writing this gospel leads him to exclude most of the things that the other Gospels write about. There's very little overlap between John's Gospel and the other Gospels. And in bringing up this event, instead of explaining the what as the other gospels do, kind of detailing what took place, John gives us the why. His purpose is to explain the reason that these events took place, which none of the other Gospels explain. It's as if John is looking through a photo album of Jesus' life and he comes across this image of Jesus sitting on a donkey and he picks it up and holds it out and says, See this? Remember this? Let me explain why this happened. Now, in terms of the event itself, we're told that a crowd came out from Jerusalem and surrounded Jesus proclaiming words from Psalm 118. And then it says that Jesus found a donkey and sat on it. That's it. That's all that John tells us. This is just a a snapshot, if you will, of Jesus sitting on a donkey, surrounded by his disciples, and surrounded by a massive crowd, holding up palm branches, proclaiming a word of celebration for their perceived king. What the rest of the passage does is convey to us Jesus' intentions himself in what he does, the ignorance of the disciples, the expectation of the crowd. And the frustration of the Pharisees. Now, how does this fit into John's overall purpose in declaring to us that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God? Well, remember that last week in the passage, we saw that John was really setting the scene for us as we enter into this final week of Christ's life by kind of telling us the tension. that was in the air all around Jerusalem as everyone has high expectations for good or ill about Jesus With this passage, he reveals to us the height of the expectations which, when unmet, will cause the people to fall to the depths. Such that they will cry out for Jesus' crucifixion. So this is in effect setting the tone of the height of expectation Which will then fall to the depths of crucifixion. Now, at the same time, John, for John's readers, which includes you and I, we come to see that the expectation of the crowd was not misplaced. It was just mistimed. Their expectation helps us understand more about who Jesus is. Specifically, we see in this passage that Jesus is the grave emptying king. He is the grave emptying king. Who was promised of old. And ultimately, we see this so that we can celebrate his arrival and his victory Now, to guide our study, we're going to walk through this passage under the following headings. The crowd's celebration, the king's resolve. The disciples' confusion, the crowd's expectation, and the Pharisees' frustration. Let's begin with the crowd's celebration. Look again at verses 12 and 13. This is the crowd's celebration. The next day it says, the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. Now, the traditional view that goes back to the early church is that this takes place on Sunday, the first day of the week, of the final week of Christ's life before his resurrection. Hence we call it Palm Sunday. For a variety of reasons, there are those who, in seeking to discern whether what is the best understanding of the outline of each day of that the subsequent week, uh some have concluded that this actually takes place on Monday. Both views fit all of the details that we have in Scripture, and both views require some measure of conjecture to identify which day this actually is. Now for John's gospel after this particular statement of the next day, we don't have another time marker until the night of Jesus' betrayal when he spends time with the disciples in the upper room. So John is not intent on giving us an outline of the week As it progresses, the rest of chapter twelve is given to us as if it happened on the same day, though it certainly did not. It was just he gives us a summary of what happened the rest of the week. Ultimately, the day that it happened is not of great significance, it certainly doesn't change any particular interpretation The city of Jerusalem and the surrounding sit uh the surrounding area have been overflowing with Jews that have been coming from literally all over Israel and far beyond. In fact, Acts 2, verses 9 to 11 says that in Jerusalem there are Parthians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia. Judea and Cappadocia, Pontius and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians All these people would be coming to Jerusalem for Passover and staying at least fifty days until the day of Pentecost, which was the next feast in Israel's calendar. According to verse 9, from the moment that Jesus arrived into Bethany two days earlier, word began to spread about his arrival, and that led to a constant parade of people who would walk the two miles from Jerusalem. to Bethany to see Jesus and Lazarus. On this day, the day that We're reading about that parade likely can uh continued in the morning and into the afternoon. Mark tells us that by the time Jesus finally made it into Jerusalem It was so late in the day that he only had time to walk around the temple and look at it before he had to head back to Bethany. So his trip likely began in the late afternoon after a morning and afternoon of uh engaging with those who came to see him and Lazarus. That morning and afternoon would have been enough time for people Who came to visit him to then head back to Jerusalem and communicate, hey, today's the day that Jesus is going to come back to Jerusalem, and that would draw people out from Jerusalem to meet him. Now, verse 15 tells us, or rather verse 13 tells us, that they took branches of palm trees. This is a detail of great significance. The Old Testament prescribes the use of palm branches in the celebration of the Feast of Booths. That is not Passover. It is the Feast of Booths, which happened about three months prior. So what's going on here? Why are these people using palm branches at Passover? Well, it's because in 164 BC, if you And trying to remember some of Israel's history, Judas Maccabeas captured the temple back from the Syrians, and because the people had not been able to celebrate the peace the feast of Booth for the previous two years, they celebrated that victory by weaving palm branches and other uh aspects that were similar to the Feast of Booths. A number of years later, when Judas's grandson Simon Maccabeus finally secured political independence for the uh for the Jews in one hundred forty-two BC The people flowed through the streets celebrating that victory by waving palm branches. That really secured the use of palm branches as a celebration of military victory. In fact, as a kind of motivational effort During the Great Revolt, which happened in uh starting in sixty-four or sixty-six AD against the Romans, the Jews minted coins that had the symbol of palm branches and the words for the redemption of Zion. So outside the feast of booths, the use of palm branches was not itself a biblical practice. Rather, it was a cultural symbol celebrating victory. As they met with Jesus, as they met Jesus with palm branches, they were crying out, it says. In other words, they were shouting, they were chanting, they were singing at the top of the lungs this refrain. Look at it. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. Well, it sounds familiar to us. We just read it a moment ago. This is a slightly modified version of Psalm 18, 25 and 26. And just to remind you, Psalm 18, 25 and 26 says, Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. Now the word Hosanna is a transliteration. That is, it's a Hebrew word that's written in Greek letters. Uh and you just get the the word Hosanna. The Hebrew word means save us, we pray. So the people abbreviated Psalm 118. 25, which again says, Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. They summarize that into that one word, Hosanna. And then they quoted the first part of what is for us, verse 26, but replaced the second part of the phrase with even the King of Israel. In other words, they take a passage from Psalm 118, they shorten it into a chant, and they just repeat that over and over and over as they are making their way down to Jerusalem. Now, why did they quote Psalm 118? What? Well, it's because Psalm 118 is the last of what are known as the Halel Psalms, Hillel Psalms Psalms of praise that were regularly used in various feasts of Israel, and especially the feasts of Passover. The Halel Psalms are Psalms 113 to 118. And the Mishnah, which is the Jewish collection of sayings of tradition, tells us that at Passover, when the Passover lamb was being killed, the a choir of priests would be singing the Hillel Psalms over and over from the beginning to the end of that sacrifice. That would be on the day of Passover. Before that day was said that as people streamed into Jerusalem and traveling from afar, they would be singing the Halal Psalms, these psalms of praise as they're making their final ascent into Jerusalem. All that to say, these psalms would be fresh on their minds Psalm 118 in particular is one of the most quoted Psalms in the New Testament. And that's in part because of this line that is quoted here in each of the Gospels. As well as the other key messianic verse which you remember hearing, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. That also is quoted about six times in the New Testament. Now, to bring this full circle with Passover, although Psalm 18 doesn't tell us who wrote it exactly, It uses several phrases from Exodus 15, which is Moses' song of praise after the Lord delivered them from the Egyptian army. through the Red Sea. And so some propose that Moses wrote Psalm 118 later in his life to aid Israel's celebration of the Passover. Now, whether or not that's the case, the language borrowed from Exodus 15 about the Lord's deliverance from Israel, or rather from Egypt Combined with the messianic language explains while why the people chose to sing these verses in this psalm to shout and celebrate Jesus at Passover. They are hoping that the Messiah will perform redemption for them once again, this time by removing their oppressors from the land and establishing the kingdom of David. That's why they include that final statement, even the King of Israel. They expect that God's Messiah would be a king who establishes peace Through the exercise of political and military might. And that's what they expect of Jesus, as we'll see in detail a little later on Now, for his part, over the last two to three years, Jesus has resisted every attempt by the people to make him king. You may remember that in John chapter 6, after Jesus fed the five thousand men, plus women and children that he perceived that the people were about to make him king, and in the scripture says that he withdrew himself from them to prevent them from being successful in that effort. But now the people are pining for him to be the coming king, and he doesn't stop them. He is, in fact, the king. He is Lord of all creation, but his time to rule on the throne of David in Jerusalem in Israel has not yet come. So why doesn't he stop them? It's because their mistimed expectation Is part of God's perfectly timed plan to lead to the cross. Once the people realize in the coming days that Jesus is not going to establish the Messianic kingdom as they hoped, They will turn on him. But in this moment, as they're shouting and chanting and singing by the thousands, the atmosphere is electric The people are shouting and chanting, making a cacophony of noise, and the crowd is growing, and with them the intensity of the celebration grows as well. This is the crowd's celebration. John then directs our attention to the king's resolve. The king's resolve. Look at verse 14. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it. Well, pause there. In contrast to the crowd's premature celebration The king's resolve is not to engage in a military campaign, but rather to establish peace. This is seen in the type of animal that Jesus rides Note again the brevity of John's description here, he doesn't repeat the explanation from the other gospels of how exactly this cult came to Jesus. He simply says, Jesus found one. And he calls it a young donkey, which is a different word than cult. That's found in the other Gospels and even here in verse 15, but there doesn't seem to be any significance to that other than the variety of language. But upon finding it, John says, Jesus sat on this young donkey. Freeze frame. Think of it like a live photo or a motion photo. John presents this initial movement in the scene of the crowds coming gathering to Jesus, and then he freezes the frame with Jesus sitting on this young donkey And in freezing that frame, that enables us to stare at that frame and look around that frame and consider what is going on here. And so we start with the king's resolve. The king is resolved, as we've said, to establish peace. To establish peace. That's what we see in verse 15. I'll start at the end of verse 14, just as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. Note that this is not the people saying this. As far as we know, it's not even the people thinking this. This is John's commentary as to why Jesus is sitting on a colt. John is holding up this picture of Jesus sitting on a colt and he's answering the question, why is Jesus doing this? And the answer is because Jesus has the intention, he is resolved to establish peace. Now John here quotes again a slightly edited version of Zechariah 9-9, Zechariah 9-9, which says Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous and having salvation as he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt the foal of a donkey. And then Zechariah goes on to say, in verse ten, I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the war horse from Jerusalem And the battle bow shall be cut off, and he that is the Messiah shall speak peace to the nations. He shall rule from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth A horse is a sign of power. A colt is a sign of humility and peace. Horses gallop, they're fast, they're strong, they're agile, they have no problem running toward danger. To sit on a horse is to be high, lifted up, above the fray, able to see all and and seen by all. Colts are small. They're slow. They're they're weak. They're unstable. They're fearful. In fact, one of the gospels say that the disciples had to bring the donkey with its colt so that the colt wouldn't run off. To sit on a cult is to be on the same level with everyone else around you. Nothing about a cult exudes strength or power Now again, remember that John is not telling us what the people are thinking. He's telling us what prophecy Jesus is fulfilling. And what is that prophecy? That prophecy is that the king of Israel will ride on a colt, exhibiting humility. Bringing righteousness and salvation for the purpose of speaking peace to the nations and establishing a worldwide kingdom Now I ask you, how can someone bring peace to the world riding on a colt? How can one cut off the war horse and break the battle bow Without superior military force. We can also ask from the other side: how can one speak peace to the nations without asserting the threat of force? That doesn't take a foreign policy expert to know that you can't win m military victory by showing weakness. And genuine and lasting peace is not sustained by the threat of destruction. So how does the cult riding king achieve peace? Well, not by coercion or manipulation or superior arms. No, this king. Listen, this king makes an end of hostility by transforming the hearts of his enemies, making them friends How does he do that? Well, first, by removing the wall of justice between them such that his enemies are no longer subject to the law of condemnation. Instead of destroying his enemies, he takes upon himself the wrath of God that they deserve and dismantles that wall that stands between him and them. And second, he grants them a new spirit such that those who were formerly hostile are now friends and brothers Jesus, the King's resolve, is to be the king over all people. But first he must accomplish peace by dying in the place of his enemies. He cuts off the war horse, he breaks the battle bow, not by sheer strength, but by ending the need for war. He speaks peace, not by threatening to spill the blood of his enemies. But by spilling his own blood. Luke 19, 42 records that again, as Jesus came near to Jerusalem, he wept over the city and lamented. saying, Would that you, even you, had known this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes The people wanted peace by means of military power. They didn't know what it would take to accomplish true peace. or what their role would be in the process. Revelation 19 tells us that at the end of this age, Jesus will in fact actually return to Jerusalem riding on a horse, and he will destroy his enemies by the power of the word of his mouth. But on this day he comes riding on a cult to conquer his enemies not by force But by redemption. That is the king's resolve. Looked at verse sixteen to see the disciples' confusion. The disciples' confusion. It says his disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. In your mind's eye, pick up that snapshot and look at Jesus surrounded by the crowds. And if you look closely, you can see immediately surrounding Jesus are the disciples who are, in effect, trying to protect Jesus from the crowds that are That are pressing in. The disciples are not looking at Jesus. They're looking at the crowd with eyes wide open, with mouth wide open, not because they are chanting with the crowd, but because they are in awe. They are completely astounded at the turn of events. They remember well that about three months ago they had narrowly escaped being stoned by the religious leaders in the temple. And after that, they narrowly escaped being arrested by the same men. They are well aware that they have been spending the last three months far away from Jerusalem to avoid the attention and the grasp of those Who would seek to kill Jesus and his followers? Remember that when Lazarus died just a few weeks prior to this moment, and Jesus says, Hey, we're going to go and I'm going to raise Lazarus. The disciples tried to stop him, and when they realized they weren't going to be able to stop him, Thomas said, then let us go also and die with him. In other words, they expected that trip to Bethany to be their last. And thankfully, they left before any harm could be done to them, but they went to a place, Ephraim, that was far enough away to be beyond the grasp of the religious leaders in Jerusalem. And so in their minds to be where they are is to be in a place of great risk to their lives. I'm starting to go from the mindset of fear and danger to this scene of exuberant celebration and triumph is confusing to say the least. Like the rest of the Jews, they are familiar with Psalm 118 and what the people are chanting. They know the expectation of the people because, frankly, it's their own expectation as well And they no doubt know the orders that were given by the religious leaders that if anybody knew where Jesus was, they were to tell the leader so that they could arrest him. So they can't comprehend how it is that Jesus has gone from public enemy number one to being celebrated as the coming king of Israel. This is really John's way of telling us what the other gospels tell us regarding the disciples' utter blindness to the words of Jesus and the events that were happening around them. Mark 9, 33 to 34 records what Jesus told the disciples as they were making their way from up to Jerusalem for the Passover. Jesus said to them, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles And they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him, and after three days he will rise. Now you can't get more concrete, specific, and explicit than that. And yet Luke 9. 45 records their response. It says they did not understand this saying, and it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask him about this saying. Now the Bible doesn't tell us why the Holy Spirit prevented the disciples from understanding these clear and explicit sayings by Jesus, but I think we can surmise at least two very likely reasons. Why are the disciples so confused? Well first of all think they were kept in the dark so that they would not prevent or try to prevent the death of Jesus Remember that at a previous time, really the first time when Jesus told the disciples that he was going to be betrayed and killed, what did Peter do? He tried to rebuke Jesus And stop him and say, no, Master, this this cannot happen to you. Again, they tried to stop Jesus from going to Bethany after the death of Lazarus and then Later, when Jesus was being arrested, Peter took out a sword and tried to fight back. The disciples had proven that if Jesus said something or did something that they didn't agree with, they would try to resist him. Had they truly understood what was going to happen, they would try to stop it at every turn That's the first reason. A second reason is because their confusion was necessary to fulfill Scripture The confusion was necessary to fulfill Scripture. Jesus Himself knew all of the divine decree that would take place. He knew the script, if you will. But if Judas and the rest of the disciples understood the plan, their actions would not be genuine reactions to what was happening around them. Instead they would be constantly trying to figure out, oh, what am I supposed to do here? What am I supposed to say? How am I supposed to act? It wouldn't actually be reacting to what is happening. And if they were moving through the week, knowing exactly what was supposed to happen, they would be liable to the accusation that they had manipulated the circumstances to ensure that those things full were fulfilled from Scripture. rather than just letting Scripture be fulfilled in their ignorance. For at least those two reasons, the disciples were kept in the dark. But it changed, as it says here in verse sixteen, when Jesus was glorified. That is to say, after Jesus was raised from the dead, more likely after he ascended into heaven and sent the Holy Spirit. All these memories came back into their mind along with the relevant scriptures that brought clarity as to why these things took place. You could ask, why did Jesus tell them in advance what was going to happen if they couldn't understand what was going to happen? The answer is because once they did finally understand, then they would know, oh, Jesus. Told us in advance he wasn't surprised. He knew exactly what was going to happen. And so when we read in the gospels, as we often do, including here in verse 14. Statements like just as it is written, or this was this happened to fulfill the scripture, or similar statements. Those are the later reflections by the disciples understanding under the illumination of the Holy Spirit all that took place. That's certainly the explanation here for how John could quote Zechariah 9:9 in verse 15, even though in the moment he was utterly confused about what was happening. That's true not only of verse 15 here, but it's also true of the crowd's expectation. The disciples had no idea why the crowd was doing all of this, but later the Holy Spirit revealed it to them, and now John records it. for us. Return now to the crowd's expectation. Look at verses 17 and 18. It says, the crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb raised him and raised him from the dead, continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard that he had done this sign. As you look at the snapshot of Jesus sitting on the cult surrounded by crowds of peoples who are celebrating his coming as a king, John wants us to look at the crowd in that snapshot and wonder. Why are they here? What drew these people out of the city and caused them to shout and chant and sing, celebrating Jesus as King Well, the first part of the answer is verse 17. Namely, those who were eyewitnesses of the resurrection of Lazarus were continually testifying to what they had seen. The key verb here is continued to bear witness. Grammatically, that's an imperfect, which means they started and then they continued bearing witness of what had taken place. Remember that the raising of Lazarus was not a private event. There were dozens of people, maybe more, who heard Jesus cry out, Lazarus, come out. And then with their own eyes they saw Lazarus come out wearing his grave clothes. And chapter 11, verse 45 says that when they saw that Many of the Jews who had come with Mary had seen what he did and believed in him Well, they not only believed, but they became evangelists. They began to tell everyone that they encountered. They told everyone in Bethany, they told everyone in Beth Page on one side, they told everyone in Jericho on the other side, and anyone they came in contact with who was Uh from uh Jerusalem, they were telling uh the news of how Jesus had raised Lazarus from the dead. So for weeks, the news of Lazarus' resurrection was buzzing in that area. And now thousands upon thousands of Jews were streaming through Bethany to get to Jerusalem, and these eyewitnesses had fresh people to tell their news to That's the first part of the answer. The second part of the answer answers the question, really, why are these people here? Let's take a closer look. At verse eighteen. It says again, the reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign. Now that's a fine translation, but perhaps more literally we could put it, because of this, the crowd went to meet him. For they heard that he had performed this sign. John is intent on telling us why this crowd is there. Now, on the surface, this is straightforward. It's not complicated to understand what he means. They heard that Jesus demonstrated power beyond comprehension. So they wanted to see him. And that makes sense. If we knew that such a person existed who could exhibit such power, we would want to see them too. And that is where most interpreters leave the matter and then move on to verse 19. But I am persuaded that there is something here that is of great significance to John's gospel. And which explains why John spent so much time walking us through the full account of the resurrection of Lazarus, What is often given too little account or attention is the connection between the resurrection of Lazarus and the crowd's enthusiasm for Jesus as the coming king. But if you've been with us for a long time, you know that as John is making his case that Jesus is the Son of God, he does that by connecting the words and the works of Jesus To what God says and does in the Old Testament, such that Jesus is identified as Yahweh In fact, the key word here at the end of verse 18 is a key word in the Gospel of John, and that is the word sign. They saw he had performed this sign. The sign is not a synonym for miracle. It is an event that points to something else. A sign can point to something in the past, or a sign can point to something in the future, but a sign points to something beyond itself. If John had merely said here that they had seen or they had heard that he had done this work, or this miracle, or this wonder, We could content ourselves with a simple explanation that they were just amazed and wanted to see the miracle worker, but he uses sign to tell us that the people's understanding of the raising of Lazarus pointed to something greater than itself. More than that, John writes about this because he wants to point us to something greater. Remember that before the raising of Lazarus, word had been going around Israel about Jesus. There were some who thought maybe, maybe he is the Christ. There were those who said, no, no, no, he's just a prophet. Others said, no, no, no, he's just a good teacher. Some said, no, he can't be the Christ. He doesn't meet all of the qualifications. There was at best a tentative hope that Jesus was the Christ, the King of Israel. But what we see here in verse 18 is that the raising of Lazarus from the dead moved the people from doubt or uncertainty or even the place of tentative hope. to a place of absolute confidence that Jesus is the Christ, the King of Israel Now somebody might say, well, just that extraordinary display of power, unique above all his other displays of power, certainly could have done that, and I would strongly disagree. And Jesus has Performed and the people have heard and seen a multitude of works that Jesus did that demonstrated divine power over the last two to three years. I doubt that one more would tip the scale so decisively So if it's not the sheer power of Jesus that moved them, what is it? Well, here it is It is that raising Lazarus from the dead, the way that he did, fulfills a promise from the Lord. Now we didn't get into this when we studied the resurrection of Lazarus, so I'm grateful for this opportunity to add another layer to our understanding of the glory of Christ. Put your finger here or use the bookmark in the seat in front of you and turn with me to Ezekiel 37. Ezekiel 37. Ezekiel is the last of the major prophets, that is the lengthy prophets. Ezekiel 36 is a chapter we refer to often because it is the most detailed account of the new covenant promises of God. Ezekiel 37 is both an illustration and a more detailed explanation of the new covenant promises for his people Israel So Ezekiel 37. Follow along as I read, starting in verse 1 down to verse 14. The hand of the Lord was upon me, Ezekiel says, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the valley, in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, you know Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones Behold, I will cause breath to enter you and you shall live, and I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I prophesied there was a sound, and behold, a rattling And the bones came together, bone to its bone, and I looked, and behold there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no bread in them Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live. So I prophesied, and he command as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost We are indeed cut off. Now this is the key. Verse twelve Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, behold, I will open your graves. And raise you from your graves, O my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land, then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the Lord. Now apart from Lazarus, we know of two specific individuals that Jesus raised from the dead. There's hints that there were others, but we only know of two specifically. And apart from Lazarus, those who were raised from the dead were raised before they had been buried. One just minutes after she had perished, or a young child, one who was on his way being carried to the grave. Lazarus alone was raised from the grave by the word of Jesus With Lazarus, Jesus didn't just raise the dead. In the words of Ezekiel 37, verse 12, he opened the grave and raised him from the grave. And as we said when we looked at the raising of Lazarus, when Jesus called out, Lazarus, come out The body of Lazarus reversed its process of decomposition and was fully restored. And the spirit of Lazarus was called back from paradise and reunited with his body, and he came to life. The Valley of Dry Bones is a vision illustrating the power of God to restore his people. The raising of Lazarus was a sign that their restoration was at hand. But there's more. Going further in Ezekiel 37, verses 15 to 21, just to summarize it, it speaks of the restoration of the people to the land. and the reunification of the divided tribes into one united kingdom. Now, by the first century, the people were back in the land, obviously, and there's a sense in which they were under common rule, but there's also a sense in which there was significant division between the various tribes of Israel. The Judean Jews of the South and the Galilean Jews of the North lived in intention with each other. And so full unification, including the peace and harmony, that had yet to be restored. And so the promise of full unity had yet to be fulfilled before Jesus arrived on the scene. Now, follow along as I read starting in verse 20, or rather 22. The Lord continues to say, and I will make them one nation in the land. on the mountains of Israel, and one king shall be king over them, and they shall no longer be two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms. They shall not defile themselves any more with their idols and their detestable things and with uh and with any of their transgressions, but I will save them from all backslidings in which they have sinned And will cleanse them, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall have they shall all have one shepherd They shall walk in my rules and be careful to obey my statutes. They shall dwell in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob where your fathers lived They and their children and their children's children shall dwell there forever, and David my servant shall be their prince forever I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them, and I will set them in their land and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in their midst for evermore. My dwelling place shall be with them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Then the nations will know that I am Yahweh, who sanctifies Israel. When my sanctuary is in their midst, for evermore. Here we have The themes of the one unifying king who establishes the Davidic throne and will rule as the shepherd under a covenant of peace, and God will dwell among them As Jesus sits on a young donkey, a symbol of peace and humility, the people are celebrating him as the coming king of Israel And when he raised Lazarus from the dead, he did not say, Thus says the Lord, as Ezekiel said when he spoke to the dry bones. No, Jesus commanded Lazarus out of his own power and authority. And he opened the grave. And he raised Lazarus from the grave. Which means that he is Emmanuel God with us. The parallels between the promises of God here in Ezekiel thirty-seven and the words and works of Jesus in John eleven and twelve are such that I believe the people heard the sign that Jesus performed and they hoped. They expected, they were certain that he was the grave empty king they had been waiting for. That is the crowd's expectation. Let's briefly consider the Pharisees' frustration Look at verse 19. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. Again, as we look at this snapshot of Jesus surrounded by a crowd of people, you can see off in the distance Pharisees who are looking at this crowd, watching what has taken place. And quite literally they say, you all ain't accomplishing nothing. The double negative emphasizes their frustration at each other They've tried discrediting Jesus. They've tried arresting Jesus. They've tried stoning Jesus. They've tried issuing commands to the people to turn Jesus in. Nothing they do is working. They can't stop Jesus, and they can't stop the people from following Jesus. So they say, look, the world has gone after him. Now, obviously that's an exaggeration, but they can see the trajectory. If this is what's happening now, what will continue to happen? A movement of people like this can't be stopped without cutting it off at the source. So as the other gospels record in the subsequent days. Time after time there are frantic attempts that they make to, again, to try and discredit Jesus and turn the people away from Jesus and get him to say things that the crowd doesn't like. And time after time, not only do they fail to discredit Jesus, but they show themselves to be the fools The frustration of the last two years, the animosity and the hostility all has reached a boiling point, and they are desperately looking for some way to bring Jesus down. They are frustrated and they are desperate. Little do they know that in that crowd, close to Jesus, is the solution to all their problems. Well, as we begin to close, there's no question that Jesus is the grave empty king Not only did he demonstrate that through the raising of Lazarus out of the grave, but in John five Jesus says, Do not marvel at this For an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear the voice of the Son of God and will come out those who have done good to a resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. The Jews had the right man. They just had an over-realized eschatology, which is to say they wanted the kingdom before the cross They wanted life without death. They wanted peace without justice. They wanted victory without sacrifice They wanted a restored relationship, or rather, a restored kingdom without a restored relationship with God. They didn't understand that the real enemy was not the Romans. The real enemy was God. God was their enemy because they had rebelled against him and were deserving of divine justice. If the kingdom came to them, they would quickly lose it just as they always had because they We're incapable of following and submitting to the true King When the Lord promised there in Ezekiel 37 to open the graves and raise the people from the graves, what he left out was that he himself would enter the grave. And he would lead the people out of the grave, as it were. He would conquer death by going through it and overcoming it And only with that divine justice satisfied could he raise them from the grave, then give them his spirit, and cause them to walk in his ways Well, second mystery is that not only would he do this for them as his people, but he would do this for the nations. Israel wanted their Messiah to destroy their enemies. The Messiah wanted to save his enemies. Their Messiah was resolved to save his enemies such that they would all be his people. and he would be their God. That's who Jesus is the grave emptying King And friend, I just ask you, is Jesus your King? Have you believed in him and what he has done to conquer death and offer forgiveness? Believe in Him today. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this all-too-brief study of this remarkable truth. Just amazing how your spirit masterfully brings together the promises of old and the work of Christ, later revealing it to your disciples. Oh Lord, help us to see the glory of this grave emptying king. That if we have not turned from our sin, that we are in the grave of our sin And only Jesus can free us from that death. Or deliver us. And for we who have been delivered Cause us to celebrate and rejoice that we have been set free, that we are no longer bound by our graveclothes, but we have been redeemed and forgiven. And we can rejoice in the kingdom of serving our Master now and living with Him forever. Lord, fill our hearts with that joy. For the sake of Christ we pray, Amen