So let's um open with prayer to our Heavenly Father. Father, our Heavenly Father, and the Father of Jesus, our Savior, we come to you. with praise. We come to you with adoration. We come to you in fellowship with one another. That we may set our hearts and our minds upon things above. And Father, as we come to this book that we call Revelation, help us, Father, to hear it, to understand it, to obey it, and to know that your decree. will come to pass, for you are sovereign and mighty. We thank you, Father, that from heaven we will receive our Savior. You will come and will transform the body of our lowly state into conformity with the body of of his of his glory. And he can do that because he has all power. And so Father we give you thanks We love you, Father. Amen. Okay, welcome as we encountered this vision that John has had. review John is on the island of Patmos. He is exiled there by the the Roman Emperor Domitian. And this is probably in the l in the early nineties Um and probably John is the last living apostle at this time. Now, while he's on the island of Patmos, you know, God's not forgotten him And he receives this vision of Christ. And about this time he receives some visitors, seven messengers, seven perhaps they'll they are they're the they're some of the leaders of these seven churches They visit him and they um we see that see this revelation that they are to send back to their churches And we've gone through those letters. There's seven of them. And now we come to chapter four and chapter five. That is the third part. part of Revelation. If you can recall on chapter one verse nineteen Christ gives us the outline of this book. He says to John, Write therefore the things which you have seen That's chapter one, this vision. And then also the things which are, that is chapters two and three, the churches. And then the third thing is the things which shall take place After these things. And that is chapters four through the end of the book. Now, begin with chapter four. John is called up in the spirit to heaven. And this is a vision of things future to John. In fact it's future to us too. These are the last And so John records for us this vision. And what does he see when he To arise in heaven when that door is opened, when he is ushered in, he sees a worship service. In last week, we um introduced this worship. Worship service in chapter four. Um John says, After these things I looked and behold a door standing open in heaven And the first voice which I heard, the sound like a trumpet, appeared to me and said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after these things. And immediately I was in the spirit, and behold, Hold a throne standing in heaven, and one sitting upon the throne. And so in this chapter, John gives us the vision that he saw. He saw this throne, and around this throne there were these four living beings. And also around this throne there were twenty-four other thrones. And at the towards the end of chapter 4, they engage in worship. Holy, holy, holy. Is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and who is to come. And the four living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits on the throne and who lives forever. Ever and ever. And the twenty-four elders will fall down before him and sit on who sets on the throne, who lives forever and ever, and they cast their crowns before him, saying, Worthy are you. You, our Lord, our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you do create all things, and because of your will They existed and they were created. So today we're going to see the vision of the Lamb The search for the Holy One, the selection of the Holy One of the worthy one and the song of the worthy one. And first we'll do a review of chapter four. And this is going to be a pretty short review because Um about time. Um you know we we we we we we saw last week about uh four living beings or well the um those they're not creatures in the sense that they're they're they're animals, um, but they are but they are beings. The the the word comes from the from the Greek word to live, Zoe. Um and they'll and and then there are all these hymns of praise and they do not cease doing this. So this is is not not not just something that begins at that time. This is something that is ongoing. And he is the one who is who who was and it who is and who is to come. He is eternal. He's self-existent. Two. And he will reign forever and ever. There will not be a change in administration for all of eternity. And the in the elders, and they add their voice to the song of praise. Worthy are you, our Lord, our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and because of this Because of your will they existed and they were created. And so the elders acknowledged God has the right to judge. And then um so that will go to the seven seals. So let's read chapter five and what comes next. This is still John in the spirit. This is still the worship service. And John says, I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne. A book was a row written inside and out was sealed with seven seals. And I saw a saw a Mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the book, to break its seals? And no one. No one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the book or to look upon it. And I began to read. GREATLY, because no one was found worthy to open the book or even to look upon it. But one of the elders said to me, Stop weeping. Told the Lion that is from the tribe of Judah. The root of David has overcome, so has to open the book and its seven seals. Now Saul between the throne with the four living beings and the elders a lamb standing, as this slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God. Sent out into all the earth. And he came and he took it out of the hand of the right hand of him who sat upon the throne. And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Ramb, each having a harp and golden bowls of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the book, to break its seals, for you were slain and were did purchase for God was your blood, men from every tribe and town and people and nation. And you have made them to be a kingdom of And preach to our God. And they will reign upon the earth. And I look and behold, a voice of angels around The throne many angels around the throne and of living beings and the elders, and the number of them were millions Of myriads, thousands upon thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor, glory, and blessing. And every created thing which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the earth And on the sea and all things in them I heard say to him who sets upon the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory, dominion Forever and ever. And the four living creatures were beings kept saying, Amen. And the elders fell down and they worshiped. Well, that is a worship service, isn't it? Um so now that you know throughout history there's been many pretenders to the throne Um, there's been many who have risen themselves up to proclaim themselves to be some great king, some great ruler, um in but what happens to all of them They die. And what happens to all of their kingdoms? They perish. Um so and they all fail. Oh only one individual has the right, the power, and the authority to rule the earth, the Lord Jesus Christ, he will one day take back what is rightfully his And he'll take it back from Satan the usurper and all of the rebels, demonic and human. No one else is worthy or capable of ruling the world. No evil man, not even a good man. Um no demon, no even not not even a holy angel. Revelation 5 and do induces us He introduces us to Jesus Christ, Earth's rightful rule, who is pictured above, about to return to redeem the world. from sin, from Satan, from death, and the curse. And he's the simple figure of this second vision, of this next part of the vision that we see in chapter five. So this is vision. So when John sees this worship service, he's he notices then that in the right hand of the once Sitting on the throne, there's a book. Um you know, by by this time Christians had begun to write their scriptures in a book like this. form. What we might call the precursor of our modern book. But this is actually a rolled up in its Um sealed the seven of them. Um and so this mighty angel this The strong angel proclaims with a loud voice who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals. So these so chapter five is just a part. of this worship worship service that began in chapter four. There's the cherubim, those six-winged angel angelic beings that are around the throne. There's the twenty elders which represent the raptured, the glorified church, and there's the Holy Spirit Sphere Spirit in a sevenfold glory. And the events described in these two chapters anticipate the what we call the Holocaust, the divine judgment about to be poured out on the sinful, rebellious, cursed earth. And there and you can see John being all struck by the mag indescribable majesty of God's throne, the flashes of lightning, the peers of thunder, which proceed from it. The sheriff and the elders begin a series of hymns in the in a praise to God. And these hymns celebrate that God is creator and that he is judge. And this is the moment that all of us Christians long for. That God is about to judge the earth and complete what we know of the world. Now. So John saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written inside and out and sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice. Voice, who is worthy to open the book and to break of seals? Now, of course, this angel is mighty You say stall stall stall stall wrong. But then all the angels are angels angels are that way. Right? But this one is but you know they vary in their majesty, they they vary in their ability. They vary in their function. This one is a high-ranking, mighty angel. But he's not named. So again, John's 12. So he's a witness here. You saw on the right hand of him who sat upon the throne a book written inside and out. Sealed with seven seals. And so here so here God kind of shows his hand. And in the hand, in his right hand there's a a book. Um now what is this book? That's a um There's this book pictures what we un we what the what the people on earth would see or understand has a contract or title deed. Typically back then When you made a contract, you made two copies. Um one copy was sealed and kept in a safe place. The other copy was used for daily functioning. Um and it would be used and written upon and you know, uh annotated. But what if someone um thought that maybe the contract had been alternated? Changed, uh modified. Well, in that case, you'd go back to the sealed copy. That would tell you what the original contract was. And and so that is what this book pictures. Now it's as you as the book is open, you find out it it's it's more than a title deed. It's really a book of judgments, the last seven judgments that are going to complete the judgment of of those who dwell upon the earth. Um and also these contracts, this title deed, this contract, um t the it was sealed. Typically there would be one seal You know, maybe two. Rarely, rarely three. But this coro has seven. Seals on it. And so the mighty angel comes and says, Who is worthy to open the book and the break of seals. Now this question now that's I'm un un understand this question. A little bit more. This question doesn't just involve a simple answer. I mean, we all understand human depravity. I mean, we see it in ourselves. We see it in everybody else. We see it every single day of our lives. Now, so we can immediately recognize our unworthiness for anything. I mean we we are acceptable to God by his grace. And by our Lord Jesus Jesus Christ dying upon us on the cross to redeem us from our sin. Otherwise, we would be under his condemnation. So So when um here let me let me just hold down a little bit more. So then when this angel says who is worthy to look upon this book. Who is worthy to even look upon it or open its seals? You know, it's Would be easy for us to recognize, you know, as not me. However, this question demands a thorough answer. And so the answer So there's a thorough search made. In all of heaven, in all of earth, all Both the living and the dead. Is there someone somewhere at any time who had been worthy to open this book. So a search is made. I mean you can imagine every s there's not a stone uncovered in this search. And what is what is what is the result? That's well before I get up to to to t to to to to the far. I'm I'm getting far in front of my Slide up my notes. This ain't yes, Bridge Hitchard. Yes. Okay. Well, the seven seals represent seven judgments. And the judgments are going going in Going to begin in chapter six. And so when each seal is broken, there's going to be a judgment. And those seven judgments and when these seven judgments are complete. It's all Or done. Okay. Now, the judgments themselves, you do you have to note, they're not all the same Um some are more intense. Some actually do not really look like judgments, but they're but they give us reason For the judgments. Okay. So but that begins with chapter six, and I'm not going to to really go in in in into detail now. Um so this angel, he's not named. You know again some say he's Gabriel, some say he's Michael, because those are the only two other names Angels that are named, but this one is unidentified, but he is mighty. And it gives this challenge with a with a loud voice He gives this question that demands an answer. Is anyone worthy to open this book? But but there was sil but there was silence. No one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the book or to look upon it. And then John began to weep. Now he did not weep because he knew his own depravity. He understood that. The reason why he he wept was If no one is found worthy of opening this book, does that mean God's plan cannot be complete? So no one answers this question, even the mighty angels. So this is not just a question of, you know, okay. I know I'm depraved. I know I'm not worthy. It's the fact that no one is worthy. There's no angel, no one. And so John begins to weep because there's no one in heaven. Uh uh and it's not because you haven't searched enough. Why you search every p every living creature, living and dead. On the earth, under the earth, every place. Um you search the dead, um no one is worthy. And so John weeps greatly. He's overwhelmed with grief. Um yes, and the weep is um it's just like a You know, Jesus weeping over Jerusalem. And Peter weep bitter weeping after betraying the Lord. So just think about John weeping over the fact that no one is found worthy to open this book. Um but again it was premature because There is someone. God's chosen one. You know, John was weeping because he wanted to see God's plan go to complete revisition. Okay, so um and then one of the elders Said to me, Stop weeping. Um Behold the lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has overcome so as to open the book. It's seven seals. So there is someone. So one of the elders told John to stop Weeping, um, and he drew John's attention to the lion that is from the tribe of Judah The root of David. Now no human, no angel can redeem the universe. It's all. Um, but there is one who can. This person, of course, is a glorified, exalted Lord Jesus Christ Described here by two messianic titles. First, the Lion from the Tribe of Judah. And that is a reference to Jacob's. gets blessing on his son Judah back in Genesis chapter 49. You know so he is the root or the or the dis or the descendant of of David. He's going to rule on the throne of David. In this time. The title comes from Isaiah chapter eleven. And one of the elders okay, so it's uh let that see this. Okay. And so both of The gene genealogies of Matthew chapter 1 and Luke chapter 3 reveal Jesus has was a descendant of David, both on his father's and on his mother's side. From his father He is descendant from David through the kingly lumber. Okay. Um in Luke chapter three he's a descendant of David, um Um physically. Um now why you need those two genealogies is because there's one king In the Kingland line, um, that was so wicked that God said none of his descendants are going to dwell upon the throne of David. Well, that almost precludes anyone from being king. Then. However, Jesus a physical descendant through his mother. Um in what that means is that though Joseph was Probably been the crown prince because he uh is in that king of line. He's not eligible. However, his adopted son is. And so that's that's why Matthew says that Joseph adopted Jesus. And so Jesus was truly born king of the Jews. Okay. So Jesus is the only one worthy and capable to take the sorrow because of who he is. He's a rightful king from David's loins. What what he is, the lions on the tribe of Judah was the power to d to um this show, store, store, stop, stop, stop away his enemies. His enemies. Because of what he has done Sin, he has overcome. And so at the cross he defeated sin And all the forces of hell. And believers are overcomers not because of what we've done. But b but b but through his overcoming. And so Jesus uh John's attention was it was this we drawn to what he saw between the throne And the elders. So instead of the anticipated mighty Lion of the tribe of Judah, the on con the all-conquering David King. What did J John saw? He saw a lamb. The Lord Jesus could not be the lion of judgment or the King of glory, and thus he was first the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So we have these two Old Testament pictures. of Christ, both vitally important, and both converge here. The Lamb um is a rather diminutive form of um uh the word for a for a f for a must or or sheep, it refers to a to a to a to a little lamb or a pet lamb Um and the imagery dri drives us back to the Passover. Because during the Passover Moses told the people, take a lamb a sp a one year old lamb with without blemish, bring it into the house and just let it reside with you for a few days. So all the kids they begin to pet the lamb and everyone loves that lamb and it's a pet and then it's slaughtered. Um um I mean Um but but but but that's the pit pi um pit picture. That little lamb that you love so much that was slaughtered, that's important because that's what brings salvation to you to t to your household. Um and so now all the lambs and all the sheep and all the oxen and all the other sacrifices that were done in the Old Testament, those were pictures. Those were those were used to cover up your sins. It did not take away the sin. The sin was still there. It was just covered up for those who had faith. But this Lamb, Christ, as John would say, he's the Lord. Lamb to takes away sin. And so there are several features that this is no ordinary lamb. First of all, he's standing up. I mean saw him as slain, but he's standing up as if as if he had been slain. But he's standing up. Um so these wounds, though fatal, is not debilitating for him. He is standing up. And so these scars were visible, yet he was alive. And though the demons and the wicked men conspired against him and killed him and put him in the grave and sealed that grave, he rose from the dead, and thus defeating sin, he defeated He defeated the grave, he did he defeated death, he defeated his enemies. You know, so he had seven horns. Um, and now these horns are represent power. It represents a king or a kingdom. Um and um seven of course is is a number of perfections And it represents here absolute power. He has it all. And he has seven eyes denoting perfect omniscience. He understands everything. Nothing is hidden from him. He sees all. Um, where can I go? David says, to flee from your presence. And his answer, nowhere. Wherever I go, you are there. And the eyes correspond to the seven spirits of God Sent out into all the earth. Again, a picture of power, omniscience. You know, he is about to judge. His judgment is true. And so verse 7 records the final moment of act in the heavenly scene. Thing John has been describing since his vision began and for one has been building towards this moment. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. throne, would he have taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb Each holding a lamp harp and golden bowls are full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And so this views the great cumulating act of history. Jesus This is Christ taking that book from the hand of the Father. Um and in this case paradise will be regained. And so now John sees the Lamb coming, taking the book out of the of the right hand of him who sat upon the throne. Um in this disc in this scene is similar, very much so, to the one in Daniel seven, when Daniel saw someone like a son of man approaching The throne. Um although Daniel does d does not mention that. I kept looking at the right in the middle. Nine visions that the this we're gonna be Daniel. Behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like the Son of Man was coming, he came up to the ancient of days and presented himself before him, to him was given dominion glory in in the kingdom and all that all the peoples, nations, and men of every language group might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away. His kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. Again, there's not going to be a change in administration anytime. And so the worthy one has arrived to take back what is rightfully his And the appearance of Lamb was as he takes the soro would cause great praise coming out from everywhere. Um you know, when he had taken uh the praise acero accelerates in an ascending crescendo of worship as the the or has the oratorial of redemption reaches a climax. It's climax. And there's um two majestic Ducks doxologies of chapter four, and there's going to be three more in chapter five. And this spontaneous outburst results from the realization. That the long anticipated defeat of sin, death, Satan, and death is about to be accomplished. And the Lord Jesus Christ will return to the earth in triumph and establish his glorious millennial kingdom. The curse will be reversed The believing remnant of Israel will be saved and the church will be honored, exalted, and granted the privilege of reigning with Christ. That is, at this moment, In the end times, when the brick when these seals are broken, there are going to be judgments upon the earth. The judgments will be upon the unredeemed man. Um those who dwell upon the earth. Now there's also going to be Israel on this land. On the earth. But through all these judgments, God's going to save them. And so at the end of time, when Christ returns, at that moment all Israel will be saved. And then um all the pin-up anticipation of millennial finally burst um upon the prospect of what's about to take place. This is Yet um so they began the song of praise and worship. The four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before for the Lamb. And that they offer the same worship to Christ that they did in to the Father in verse 410 offers convincing proof of Christ's deity, since God only is to be worshipped. So the same arno that they give to the father, they give to his son. And so before Christ begins to unroll the song roll. In chapter six comes the song of praise in chapter five. As they prostrated themselves before the Lamb in worship, John notice that each one of them Each one of the 24 elders was holding a harp and golden bowls of full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints Oh, by the way, that includes your see your prayers too. Imagine that. Hearts are frequently associated in the Old Testament with worship. Um and the bulls were used in the in the tabernacle, in the temple, whether they were used whether they were connected to the service of the altar and symbolize the priestly work of intercession for the for the people. So the elder They so they sang a new song. Worthy are you to take the book, to break its seals, for you were slain And purchase for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. Has the elders brought before God the desires and the prayers of the saints? They sang a new song. Throughout scriptures the new song is a song of redemption. The song opens with a reaffirmation that Christ is worthy to take the book. and to break its seals. He's worthy because he's a lamb. He's a lion from the tribe of Judah, and he is king of kings and lord of lords. And to break his seals means that he's going to execute the judgments that are found in those in that book. And furthermore, um they say, for you were slain and purchased for God from with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. That is from every Every th possible people group there is upon the earth, there will be some. And again This should leave no question about the fact that we are saved through Christ alone. Um there's there's um There's not partial credit given to anybody because of what they've done. Because they've done nothing. Um Um so they sang this new song That God that Christ substitute sacrificial death that purchased God from every men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. Uh purchase is a word for word. redemption that pictures slaves purchased on in the market place and then in the and then they're set free. We were once slaves to sin. But Christ has purchased us with his blood, and he set us free that we may serve Christ. And so at the cross, Jesus Christ passed. the price for his from his blood to redeem men from every tribe or d descent, every tongue, ev language, every people from ethnic group, every culture or society. from the slave market of sin. And these terms appear to to get to together again in in Revelation chapter seven 11 and 13 and 14 and it encompasses all of humanity. And so in this worship service there will be a crescendo of praise from all languages. Imagine that. Okay, so the song moves on to express the results of redemption. You've made them to be a kingdom of priests who God and they will reign upon the earth. And the use of them instead of us indicates that the vastness of and the comprehensiveness of redemption. The twenty-four elders who move beyond themselves to sweep all the same of all ages into their praise and adoration that includes all of us. Imagine that. Um this is something to this is something Something to look forward to. Right. Um the redeemed are part of God's kingdom, a community of believers under God's sovereign rule. Um The priests again satisfies our complete access to God's presence for worship and service. So we are a kingdom that we rule. We are priests in that we have access to the throne. Um the present priesthood of believers, that's what we are. We Enjoy now that foreshadows a future day when we shall have total excess and perfect communion with the Father. And during the millennial kingdom Believers will reign on earth with Christ during that millennial 1,000-year kingdom centered in Jerusalem. over all the earth. And then John says, and I looked and behold the voice of many angels Around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, the number of them were myriads and of myriads, and thousands upon thousands. Now that's a great big number. Um so this is what John saw and he's reporting it to us. The there's the there's the voices of the four living creatures of There's the voices of the elders, and now there's the innumerable angels. Myriad means ten thousand and that's probably the highest number Um that was in the Hebrew language at that time. Um so millions of in millions this is it's just a great big number Um probably even bigger than we can comprehend even that. So um and then because you know, Hebrews chapter twelve one says that the number of holy angels cannot be counted. There are at least twice as many has as the fallen angels, because when Satan fell, he took a third of the angels. So that leaves two thirds holy. So that's a great And the best host began with saying with a loud voice. I mean this just imagine all this whole congregation of angels and beings and elders singing. Okay. So g so going back to the um d um um text, once again the emphasis yes we're being measured. Sorry, what I would have to say is that um uh what anything about it is called uh Yes, it's done in unison. It's going up whether you technically call it singing or sang It's going to sound like singing. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay, so so he is worthy to receive recognition because of his power and his omnipotence. He is worthy to receive recognition because of the spiritual and the material riches that he possesses. He owns everything. He gives everything. He is the source of everything. So he's worthy to receive recognition because of his wisdom, his omniscience. He is worthy. For all of these things that are in perfect, absolute perfections, Jesus Christ is worthy of all honor, power, and blessing. And then John says says, and every living thing which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them I heard saying to him who sets on the throne and to the Lamb to be blessing and honor and glory, dominion forever and ever. So this great hymn of praise reaches the crescendo every created thing. Which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them joins in. That includes us too. So this all inclusive statement is reminiscent of Psalm 69. Let the heaven and the earth praise him The seas and everything that moves in them, in the concluding verse of the psalm, that everything that has breath, praise the Lord. Okay, so uh when you know when we read Scripture, let's note that's all going to be fulfilled. Exactly as it is written. There's and this worshipship service is going to bring it all together. Together. So endless blessings, endless honor, endless praise, endless glory, endless worship belong to God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. The creatures is unable to contain its joy in its imminent of over its imminent redemption. I mean this is joyful. Um So what we see today is, oh, one more verse, I think. Yeah, four fourteen. Lost in wonder in the four living creatures came. kept saying Amen and the elders fell down and worshiped. Lost in wonder and love and praise the four living beings, could only keep saying Amen. Again, Amen means ha Make it happen. Let it be. May it be so. And the elders fell down, and once again they worshiped. And soon this mighty host would march out of heaven to Execute judgment, gather the the the uh the elect, return with Christ when he sets up his heavenly kingdom. So this is the stage is set. So here at the closet Closing of chapter 5 Upon this majestic, magnificent worship service. Here's when the judgments will begin. What we call the tribulation period and woe is those who dwell upon the earth. Because judgment is coming. Um now, granted, God will continue to redeem some people through that tribulation period, including of Israel. Um but it's gonna be tough for those who are on the who are on the um um C C C C Earth because it's seven Seven judgments about to begin. Seven seals. And we will see that those judgments will begin chapter six. And they'll can and they'll continue through the rest of the book. Um and um so are there any questions? Oh the rest of the Rapture. Okay. Well, oh sure. Um now the question is, when does the rapture occur? Okay. Now, um does the rapture occur occur before Revelation 4? Or does it occur after Revelation 5? That's the question. Now, Scripture isn't explicit. Um all we know is that both the rapture and this this um uh worship service they are End time events. And we know that the worship service is just prior to that tribulation period. So that seems to be so that tends to indicate that it's very, very close. Now some say that when John was called up in the spirit, that corresponds to the rapture of the church. Some people say that. Scripture doesn't explicitly say that. So we gotta um have s we we we we gotta realize this is something we that that we don't know. Now, at least from this text. Um now there may be other places in in this in this scripture where it says But actually, no. I mean all we know is that the rapture occurs at a time that we don't know. Um and um also it's imminent, which means it can happen at any time. We don't have to wait for further revelation to to be fulfilled. We don't have to look for signs and wonders and stuff like that. It could happen anytime. Um s so we should not um try to um and say the rapture is going to happen right here or right there um but just but the thing is be ready. Be alert. Okay. Um any other other questions? Okay. Well let me pray. Um our Father, our God in heaven Now Lord Jesus Christ, Father, help us to be to um to be lost in the wonder of your glory and of your power. Help us, Father, that we will look to Christ, our precious Savior. Help us, Father, that we will love you, that we'll love your Son. Help us, Father, That we may obey him and that we may be alert and keep our lamps alight for that precious day that we shall see our Saviour. Has he is, amen