Philip Keller is a shepherd who wrote the book. A shepherd looks at Psalm 23. And in the chapter where he talks about the second part of verse 1 Where it says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He describes people who have one foot in the church and one foot in the world. People who are discontented with what they are getting from the Lord from their own perception, and so they go to the world to receive what only God can give And he uses an illustration that I want to take out of the context in which he uses it to make uh I want to make a different point than what he makes. And so here's this illustration from his own shepherding experience. He says, I once owned a you whose conduct exactly typified this sort of person, this double-minded individual. She was one of the most attractive sheep that ever belonged to me. Her body was beautifully proportioned, she had a strong constitution and an excellent coat coat of wool Her head was clean, alert, well set with bright eyes. She bore sturdy lambs that matured rapidly. But in spite of all these attractive attributes, she had one pronounced fault She was restless, discontent, a fence crawler, so much so that I came to call her Mrs. Gadabout This one ew produced more problems for me than almost all the rest of the flock combined. No matter what field or pasture the sheep were in, she would search all along the fences or shoreline we live by the sea looking for a loophole she could crawl through and start to feed on the other side. It was not that she lacked pasturage. My fields were my joy and delight. No sheep in the district had better grazing With Mrs. Gadabout, it was an ingrained habit. She was simply never contended with things as they were Often when she had forced her way through some set spot in a fence, or found a way around the end of the wire at low tide on the beaches, she would end up feeding on bare, brown, burned up pasturage of a most inferior sort But she never learned her lesson and continued to fence crawl time after time. Now it would have been bad enough if she was the only one who did this. It was a sufficient problem to find her and bring her back. But the further point was that she taught her lambs the same tricks. They simply followed her example and soon were as skilled at escaping as their mother Even worse, however, was the example she set for the rest of the sheep. In short time she began to lead others through the same holes and over the same dangerous paths down by the sea After putting up with her perverseness for a summer, I finally came to the conclusion that to save the rest of the flock from becoming unsettled, she would have to go. I could not allow one obstinate, discontented you to ruin the whole ranch operation. It was a difficult decision to make. For I loved her in the same way I loved the rest. Her strength and beauty and alertness were a delight to the eye. But one morning I took the killing knife in hand and butchered her Her fen her career of fence crawling was cut short. It was the only solution to the dilemma. Now there are very many valid comparisons one can make between people and sheep, but I'm grateful that the solution to dealing with a wayward sheep. Being to kill them is not the comparison that we can make. There is another solution available to Jesus and dealing with his wayward sheep. And he took it. In the words of Isaiah 53, he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep, it says, have gone astray We have turned, every one, we have turned to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all If Philip, the shepherd, would have died for Mrs. Gadabout, he would have accomplished nothing But when Jesus dies for his sheep, it is his death that saves us More than that, he doesn't stay dead. He rose from the grave and now stands as the great shepherd of the sheep That's what we see in the conclusion to our study here of John chapter 10, verses 1 to 21. So if you're not there, turn in your Bible to John chapter 10. And follow along as I read John starting in verse n chapter 9, verse 39, down through chapter 10, verse 21. Chapter 9, verse 39, it begins, Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world. that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, we see, your guilt remains. Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter the shefold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If any one enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays his life down for the sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees And the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my father. There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? This is the word of God. I started reading in chapter 9, verse 39, because that's really where this conversation began. Jesus uses the occasion of the healing of the manborn blind to Reveal his identity and bring condemnation down on the Pharisees. The judgment that comes to those who reject him is a judgment of blindness. If you reject the truth, you will be blinded from that truth, from being able to see it After the Pharisees mocked Jesus, as you saw there in verse 40, Jesus goes on to demonstrate his point by using a metaphor. to reveal his identity and rain condemnation down on them and and then they demonstrate their blindness by accusing him of insanity Now, what is a judgment to the Pharisees is actually a great comfort to those who believe, because we learn that Jesus is the kind of king who knows you by name. And he leads you with sacrificial love and care. And he gave his life for you That you might be his. That in a nutshell is this passage And to help us follow with what Jesus is saying, we've been working our way through the seven comparisons that Jesus makes between himself and the religious leaders of his day. And just to review the first four that we've already seen, the first comparison is in verses one and two, and that is that Jesus qualifies as the true shepherd, well, they are frauds. We've seen that the Pharisees held positions of leadership that God Himself did not describe in His law. Thus they circumvented the design of government that God had for his people In the end, their whole system was bent toward benefiting the leaders and not those who were receiving leadership They fail to represent for the people what kind of God he is in terms of his character and his love and care. Jesus, on the other hand, came onto the scene fulfilling all of the prophecies that had been made of the Messiah, or at least relative to his first coming. He had all the right lineage, he demonstrated the character of God. He His ability demonstrated the qualifications established of the miracles that the Messiah would perform in the Old Testament He spoke and acted precisely as God said the Messiah would do. And so he alone qualifies as the true shepherd sent by God. The second comparison is that Jesus knows his own sheep and they are strangers. Verses three to six tell us that Jesus knows his own sheep. He was not concerned about accumulating as many followers as possible. He was not discovering as he went along who it was who might believing in believing him and who would reject him, he knew exactly who his sheep were, and his mission really was to collect to himself his own sheep, those whom the Father had given him And therefore his method was just to proclaim the truth so that those who were his sheep would respond to him. In contrast, the strangers, like a stranger, can use a stick and dogs to drive sheep. The Pharisees drove the people with fear. They were afraid of losing followers of their religion, and so they threatened the people with shame and ostracism if they didn't toe the line, if they didn't keep all of their laws, and if they didn't reject Jesus. Jesus knows his own. The third comparison in verses seven to ten is that Jesus came to give life Whereas they take life. As is true of so many leaders in every nation throughout history, the leaders of Israel use their power and influence for their own gain. Their leadership was characterized by what by taking what didn't belong to them, putting people to death, and destroying the work of God. In fact, Jesus said to these very Pharisees, In Matthew 23, 35, on you will come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the altar and the sanctuary. In other words, they were responsible for the death of God's messengers throughout time. In fact, when the church began in Acts 2 It was the religious leaders and the leaders of Israel who were the first to persecute the apostles and those who proclaimed and worshiped Jesus. They took life. Jesus didn't come to take life, he came to give life. To those who were lost in darkness, he came to give light. To those who were dead in their sin, he came to give life through forgiveness. To those who had hearts of stone, he came to give a heart of flesh. To those who were blind and deaf to the truth, he came to give eyes to see and ears to hear. And the life that he gives is not a life tethered to the letter of the law, but a life freely lived in relationship with God, who is the source of life. And it's because of the life that Jesus gives that all believers can say, along with Paul, it is no longer I who live, because I have been crucified with Christ. But Christ lives in me. And the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Jesus gives life. Well then the fourth comparison Jesus makes in verses 11 to 13 is that Jesus lays down his life. While they are self-seeking. This is to say that the leaders of the the false shepherds of Israel, rather, were apathetic to the welfare of the people. Their care for the good of the people extended only so far as it benefited them personally. In comparison, Jesus was the ultimate example of sacrificial love. All that he did, yes, he did in loving obedience to the Father, but he also did it out of love and care for his people. Jesus said in John chapter 3, verse 17, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. It's for the joy that was set before him, it says in Hebrews 12 that Jesus endured the cross. And what is that joy? Well, it's described no more beautifully than in Ephesians 5 as a pure and holy bride. Because he was motivated by love for his bride. Jesus didn't run when he faced rejection. He didn't turn away from ridicule. He didn't back down when people started to pick up stones to throw at him. No, he not only risked his life, but he gave his life for his sheep, and we'll say more about that in a moment. So with that review in hand, we then come to the fifth comparison in verses 14 And here we see that Jesus knows his sheep just as the Father knows him. Look again at verses 14 and 15. Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. For emphasis, Jesus repeats this declaration, I am the Good Shepherd The first time that he said that in verse eleven, he was stating what is the quality of a good shepherd. Namely, a a good shepherd is the kind of shepherd that lays his life down for the sheep in comparison to a hired hand who runs in fear when there's danger. Now this time he makes it personal. He says, I am the good shepherd, I know my own sheep, and my own sheep. No me and then I'll be in a verse fifteen, I lay down my life for the sheep Not only does he make it personal, but he takes this earthy principle of a shepherd's knowledge of his sheep and elevates it to the divine level of perfect intimate knowledge. The first four comparisons that we've already seen Jesus make are negative. He's comparing himself to the negative example of the false shepherds of Israel. This one is positive. Jesus compares his relationship to the sheep to his relationship with his father. Why? Because The shepherd sheep metaphor is too limited to reveal his true relationship to his sheep Notice the kind of knowledge shepherds have of their sheep and vice versa that Jesus highlights back in verses 3 and 4. There Jesus says of the shepherd, he calls his own sheep by name. So the shepherd knows the name of his Sheep. And then of the sheep it says in verse 4 the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. There is a knowledge that shepherds and sheep have of one another, but that knowledge In fact, John even underscores this by using a different Greek words for no in verses 3 and 4 than he does in verses 14 and 15. For those who are interested, the word oida in verses 3 and 4 really refers to a more of a factual knowledge. Whereas the word gonosco in verses 14 to 15 has the idea of a personal, relational knowledge. You know, using the example of Mrs. Gadabout from the introduction, the shepherd knew her by observation. He knew her tendencies. He could see what she did. But he didn't know her heart, if she has a heart in this sense. He couldn't reach into her mind and understand why she was so committed to finding a way of escape. As well, a sheep knows the shepherd's voice. A sheep knows what their own shepherd sounds like as distinct from other shepherds or other sounds that they would hear. But the sheep doesn't know the heart of the shepherd. They don't know the plans and the purposes and the motivations. They just know that's the one I'm supposed to follow. I don't know where he's going to take me, but last time he took me to a good eating place, so I'm going to follow him again. So while there is a real knowledge that shepherds have of sheep and sheep have of their shepherds, it is a limited knowledge. So to get outside of those limitations. Jesus momentarily leaves the shepherding metaphor and explains the reality of his knowledge of the sheep and their knowledge of him by virtue of his relationship with his heavenly father. Notice again how Jesus says there in verse 14, I know my own sheep, and my own sheep. Know me. Jesus is speaking of the kind of relationship he has with his sheep, namely that it is a personal and experiential relationship He's not saying that this knowledge is fixed and complete such that the moment somebody hears his voice, they automatically know everything they will ever know about the shepherd. Now, for his part, we could say that the knowledge that Jesus has of his sheep is in fact complete and perfect and need not change. By virtue of his divine nature, he knows everything about us. Hebrews 4. 13 says, No creature is hidden from his sight. But all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. Jesus, as we have said, is not coming to know his sheep. As they believe in him and as they follow him. No, he has known his sheep from before time began In the book of Acts, the apostles would go from city to city proclaiming the gospel, and what would often be the catalyst to move them from one city to the next was the danger that they were facing, danger for their lives in In uh opposition to the gospel that the Gentiles or the Jews would give. And when Paul was in Corinth, the Lord said to him, Paul, Do not be afraid, but go on speaking, and do not be silent. For I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people. In other words, Jesus knew who the people in that city were who had not yet believed, but who would believe once they heard the gospel proclaimed. And the reason he knew this is because he knows everything about us. Psalm 139, verse 16, says of God, your eyes saw my unformed substance In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. Beloved Jesus, our good shepherd, knows everything about you. He knows the things that we couldn't possibly, or frankly, even care to know about ourselves, such as the number of hair on our head, or the number of cells in our body. He knows those things that you wouldn't want anybody else to know. He knows your every secret, your every embarrassment, your every shame. In the words of Psalm 139 again, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, ye know it altogether. You've never had a thought in your life that God didn't already know was coming He knows every thought, every desire, every interest, every curiosity, every lust, every fantasy, every dream you've ever had. Nothing is hidden from him He knows everything about you that if anyone else knew about you would make you want to crawl into a hole and never come out And yet, even with that perfect, exhaustive knowledge that he has of you, he says, You are my own. And he laid his life down for you. He doesn't reject you, he doesn't hold you at arm's length, he doesn't sigh when he hears your voice. No, he draws you in as one of his precious sheep. Now, because he is an infinite person, it would be impossible for us to know him in any way like he knows us. But while we can't know him perfectly, we can know him truly. We know from creation that he is, and that he is eternally powerful and divine in nature We know from the gospel that he is rich in mercy and abounding in love. We know that he is just and gracious We know that he is a redeemer and a savior. We know that he has loved us infinitely by giving his life for us. And so we know that he is worthy of glory and honor and praise. We know that he is worthy to be believed and worthy to be served. And as we begin to follow him, as we begin to hear his voice through his word, we come to know more and more about him. We come to know more of his work in creation and in history. And beyond that, we come to know his nature, his heart, his what it is that he loves and values We come to know what is it that determined his decisions in the past, and what prompts him to keep his promises, and what we can trust him for in the present and in the future. My friends, Jesus is not only a king who issues proclamations, he is not only a master who gives commands. He is not only a shepherd who leads, he is a friend who shares his heart. Jesus says in John 15, 15, I No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my father I have made known to you. Now, these are all things that on one level we can know intellectually, we can know factually from his word. We can read it and study it and understand what it is saying to us about Jesus. But unlike Reading about a historical figure, we can come to know these things on a personal level as we go through life with him We experience his comfort. We are empowered by his spirit. We are strengthened by him in our weakness. We are calmed by him in our distress. He gives us peace in our trouble. He restores us when we're broken. He lifts us up when we are downcast. His faithfulness goes from words on a page to the experience of our lives If indeed we know him, and if in fact we are following him, we grow in our knowledge of him the further down the road we go. Now, these things will not be true for those who do not know Christ, or who are not following Christ, who have wandered from him But the good news is that when you realize that you have gone your own way, whether for the first time or not, you can turn to him And follow him, and you will find these things to be true. So Jesus knows his own, and his own know him. And that can be compared to his relationship with his father. Notice verse 15 again. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. God the Father and God the Son have perfect, infinite knowledge of one another. But the focus here is not on the content of what they know, but on the relationship between them. The Father and the Son have enjoyed an eternal loving relationship. We remember John 1. 1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And to say that the Word was with God is to say that the Word was face to face with God, implying a personal relationship. And Jesus refers to this in John 17 in his prayer, saying, Now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. And then later in that prayer, he said, Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. Again, the relationship is an eternal, loving relationship. When Jesus was on earth, he would often get up early in the morning while it was still dark and go off to pray and spend time with his Father. And very often, after a long day of ministry, he would go off by himself to pray and spend time with his father. The father and son didn't merely know each other perfectly, but they had a relationship that was deeply personal and loving. And so by comparing his relationship to his sheep with his relationship with his father, Jesus expresses that his relationship with his sheep has dimensions that transcend all temporal and finite relationships. And what makes that even more remarkable is that at the end of verse 15, he says And I lay down my life for the sheep. He doesn't lay down his life for the sheep because he's naive about our value or our goodness or our worth. No, he lays down his life with full knowledge of our sin and our weakness. Nothing is hidden from his eyes. He lays down his life not because of us. but for us, for our benefit. He laid down his life to redeem us and make us his own And we see that in the next comparison as well. Comparison number six. Jesus has other sheep. They, the Pharisees, hate other sheep. Look at verse 16. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold, Jesus says. I must bring them also. And they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. Here we see the sixth comparison Jesus makes, though this time the comparison is really implied. Jesus or rather uh when God promised to send a descendant of David who would be the shepherd of his people Israel, the natural implication of that is that the nation of Israel was the flock And even though there were statements throughout the Old Testament that God would accomplish salvation among the Gentiles, there was no clarity of what exactly that would look like. So the assumption by the Jews was that that must mean that the Gentiles would be brought into the Jewish nation. They would effectively stop being Gentiles and start being Jews. That must be how God's going to save the nations. And so they came up with even rituals for how a Gentile could set aside their Gentile background, deny themselves, renounce their identity, and become Jews. And those Gentile turned Jews were known as proselytes. But apart from that, the Jews despise Gentiles. They call them dogs, an unclean animal. It was even a violation of their religious law to sit and have a meal with the Gentile. In fact, there was hardly anything that could rile up the Jews more than the thought that God would save Gentiles as Gentiles. In Paul's last visit to Jerusalem, near the end of the book of Acts Uh the uh he he gets uh kind of citizens arrest by the people because they thought he had brought a gentile into the Jewish court of the temple And when he was giving his speech explaining his encounter with the risen Christ, he got to the place of Expressing the commission that Jesus gave him, where Jesus said, go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles And then the text says, Up to this point they listened to him. Then, once they heard that, they raised their voices and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth, for he should not be allowed to live. The idea that God would bring salvation to the Gentiles caused the Jews to seethe in anger, and they could only think of killing the man who would suggest it. In other words, they hated sheep who were not of their flock. Now, in comparison to them, Jesus owns other sheep. And notice what he says there in verse 16: I have other sheep. Again, the implication is that Jesus already owns those sheep. The Father has already given them to him. He already knows who they are. He's not hoping to have other sheep. He's not calling out his voice, wanting to see if is anybody else going to listen to me? No, he already has them. And they will listen to his voice, and he will bring them together with the rest of his flock. Notice also that there at the end Jesus says, so there will be one flock. What is this one flock? Well, if you're thinking about Jeremiah twenty-three and Ezekiel thirty-four, where God promises to send a shepherd king. Again, it would be natural to conclude that the nation of Israel would be the flock of the Messiah. But that can't be what Jesus means for at least two reasons. First, the entire passage makes it very clear that there are many in Israel who are not part of Jesus' flock. The flock of Jesus is not one and the same with the nation of Israel. And second, Jesus' ministry shows that his mission, at least at this point in his first coming, is not a political mission. His mission is not to establish himself as the king of the nation. His purpose is not to add Gentiles as citizens of Israel or to expand the borders of Israel to include the Gentile territories No, his purpose on earth is in his first coming is to lay down his life to redeem people, to make them his own. The Apostle Paul describes this in Ephesians 2, verses 17 to 21, where he says, And he came and preached peace to you who are far off. And peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined and held together grows into a holy temple in the Lord So this one flock is not the nation of Israel, it is the church. It is also called the family of God, the building of God, the body of Christ, the bride of Christ, the flock of the great shepherd. All of these metaphors refer to that one group of people who have been brought together by Christ from every tribe, tongue, nation, and people as being redeemed by his blood. Now that doesn't mean, of course, that God's promise to send a shepherd king to Israel has become null and void. No, may it never be. It's just that that promise has yet to be fulfilled. But it will be fulfilled when Jesus returns and sits on the throne of David in Jerusalem and rules not only over Israel but over the entire world. Beloved, Israel may still be the chosen people of God, and they are, even though they are in rebellion now. But there is no basis in God's economy for ethnocentrism. or ethnic prejudice or racialism of any kind. When Jesus told his followers that they were to be witnesses in Jerusalem and Samaria, uh uh Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth He declared that all people are equally under the condemnation of God. And all people can be saved by his blood. Jesus loves and has other sheep. That brings us to our final comparison, namely that Jesus has a divine commission Whereas the leaders of the Jews do not. This too is an implied comparison. Look again at verses 17 and 18. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father. The divine commission that Jesus has is wrapped up together with the loving, within the loving relationship he has with his Father Now, on the surface, one could conclude from what Jesus says that the love that the Father has for Jesus is based on him giving up his life. But remember that the love between the Father and the Son predated the creation of the world. It goes back before time. Again, Jesus said to the Father in in John 17, 24, You loved me before the foundation of the world. So this is an eternal love, not grounded in the work of the Son on earth. In fact, it was even at the beginning of his ministry when Jesus came up out of the waters of baptism that the Father spoke from heaven heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. So before his ministry began, the Father was already loving and pleased with the Son. So, what's the connection here between the Father's love and the Son laying down his life? Well, simply, Jesus is saying that this is yet another reason why the Father loves the Son. The Son continues to humbly and humbly and joyfully walk in obedience to the Father to accomplish the plan of redemption. And that plan g and that obedience goes beyond just laying down his life. Notice how he says there in verse 17, because I lay down my life that, or in order that, I may take it up again What for anyone else would be their final act, laying down their life? For Jesus is just the prelude to taking up his life again. Now, this isn't the first time that Jesus has said something about his future resurrection. You might remember that really at the beginning of his ministry, when he cleansed the temple, Jesus told the Pharisees at that time. If you destroy this temple, I will raise it in three days. In fact, to the disciples, Jesus would speak very directly about his resurrection repeatedly and clearly But to the Jews he spoke of it vaguely and rarely. Even those even these words, though, would hard to be um it'd be hard to call these vague. And what else can laying down your life and taking it up again mean except dying and rising from the dead? But you need to remember that what is so clear in retrospect is vague and doubtful in the moment because not only were the Jews blind to the truth, but because the concept of dying and rising from the dead is so outside the realm of possibility for them. I mean, it's one thing for Jesus to raise somebody else from the dead. I mean, that's a miracle itself. That's divine power on display. But to bring oneself back from the dead? That's an outlandish claim. And because that idea is nothing short of preposterous, Jesus Doubles down to ensure that no one is mistaken about what he is saying. Look again at verse 18. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my father. Beloved, this is the kind of statement that no sane mortal can make. It's the kind of statement you can point to to say that Jesus is either a liar. Or a lunatic or Lord. Because all life life belongs to God No one has authority to take their own life. He alone has the right to give life and to take life To take one's own life by any means is murder from God's perspective. Whether actively taking your life or passively preventing the saving of life is not a personal right. It is only God's right. Add to that, we don't really have the power to prevent other people from taking our life. Now we can take precautions all we want, but We know that we cannot ultimately protect ourselves. We cannot stop evildoers from taking life. But here, Jesus is saying that he has both the power to prevent anyone from taking his life, and he has the authority to lay down his life. More than that, he has the authority to take up his life. Again, this is no less than taking to himself the divine prerogative of life and death But he didn't so much take it to himself as much as it was given to him. That's what he says there at the end of verse 18. He says, This charge I have received from my Father. The word charge means a command or an order, if you will, a commission. He came from heaven with orders in his hand, as it were, to live a perfect and sinless life. And then he was to let the Jewish leaders and the Romans put him through unjust trials and torture, ultimately nailing him to the cross And as he hung on that cross, he hung on to his life. Despite being in incredible pain and agony, he prayed for the Father's forgiveness toward those who were committing these acts toward him. He promised paradise to one of the men hanging next to him. He entrusted the care of his mother to one of his disciples. And when his work was completely finished, he cried out. It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Notice the scripture doesn't say in those accounts that he died Death did not happen to him. He gave up his spirit. In fact, Luke 23, 46 gives us more detail. It says, then Jesus calling out with a loud voice said, Father Into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he breathed his last. Now later, when the soldiers were tasked to uh ensure the death of the men on the cross, to s really hasten their death, uh because it wasn't yet time uh for where they would have died yet, they were surprised to find Jesus had died Why did Jesus die so soon, as it were? It's because he gave up his life before anyone or anything could take it from him. And then, three days later, Jesus rose from the grave. He took up his life No power could keep Jesus in the tomb. Not the natural process of decay, not the stone covering the tomb, not the Roman soldiers guarding the tomb. Nothing could keep Jesus dead and buried He rose on the third day, and so he is no liar, and he is no lunatic. He is, in fact, Lord. Jesus obeyed the charge given to him by his father. And it is his active obedience in his life, in his death, and his resurrection that leads to our salvation. Now, in contrast to his divine commission, we can say that the Pharisees had no commission from God. Their law was not God's law, and their way of being was in rebellion against God. Their man-made system and selfish purposes came into conflict with Jesus' divine charge, creating this flashpoint where Jesus revealed himself as the good shepherd and brought condemnation against them. And it is here that we see that Jesus is the true shepherd while they are frauds. Jesus is, or rather, Jesus knows his own sheep. And they are strangers. He came to give his life while they take life. He knows, or rather, he lays down his life and they are self-seeking. He knows his sheep as the Father knows him. And Jesus has other sheep while they hate other sheep. And Jesus has a divine commission while they do not. Look at how the people responded to these words by Jesus. Verse 19: There again was a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? The Jews could not agree what to think about Jesus But the dividing line, at least in this situation, was not between do we believe in him or not? The dividing line was is he crazy or what is he? Many of them mocked Jesus. He's crazy. He's oppressed by a demon. He's speaking nonsense. Others could at least recognize that a demon-oppressed person doesn't speak like this. They may say crazy things, but Jesus is not speaking gibberish. He's not saying one thing and contradicting contradicting himself. He's not saying He's just rather he's just saying things that no mere man can say. And then they really ask, what do we do with the fact that he healed a man born blind? Demon-oppressed people don't heal blind people. Yet even with that clear sign, the very sign. That God had said this would characterize the Messiah. They were still blind to the truth And that was necessary so that the path that Jesus walked would lead to the cross So my friends, the question before us as we draw this study to a close is, are you blind like they were blind? Or do you hear the voice of Jesus and follow him? Do you see in him the qualities of a shepherd king that you want to follow? Do you know Jesus as the one who, even though he knows everything about you, has laid his life down for you and has taken it back up to be Lord overall? Do you know Jesus as the one who has given you life and given it abundantly? First Peter chapter two Verses 24 and 25 says, He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin. And live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. For you were straying like sheep, but now have returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls My friends, may that be true of each one of us. And if it is true, instead of imitating wandering sheep, Let's imitate the shepherd, and go after the lost, that they too might be turned from blindness to sight, and might know the love and the care of the good shepherd Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this revelation by Jesus Christ. As always, there's much more that we could say to exalt in the character of Jesus, who is the good shepherd. But may what we have seen resonate and saturate our souls, that we might put off any thoughts that would put distance between us and Him. That we know him to be our own, and us to be his own. And Jesus, may we follow you Wherever you lead, may we trust you. May we serve you as you deserve. In Christ's name, amen.