Well, there's hardly a more loved metaphor that teaches us about God than the metaphor of a shepherd. Psalm twenty-three must be the most beloved Psalm of all time. And it begins, the Lord is my shepherd In our passage, in John chapter 10, Jesus says twice, I am the good shepherd, and that is one of the most loved titles that Jesus gives to himself. Whatever else comes into our minds when we think of a shepherd, we know that a shepherd cares for his sheep. The shepherd leads his sheep, the shepherd feeds his sheep, the shepherd protects his sheep. We may not know a lot about shepherding, but one thing we do know is that the responsibility of the shepherd is To care for the well-being of his sheep. And as it relates to God's relationship with his people, if the metaphor of marriage emphasizes the sacrificial love of God. The metaphor of shepherding emphasizes the tender care of God for his people. And for that reason, perhaps like me, you've been looking forward to our study of John ten. We've spent a lot of time in the Chapters of five through nine, listening to Jesus speak to the Pharisees and the Jews, pointing out to them their hard hearts and their blind eyes. And if you know anything about John 10, it's where Jesus declares himself to be the good shepherd. And he talks about his care for his sheep. And so I personally have been looking forward to settling into this chapter and meditating with you on the goodness of Jesus And of course, we will do that over the next few weeks as we walk our way through this chapter. But there's more here than a comforting message about Jesus. We have to remember that everything that John records in this gospel serves the purpose of proving that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. so that we would believe in him. This means that whenever we get to a section in John's Gospel, we not only need to understand that section in its context for what it is saying We also need to understand why is it that John chose to record this teaching or this event, whatever it is in the gospel. Why why did he choose to include that of all the activities that he could have included, which he does tell us if everything Jesus did was recorded, it would the the world itself would not fit could not hold all of the books. And so why of all of those things did John choose to include, in our case, this section here in John chapter 10? Why was that so important as an aspect of proving that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God? Well, what we're going to see today is that, and in the coming weeks, is that the words of Jesus that John records here in John 10 are not primarily for the encouragement of his people. They are actually primarily a judgment against the Pharisees and a declaration of his identity. Now, out of that, we get great encouragement and comfort because of what Jesus says. But that really is the byproduct of this section, not its primary meaning. This section is often wrongly understood as irenic teaching. Irenic teaching meanings meaning it's positive, it's encouraging, it's a comforting word from Jesus to his sheep. But this section is actually not ironic. It is polemic. It is an attack by Jesus against the Pharisees. What Jesus says of himself is for us as his people comforting and encouraging. But its focus is primarily negative as it relates to the Pharisees and his judgment against them. Now why is there such a misunderstanding as this? Well it's because the context is often ignored or missed. You and I know that every book we've ever read teaches us that when you start a new chapter, that starts a new section. Whether it's a a change in topic or not, it's a an entirely new section. And so When we come to the scripture, we are trained to see new chapters as new sections, and we almost forget what's come behind, and we focus on what is ahead. And to be fair, when Stephen Langton added chapters to the scripture in the early 13th century, for the most part, he found a lot of really helpful places. to divide up the text. But there are different kinds of divisions, and I think this is helpful for us to think about in our study of Scripture in general. There are what you could call hard division. There's a hard line between one section and another where there actually is a change in topic or a change in narrative. And we see that in chapter 11, for example Where there's a hard shift from the end of chapter ten into the narrative of chapter eleven is a whole new topic. It's like John takes one witness off of the stand and puts a new witness on a stand for a whole new level of argumentation. But there are also soft divisions in Scripture. Soft divisions are not an entirely change of subject, but they're a shift in the in the in the longer unit. And that's what we have here in chapter ten. There are some who say that chapter ten is a hard division, but there are are many that I would agree with, ancient and modern interpreters, who would see this more as a slight change of topic where Jesus is all ultimately continuing the conversation that he began in John chapter 9. And because that's easy to miss, and we're so used to seeing John chapter 10 in isolation from chapter 9, I think it's worth taking a moment just to revisit why this is a continuation. First, consider the fact that John chapter 10, verse 1 is not the beginning of Jesus' words. His words begin in chapter 9, verse 41. You can see it says there, Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. And then he continues to say, Truly, truly, I say to you, and he goes on from there. Every time in the Gospel of John that Jesus says, Truly, truly, I say to you, he's either continuing what he has been saying, or he's responding to somebody he's talking to. It never is the beginning of an entirely new section. This means that what Jesus says here in John chapter 10, particularly verses 1 to 18, and then that section ends in verse 21. is a continuation. He's saying to the s he's speaking to the same Pharisees that he was speaking to in John chapter 9. And that's why in verse 6 of chapter 10, John assumes that we know who he is speaking to. Now also consider the fact that in verse 19 of chapter 10, John says there, there was again a division among the Jews because of these words. This second division follows from the first division, which is in chapter 9, verse 16. A division that took place among the Pharisees because they couldn't agree about this man who was born blind and what had happened to him. So John makes this direct connection between the first group of Pharisees and this group of Pharisees that he's speaking to here in John chapter 10. And then also in verse 21 of John chapter 10, it says that some of the Pharisees who were not so quick to judge or condemn Jesus said Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Now, coming on the heels of John chapter 9, that's an obvious reference to the man who was born blind, whom Jesus had healed. Now, most of all though, in addition to those evidences, if you will, John chapter 10 is a soft division because verses 1 to 18 is really a commentary by Jesus on the way that the Pharisees responded to the man born blind in comparison to how he himself responded to the man born blind. And that comparison is what the Apostle John wants us to see so that we would recognize and believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. That's why it's important to see that this chapter, chapter 10, flows directly from chapter 9, because it shifts our focus away. from an entirely positive, encouraging message message to the followers of Jesus and and helps us see that it is actually a confrontational message to the critics of Jesus. He really confronts the Pharisees with the same prophetic message that Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Isaiah and other prophets spoke to the leaders, even as we read earlier in Ezekiel chapter 34, where their wickedness as shepherds is confronted and the promise of God of a good shepherd is revealed. Now, that's some of the background before we unpack that even further. Let's read the text. And to get the whole context, I want to read with you starting in chapter 9, verse 35, and we're going to read down through chapter 10, verse 21, and then today we'll really just work through verses 1 through 6 of chapter 10. So follow along as I read John 9, verse 35. Jesus heard that they, that is the Pharisees, had cast him, the man born blind, out. Cast him out of the synagogue and found him, and he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And he answered, Who is he, sir, that I may believe in him Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Truly, truly I say to you, you Pharisees, he who does not Enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus said again to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If any one enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays his life down for the sheep He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. And the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, I lay, and I lay my life down for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one ever no one takes it from me, and I lay it down of my own accord I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father. There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said, He has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon? Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Well, Jesus does not pull this metaphor of shepherding out of the air. No, is nor is he being sentimental here. He is drawing, as we've seen, from the well of the prophets. to reveal his identity. And so in order to get the full import of what Jesus means by what he is saying, we have to get into our minds what is in his mind as he is speaking these words. Shepherding is one of the oldest professions in human history. Goes all the way back, at least as far as we know, to Genesis chapter four, with Abel, one of the sons of Cain, or rather, one of the sons of Adam and Eve. Uh and Genesis 4 tells us that he was a keeper of the sheep. There's a lot we'll see about sheep as we move through our study of this passage. But for now, let me just say that God designed sheep to need a shepherd. There is such a thing as wild sheep, but as compared to domesticated sheep, wild sheep are similar have the same similarities, if you will, to uh as uh wolves have to dogs, which is to say they are completely different. Uh shepherds keep sheep because ki sheep can't keep themselves. Without shepherds to feed or protect or to care for them, she uh sheep will die. I'm gonna have a hard time with Sheep and shepherds here. Sheep are easy prey. But even without all of the external threats that can come upon them, they uh don't know how to care for themselves in the most basic w of ways. And it didn't take long for humanity to realize that people are exactly the same way. In fact, God designed people to need government. The need for government is not the result of the fall, it is built into our nature as human beings. It's it's why in the new heavens and the new earth, when everyone is glorified and sin is no more We will still be under a government, not only King Jesus, but we will be under the structure of nations forever and ever. So we need government. Now, government, as we know, can exercise its role in various ways. There are various styles of leadership, if you will. One extreme is we might have a dictator who is oppressive over the people. The other extreme, perhaps, is a lazy and apathetic leader who uh essentially leads to functional anarchy. But ancient peoples, including Israel, understood that the most ideal form of governmental leadership is represented by shepherding Shepherds wisely guide and direct. They provide needed care. They also give the sheep freedom to flourish. And many cultures referred to their kings and their leaders as shepherds and to their work as shepherding. For example, when the people of Israel came together after the s uh death of Saul to anoint and make Jesus uh excuse me, to make David king They said to him, In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you, David, who led out and brought in Israel And the Lord your God said to you, You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people Israel. Elsewhere, the Lord told David that he had commanded the judges, those rulers of Israel prior to the monarchy, the Lord had commanded the judges of Israel to shepherd his people. Now, since we call the leaders of the church, not we, but Scripture calls the leaders of the church pastors, which means shepherd. We might be tempted to think of the shepherds of Israel as the religious leaders of Israel. And that's true, that they were shepherds of Israel, but it's not limited to just the religious leaders, the priests and the Levites The primary shepherds of Israel were the governing authorities, their kings, their governors, and their rulers So God entrusted Israel's leaders, both their civic leaders and their religious leaders, to shepherd his people. They were to use his law as their guide in the care for the people. They were to protect the people from external and internal threats. They were to ensure that the people were fed through a healthy economy. They were to ensure that the people were spiritually fed through the teaching of the Word of God. They were to provide security for the people and lead them with a gentle hand. And they were to model for the people what a gentle, compassionate, and trustworthy care that God gives for his people. But as we read from Ezekiel 34 earlier, they utterly failed. They were derelict in their duties, they were selfish in their use of resources, and they led the people away. from the Lord. Let me remind you what it says there in Ezekiel chapter thirty-four, verses two to five. Should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the stray strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought. And with force and harshness you have ruled them, so they were scattered because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered Those entrusted by God with a responsibility to care for and lead his people not only failed to care for the sheep, but they did it by satisfying their own lusts. For wealth and prosperity. Now, Ezekiel, as we mentioned, was the prophet to the exiles in Babylon And so he gave that message to the leaders of Israel who were there in Babylon. But the same message was given from the Lord to Jeremiah, who was in Jerusalem. And Jeremiah says in chapter 23, Woe to the shepherds! who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, declares the Lord. Therefore, thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people. You have scattered my flock and have driven them away. You have not attended to them. Behold, I will attend to you for your evil deeds, declares Yahweh. The shepherds of the northern tribes of Israel and the shepherds of the tr southern tribe of Judah failed to care for gods Flock. And that was not a new message that was given in that particular time. It also came through Jer uh rather Isaiah 100 years earlier, where the Lord compares the leaders of Israel to blind watchmen and lazy dogs with insatiable appetites. And then the Lord says through Isaiah, But they are shepherds who have no understanding. They have all turned their own way, each to his own gain, one and all. Come, they say Let me get wine. Let us fill ourselves with strong drink. And tomorrow will be like today, great beyond measure. Those were the shepherds of Israel. With leaders like that, it's no surprise that the people of Israel would wander away from the Lord, that they would go after false gods, that they would be too weak to resist opposing armies. It's also no surprise that one of the accusations that the Lord made against the shepherds, the rulers of Israel, is that they failed to care for the weakest among the people. In fact, in Ezekiel 22, verse 7, the Lord says, Father and mother are treated with contempt in you. The sojourner suffers extortion in your midst. The fatherless And the widow are wronged in you. And that's just one of many places where the Lord gives such condemnation. Though the Lord gave those rulers plenty of opportunity to repent and turn and do what was right, they rejected the prophets who spoke the word of the Lord. And in response, the Lord declared that he would be the shepherd of his people. Since they wouldn't do it, he would be the one who would show uh who would exercise his shepherding care. In some ways directly as he worked to intervene in human affairs, but also he would send a shepherd who would be their king. Let me remind you again of Ezekiel 34, verses 23 and 24. The Lord says, I will set up over them one shepherd My servant David, and he shall feed them. He shall feed them and be their shepherd, and I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them. I am Yahweh, I have spoken. Speaking of the Messiah who would be born in Bethlehem, the prophet Micah writes, And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. So the Christ The Messiah promised of God was to be a ruler, yes, but the kind of ruler who was a faithful shepherd, or we could say, a good shepherd. Well, with that background in mind of the evil shepherds of Israel and the promised good shepherd from the Lord, we're now ready to dive into our study of John Chapter 10. To help organize our thoughts as we work our way through this larger section, we're going to divide our study into seven comparisons. Seven comparisons that Jesus makes that show that He is the good shepherd, the true shepherd. And that the Pharisees are false. Now most of these comparisons as we you could identify them as we read them, they're negative comparisons, meaning they're comparisons of how Jesus is so different from the bad example of the false shepherds. There is one positive comparison where Jesus makes between him and God, but we'll get we'll just get through the first two in verses one through six today. So the first comparison Is that Jesus qualifies as the true shepherd, whereas they, the Pharisees, are frauds. Look again at verse one. Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. Jesus begins to speak what verse 6 calls in a figure of speech. This is an illustration. He's saying one thing, but he's really talking about something else. He's talking with these Pharisees about something that they know, the role of shepherding, the dynamics of shepherding, to help them see something that they don't realize to be true about their own leadership. Now at face value, it seems like he's changing topics, moving away from speaking to the Pharisees, but no, he's speaking directly to the Pharisees. These are the Pharisees that he is just judged as those who are blind. And so again, let's just remember the context here. Jesus encounters this man who was born blind. Jesus heals the man, and then he steps away from the scene. And in response to this miracle, the religious leaders should have been celebrating with this man. They should have recognized that one of the signs of the coming Messiah has been performed among them. But instead of celebrating that he's been healed, they doubt the man, they challenge him, they accuse him of lying, they disparage him, and then they cast him out of the synagogue. Jesus has radically changed this man's life for the better, and the Pharisees can do nothing but treat this man with contempt. Now, why would they do that? Well, it's because they're more concerned about themselves than they are concerned about the man. After Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead in chapter 11, we hear the sentiment from them, which is already in their hearts. The chief priests say there in chapter eleven, verses forty-seven and forty-eight, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him And the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation. That was the issue. The Pharisees, the religious leaders, were afraid of losing their position. Now to nuance that a little bit, the reason that they were concerned that they would lose their position is because there had been many false prophets over the last couple centuries. And every time a false prophet arose they would stir up a revolt, which would cause the Romans to come in and suppress that revolt. And the Romans got so sick and tired of these Jews who are constantly rebelling But they told the rulers, listen, if you can't keep your people in check, we're going to come and take away your role as leaders. We're going to take away your right of self-governance. And so the Pharisees were afraid that Jesus was just another false Messiah, that he would stir up a revolt, the Romans would come and would take away their place. Now we can be sure of this. Their fear was not for the welfare of the people. Their fear was the loss of their own authority and influence. In other words, their fear was driven by self-preservation. There's another reason I believe that they feared the loss of their position, and that is because they did not function in a God-designed system. And if the Messiah came, he would not be likely to maintain and perpetuate that false system. When you read the Old Testament, there are various civil leaders, especially when you get to the time of the monarchy. But in uh inscribed in the law of Moses are the religious the leadership structure from from the tribe of Levi, the high priests, and all of those who care for the people and minister to the people. And and the m law of Moses has strict rules as to how the people were to be cared for by their leaders. But during the inter-testamental period, that is the time from the judges to the time of Christ, there became an entirely new system that was put into place. Developed over time. In the Gospels, when you transition from the Old Testament to the New Testament, you all of a sudden read about these groups of the Sadducees and the Pharisees, groups that did not exist in the Old Testament. The Sadducees were a group of religious leaders who were all actually descended from the Levites. They were centered in Jerusalem. They were primarily responsible for the care of the temple. But these were not faithful to the Lord. In fact, they were more like a cult because they only embraced and accepted the five books of Moses as scripture. They rejected the prophets and the writings and the history books. The leaders of the Sadducees were more aristocrats than they were faithful leaders. They were born into their roles through particular families and they worked hard to keep the Romans happy. The purity of the temple and the true worship of God and the spiritual health of the people was of no concern to them. We see that when Jesus cleanses the temple at the beginning and the end of his ministry. Now the Pharisees, on the other hand, were the leaders of the people. Unlike the Sadducees who were centered in Jerusalem, the Pharisees were spread all throughout the nation. of Israel. They served in the synagogues in every community and they wore multiple hats, including civic leadership roles as well as religious leadership. But critical to understand is that to be a Pharisee, you did not need to be of the tribe of Levi. In fact, to be a Pharisee was not unlike becoming a Catholic priest Virtually anybody can become a Catholic priest as long as you devote yourself to a course of study, a code of conduct, and a commitment to serve the Church and its people. The Pharisees did not need to be of the tribe of Levi, as I said, so they did not follow the prescribed Levitical rules established in the Mosaic Law. So the Pharisaical system of Second Temple of Judaism was disconnected from God's design for how Israel should be cared for. That helps us understand what Jesus is saying here in verses 1 and 2. Again, Jesus says, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door. But climbs in by another way. That man is a thief and a robber. The Pharisees declared themselves to be shepherds of the sheep. But they did not have that role by God-ordained means. It was a false system. It was a false role. And therefore, in God's eyes, they were false shepherds. If someone tried to get into a sheepfold some other way than through the door, one thing you can know about that person is they are up to no good. People break and enter. For one purpose, and that is to steal, whether to steal possessions or to steal life And it says here in verse 1 that they are thieves and robbers. The two Greek words here are close synonyms, but the word for robber can include aspects of behavior, of assault, and even murder. Thieves and robbers are only concerned about themselves. They they sneak into the sheepfold with the intent to take sheep for their own benefit, whether they want the meat, or they want the wool, or they want to sell the sheep for their own gain. Their self-orientation is why they are thieves and robbers and not shepherds. Because they don't want the responsibility of being a shepherd. They don't want to provide the care. They don't want to make the necessary sacrifice to care for sheep. They don't want to abide by the protocols that would actually allow you to have sheep as your own. So they sneak in another way to benefit themselves and take sheep at the sheep's expense. That's really the description of the Pharisees. Sure, there may have been exceptions. There may have been Pharisees who truly loved people and cared for people. But the testimony of Scripture is that the Pharisees as a whole, as a collective group, were self-oriented. They rejected Jesus because they felt threatened, and they were unconcerned for the welfare of the people As we saw in chapter 9, they were more concerned about upholding their invented law on of the Sabbath that you couldn't heal on the Sabbath. They were more concerned about that than they were concerned for the man who was born blind. And Jesus will say later that their lack of concern for the sheep is proof positive of their illegitimacy as God ordained shepherds of the people. Now in comparison to a thief in the robber, verse 2 says, He who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. That's a truism. That's a simple statement of fact. You could change the analogy and say the owner of the house walks through the front door. The point is simple. If someone is the owner of the house or the shepherd of the sheep, you won't find them climbing in the window in the middle of the night. In the same way, if someone is a true shepherd, you won't find them sneaking over the fence trying to get around the gatekeeper. Now Jesus is like that. Jesus did not assume a position and weasel his way into becoming a recognized leader. No, Jesus was legitimately born into the right family. Both of his parents, his mother and his adopted father, were of the tribe of Judah and in the lineage of David. And rather than use political backdoor games to try and gain influence, he gained influence by simply loving the people and teaching the people. He did, as he often says, exactly what the Father tells him to do, and he did exactly what the Old Testament prophets predicted the Messiah would do. In other words, Jesus walked through the front door. He entered by the door of the sheep which legitimized his role as the true shepherd. The Pharisees, for their part, had no grounds to reject him or deny him. He did exactly what a true shepherd. does. That's the first comparison that Jesus makes. He qualifies as a true shepherd while they are frauds The second comparison that Jesus makes in verses 3 and 5 further proves that he is the true shepherd, and it is this, that Jesus knows his own sheep. But they, the Pharisees, are strangers. Look at it. It says to him, the gatekeeper opens, the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. One of the few abilities the Lord gave sheep is the ability to recognize and respond to a familiar voice. And the ability to fear unfamiliar voices. It's not just that they can recognize voices, it's that they know which voices to respond to and which to run from. When you train a dog to respond to various commands, that dog knows who its owner is, but they will respond to anybody who issues that command. That's not sheep. Sheep are driven by fear. And anything that whiffs of danger is a threat, and sheep will flee from it When a sheep is raised by a shepherd, the sheep learns to trust that shepherd and find safety in that shepherd. And so they quickly learn the shepherd's voice and trust it. So that when they hear an unfamiliar voice, they view that as a threat, and at best they ignore it. More likely, they just run from it. Now the benefit of this for shepherding is that you can put multiple flocks into a large pen, and then the next day each shepherd can call out their own sheep by name, and there won't be any fear or concern that the sheep will somehow get all mixed up. No, because the sheep all know who their own shepherd is. In fact, verse 5 says this emphatically. A stranger, they will not There's actually a double negative here in the Greek which doesn't turn it into a positive. It emphasizes it. So you could say, a stranger, they will absolutely not follow. So here again is another straightforward statement about the nature of shepherds and sheep and strangers. What's the point that Jesus is making here? Jesus explains why there are those who respond and follow Jesus, respond to and follow Jesus, and why are there those who reject Jesus? The answer is, because some are his sheep and some are not. And Jesus actually makes this explicit down in verses 25 and 27. Where he says in another conversation, I told you, and you do not believe speaking to Pharisees, another group of Pharisees. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe, because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Remember that at the end of Chapter 9, the Pharisees mockingly say to Jesus, Are we also blind? And by that they mean we can see And Jesus responds, if you were blind, you would have no guilt, but now you say, We see your guilt remains. In other words, they are blind to the truth about Jesus. You could say they are deaf to the voice of Jesus. Therefore, they do not and will not respond to the call To repent and follow Jesus. Why? Very simply, because they are not of his sheep. Now that's in contrast to the man who was born blind. Once this man encountered Jesus and he knew who it was that he was speaking to, he believed. And he worshipped. Why? Not because he was healed, but because he is one of Jesus' sheep. And using this illustration to convey spiritual truth, Jesus gives us powerful insight to understand why it is that some people respond to the gospel and others don't. Think about your own experience in coming to know Christ. Some of you would say that you heard the gospel over time. Maybe you read the scripture. And over time you you gradually believed and you accepted what you were hearing and reading until at some point you realized, you know what? I do believe. I am a Christian. But you don't necessarily know where along the way that emphatically changed in your heart. Whereas others of you would look back and you would identify a specific moment where it's like the lights came on And you recognized your sin and your need for Christ and you repented and you believed. Now, because both of those experiences are similar to our experiences in school. There are some subjects that we just gradually learn over time. You learn more and more and you realize, oh now I know this. There are other subjects that you wrestle and you wrestle and you don't get it until one day all of a sudden everything locks in and you're like, I got it. Because there's that similarity, it's possible to look at our experience and think, oh, well, I just made a free choice based on my understanding. Now, conversely, whether you think of a period of your uh life prior to salvation, or you think about somebody else that you know who has not responded to Christ. You may not fully understand why they don't believe, but there's a part of us that wonders, perhaps they just haven't understood it yet. Maybe they haven't heard the gospel explained in just the right way. Maybe they don't understand its significance. Maybe they have other priorities and they're just not interested. But whatever the case might be, we might be tempted to explain unbelief as a free choice based on somebody's mindset. or their lack of understanding. And because, again, those are normal felt experiences, we can assume that personal choice is the root issue. And because personal choice is the root issue, some might say, if we can understand what it is that's preventing somebody from believing, we can work to overcome their objections. And convince them to believe. As one famous pastor said many years ago, if I you tell me a person's felt need, and I will get them to come to Christ. But Jesus tells us here that this is not the way to understand why some people believe and some people don't The underlying issue, according to Jesus, that determines whether somebody believes or rejects ultimately is the question of to whose flock do they belong? Those who belong to Christ's flock will at some point hear his voice and follow him. And those who do not belong to Christ will never hear his voice and follow him, no matter how much they hear the call of the gospel come into their ears. Now perhaps a more personal way to say that is, does Jesus know you as his sheep? Notice how Jesus says here in verse 3, the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. Friends, listen carefully. As the shepherd, Jesus is not discovering who his sheep are based on who responds. He doesn't send out this general call to all of these sheep out in the pasture and oh so gladly surprised when somebody responds and painfully disappointed when another person doesn't. No, Jesus knows his sheep by name. Just as personally and directly as Jesus calls out, Lazarus, come forth. Jesus calls his own people to himself. It is as he said in chapter 6, verse 37, all that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me I will never cast out. And at the end of that chapter, when all of the people had left him except for his twelve disciples, and Jesus says to them, Do you want to go? away also, and they respond positively. Jesus says, Did I not choose you? In other words, they didn't stay because they chose him. They stayed because he chose them. They are his sheep. Well, there's another observation we can make about Jesus knowing his sheep and his sheep knowing him that Jesus highlights here. Look at verse 4 again. It says, when he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. There are two styles of shepherding in the world. One style is to have relatively few sheep, maybe up to several dozen, and have individual knowledge of each of those sheep. Such that you can walk out in front of them and they will follow you as they listen to the sound of your voice. And with this approach, the shepherd isn't really afraid of his sheep scattering because The sheep naturally want to stay close to the shepherd with whom they feel safe. Now the other style is to drive the sheep from behind with some kind of help. This style is more efficient in that you can shepherd hundreds of sheep and you don't need to know the sheep personally and individually. There there's no relationship with the sheep because this approach uh uh i rises from and and takes advantage of the fear instinct in sheep. The the shepherd, the main shepherd will stand behind the sheep and with six he'll keep the sheep moving forward. And then either sheep dogs or another team of shepherds will form a dynamic enclosure keeping the sheep relatively together so that they don't actually scatter in fear, which is what they desperately want to do. And the truth is sh uh um strangers can drive sheep. But only shepherds can lead sheep. Pharisees were like the strangers who drive sheep. The people followed the Pharisees not because they loved them. But because they were afraid of them. We saw that in chapter 9 with the parents of the man born blind, that they chose not to support their son because they were afraid of the Pharisees. They towed the line out of fear. And that's how the Pharisees operated. They kept the people in check with the fear of ostracism. In fact, the whole Judaism of the day was a fear-based religion, as is every law-based system. And though the leadership structure was different and the system was different It was just like the false shepherds of Israel's past. In response to those false shepherds, the Lord made this promise in Jeremiah 23, 4. I will set shepherds over them who will care for them And they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be missing, declares the Lord. And that is what characterized Jesus' ministry. Mark 6:34 says, when he, Jesus, went ashore, he saw a great crowd and he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. Jesus did not drive crowds. He didn't need to compel the people to come to see him. No, Jesus drew crowds. He drew them with compassion, with care, with his teaching, with his healing. Now, as we know, most people ultimately rejected him, but he never changed. He never grew impatient and yelled at those sheep or beat them for not responding to him. Jesus just keeps speaking and calling his sheep one by one as they come to him. And that happens even down to today. Each one of us who believe, believe because he called to us. Now we didn't hear his voice audibly. But the truth of his word resonates in our hearts and we follow him. To follow Jesus is not to follow a dictator. It's not to live in fear of judgment. It's not to be waiting for that wrap of his stick on our side. To follow Jesus is to walk as he walked. It's to listen to his voice and be fed from his word. It's to receive healing in our spirit by his spirit. is to be protected from ultimate harm. This is the kind of king that Jesus is. Yes, he is Lord. Yes, he has authority over us. Yes, he exercises his sovereign rule over our lives. But he is not like so many kings who lead by fear. He is a shepherd king who leads his people with love. In saying these things to the Pharisees, Jesus explains to them why it is that this blind man sees and follows him, and why it is that they who see are blind to him. It's because the man born blind is one of his sheep, and they are not. To them, Jesus is a stranger. And no matter how much a stranger entices sheep, no matter how much they compel sheep, they absolutely will not follow. That's why John says here in verse 6 this figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. On one level, you would think that hearing Jesus talk about shepherds and strangers would immediately call to their mind their knowledge of the scripture from Ezekiel 34 and Jeremiah 23 and Isaiah and other passages. If they knew the scripture and they did, those pictures are so vividly locked in because of the power and the strength of condemnation and the wonderful promise that God makes. But because their hearts were hard, they did not understand. And friends, this is another reminder to us, and I especially for those of you who are going out this afternoon, that As we proclaim the gospel, of course we want to be as clear as we can be, but no level of clarity will overcome a stony heart of one who is not part of Christ's fold. Well there's a lot we can learn from this section. We'll can as we continue to walk through this passage over the coming weeks. But the most important truth we can take away from this, these first two comparisons, is that God's promised shepherd has come. By sending Jesus into the world, the Father accomplished what he promised. He's delivering his sheep from false shepherds. He's gathering his sheep that have been scattered. He's protecting his sheep from the predator, the devil. He's freeing his sheep from fear. He's giving his sheep peace and safety. He's feeding his sheep with his word. He's preparing and leading his sheep to eternal pastures of glory. Amen. Beloved, know that this is the heart of God. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit are not deck Dictators, they're not selfish politicians or apathetic kings or vindictive rulers. They're not standing over you waiting for you to mess up so they can use their stick. They're not in a far-off castle unconcerned about the troubles of your life They're not megalomaniacs who are only concerned of how you can serve them. No, no, no. The Lord Jesus Christ is our good shepherd. Who knows you, provides, leads, guides, strengthens, protects, feeds, and stays with us. And we can be confident of this because he qualifies as a true shepherd. He did everything a true shepherd does. And he knows his own sheep. Next week we'll come back and see more comparisons of what makes Jesus not only the true shepherd and not only a good shepherd. But the great shepherd of the sheep. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this study. There's so much more that we look forward to seeing from your word. But already it's so thrilling to the soul to know you as our shepherd. To know that you are good and that you have walked through the door because you are the rightful owner of the sheep. to know that your heart is to bless your sheep, to lead them, to care for them. To know that we follow you, not because we have it all figured out, but because we know you and you know us. You have made us your own. If there be any among us, Lord, who do not know you? If they are of your fold, would you open their eyes today? Would you cause your voice to resonate into their souls and grant them faith? And again we pray for those who will be speaking the gospel at them all that you would help them to call out with the voice of the shepherd. That with gentleness, with grace, with love, they would proclaim the truth of the gospel, and that you would draw more sheep into your fold. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen