Well, our text for today is John 6, verses 1 to 15. John 6, verses 1 to 15. In this text, we have the one and only miracle that Jesus performed that is recorded by all four authors of the Gospels. And that would indicate to us that this miracle has a unique significance for us, such that it's worth writing about over and over, as it reveals to us the person of Jesus, the Christ, the Son of God. Back in 2013, I had the opportunity to teach a number of pastors, about 80 pastors in Kenya. This was a ministry opportunity that came as a result of some connections with a couple in our church at the time. And these pastors were ministering the Lord, uh, to the Lord in all parts of Kenya, but they were all part of the same network of churches. Uh I knew in advance that they were part of the Assemblies of God denomination, which of course is charismatic. That was something I expected. What I didn't expect was that half of the pastors would be uh women pastors. Do you know what you do when you're invited to teach the Bible to pastors who have significant theological differences than you do? You teach the Bible. And that's what we did. During one of the Q<unk>A times, the oldest pastor in the group uh raised her hand to ask a question. I was told either before or after, I don't remember, that she was in her sixties, though lifelong suffering had aged her body at least another twenty or thirty years. She explained that she lived out of the bush and she was very poor. And this was her question Why doesn't the Lord always answer my prayer for food? Have you ever asked a question like that? Most of us have never been up in a position where we truly didn't know where our next mule would come from or when it would come. I don't doubt though that there might be even some here who have been in that very position But most of us, the issue hasn't necessarily been food as mus as much as it's been other needs. Perhaps you didn't know where you were going or how you were going to pay a bill. Maybe you didn't know how your car would get fixed. You didn't know how or whether someone would hire you. You didn't know, frankly, how you would muster the strength to go on. One way or another, we can all relate to that feeling of powerlessness. When facing an impossible situation where we have no options and there is no solution Well, in this account, we learn about Jesus. What we learn about Jesus is not only intended to convince us that he is the Christ, the Son of God. But it's also meant to show us what kind of God He is, namely that He exerts His divine power in compassion to provide for the needs of His people. That is the kind of God he is. Let's read this passage and then we'll dive into it. Follow along as I read. John 6, 1 to 15. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. And a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he knew what he would do. Philip answered, Two hundred dinari worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many? Jesus said, Have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down, about five thousand in number. Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who has come into the world. Perceiving that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. We don't know for sure, but we believe that the book of John, this gospel, was written sometime after all of the other gospels, which means that John likely had uh a copy, or at least he was aware of, the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke. He knew what they had included in their gospels. This would explain then why he chose to give his gospel a very narrow emphasis and only include material that fits his Purpose, almost none of which is found in the other gospels. In fact, the only other events of the life of Jesus that are included in John's Gospel, other than this miracle are the crucifixion of Christ and the resurrection of Christ, which of course are the most significant events in the life of Christ as it relates to our salvation. So, why does John choose to include this miracle, which has already been told three times over? How does this sign contribute to the case that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God? Well, in the course of his gospel, John sets forth uh several, a small handful of miracles of Jesus Such as the healing of the lame man, which we re read about earlier in chapter five, or the healing of the blind man, which we'll read about in chapter nine. He also tells us about the miracle of raising Lazarus from the dead in chapter eleven, of course turning the water into wine in chapter two. Walking on water, which we'll read in the next section, verses 16 to 20, here in chapter 6. All of the miracles that John presents to us Show Jesus' power over sickness, disease, death, and the material world. But this miracle here in John 6 contributes to our understanding in a unique way. Through this miracle, Jesus draws our thoughts back to Israel's deliverance from Egypt and his miraculous provision of food every day for forty years as the people traveled in the wilderness. Later in this chapter, the day after Jesus performs this miracle, Jesus will declare himself to be the bread of life. But before he declares himself to be the life-sustaining provision of God, he proves his ability to satisfy our needs by demonstrating his power to create bread out of nothing. And thus satisfy thousands of people. Now when you read each of the accounts of this miracle, each gospel writer gives their own shade of emphasis, all of them of course completely compatible. But the way John tells this account, he presents Jesus as directing everything from start to finish. He's not really responding to the people. He's not responding to the disciples. He's directing them and he's in control of the situation from beginning to end. Now, with that in mind, we'll walk through this text in four parts. First, we'll see Jesus prepare the scene in verses 1 to 3. Jesus then provokes the disciples in verses 4 to 9. Jesus then pro uh performs the miracle in verses 10 to 13, and he then prevents a coronation in verses 14. Let's start with the first part. Jesus prepares the scene. Look again in verses one to three. It says, after this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. And a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now if you have the ESV, you see that it begins with the words after this. The relative pronoun this is actually in the plural, so other translations have it more accurate when it says after these things. Between Jesus' interaction with the Pharisees, which we studied in chapter 5, and this event, there was some period of time that transpired, perhaps up to a few months. Now the last time that we had a a location on Jesus, he was in Jerusalem, where he performed that miracle on the lay man in the beginning of chapter five. But now he's on the western side of the Sea of Galilee, perhaps in Tiberias or his hometown of Capernaum, which was basically his home base. The other gospels tell us that what prompted Jesus to travel, as we're told here, was the murder of John the Baptist. It seems Jesus felt it was wise to create some distance between himself and Herod Antipas, who had just put John the Baptist to death at the behest of his wife. Of Herod Antipas's wife, just to be clear. The Sea of Galilee itself was the universal title. Everybody knows the Sea of Galilee. That's that's what that sea is called. However Herod finished building the s uh city of Tiberius in AD twenty, which was before the ministry of Jesus began. And as often happens, a place name begins to shift as people get to know it under a different name. And by the time John was writing this gospel, it it seemed as though it was known more as the Sea of Tiberius, not necessarily the Sea of Galilee. So he includes both names there in verse one for those who would be familiar with either name. Now, by this point in Jesus' ministry, he could not travel anywhere under the radar. He had, of course, his twelve disciples who went with him everywhere he went. Beyond them, he had a larger entourage of men and women who would provide for the needs of Jesus, support him, provide money, food, and other logistical help. But beyond that, crowds would follow everywhere he went. Other gospels tell us he couldn't ever go into cities because the crowds were too much. They couldn't literally get through the streets, so they would stay always on the outskirts of cities. These crowds constantly surrounded him to hear his teaching and to bring their sick to him for healing. Unlike those today who have to advertise their healing ministries to get people to sit in their seats, Jesus didn't need any advertising either through Word of mouth or personal testimony, people knew Jesus could heal. Just bring your loved one to him and he will touch them and they will be healed. And so he was constantly surrounded by crowds that got larger and larger Now, verse 4 tells us that the Passover was at hand. And this means that Jews from all around the known world were coming back to Jerusalem for the Passover, the most celebrated feast of the Jews. And the Sea of Galilee on the northern side of Israel was one of the main thoroughfares, especially Bethea, which is on the northeastern side of the Sea of Galilee, for those traveling from the northeastern regions above Israel. Normally, as Jesus was ministering and moving around, it was the size of the local population that constricted or restricted the size of the crowds around him. But now You have tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of people flowing into Israel, which exponentially increased the size of the of the crowds that followed Jesus. And so to get away from the main thoroughfare, verse 3 says that Jesus takes his disciples up to the mountain for a time of rest. At least that's what the other gospels say. They were going for a time of rest. As we know, that was not really possible. The people just followed Jesus wherever he went. But this is not a a story of a failed attempt by Jesus to get away from the crowds. Really, as Jesus is moving away from the from Bethhea, moving out into the wilderness, what he is doing is he's creating, he's preparing the scene. for the sign that he is about to do because the the location matters for what Jesus is about to do So Jesus prepares the scene. Now consider how he provokes the disciples in verses 4 to 9. Look at those verses. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered, Two hundred denarii worth of bread would not be enough to g for each of them to even get a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are they for so many? Again, verse 4 tells us that the Passover was at hand. That's a detail that none of the other gospel writers give us. And it certainly explains to us, as I've already said, why there was such large crowds around Jesus, but there is more significance to this Given Jesus John's purpose in this gospel, namely that we would believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing we would have life in his name, John is very purposeful, not only in the accounts that he give us, gives us, but in the details. of those accounts that he provides. Especially a detail like this about the per Passover. If you notice, he does not mention the Passover together with the large crowds in order to explain why the crowds were so large. Instead, the grammar connecting verses 4 and 5 logically connects the nearness of the Passover with the question that Jesus asks Philip. Again, notice how in verse 5, in the ESV, it says, lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming to him, Jesus said, Or if you have the NAS, therefore, verse 5 begins, Jesus, lifting up his eyes, seeing the large crowd was coming, said to Philip. In other words, what John is saying to us is, in light of the Passover being at hand, Jesus spoke to Philip. That logical connectors, translated as then or therefore, goes with the verb said, not with the participles lifting and seeing. This means, beloved, that there is a strong connection between what Jesus, between the Passover and what Jesus is about to do. What is that connection? Well, remember that the Passover is the celebration by the Jews of what the Lord did when he delivered them from slavery in Egypt. But that deliverance is not the only thing the Jews celebrate at Passover. After the ten plagues through which the Lord delivered them out of Egypt. Pharaoh finally said, fine, go, get out of here. We're tired of all of these plagues that are coming upon us. But Israel didn't get very far before Pharaoh changed his mind, remember. The very next miracle the Lord performed in order to deliver his people was he divided the Red Sea so that the Israelites could cross on dry ground, and of course when the water came back it destroyed the army of the Egyptians. The very next miracle the Lord performed for the preservation of his people was to draw water out of a rock to satisfy their thirst. And the very next miracle the Lord performed was to provide manna for the people every day. So when the Jews celebrate Passover, they don't only celebrate the escape from Egypt, they also celebrate the Lord's care for them by providing uh water uh manna and water and also enabling them to walk. through the Red Sea. It's no accident then that John tells us that the Passover is at hand. And then he recounts for us this miracle where Jesus provides bread for the people. And then the very next passage, which we'll study in January, verses 16 to 21, is Jesus walking on water. This connection was not lost on the people. It's undoubtedly why in verse 14 they concluded that Jesus was the prophet that was proclaimed in Deuteronomy 18, who would succeed Moses, who led them out of Egypt and across the Red Sea and provided manner for them in the wilderness. Now if you need more evidence for this connection, you can read down further in the chapter, verses thirty to thirty-five, where the next day Jesus interacts with the Jews and They are talking together and they make this connection between the Jes uh the bread Jesus made and the manna the Israelites ate. But we'll look at that. Lord willing in January. For now, know that Jesus is purposeful and intentional in light of the Passover to perform this sign. Now again, verses five and six. Lifting up his eyes, seeing the large crowds coming, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. If you remember from John chapter 1, Philip, along with Andrew and Peter, were residents of Betheda. That's where they were from, that's where they grew up. And as I mentioned, that was on the northeastern corner of the Sea of Galilee, and so as if Jesus won the was on the western corner, they would have likely traveled through that area, though there's also the possibility that they went by boat uh from wherever they were to Bethsaeda. Bethsaida was the largest city relatively nearby, and so Jesus knew that Philip would be familiar with the bakery scene there in Bethsaeda. So it made sense for him to ask Philip Where can we buy bread? I want you to notice as John presents this account that Jesus is not responding to anybody's request for food. Nobody's told Jesus that they're hungry or desperate. The disciples themselves haven't said, Jesus, we need to do something with it, we need to feed these people. No, he's not responding to anything. In fact, the other gospels say that the disciples were trying to urge Jesus to disperse the crowds. Jesus tell them to go away so that they can go buy their own food. What this means is there's not really a problem for Jesus to solve. Put it another way, Jesus himself, he's creating a dilemma. That he knows he's going to resolve. That's what verse 6 says. He said this to test him. He knew what he would do. Jesus didn't ask Philip this question, where can we buy bread? Because he just suddenly had this moment of generosity. He wanted to provide financially to feed all of the people. No, his question was meant to cause consternation. He wanted to provoke the disciples. And again you see Philip's response there in verse 7. 200 dinari worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little. Jesus asked him, Philip, where do we buy bread? Philip says, Where? Are you kidding me? Forget where? How? We don't have that much money. A denari was a a day's wage. Philip's probably not thinking in terms of this is eight months worth of wages As much as picking 200 as an excessive number, saying not even now would be enough to buy bread for all of these people, again, to get even a little. So Philip responds with incredulity. And the rest of the disciples are incredulous as well. Look at verses 8 to 9. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are they for so many? Andrew doesn't bring up this food to say, hey, maybe this will be helpful No, his very purpose in bringing it up is to say, hey, just like we don't have enough money, our finances are woefully short to meet this need, our food is woefully short. It is completely insufficient to provide food for these people. Now the word boy here means little boy. Which to me raises the question of w why does he have this food in his hand? It would certainly be more than enough for him, uh too much for a personal meal And why if he's little, why is he carrying this food instead of his parents carrying the food? Now it doesn't matter for anything and it's entirely speculative, but it may be that he's the son of a baker in the area trying to sell bread to the travelers nearby Or it may be that the his parents overheard Jesus' question and gave their traveling food to their son and said, Hey, why don't you go offer this to Jesus? We don't know, but it's something that's interesting to think about, I guess. But Andrew says here, these are five barley loaves. These loaves would be smaller than a modern loaf, and a barley loaf was the bread of the poor It was coarse. It lacked a desirable flavor. It didn't have the nutrition that wheat bread had. The two fish were likely small pickled fish that would just help the barley bread to go down. Even if the bread was torn into tiny pieces like what we're about to have here at the Lord's Supper There would still not be enough to feed the thousands of people that were gathered around them. And forget trying to split the fish into more than a few pieces. To say that the disciples were confused by Jesus' question is an understatement. How could Jesus possibly feed thousands of people at a moment's notice? Well, Jesus has successfully provoked his disciples. And they're about to experience a miracle beyond their imagination. Try to set aside, if you can, what you already know is about to happen. Put yourselves in the sandals of the disciples for a brief moment. They're looking out at a crowd of thousands of people. Jesus wants to feed everyone right now. No preparation, no money, no food. Let's feed thousands. You don't have the money, you don't have the food, what in the world are you going to do You're not just confused at this point. You're not just perplexed. You feel that ache of helplessness. You are powerless to do anything about this problem. This is a problem for which there are no possible solutions Jesus has asked you to do something and you have this pit in your stomach as you're thinking, Jesus, there is no possible way that I can do this. How can you ask me to do what no human can do? It's not fair for you to ask me to do this Well, this state of mind is the kind of place we often find ourselves, isn't it? Maybe with food, often with money, sometimes with work or with relationships It's not uncommon for you and I to face a problem and be utterly at a loss of what to do. When we find ourselves there, it's because the Lord has put us there to show His power. Look at verses 10 to 13 to see Jesus perform the sign. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing may be lost So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. With Passover near it's early spring. There would have been as there was as it says lots of grass in the place. Mark colors it in and says this was green grass. It hadn't been burned by the summer sun yet. And this would have made it a more comfortable sitting area than burnt grass. If you ever tried to sit on burnt grass or certainly the barren uh wilderness as well Do you notice there how Jesus says how the people sit down and John says that the men sat down, about five thousand in number. This is not to say that the women and children remain standing. But the men were identified because they were the ones who were counted. In other words, they were counting family units, not necessarily individuals. Sometimes those units were just one person, sometimes they were multiple people. So 5,000 men probably translates to about 20,000 people, maybe more. And remember, many of these are uh in the crowd are people who are traveling from outside Jeru uh outside of Israel down on their way to Jerusalem. To make the distribution more orderly, Luke tells us that Jesus had them sit in groups of about 50 to organize themselves a little bit. Without any fanfare, without any showmanship, as if he was just having a picnic with the disciples, Jesus gave thanks to God. So no abracadabra. There was no special blessing on the bread. There was no let there be bread. He gave a normal expression, probably a common Jewish prayer of thanksgiving to the Lord, and then he simply started tearing the bread and handing it to the disciples. The mention of the twelve baskets in verse 13 of what they collected afterward likely implies that they had baskets available that they used to distribute the bread as well. Now how is it that he could just keep tearing at bread and a loaf not run out? Well quite simply he created bread over and over. piece of bread appeared on the loaf, and he tore that off and handed her off. And so what what what where one loaf w would have fed one or two people, each loaf of the five fed thousands. And this is creation ex behilo out of nothing. Yes, he's adding to the bread that is there, but have you ever had more guests show up at your house than you expected and tried to expand the bread that you have? It's not like adding water to soup. You can't add to bread. All you can do is cut it in smaller and smaller pieces. And that's the opposite. of what Jesus does here. He's creating bread molecules out of thin air. And this is actually reminiscent of a miracle in 2 Kings 4. There was an indebted and destitute widow who came to Elisha pleading for his help. And when she explained that her sum total of wealth that she had to pay her debts and provide for herself to live on was one jar of oil. Elisha said to her, Go, gather as many jars as you can gather from all of your neighbors. And then Uh pour out from that one jar oil into all of the other jars and sell the oil and whatever you get, use that to pay your debts and then live off the rest. And so it says in 2 Kings 4, 5 and 6, so she went from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons. And as she poured out The vessels that were brought to her, when the vessels were full, she said to her son, Bring me another vessel. And he said to her, There is not another. Then the oil stopped flowing. How did that happen? God kept creating oil. She'd pour it out and more would get put in that first jar. She'd pour it out and more would go in. She'd pour it out and more would go in. With that same power, Jesus created bread and fish over and over and thousands of times over to feed over 20,000 people until they were stuffed. with bread and fish. Now again, put yourself in the sandals of the disciples At first you see Jesus take one of those loves and start tearing out and you're thinking, what on earth is he doing? And then you start to realize, wait a minute, this This is still going. How how is he still tearing at this loaf? And that surprise turns into excitement as they're running back and forth, filling their baskets and distributing it among the people. And you can hear them saying to each other How is he doing this? I don't know, but you remember that widow in the oil? Have you tasted the bread? It's the best bread we've ever tasted. And the fish too. How long is this going to keep going? Again, verse 12, when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered twelve baskets of fragments from the loaves left by those who had eaten. Apparently it was customary, maybe still is among Jews, to gather up the leftovers, but this calls to mind the daily manna that the Israelites ate. Right? They were only to gather one day's worth of manna on the day before the Sabbath, two days worth. And they were not to have anything left over lest it would spoil. The Jews, the Israelites, received their daily bread every day from the Lord for forty years. And here this crowd has received their daily bread. From Jesus. Just the bread for this day. They weren't supposed to keep the bread for another day. Some say the twelve baskets refers to the twelve tribes and uh that how they were filled every day in the wilderness. But That detail more likely reflects the simple fact that there were twelve disciples who were working at the distribution and collection of the fragments. So here it is. It's a very straightforward, very clearly, plainly stated miracle sign that Jesus performs. And yet it has profound implications. The first and most obvious implication is that Jesus demonstrates the power of God. Which means that he is God. He is the Son of God, the Messiah, who's come to do the Father's will, and there is no possible alternative explanation. Those who say that Jesus simply inspired the crowd to bring out their lunches and share with one another are ignoring the details that are in the text. Or there's those who say that this was really a preview of what would be the Lord's Supper, and that everyone just got a pinch of bread, and they just had a foretaste of communion, if you will. There are those who read this and out of a commitment to deny the supernatural, they invent an explanation of what actually happened. But that's at odds with what all the gospels reveal and with what how the crowd responded. to what Jesus did. After all the healing miracles that the disciples observed Even after they saw Jesus turn water into wine, the disciples couldn't imagine that this would be possible. So when they witnessed it, it became seared in their minds. And when they wrote their gospels, they had to include their memory, their account of what had happened. Because this reveals the person and work of Jesus Christ. He is God who can create out of nothing. Now, beyond that fundamental truth that Jesus is God, we can be more specific to say that he is the same God who provided manna for his people in the wilderness. Now listen carefully when I say this. He did not simply do the same thing that God did. Jesus is that God. Jude 5 says, now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved a people out of the land of Egypt, Afterward, he destroyed those who did not believe. Jude was the half-brother of Jesus who came to believe that Jesus was the Messiah, and he identifies Jesus not just as the Messiah, but as the Lord, who gave the uh the people in the wilderness manna. And delivered them from Egypt. So when John tells us that this happened right before Passover, he signals to us That there's that connection between the sign that Jesus performs and the Passover. The person of Christ and the God of the Old Testament. They are the same. Whatever other connections we might make, at the top of that list should be identifying Jesus as the God who instituted the Passover and provided bread for his people. Which by the way, the reason he could change the Passover and turn it into what we call the Lord's Supper is because he's the one who created it to begin with. So he has the freedom and right and authority to change it. Now, why is this important for you and me? If this is true, why should it matter to us? Because what Jesus did for this crowd and what God did for his people in the Old Testament, he did not do simply to flex his supernatural muscles and create a show. He did it to reveal himself. He provided bread for this people out of compassion to meet their desperate need. It may be that this crowd that Jesus fed was not as desperate as the Israelites were. They really weren't. Many of them probably had their own food for travel as as they needed, or perhaps money to buy it for themselves. The Jews in the time of the Exodus were definitely desperate. They had very limited supply, and they were about to spend 40 years in the wilderness, though they didn't know that yet. But the people were desperate. And it is compassion that God reveals, that He is a compassionate God. And Jesus displays that character. When Mark gives his account at the beginning, says that he saw the crowd, he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. This sign by Jesus tells us that what sends a flare of power from the Son of God is his compassionate care for his people. The doctrine of God's omnipotence can be defined as God has the ability to do anything that is consistent with His will. Nothing is impossible with God. As as one author put it, he has never encountered difficulty, let alone impossibility. But what is his will that he is so powerful to perform? Well, his will arises out of his nature And his nature is that he is a God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. That's what God reveals about himself in Exodus 34. And because those attributes are the most gloriously revealed, or rather, are most gloriously revealed when his people are in need. His power to care for his people in their time of need rises out of that character of grace and mercy and love. I mean think about think about the most vexing, painful, difficult situation in your life that is impossible. Could be a financial need, could be a broken relationship, could be a desperately needed job or a chronic or fatal life-threatening illness. Anything else Do you have such a situation? Some of us have a few to spare if you'd like one. Think about how many hours you have spent thinking about that situation, turning it over in your mind. How many hours you have perhaps re- rehearsed conversations that you're wanting or needing to have and how they might go? Hours that you've searched for possible solutions. Hours that you've pled to God for relief. Hours of lost sleep as you just can't stop thinking about your trouble Now consider that God is not the least bit anxious about that situation. God is not wringing his hands in heaven wondering what he's going to do. There are no analysts employed in heaven hired to analyze and mitigate threats. He doesn't need to search for a solution. He already has one. He knows the end from the beginning. He knows precisely how he's going to handle that situation in a way that leads to his ultimate glory and your ultimate good. Now, whether it's dividing the Red Sea or producing water out of Iraq or giving manna to his people Causing the the walls of Jericho to fall, or pausing the Earth's orbit around the Sun, or even causing it to move backward Or preventing a fiery furnace from consuming its occupants, or shutting the mouths of lions, or opening the wombs of an elderly couple, or creating life in a virgin. Or turning water into wine, creating bread out of nothing, sending an angel to deliver someone out of prison? God has solutions available to Him that don't even come into our imagination because they are beyond the realm of the possible for us. So when we face a problem that we know we are powerless to solve, and we come to the Lord as we should, but we offer to Him this is the solution. We shouldn't be surprised when he doesn't use our solution, because he has solutions beyond our comprehension. Nor should we think that if it seems that God is doing nothing, then nothing is being done. I wonder if you notice something there in verse 6. Again, it says he said this, this is after asking Philip the question, he said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Note the fact that this was before Andrew brought that little boy with the five loaves and the two fish to Jesus. And we don't know if the boy was around, if Jesus uh has already seen him. But before Jesus asked Philip the question, before Jesus created this problem, before Philip knew that there was a problem, Jesus already had the solution in hand. He already knew about the boy and the five loaves and the two fish. He already knew that he would create bread out of nothing with his own hands. And beloved, the same is true in every impossible situation that you and I find ourselves in. God already knows what He's going to do. So what do we do when we find ourselves in an impossible situation like the disciples did Well, Lamentations 3, 25 and 26 offers us a suggestion. It says, The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. When we've done all that's in our responsibility to do, we've ful fulfilled every uh opportunity to address the situation within our power. We can simply wait quietly for the Lord. But here's the truth, beloved. We do learn most powerfully about God's compassion. In memorable ways in signs like this and the many other accounts that we have in Scripture where God miraculously delivers his people from trouble. But often, perhaps most often, salvation comes in a different form. It comes in the form of a closer relationship with God while our body wastes away. Or it comes in the form of a promotion to glory rather than healing Or it comes in the form of new relationships rather than restored old relationships. Or it comes in the form of a deeper faith and trust in the Lord rather than being delivered from our trouble. Sometimes the Lord changes our circumstances. Sometimes the Lord changes our hearts. This was true of Paul. Instead of removing the trouble that he pled the Lord for, the Lord said to him, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. So rather than complaining about his trouble, Paul changed his thinking. And he said, Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. God's solutions to our problems don't always look like what they think they should. But because of who he is, he is good and wise and loving and gracious and merciful and compassionate. We can trust that his solution will always be best. And one day when we see with full vision and knowledge all that God has done, we will agree with him. that indeed his way was best. Now this plan was, or rather this message was lost on the crowd, whose bellies were now full of divinely created bread and fish. After centuries of Roman occupation, they they thought if Jesus can perform this miracle, then the best thing that could happen now is for him to become king and cast out the Romans from Israel along with their Jewish puppets. Well, Jesus has prepared the scene. He's provoked the disciples. He performed the miracle. Now let's see him prevent a coronation. Verse 14 says, When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who has come into the world. Perceiving that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. The people immediately concluded that this miracle identifies Jesus as the prophet foretold by Moses in Deuteronomy 18, a prophet who would be like him. I mean, what else could Jesus do to make himself more like Moses than provide bread? Moses was a teacher. Check, Jesus taught the people the Word of God Moses provided bread for them. Check. Obviously it was the Lord who did it, but Jesus did that too. Moses was also their national leader who led them out of Egypt and led them up to the promised land. Well, Jesus checked all the boxes except for that last one. So the crowd was going for the triple crown here. Knowing their hearts as he knows the hearts of all people, Jesus knew their intentions. But of course this was not why he came. He did not come to solve their problems militarily or politically. It was not his intention to remove the oppressive Romans. Rather, he came to meet a deeper need to solve a more desperate problem, to cure a more infectious disease than the occupation of the Romans He came to solve the problem of sin and our separation from God. So Jesus removes himself from the situation, even leaving the disciples He went further up the mountain where it would be harder for the crowds to follow. Now whether he did this by some natural means, just telling the disciples, Hey guys, I'm gonna go away for a little bit, or perhaps supernaturally, as he had done at other occasions. We don't know. But he left before the crowd could do anything. The crowd wanted Jesus to change their circumstances. But Jesus came to change their hearts. The crowd was hungry for food, but they didn't realize how spiritually sick they were. The crowd put their hope in this life. But Jesus was their hope for eternity. The crowd thought their problems were solved by an earthly government. But Jesus came to rule their hearts The crowd thought God had sent Jesus to make their lives better. But God sent Jesus to save his people from their sin. All told, the crowd misdiagnosed their problem, they misinterpreted the promises of God, and therefore they came up with the wrong solution. Does that remind you of anybody? Yourself, perhaps? Isn't it often the case that what we think is the problem is actually just a symptom? What we think the Lord has promised us, He actually hasn't promised us. And therefore, what we think is the right solution is not what we truly need. I mean our minds are most often focused on things on the earth, not on things that are above. Our perspective is often temporal, things of this life, not eternal. Our hope is for happiness in our circumstances, not joy in all circumstances. We desire peace from a trouble-free life. Rather than a peace that surpasses all understanding. We prefer comfort and ease over being conformed to Christ. We often want exaltation without humiliation, sanctification without sacrifice, and glory without the cross. And we know these things are true in our hearts when we complain about our circumstances, or worse, get angry at God, thinking He's done us wrong. Now, when we are confused and brokenhearted and crushed, it is good and right for us to lament and to cry out to God in our trouble. But we cannot, we must not malign God and accuse him of wrongdoing. When those kinds of thoughts enter into our minds, we we must repent. We must acknowledge that those thoughts are not based on truth because the truth is that God is sovereign and he exercises his sovereignty with perfect wisdom and goodness and justice and grace and compassion. All that he does is faithful and true to his steadfast love for us. Now, we may not be able to see how that can be true of our circumstances. But our finite understanding cannot sit in judgment of God's infinite wisdom. Instead, we must submit ourselves to his sovereign wisdom. Yes, we are to lament in faith. We are to consider also how we can walk in the footsteps of Christ, who, even as he hung on the cross, was serving others and entrusting himself to God to even to the point of death And we can also remember what it says also in Lamentations 3. The Lord will not cast off forever. But though he caused grief, he will have compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love, for he does not afflict from his heart or grieve the children of men. Beloved, no matter what you go through in this life, it will come to an end. No suffering, no pain lasts forever. Whether in this life or when we see Christ face to face, our trouble will come to an end. God's powerful compassion has seen to it and will bring it to pass That's what we see here as Jesus ex exudes the powerful compassion of God on his people. Well, what did I say to this precious saint who asked about God not answering her prayers for food? Well, mindful of the fact that I can't relate to her suffering, I gently reminded her that the Lord knows our needs. And he will always provide what we need to fulfill his purposes in our life. And when the day comes when his purpose for us has come to an end, then his sustaining grace will be removed and we will see him face to face, never to hunger or thirst again. That's not an easy to answer to give to someone whose life is more defined by hunger than by satisfaction But is it is as true for her as it is for us. And it's based on the powerful compassion that Jesus Christ has on his people who is That is, he is the same yesterday and today and forever. Let's pray and give thanks to this Christ. As I pray the men can come to prepare to serve the Lord's Supper. Lord Jesus, as we reflect on this passage, there's dimensions to this that will take time for us to consider. As we look at our own lives and the impossible situations we often find ourselves in, because of the curse of sin, sometimes it's consequences of our own sin, sometimes it's the result of the sins of others or perhaps just living in a sin-cursed world where nature wreaks havoc and our bodies get sick and diseased. Whatever it is, we often find ourselves in desperate need of a solution that we can't come up with. And so we thank you for this reminder that you are able to do anything that you desire. And because you are committed more than anything to your glory, and because you are committed beyond that to our good, Anything that you do in our lives, we must trust, is from your good hand. Lord, help us to be a people who trust in you. who entrust ourselves to you as Jesus did, who know that you will care for us as long as our days are to remain on this earth. And that our responsibility is to imitate Christ and be faithful to you in all that you give us to do. Lord, increase our faith. Help us to be ambassadors for Christ even in the midst of our trials and difficulties. We thank you that you came not to make life easy for us, but to deliver us from the wrath of God, which now we celebrate in the Lord's Supper. Would you cause us even this moment to be filled with gratitude and thanksgiving and praise for what you have done to save us from our sins? We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.