All right, let's uh let's get started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for yet another Lord's Day where we get a uh the wonderful opportunity to worship you together as the body of Christ. Uh we thank you for this particular opportunity that we have right now to worship you through the study of your word. We thank you for your word and for all that you've revealed about yourself. and about uh your plan of redemption in that word from uh Genesis to Revelation. We thank you so much for the great love that you showed for us in sending your Son, Jesus, to die on the cross for our sins. And we thank you, Lord, that you're sovereign over all of history and including these things that we'll study today that have not yet happened, uh, but they will, uh, because you have uh preordained them in your word and told us What we need to know about what will happen in the future. We thank you, Lord, that you are sovereign over your creation and over all of history. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so here we are in part number thirty of thirty nine. So uh thirty nine parts all together. Uh and I thank you all who have stuck with with me all the way from the beginning. So today, uh part number thirty, we're gonna talk about the seven final plagues and uh chapter sixteen of Revelation. Revelation, so we're gonna see these seven final plagues in terms of seven bowls. We'll have a a first bowl, a second bowl, a third bowl, a fourth bowl, a fifth bowl, a sixth bowl, and a sevent full. So seven bowls of judgment in Revelation Well, yes, that's true. Uh that's true. The artist rendering is not quite like a saucer, um as the word actually implies. Uh but first we're gonna take a look at back at what we did last week. And so this thing doesn't look like a saucer at all. Um so we talked about the the Temple of Doom, so out of the temple comes um this proclamation of doom and we're gonna see it was a precursor last week and this week we're gonna see the actual judgments. So last week chapter 15 we saw a scene in heaven uh anticipating these bold judgments that we're gonna see today. There was a sign and it was the seven angels and the seven angels were given the seven plagues. Uh that Greek word plague uh r literally means a blow or a wound. uh not necessarily a uh a disease or a sickness. Um and it's the last. Um it's a den these are identified as the last, uh because with it the wrath of God is finished. Um so we John saw something like a sea of glass. Um he saw gathered around the throne those who had been victorious over the beasts. They're victorious because of their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh and these tribulation believers. Will be eternally triumphant and end up holding harps of God we saw last time. They also sing a song of praise. We have uh two identifications: the song of Moses and the song of the Lamb. We saw the song of the Lamb in Revelation chapter five. And this is and and there's some new stanzas really in this song that we don't see in the in the previous songs. We see this new vision where the these bowls are revealed. And of course we'll see in today's class we'll talk about what happens when those bowls are poured out. But John sees the angels initially here in chapter 15. He also sees the temple of the tabernacle Tabernacle of the testimony. Uh and the seven angels have the seven plagues and they're coming out of that temple. Uh and the seven angels he describes what they look like, what they're dressed in. Uh we saw that last week. We also saw that they were handed something. Each one of them is handed a bowl by one of the four living creatures. And of course we've met these four living creatures before and we identified them as cherubim. And they're given these bowls of God's wrath. Um and so they're going to execute God's judgment. Um and so out of the Holy Temple not only comes these angels with their bowls, but also smoke. Uh the smoke uh an emblem of God's majesty and also symbolizing his wrath and it says that no one could enter the temple because of this smoke until the seven angels have finished their task of pouring out these bowls of God's wrath that we'll see now in chapter 16. So any any questions about we s what we saw in chapter 15 before we get into chapter 16? Okay. So If you open your Bibles with me to Revelation chapter 16. We're going to do the whole chapter today. So we're going to be going at warp speed. So Revelation chapter 16. Starting with verse one. So this is the word of the Lord. Then I heard a loud voice from the temple. Saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God. So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth. And it became a loathsome and malignant sword on the people who had the mark of the beast and who worshipped his image. The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea And it became blood like that of a dead man, and every living thing in the sea died. Then the third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters, and they became blood. And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Righteous are you who are and who were, O Holy One, because you judge these things. For they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. They deserve it. And I heard the altar saying, Yes, O Lord God the Almighty, true and righteous are your judgments. The fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun, and it was given to it to scorch men with fire Men were scorched with fierce heat, and they b blasphemed the name of God, who has the power over these plagues, and they did not repent so as to give him glory. Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom became darkened, and they gnawed their tongues because of pain, and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and they did not have a man. not repent of their deeds. The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river, the Euphrates, and its river and its water was dried up. so that the way would be prepared for the kings from the east. And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs. For they are spirits of demons, performing signs which go out to the kings of the whole world to gather them together for the war of the great day of God the Almighty Behold, I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake and keeps his clothes, so that he will not walk about naked and men will not see his shame. And they gathered them together to the place which in Hebrews called Harmagedon. Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl upon the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder, and there was a great earthquake such as there had not been since man came to be upon the earth So great an earthquake was it, and so mighty. The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell Babylon the Great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of his fierce wrath, and every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And huge hailstones, about a one hundred pounds each, came down from heaven upon men, and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail because its plague was extremely severe. So that's the word of the Lord that we're going to take a look at today. So uh as I've been doing each uh week I'm going to give you uh A few words from John MacArthur first. So this is uh John MacArthur's introduction to this section of scripture. He says, The Bible provides the only true beacon of light and hope in the darkness and despair of the world. In its pages are comforting, encouraging, and affirming words of the peace, goodness, joy, and love of salvation. Believers are reassured as they read of God's love and promises and of their eternal inheritance in His kingdom But while the Bible is a book of hope, it is also a book of judgment, because God loves righteousness and faith. He must hate sin and unbelief. He cannot love truth unless he hates lies. He cannot love goodness unless he hates wickedness. He cannot reward unless he also punishes the wrath of God against sin and his final eschatological judgment of sinners, recurring themes in the Bible Takes center stage in Revelation. That wrath displayed earlier in Revelation in the seal and trumpet judgments reaches its devastating climax with the bold judgments described in this chapter. Those rapid fire judgments will take place in a very Very short period of time, marking the final hour of the day of the Lord. They are the final outpouring of God's wrath in the unbelieving world before the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are the last expression of divine wrath against the sin, unrighteousness, and blasphemy that is rampant on the earth. Thus John MacArthur. So um this is what we're gonna see here. This is uh kind of the classic that we've been building up to and all these judgments, these steel judgments and trumpet judgments and now these bold judgments are the the final outpouring of God's wrath and that's what we're gonna see today. Rapid fire judgments, the final ones, the most So let's take a look at this verse by verse. So we'll start here in verse 1 and 2. Then I heard a voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out. So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and it became a loathsome and malignant soar on the people who had the mark of the beast and who who worshipped his image. So we've seen that of course before, that uh the false prophet caused everybody to have to have the mark of the beast uh on their forehead or on their hand. So the seven angels, we we were introduced to these seven angels last week. We saw them. John saw them and we saw who they were and what they were about to do. And they were given these seven bowls containing the final judgments in chapter fifteen that we saw last time. And then here in chapter sixteen we see God commands all seven of them at once, go and pour out in the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God. Uh so that and that's the only command they're given, and then they all execute. Uh so like the judgments uh uh all the judgments, the seven bowls are supernatural acts of God. Um so you'll sometimes read attempts um to give them a natural or scientific explanation. Um as as with all things that we see in the Bible that are supernatural, there will be some people who try to look for a natural explanation. Um that's not That's not right. That's not what's happening here. This is a supernatural act of God. Um He's sending His messengers, His angels to execute His judgment, and it's not a natural, these are not natural phenomena. too uh rapid for one thing uh to be anything other than coming from god himself and the text shows that they're obviously coming from god himself. Um there's only one brief pause in there, verses five to seven that we'll see um for the angels To affirm that the bold judgments are just, because all of God's judgments are just. And so the angels, of course, respond immediately. God gives the command. and they execute. They do what God tells them to do. They they do what God commands. And the first angel immediately pours out his bowl on the earth just like he was told. And so as we saw last week, there are actually s shallow saucers that that's what that gre that word means and so they're not poured out so uh slowly that's not the image that not the picture the word picture that uh the scripture is painting here they're dumped out all at once. Uh the first bowl it results in loathsome malignant sores that That's how they're described. There's two Greek words there, uh kak kakas and paneras, loathsome and malignant, two Greek words for evil. And together they paint this picture of festering, painful sore. Really nasty. The word for sores, El Kos, is the Greek equivalent of a Latin word that we get our English word ulcer from. And so it describes oozing, ulcer, sores And in fact, that same Greek word is used in the Septuagint. The Septuagint, of course, is the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, the Hebrew Old Testament. And so in Exodus chapter 9 when we have the sores on the Egyptians for that plague, it's that Greek word used in the Septuagint El Kos in Exodus chapter nine. And we also have Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight. And we also have the same kind of sores described on Job. uh in the book of Job and on Lazarus the beggar in Luke chapter sixteen, these same kind of sores. Uh so it describes extreme physical torment for those who have rejected Jesus Christ. Any questions about what we're seeing so far with this uh first bowl? That's bowl number one. Bowl number two, the second angel poured out his bowl. into the sea, and it became blood like that of a dead man, and every living thing in the sea died. So uh this is these are rapid fire judgments, so you everybody's got sores and now everything in the sea dies. Um so the second angel pours out his bowl, the sea becomes like blood. Uh and of course this judgment is similar Some of many of these judgments are similar to what we see in the plagues on Egypt. Um so the first plague in Egypt was uh turning the Nile to blood, Exodus chapter seven, and it's also similar to the second trumpet judgment. in Revelation chapter 8. But this time the effects are universal. So before we saw just the Nile, before we saw just a third of the sea, now we see everything Um these this is progressive and these bold judgments are universal. Uh much more intense and widespread. The o oceans of course cover seventy percent of the entire earth and if all of the sea and that terms that's a lot of blood. Um and the effects of the judgment are now worldwide. So um The angel dumps his role in the sea, and uh of course mo many uh rely on the sea for uh for their livelihood And it becomes blood, and the oceans become like coagulated blood, and that has of course a profound effect on everything around The earth. Yeah, that's right. Um yeah, so I was in the Navy for twenty four years and so I we depended on that's how you get water on a ship w when you go out for months at a time, is you turn seawater into drinkable water with a kind of filtration system. But if the water starts out of his blood, those systems will not work. Doesn't w it won't work on other things. Um so yes, so ships will not be able to operate like they would normally do. Um so and all also of course uh people all over the world um rely for their food on the ocean. And now everything in the ocean is dead. Um big impact. Um that's two bowls. Third bowl. Then the third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters, and they became blood. So not only the ocean, but now also all the fresh water. uh turns to blood. So um and of course that happened to the Nile River, which is fresh water, um and now it's happening to the world's entire supply of fresh water. So it's similar to the plague that on the Egyptians, but it's worldwide. Now it's not just one river, it's all the rivers. Um and so by the time by the time we get to this point, remember There's been all kinds of calamities that have come first in the seal and the trumpet judgments, including the third trumpet, which poisoned one third of the world's fresh water supply. Now the rest of it is turned to blood. Um so additional remember that in Revelation chapter uh eleven the two witnesses have the power to shut up the sky so that rain will not fall during the days of their prophecy, which is the last half of the three and a half years of the tribulation. And they also have power over the waters to turn it into blood. So there have been previous disasters that have fallen on the water supply And now this finishes it off. So disaster after disaster after disaster, some of them specifically affecting the water supply, partially Now totally. And then we have a little kind of parentheses before the next bowl. We have an a- and I heard the angel of the water saying, Righteous are you who are and who were, O holy one, because you judge these things. For they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink, they deserve it Uh that sounds a little harsh. Um so the destruction of what's left of the earth's fresh water causes immense hardship and suffering. Um it's hard to imagine really what what it would be like to not have any fresh water. Um and to have a massive stench everywhere And have everything dead in all the all the oceans. So there's no water to drink. Uh there's no water to wash your oozing sores, because remember you've got oozing sores all over you Uh so yeah, but you can't bathe 'cause there's no water to bathe in. Yeah, so that's a good point. So that's one of the things that the two witnesses were uh allowed to do during the second half of the tribulation is to shut up the w the skies to the water so it wouldn't rain. Uh so we do have that. that the two witnesses had the authority to do that. Uh that doesn't mean that they necessarily did that all the time and and it never rained through throughout that time. But they had the authority to do that, which implies that perhaps they at least did that some of the time. But yes, there could have been rain. Um still, it's possible that there w there could have been rain. Uh that's a good point. Um any other yes. The the rain water would have to evaporate from some source. Yes it would. Yeah, it's a good point. So there's a the hydrologic cycle would be uh there would be some serious consequences to the high hydrological cycle if everything in the ocean became blood Um now blood is still mostly water and so it could still it could still be evaporation from blood. But um there could be serious uh i it could cause uh serious a decrease in the amount of evaporation if it's blood instead of just water and that would cause there to be less rain. Yeah. Even if rain was possible, yeah. Yeah. Good good everybody's thinking. through these things. That's good. I like that. Um, yeah, it's good to think about these things as real events and what what would be the consequences to the hydrologic cycle, for example, if the all of a sudden the the sea was blood. Yeah. So and and so these judgments are coming and so i there there might be the temptation to think, how could a God of compassion and mercy and grace send such judgments? And so here we have this angel answering that question before it can be asked. Righteous are you, uh holy one, because you have judged these things. So these are righteous judgments. So there's this brief interlude uh in the middle of pouring out these judgments where the angel speaks in God's defense, should anybody have this kind of question. Uh and appropriately it's the angel of the waters, the one that has poured out the judgment on the waters, he defends God's righteous judgment So in contrast to the curses and blasphemies of men, which we'll see, verse 911, the angel says, Hey, God is righteous. And these judgments are righteous. Um his judgment of sinners is always righteous, because he is holy, and what is sin, sin is i any any departure from God's righteous and perfect standard and it offends a holy God And his wrath is terrifying and deadly, but it's always just and appropriate response to sin And so the angel reminds. He reminds, he's going to remind everybody at the time, but it's recorded here by the Holy Spirit so that we can read it. We can see it We can understand in the midst of this judgment that these judgments are righteous. Um and the angel gives one of the reasons that the the people that are being judged here are the very people who poured out the blood of the saints and prophets. Uh they've mercilessly persecuted, they've killed believers throughout this tribulation period. Um and We saw m uh the the m the multitude of tribulation martyrs going all the way back to Revelation chapter 6, and one of the things that those martyrs asked was, how long? You know, how long is it gonna be before God's wrath will judge those who have killed us? Um and you know here's the answer. Here's when it will be, here's how long it will be. Um and so i it If you remember back in Revelation chapter seven, John saw a great multitude which no one could count from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb. These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation and they have washed their robes and made them white. And so now the angel is reminding everyone that this is the the righteous judgment for what they've done. Uh and so those who have spilled so much innocent blood are given blood to drink. And so and the angels last words in this little segment are they deserve it Are there still believers on the earth? Uh yeah, good question. So um we had the rapture of the church, of course, and then we have this great tribulation, there's persecution of believers But I believe yes, because there will be those who will enter the millennial kingdom who will still be alive. Um so yeah, there are still believers on earth. And so and we'll see um that there's a little there's a word to that coming up here in in just a minute. Yeah, so notice at the very beginning of the bold judgments it tells you who these bold judgments are falling on. And it's not everybody, it's everybody who has the mark of the beast. So the very beginning when we see the bold judgments start out out it tells you who the bold judgments are falling on and if there was nobody left who who was uh who hadn't um gotten the mark of the beast and w there were no believers left then there would be no reason to make that distinction between those who the bold judgments are falling on and those who they are not falling on. Any other questions or comments? Alright, so let's uh let's keep going here Um so they deserve it. That's a very chilling thing for the uh the angel to say at the end of that section of scripture. They they're given blood to drink and they deserve it because of all the blood they've spilled. Uh this is their just dessert. But very uh very sobering to think about that. Uh verse seven. And I heard the altar saying, Yes, O Lord, the Almighty, true and righteous are your judgments. Uh so the Apostle John, he's of course he's getting this series of visions and the next thing he sees or hears in his vision is Uh the altar saying something. Yes, O Lord God the Almighty, true and righteous are your judgments. And so what what did we have under the altar all the way back there in Revelation chapters six and seven we had the tribulation saints. Uh they were under the altar. Uh so we have the altar saying this thing, yes, your judgments are righteous. So the personified altar echoes the statements of the angels. Uh it may be the very uh altar under which the saints were earlier praying for vengeance, and now it's come and they say yes. Uh affirms that God's true and righteous judgments are the answer to those prayers that we saw before. And of course God's judgments are always true and righteous, and that's a constant teaching throughout Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. Genesis chapter 18, Abraham asks Shall not the judge of all the earth deal justly? David wrote in Psalm 19, the judgments of the Lord are true They are righteous altogether. Paul wrote the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God in Romans 2. 5. And uh Revelation 19 we'll see uh later in a few weeks, uh John heard something like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and power. belong to our God because his judgments are true and righteous. So judgments are true and righteous from Genesis to Revelation constant in Scripture. And so we're we're we see that here again. Uh constant reminder of this fact. Uh that from uh a human standpoint, if we think of a human judge doing some of the things that God has done, we see all the way throughout scripture, we think, well, that sounds harsh. But God's not a human judge. He's a perfectly holy and righteous God and part of his character is his wrath. His wrath at sin. Um and he wouldn't be a God worth worshiping. We've talked about this before, if he didn't punish sin. Uh if he just looked the other way when people did awful things to other people. What kind of God would that be? But that's not the kind of God that we serve. Any questions before we go on to verse eight? Alright, let's take a ver look at verse eight. So that was a little interlude between bowl number three and bowl number four. And so now we have bowl number four. The fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun. And it was given to it to scorch men with fire. Men were scorched with fierce heat, and they blasphemed the name of God who has the power over these plagues. And they did not repent so as to give him So, in contrast to the first three angels poured out their bowls on some aspect of the earth, the fourth fourth angel pours out his bowl. on the sun. So that's a little different. Uh the sun, of course, since day four of Creation Week Uh Genesis one has given the world light and warmth and energy, and now it becomes a killer. Now it becomes part of the torments of the ungodly. And so this is uh describing searing yeah. Exceeding anything that anybody's ever seen on earth. Uh, so that this atmosphere will seem to be on fire. It seems like uh uh the heat of the the sun is is burning people up with fierce heat. Uh so th those who are scorched with the fierce heat are the same people who had the mark of the beast who So these these bowls are falling. We saw that in introduced in the first bowl and it's really carried out through the rest of these bowls. That's uh that's who these the who this wrath and who this judgment is falling on. We see a similar imagery in Isaiah chapter twenty-four, twenty-four four to six. Another consequence, so uh as we think through the consequences of what would happen, what happened if the sun all the way always sudden becomes much much hotter. So today it's very fashionable or it's very uh topical to talk about global warming Gradual global warming. Well this is very sudden, very intense global warming. And so w what would happen to the polar ice caps if all of a sudden the sun became much fiercer Much hotter than it normally is. Melt the polar ice caps in a in a very short period of time. What does that do? Floods, massive floods inundating coastal areas all over the world. Uh the the kind of things that uh the people who talk about global warming talk about on large long timescales God is gonna make happen in a very short time during this uh fourth bowl. Uh searing a hot sun will melt the the ice uh and it will raise the sea levels. Um that's just physics. Um and so uh there will be consequences to that um inundating coastal regions, flooding miles inland. And remember, it's not ordinary seawater. It's s it's stinking blood with millions of dead things in it that's gonna in date all inundate all the coastal areas. So the coastal areas are inundated by thousand billions of dead fish and stinking blood Um as part uh as a one of the um the logical consequences of this particular uh bold judgment. So, um and one would think that having all these judgments would lead people to repentance, but that's not what happens. Uh that's not what will happen. Yeah, that's a good that's a good point. Eternal punishment is worse than this. Um and so uh part of the reason for God's judgment, um, over and over again in the Bible, is to call sinners to repentance. We see that in Romans chapter two. Um but in but we see here In this case, people that have gone through these uh progressively increasing judgments of God from the seals to the trumpets to the bowls, we read here in Scripture that people will b will not repent, not only will they not They know He's responsible for their misery, and rather than get the message that they need to repent, they will instead harden their hearts and blaspheme. Um yeah, very very sad. Uh very sad. Um so they know that it's God who's afflicting them. Uh but they'll love their sin so much and be so deceived by the Antichrist that they will not repent so as to give God glory. Well uh evidently uh evidently by this description people realize where this is coming from at this point. Um and in spite of that they harden their hearts. So interestingly enough, uh up to this point in Revelation, the only uh person who's described as blaspheming is the Antichrist in Revelation thirteen. But here the all the unbelievers are adopt his character and they follow their leader and they continue to hate God and refuse to repent. And of course repentance would give glory to God as a just and righteous judge of their sin. Um and they won't do that. They stubbornly refuse to do that according to uh this scripture. Yeah, and so one of the things that we need to c continually remind ourselves of is this is coming and while those of us who are in Christ will be raptured and not experience this, there are people that we care about who are just merrily walking along their lives and they're headed for this and they don't know it. And we do know it. And so it should motivate us to reach out to people. It should motivate us to evangelism. Uh we've been called to evangelism, we've been commanded uh to evangelize the lost, but this provides a uh visceral real tangible m motivation uh to obey that that command. Uh or it should. Alright, so uh any any others before we go on to bowl number five. So then the fifth angel, verse ten, then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom became darkened, and they gnawed their tongues because of pain and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and they did not repent of their deeds. And so this is another reflection of another plague in Egypt Uh Exodus chapter ten, the plague of darkness. He's going to turn the suffering of the sinful world. He's going to increase. He's going to turn up the suffering of the sinful world by turning out the lights. Uh so uh his kingdom became darkened. The Antichrist kingdom became start becomes darkened. Uh there's some disagreement in the commentaries about uh specifically where this bowl is dumped. Will it be on the actual throne that the Antichrist is sitting on? Uh will it be on his capital city? Will it be on his entire kingdom? Um it's probably best to see the reference to the throne as uh synonymous with his kingdom And the the bowl darkens the whole kingdom, not just the k his throne room. And regardless of the exact location, the result is darkness engulfs the entire world because the in anti Christ's kingdom is a worldwide kingdom. Uh and the beast of course is powerless to do anything about it. Um the power of God, uh the the beast has been, um, able to do signs and the The uh the false prophet has been able to do signs. Uh but this is something that God has ordained and the Antichrist is powerless. Yes. So it it says the bowl is poured out on the earth. So uh the command is to pour out your bowls on the earth. Yeah, so what does that mean? So that's a good question. So uh and there's some further descriptions. One is poured out on the earth and then one is poured out on the sea and the rivers and the sun and the air and um and so what exactly is God seeing? or is John seeing. Um and I think this is another case where John is doing the best he can to describe things that are essentially indescribable. So um and as I said, some of the commentaries argue about well is the bull jump jumped right on a throne that the guy's sitting on or is it um and the answer I think is there's not enough detail in in here to tell exactly what what it w w if what when John's looking at this thing, what exactly is he seeing? And what's in the bowl? What does it look like? What does the w wrath of God look like as it comes out of the bowl? Um that that kind of description's not in there, so we're left to speculate. Um and so uh the only thing I would say is Um if it just a caution, um make sure you keep your eye on the big picture. Um there are a lot of details in here and it's really fun quite frankly and and terrifying uh to look at the details but remember the big picture that the wrath of God is being um the image is being poured out But the wrath of God is coming to the whole world. It's coming to the unrepentant sinners. Um and that's really the big picture to watch. And There are there are things that are not fully explained in in the text. What is what does it look like when God's wrath is spilling out of a bowl? What was it that John was seeing? Don't really know. Yeah, so uh that's a good question. How does it how does it comport with the uh the previous bowl so the sudden becomes scorching and now it's all dark. Uh is it still hot or does it become cold? Uh it doesn't really say here, um whether uh it just says they're still in great pain And they have sores. So the scorching of the sun has caused great pain, and the pain is still there Um but how it is that God contrives to darken everything all at once is not explained here. Um what is the mechanism for God making it dark? Um we we don't know. We don't get an explanation. We know He does. He will. He'll make everything dark. How He makes everything dark is not um explain in detail here. But the the the darkness comes. Um exactly how he made it dark in Egypt is not really explained either. Yeah, s that's right. So God speaks and things happen. Yes. Uh yeah, by the power of his word is how the entire universe was created. So uh he speaks and it happens. Uh but we have a a vision with a mechanism here of angels pouring out a bowl and and that's executing God's judgment by God's word. God's word was go pour out these bowls the bowls are poured out in accordance with God's word, and in accordance with God's word these things all happen. So that's definitely true. It's definitely true. Um so it's there's no explanation here about Well, what's the what's the physical mechanism for how things get dark? Yeah, so that's very interesting but uh if you go back to the plagues in Egypt, the plagues in Egypt Um uh there's many um many places in in Exodus where the plagues fall on the Egyptians and don't fall on the Israelites, for example. And so God is able to do that. He's able to make plagues fall on some people and not fall on others. And so we continue along with this fifth bowl accumulative effect, we get these painful sores, foul oceans, lack of drinking water, intense heat in engulfed in thick blackness. All these things are combining to make things very miserable for those who have followed the beast. And yet they won't repent. They'll still refuse to repent. Um John notes here also that they gnawed their tongues, literally they kept on chewing their tongues because of the terrible So that's a good question. So there's been controversy about that. Whether somebody who receives the mark can repent. And I I mentioned this before because John MacArthur in sp in particular is is very vocal about his belief that you can repent, that they can still repent. And almost everybody else attacks MacArthur for saying that. They say, no, no, no. If you got the mark of the beast, there's no way you can repent. Your your heart is seared. Your conscience is seared. Um MacArthur thinks that you still can. Um I think it's an interesting question. Is it still possible if you've received this mark to and what happens to the mark if you're if you do repent, does it disappear? Um Yeah. I don't know. It's I mean it's a there's a so many interesting questions that that come to your mind as you work through this and we don't get all the answers. And um once again it's uh one of these things where the scripture gives us what we need to know, but it doesn't always give us everything we want to know. Um, you know, th th there's and and there's some times when we're all it's almost seems like we're being taunted with uh the seven thunders say things and John hears And and the the Bible tells us that John heard those seven thunders. And it tells us that he's not allowed to tell us what he what they said. So interestingly enough, wh why why did God put that in there? What did he what did he He he could have just had the seven thunders say things, John hear them, tell he could tell John not to write 'em, and not have John record all of that But the Holy Spirit had John record all of that so that we would know that there were things that we don't know. Um think about that. God wanted us to know that there was other things. That he's not gonna tell us. Um and we we have to be okay with that Um as frustrating as it m might be sometimes, we have to be okay with that, that there's things that God has withhold held from us. Um and we have to be okay. Yes, ma'am. So the the 144,000 have their own mark, differ different marks. mark. Uh God put a mark on the the forehead of the hundred and forty four thousand and God has specially prot will specially protect the hundred forty four thousand. So we're not talking about those. Uh I think what Ross is asking about is what if somebody was a follower of the Antichrist, got the mark can they repent and be saved. Now the way they would be saved, of course, is by grace through faith and in the finished work of Christ on the cross. That's the only way anybody is ever saved, and so if they were to be saved, that's how they would be saved. But The question is, can that happen? Um and many say no. By the time you've received the mark on your forehead or your hand you've you've you're fully committed to Satan and his antichrist and you can't be saved. Um others, like John MacArthur, say, yes you can. So the hundred and forty four thousand are Jewish evangelists. The th you well yeah, they're they're a special set of witnesses, evangelists that God marked, set apart, protected through tribulation to bring witness to God and he gave them certain authority and um that That's a special group and there there are other tribulation saints, there are people that that will come to Christ during the tribulation. Some of 'em will be martyred, we s we we met them. But th those are all separate from the hundred and forty four thousand. Yeah, that could very well be that uh there there are people that will rebel against any authority. Uh yeah. So that could it could very well be. That there could be a pool of people who are not believers, didn't get the mark, and are evangelized And saved during this time. That's that's quite possible. Yeah, that's right. So yes, that's the verse, tw Revelation twenty four, yeah. That uh that everybody beats MacArthur about the head and shoulders with. Um Yes. That's absolutely the the verse. Okay. Any other questions or comments before we continue on? We've got a little bit more to cover here. And so they don't repent. The ultimate act of defiance, uh those that are uh truly engulfed in the Antichrist system, uh and they're unwilling to repent. Um so the first five plagues were God's final call to repentance. The final two bowls are the severest of all, and they're poured out on hardened enemies of God. So the sixth angel pours out his bowl in the great river, the Euphrates, and its waters are dried up so that the way would be prepared for the kings from the east. Uh so the fifth sea uh the f the the fifth bowl, um uh like the fifth seal has no specific assault on humanity but prepares for what's coming. Uh so the the the bowl is poured out on the river Euphrates. Um the r the we've seen the River Euphrates mentioned in the sixth trumpet judgment in um Revelation chapter nine when we had the two hundred million demons bound near uh near it were released. Uh it's a significant reliver uh river throughout history and throughout scripture. Um it's mentioned as early as Genesis fifteen um and a couple of other times in the um in the Old Testament. Uh the source of the Euphrates is the snowfields and the ice on the slopes of the mountains of Ararat in modern Turkey. Um and so if we think about the By this time we've had the blazing sun of the fourth bowl most likely melted the snow in the mountains, and so that would cause a uh an increase in the Euphrates at at this point. Um and so we have this uh uh the reason is given for why the six bow is done. It's try uh why the water's dried up. It's dried up to prepare for the kings of the East. So the Eastern armies need to cross the Euphrates to reach their destination in Israel, and so this is a preparation for that And of course it's not an act of kindness toward these kings. It's an act of judgment because their armies are coming to be slaughtered Um and God wants them to come to be slaughtered. It's part of his design and plan. Uh so it's the w the the drying up this this water is gonna lead them to their doom. Uh just like the uh Egyptian armies in the Red Sea. So they're going to be making a journey across this river to um um to be killed. And then we get this uh very bizarre description uh in verse 13. out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs. For they are spirits of demons, performing signs which go out to the kings of the whole world to gather them together for the war of the great day of God the Almighty. So this is a vision out of something you might see in a horror movie Uh he sees these fro frog like uh demons uh coming out of the mouth of the the unholy trinity Uh we've got the the dragon who is Satan, we've got the beast who is the Antichrist, and we've got the false prophet, and out of each one of them comes a unclean spirit. Now we've we've had things described as unclean, these dem demons described as unclean spirits over and over in the New Testament, Matthew chapter ten, Mark Chapter one, Acts chapter five, unclean spirits. That phrase uh appears throughout the New Testament to describe demons. Uh and it comes from the mouth, the source of influence, symbol of the source of influence. Each member of the Holy Trinity, the Satan Antichrist and the False Prophet, each one uh uh vomits up uh gags out a uh a frog-looking demon in this uh vision It is very nasty to think about. Out comes this frog like th thing, creature, demon. Uh in the Old Testament of course frogs were unclean animals in Leviticus chapter eleven. They're part of the list of unclean animals, but these are of course are not literal frogs. As the plagues in Egypt. The plagues in Egypt was that was literal frogs. This is not literal frogs. It tells us that, right? And they are spirits of demons. There's no question that they're actual frogs. Verse 14 tells us these are demons. And as part of their deception, the demons perform signs Um and they work wonders to deceive the kings. Um Jesus said uh said as much in uh Mark chapter 13, false Christs and false prophets will show signs and wonders in order to lead astray, if possible, the elect. So Jesus said that the demons would be able to perform signs and wonders, and here they are performing signs and wonders. Wonder. So they'll have a little difficulty deceiving the kings of the whole world and gathering them according to according with uh God's sovereign will. Um the missions of the demons is to gather uh the world's rulers to a single place for this war, the war of the great day of God the Almighty. Uh we'll see Next week in chapter 17 that it involves ten kings. Uh the battle involves ten kings. Uh we also see uh descriptions of this battle in the Old Testament, Joel chapter three, Zechariah chapter fourteen. Psalm chapter 2. We see the gathering of the kings of the earth for this battle prophesied in the Old Testament. And then we get a little parentheses again. Uh chapter uh verse fifteen and sixteen. We get Behold I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays awake and keeps his clothes, so that he will not walk about naked and men will not see his shame And they gathered them together in the place which in Hebrew is called Harmageddon. So amid all these horrors comes this this little word of encouragement for believers. Behold, I am coming like a thief, and blessed is the one who stays awake and clothed. And so this is kind of a gracious word from heaven before the pouring out of the seventh bowl. So the last final bowl is coming and we get this word of encouragement that it's almost done. Hang in there. 'Cause there's believers here that are uh th this devastation is going on all around them. Um and before the pouring out of the seventh pole we get this assurance that they have not been forgotten. Uh we see this um um reflected earlier in the Prophet Malachi in chapter 3. There were similar respites, remember, between the sixth and seventh seal. And between the sixth and seventh trumpet as well, we got the little interlude and we get a a really brief one here. So we had an interlude of uh an entire chapter or uh between the sixth and seventh seal, and we had almost two full chapters between the sixth and seventh trumpet. Now we get a verse. Um so and so this is Lord Jesus Christ he begins by saying, Behold, I am coming like a thief. Uh in other words, he's coming quickly and unexpectedly, as he's mentioned before. No one will know the day or the hour. He's coming quickly. But he is coming, and that's encouraging to the believer. believers who are still uh still there. Um and so there's an imagery then of the soldier, uh soldier alert and on duty. Uh it's only the soldier who stays awake and keeps his clothes on who's ready for combat. Um and those who are caught unprepared when the battle breaks out have to end up uh stumbling out of the tent naked Um and uh and that's the shame of a soldier who is derelict in his duty. Um and we get the imagery of uh of clothing in many places in scripture. Uh God has clothed with garments of salvation and Wrapped with a robe of righteousness, Isaiah 61, those who have put on the Lord Jesus Christ, Romans thirteen, will be ready when the judgment comes. And so we have this brief interlude of encouragement. And then we get the narrative continues right away in verse sixteen and the fact that the demons uh have gone across the newly uh brought the uh uh the kings across the newly dried up Euphrates and they're bringing them to a place that's called Harmageddon. Uh probably refers to the hill country. Harmagedd means uh Mount Megiddo Um and it also can refer to hill country and so probably a hill country surrounding the plain of Megiddo, which is about sixty miles north of Jerusalem. Then continuing we have the seventh angel. So beginning in verse seven. seventeen and the seventh angel poured out his bowl upon the air, and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, It is Done. And there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder, and there was a great earthquake, such as there had not been since man came to be upon the earth. So great an earthquake was it, and so mighty. So the angel pours it out upon the air. So we've had a description of pouring things out on the earth and on the sea and on the sun and this one is poured out on the air. And so what is it exactly does that look like, Tegan was asking. What does it mean to pour has something out on the air? Um frustratingly there's not really a a good description of what that means. And if you think about this progression of judgments, it's as if if God is cleansing the domain of Satan He's Satan's been the uh the the king of this world, but he's cleansed the earth, he's cleansed the sea, he's cleansed the waters, he's cleansed the sun Now he's cleansing the air. So if you think all the way back to Genesis and the curse The curse affected everything. Well, God's judgment is now affecting everything and is clearing the way for a new heavens and a new earth. Okay. So uh we get a loud voice from the the cat the temple declaring it is done. And the the verb tense, genomai, is uh it's a perfect verb tense in the Greek. It describes a completed accent with ongoing results. So it is done. Finished action, ongoing results. And that's very reminiscent of uh Christ on the cross. Uh Christ on the cross, to telesti, same uh Greek verb tense, it is finished, uh paid in full. Finished action. Action with ongoing results. Same thing, the cross and this final judgment. Uh very s so there's uh deliberate parallel here by the Holy Spirit. So pouring out of the seventh bowl affects the atmosphere, flashes of lightning, sounds and peals of thunder. We've seen that before in Revelation We saw the same thing with the seventh seal in Revelation chapter 8. We saw the same thing with the seventh trumpet in Revelation chapter 11. And now we have the seventh bowl and once we get flashes of lightning and peals of thunder, same exact thing Um and but this is worse. Those were only pale imitations of what we're seeing now. Um most devastating thing that's ever happened to the earth will be this seventh bull The final judgment against sinners with this great earthquake, greater than any earthquake that there's ever been since the beginning of the earth. Uh and then we get the script description of the great city. So the great city was split in three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and Babylon the Great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of his fierce wrath. And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. So the first The uh effect of this earthquake is the Great City splits in three. Uh the great city can be Babylon because it's distinguished from Babylon the Great, which is mentioned in verse 19. So this is something different. And Babylon is mentioned separately. So if we go back to chapter eleven and we see uh we can identify this city as Jerusalem. The great city in chapter eleven, the great city where also the Lord was crucified. So what city was the Lord crucified in? It's Jerusalem. And so we we've seen this kind of phrase, the great city, and when we've seen it before, it was clearly identified as Jerusalem by being identified as where the Lord was. was crucified. So the great city is distinct from the cities of the nations also. So we got this great city, Jerusalem, and then the cities of the nations, what happens to them. And so it says that Jerusalem will be split in three parts. It begins a series of alterations to the city and its surroundings, which will conclude with the Christ can return and we'll see when Christ returns he's gonna s he's gonna return on the Mount of Olives and it splits. So we s we s we'll see that happen as well. And we get uh description of that uh this actually um in Zechariah fourteen. Uh we'll see y we saw that in Zechariah fourteen. So this massive earthquake has destr uh worldwide consequences, the cities of the nations fall, so it's a worldwide earthquake, uh, which nobody's ever seen a worldwide earthquake before. Um and perhaps seventy as we'll see in chapter seventeen the the final defeat of Antichrist by the Lamb. Uh this earthquake may or may not be simultaneous with that. And then we also get a specific singling out of Babylon the Great for specific fierce wrath of of Lord. Uh and this is a passing mention of the fall of uh Babylon. We'll get um uh w that'll be described in length in chapters seventeen and eighteen. So we'll see that in great in great detail. And then the final Uh effect of this earthquake is to prepare the earth for the uh millennial rule of Christ, we get this topographical changes to the earth Uh every island fled flood uh fled away and the mountains were not found. Uh islands of course are undersea mountains. If you took away the water you would see that an island is a mountain with just the peak of it showing above the water Um and so those islands will f flee away and the mountains on land will be flattened and um and it that's essentially completing the process that started in the sixth seal. In chapter six we saw uh mountains, we we saw the mountains and shaking and uh we saw the this kind of process uh uh an initial partial uh happening there with the sixth seal and now it's it's finalized here in the seventh. Yeah, so we've seen Uh we see violent um things like volcanoes and earthquakes in a localized way. Uh but this is a global one. Just like we see floods that are local and we know what a flood looks like, but Noah's flood was over the whole Earth. Similar to that. And then we get the final thing, final thing in this chapter, we're out of time. Huge hailstones. So we get huge hailstones falling about a hundred pounds Um the the Greek word is the amount of weight that a typical man can carry, which is about a hundred pounds. Uh the the largest ha hailstone ever recorded was two pounds, and these are hundred pound ha hailstones. Um And of course they they continue to blaspheme God. Uh so let me uh let me skip to the end. Um so in in light of these judgments Um the warning to unrepentant sinners in Hebrews four is today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. They're gonna harden their hearts. Um last questions. Alright, let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time. We thank you for the truths that we see there. We thank you for the warnings. And we pray, Lord, that we would be motivated by the things we see here to uh to obey your command to evangelize the lost. We thank you for the opportunity we're about to have to worship you together as the body of Christ, and we pray that our worship would be acceptable in your sight. And we pray these things In Jesus name, Amen