Wow, I don't know if I can talk after that welcome. Um I have to say that this this weekend is is a total blessing to me and it reminds me of how let me see if I can talk without crying. Um just how the Lord blesses us at different times and gives us nice warm hugs. Um I couldn't have planned my daughters being here together if I had tried. Um it just so happened that Teresa needed to come back to the States to bring a little boy um from Togo who needed to have heart surgery so she left him actually in Kentucky and it just happened to be this weekend. And so then she was able to come here and visit. And it just happened to be Victoria's Spring Break. And so they just are here at the same time. And it was around the time of my oldest father birthday. So thank you. Um and my mom's here. And so um Teresa got a chance to see my mom, which um she hasn't seen her in quite a while. So okay, I'm gonna read now. Um so this morning um we're going to be taking a look at the gift of help and we're going to start by talking about the ultimate helper who was sent to us, who is the Holy Spirit. Um so just to talk about Holy Spirit for a moment. God the Holy Spirit was sent to us by God the Son, after Jesus' ascension back to the right hand of God the Father, um after his death Burial and resurrection. Jesus told the disciples to wait for this helper to come, and that if he didn't, you know, if Jesus didn't go back, the helper wouldn't come. In John chapter 14, verse 16 through 17, the word for the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit there is Parakletos, which means intercessor, comforter in trials, one who aids and comes alongside, one who helps us to grasp spiritual truth. And it reads, I will ask the Father And he will give you another helper helper, so that he may be with you forever. The helper is the spirit of truth whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him or know him, but you know him because he remains with you and will be with you. In you. And then Acts 1. 8 says, But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria, and as far as the remotest part of the earth. The Holy Spirit was sent to do many things for us and in us. He was sent to bring us, um bring to remembrance what Christ has said. So in John verse 14 26 it says the helper, it's that same word again, Perakletos. The Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and remind you of all that I said to you. He was also sent, we know, to convict the world of sin. And concerning righteousness and judgment. So in John chapter 16, verse 7 through 11, 7 through 11, it says, But I tell you the truth, it is to your advance that I am leaving. For if I do not go, the helper Will not come to you, but if I go, I will send him to you and he will, when he comes, convict the world regarding sin and righteousness and judgment. Um regarding sin because they do not believe me and regarding righteousness because I am going to the Father and because I am going to the Father and you no longer are going to see me. And regarding judgment, because a ruler of this world has been judged. The Holy Spirit helps us in the work of Spreading the gospel. It's not something that we are we would be able to do on our own, but the Holy Spirit empowers us to do it. And again, it says that in Acts one eight. But it also says that in Acts four, verse thirty-one. It says, and when they are prayed, the place where they are prayed. Gathered together the shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak the word of God with boldness. Another thing the Holy Spirit does is that he intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. Romans 8 27. six says, Now in the same way the Spirit also helps our weakness, for we do not know how what to pray. For as we should, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us, for the groaning is too deep for words. And then there's another word, I'm I'm not gonna try to pronounce this word in Greek, but um another word or for the Holy Spirit that's used in Ephesians chapter one is a word which means to lay hold of my with or to strive to obtain with others and to help in obtaining. Um and that that goes along with him um helping us. So in Ephesians one, thirteen through fourteen it says, in him you also after After listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the first installment of our inheritance in regard to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of the His glory. So the Holy Spirit assures us that we belong to the Lord. Sometimes we're tempted to believe, you know, how could God still love me and keep me and care for me and am I really saved? And it's the Holy Spirit at those times Who comes along and assures our hearts that we belong to him? It says in 1 John 4 13, By this we know that we remain in Him and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit. And then the Holy Spirit It guides us into the truth of God's word. Because when we read it there's no way we could understand God's word without the spirit working in us and and revealing God's word truth to us. So in John sixteen, verse thirteen to fourteen it says, But when he The Spirit of Truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will disclose to you what is to come. He will glorify me, for he will take from mine and will disclose it. to you. The Holy Spirit also helps us not to fall into sin. As believers we don't practice sin, but we're still in the flesh and we still sin. I don't have to tell you guys that. That's true of all of us. Um but he helps us. Galatians five sixteen it says, But I say walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. And then finally, um the Holy Spirit helps us to be more like Christ. Galatians five twenty-two. twenty three tells us what the fruit of the spirit is. It's love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. And we're told that against such things there is no law because we're operating in that way. You know, we don't we don't sin. So those are ways in which the Holy Spirit helps us. And then what's really cool is that the Lord teaches us to help other people and He's given us the s the gift of help. Um so we can But God gives us a glimpse of Himself through the way He manifests Himself through the gift of helps. On the website, GodQuestions. com, it's mentioned that those with the gift of helps not only help others with gifts. practical needs, but also with encouragement to prayer and sharing the word with those who are in need at a timely moment. And those with this gift see the need for this type of support that others may not see. So in some of Pastor Plummy's writings there's a teaching that he did on um spiritual gifts. And within that he um gave it gives us the definition of helps and the Greek word here is antelepsis and it's the opposite of Taking or receiving. Um it's listed amongst spiritual gifts in first Corinthians twelve verse twenty-eight, where it says And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of Healings, helps, there it is, administrations, and various kinds of tongues. And then here's one of his quotes The gift of help enables someone to serve others in the church sacrificially with great joy. In the Bible there are examples of people who had this gift. Um Phoebe is one of them. In Romans sixteen verse one through two we hear um about her and it says Paul is talking about her and he says, I recommend to you our sister Phoebe. who is a servant of the church, which is at centuria, that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and that you help her in whatever manner she may have need of you, for she herself has also been a helper of many, and of myself as well. And then there's John Mark. In 2 Timothy 4. 11, it says, only Luke is with me. This is Paul talking. Take along Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. So people with this gift may help in following in the following ways. And I was just gonna give a couple of examples of ways in which I've seen just different people here in our church helping either myself or other people. Um Um so um I'm gonna share a story and I I think that this is probably okay to share. Um just yeah be gracious to my husband if you see him tomorrow. Um but recently I just wanted to share a way in which um Diane Diane's not here so I can talk about her. Um Diane Baldrich came alongside me just in a in a in a prayer moment um recently and I don't even think my mom knows all these details, but we went down to Richmond with my mom um to her home to do some things and Kirk and I um decided you know we didn't do anything for our anniversary and so we decided to stay overnight in the hotel for a couple of nights and so the first First night we were there, um somebody woke us up at like three or five in the morning playing the guitar and singing very loudly. And so the second night um the same person started singing again just earlier and we were like Nope, we're changing rules. And so we did, but we grabbed all of our stuff after they told us we could move and my husband took my keys, being very kind, you know, could pick up stuff and put them in his pocket. We changed rules. And so the next day he was gonna I won't explain why there were two c why we had two cars. We had two cars. Um so he was gonna drive back early the next morning. And so he drove back to up here early the next morning. I was supposed to stay at the hotel and check out and go back and spend the day with my mom before we left and I was gonna bring my mom back with me. You know where this story is going, right? So I get this panic call from my husband at ten fifteen, forty-five minutes before checkout. Margot, I'm back in Maryland and I have your keys. And so I called Diane because Diane is a prayer warrior and she's the one who comes alongside and helps. And so she just appraised, you know, she goes, Margot, I'm gonna pray for you all day. I'm praying today for people, I'm taking the day to pray. You're on my prayer list. And she encouraged me, she shared truth from the word, picked me back up so I was able to think straight and figure out what to do. And yes, her had to come back. But um it all worked out because of prayer. Um and another time she also picked me up when I was feeling down. and had me come over, literally wrapped me up in a warm blanket, made a fire, gave me tea and prayed for me. And so that's a mercy, but it's also the gift of help where you help and encourage somebody and pick 'em back up. And um say keep keep going. God's got you, keep going. So that's those are some examples of prayer and encouragement. Um another thing is just offering a hand. Um often you know, often we see people people doing this. So now I'm going to embarrass Gwyn Waller over there. Um but Gwyn is one who will come alongside you and kind of see how to make things better. You know, she'll just kind of show up on the side, oh, you know, maybe she'll say, Do you want me to do such such or she'll just do it and you turn around you're like, oh wow. Um so anyway, she does that often and she's done that for me many years just in different ministries that I've been part of here at Hope Academy is an example of come alongside drama and and other things. And then so that's just like offering a hand. And then there's meeting personal needs. I know many of you deliver meals for people when they're sick. We have our Hope Ability Ministry. that that um Sarah and Larry have started here at church. Um and the reason why I'm doing this again is just to put a face on how the church operates within this gift. Um and then there are just different ministry needs. I know Um my husband has recently volunteered to um he's gonna leave the next prayer meeting. But the reason why he's gonna do that is he he literally said, you know, the pastors have a whole lot to do. So that's something that they don't have to do. Somebody else in the church could do that. So I'll do it. And I was like, hey, this is like my perfect example of help. So, you know, that's that's one of his gifts. And then um helping behind the scenes. We have the ladies who are here um that were already mentioned who set up for the ladies breakfast and then you see people checking people in. Um you see people on Sunday mornings um um doing different things. Um like Diane Moe who's for years been working with the Sunday school classes and checking people in. Um and then You have people who quietly show up and you s you come to church and it's like, Wow, the landscaping looks really nice and I often see Latoya Merritt. I saw her yesterday out there with somebody else who was helping and was wrapped up and I don't know who that was, but they're out there working. um making it look pretty for all of us. And it's not just for us, it's for the Lord because the grounds look beautiful and that glorifies him. So, you know, often people say, you know, their spiritual gifts and my gifts is just I don't know. gift of helps maybe, but you have to remember that the work of the church does not get done without people with that gift. And that's the way the Lord designed it. So then a couple more things and then I'll be done. A command that we have um is to help people who are sick, who are poor, and who are powerless. And often people with the gift of helps will see this need and will do it. So I'm looking here at Acts 20 verse 35. It says and everything I showed you that by By working hard in this way, you must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he himself said it is more blessed to give than to receive. And then first Thessalonians 5:14, which says, We urge you, brothers and sisters, admonish So that's the command that we have to help the weak. Um we're also commanded um to do the following in scripture. We're told to help the pressing needs of the world. of missionaries and the many of you support missionaries who are here. Um but I thought it was interesting in Titus three, thirteen through fourteen, the word there for help is prophemo, which means the escort or a company to give what is needed for the journey. So often they would have somebody not just supplying the need of a missionary, but maybe going with them and helping, like John Mark did, or like other people mentioned in the Bible. But here in this passage it says, diligently help Venus, the lawyer, and the policy. on their way so that nothing is lacking for them. Our pa our people must also learn to engage in good deeds, to meet pressing needs, so that they will not be unproductive. And then Romans fifteen twenty four uses that same word. go to Spain for I hope to see you in passing and to be helped on my way there by you when I have first enjoyed your company for a while. And then finally, Second Corinthians one sixteen, which says that is, pass your way into Macedonia. And again from Macedonia to come to you and by you to be helped on my journey to Judea. So there are people who helped Paul and other missionaries um during the way during the during their work. So I've already given some examples. But here at church you might have the gift of help and you might think, well gee, you know, how can I be involved in ministry here? So again, there are there are different ways. There are administrative assistance for classes and the office Office um and with women of hope. Um there's the care ministry, um hope ability, cleaning and maintenance. You see lots of people cleaning and doing things here. There, I see Julie Dawsett and um and um Um and others who are here, Mrs. James over there. Um and then people who set up and take down for events, there might be things to do to help. Um so just to reiterate what the gift of helps is before I give some examples of ways you can think about whether or not this is your gift. Um it is um to help what is it? Yeah, let me just read the examples of of what you might want to do. Here's a list. Um Um so if you think about yourself and how you've been gifted by the Lord, if you enjoy working behind the scenes and taking care of small details, that might be your gift, the gift of help. Um if you enjoy assisting the leaders of your church in ways that help free up the Time for more pressing responsibilities. That's an example. If you enjoy taking on routine tasks that help others in the church have more time to do other important things. Or if you don't need recognition but get joy in helping others get their way. work done. Um or if you recognize needs that others may not and take care of them, helping projects, events, communication opportunities run more efficiently and appear more polished. If you don't need anyone looking over your shoulder, the tasks you take on to assist another. It may just be that you know you're just able to see it and you just kind of do it and nobody may even know that you were ever there. But it got done. Um and then if it's something where you ful feel fulfilled satisfying the needs of others that might be your gift. Okay. So in summary, when we look at the way the Holy Spirit helps us and how he helps us to help one another to edify the church and to help it run more effectively, efficiently and excellently. Um so before we have a time of discussion, we do have two testimonies by people who have this gift of help. So I'm gonna call on Minchie Daniels first, who sometimes she'll she's going like this and she's like Uh people would also like to be a part of Come on Minji Hello everyone. My name is Minji Daniels. Um I mean I was really reluctant when Margot asked me to do uh this portion of her teaching 'cause I feel so unqualified. Um and I know she already has several because there are so many of us, as Margot mentioned, there are so many other people, ladies and men, um, doing work safely serving so quietly behind. the scene and I know she already has several of those ladies and they were they graciously declined probably and I felt the need that I need to help out Margot. So so here I I am. Um so uh we've been attending um Hope Bible Church since two thousand fifteen. So when we moved here, when we when once we became a member, the first thing we decided to do as a family is joining the cleaning ministry. back then I mean still do we still do have I don't know in case you anybody didn't was not aware we still have a weekly cleaning group that's you know do you've probably seen people vacuuming at the end of service every Sunday. We still have that groups so everybody's uh will serve once a quarter. So it's really not that demanding. Uh sorry, I'm I am helping Julie out here by uh It's really not that hard. So that's why we started because it doesn't really require any skills. You know, i i everybody I'm assuming vacuum or sweep your own house. If you do that, you are to join the cleaning ministry, okay? So So that's how we started it. Um so that's what I did. We just only did it and we served okay, one Sunday every three months, it's not a big deal. But then we moved to this new facility. And that's when my eyes really began to open how many hands people are safely sacrificially serving. Um so one Sunday when we were still going through demolition and work, I just show I just happened to be in the building to help out my husband who was doing something and And that's when I saw I know I don't want to I don't think she is here, Morak and Carol, these ladies covered in dust, sweeping the floor. Okay. And once the building was done, I know Tim and Mar Margot and uh not Margot, I'm saying Morag and some I can't remember some other volunteered to clean the bathroom uh week after week for first year. So when I know but when I saw these ladies You know, just just sacrificially giving herself. I got oh you know, there was and there was an eye opening experience at a while. There's just so much just things to be done, especially just the general maintenance and cleaning cleaning of this building. So that's how I got into a little bit more involved. Um after Morag and Tim, you know, kind of um retire from that responsibility, Okay, I got yeah, you ladies don't need to do this anymore. So there are several of us as m um Margot mentioned, you know, uh Delma and some other ladies, we get together to do our weekly cleaning and there are several names that I'm not mentioning. I'm sorry, I just forget to my don't come to my mind right away, but I know they are there. So oh yeah Marie. There we go. So so yes, that's what I um started doing. So so my suggestion is that uh just be around if you and uh oh this is what I wanted to mention. I tell my kids that uh please be around when I'm when I'm busy in the dinner preparation time. And but they will say I have three boys. So they will they're not really the kitchen work is not their thing. So they will say, oh but I'm not you know not really always asking me to do anything. But I say just be there, just be available to help 'Cause the more you spend time, right, then you begin to see where the needs are. So for instance, because I started in a quarterly service um the cleaning, I know where the cleaning locker is. So I know where things are, like where a trash bag is, where napkins are. So once I know where things are so when I you know the other day we had some event on weekend and I noticed the bathroom trash you know, can was full. So then I know that oh trash is full. I gotta replace it. Oh I know where to find the bag. I go grab a bag and You know, replace it and I know where the dumpster is. Everybody, please just find where the dumpster is, okay? And then I want to take it out the dumpster. That's how it goes. The more you spend time, the more you're familiar with the layout. the things are then it's e this becomes natural to you. So that's just my one you know, expectation to you. I'm laughing Yesterday somebody at Hope Academy said, Where is that dumpster? It's like there's a this mystery back there and you know, I kinda know where it is, kinda sorta, but anyway. Okay, so then we have the testimony by Jessica Matt, her daughter, who's over there in the court. Order. Good morning. Good morning. Happy work. Oh, thank you. Me? Cher? This was my immediate thought when my mother asked me to speak to you all this morning. As my mom mentioned, one of the call Of individuals with the gift of health is that we don't feel the need for recognition for the service we render to others in the body. It's a deep joy and great satisfaction to minister in the wings for the good of others and the glory of God. So when my mother asked me to share my first reaction, She looks a slightly declined like some of the other women. Um, stay in the wings and let someone else speak. But here I am this morning and I'm happy to share with all of you. Although for a long time I couldn't have given a name to the gift God has given me. I have always felt most at home with a vacuum cleaner, paint roller, sewing needle, Christmas garland, moving box, or a big good in my hands, using these things to edify the body. I found that God often works through the creative skills and natural interests he had. given me using these things to come alongside the church to beautify, support, or encourage others in tangible behind the scenes ways. One of my favorite memories from the church from the history of our church is the time when several women gathered at the vendors' home to say The thick black curtains were going to be hung close to the ceiling to cover some unsightly piping or benting in the church foyer. needles moving up and down. It was a blessing to be seated at a borrowed sewing machine beside the other ribbon, the long lengths of dark black fabric running beneath my fingertips. Our handiwork would be hung too high for many people to notice them, but it was a delight to work on this project for our church building. It has also been a joy to use the scheduled flexibility and time I have during the single season to come alongside a few families in our church to provide babysitting, thus allowing husbands and wives to have intentional time together one-on-one. to have fun, reconnect, weigh decisions, make plans for their families, and continue to build their relationships. There was a time after college where I struggled with the attitude of, Oh, I'm single so I'm automatically the church's built in babysitter. Would we do? However, However, I've come to realize that I have a God given season of opportunity to uphold the value of and support the marriages of my brothers and sisters in the church. By doing the unseen service of feeding their children dinner, working on coloring pages, playing Candyland, monitoring teeth, and reading picture books at bedtime. A few other ways the gift of helps has manifested in ministry for me is through helping with the registration emails and doing setup and takedowns room and a word, coming alongside the back least to plan special events and outings for the college and career group and helping on the decor team, particularly with putting up Christmas decorations around the church every December. I really enjoy this last one every year because it combines twinkle lights, glitter, service, creativity and my church family all into one delightfully Christmassy weekend. Which are some of my favorite things. Each of these roles helps to undergird the running of ministries, foster fellowship or relationship building among the body, or bring beauty or order to the church. I've noticed that one of the tendencies of the gift for me is that it can easily lead to overcommitment and not being able to do my work well because I'm spread too thin. I need the reminder to remain humble by faithfully doing the tasks that I have and not taking on too much. That God is the one who has generously and graciously gifted this to me to show love to others and bring glory to Him. Thank you for listening as I shared this morning. It's such a blessing to be part of this local body as we minister to one another through the various gifts God has given. And it's a pleasure to minister to my church family. Away from my place in the wings. I think you and these. Um so we're going to transition to a time of discussion