Lover of my soul, I hope that those words mean even more to you as we open again for the the sixth and the last time, the John seventeen. Wonderful prayer. The Lord Jesus prayed for his disciples. Indeed, for us, the night of his arrest will begin in verse 20 today and go to the conclusion of the chapter. John 17, verses 20 to 26. Christ still praying, I do not ask on behalf of these alone. but for those also who believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us So that the world may believe that you sent me. The glory which you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, just as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you have loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory, which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, although the world has not known you, yet I have known you, and these have known that you sent me. And I have made your name known to them and will make it known, so that the love with which you love me may be in them, and I in them. These are the words Jesus prayed to the Father on behalf of his church. One of the most loving things that Christians can do for each other is to pray for each other. Just as Jesus prayed for his own in this chapter. He set an example. He teaches us that there is a sincere and fervent kind of prayer on behalf of other people, and that comes from a heart of love. It is an act of love. Because when you intercede for other people, you are taking your thoughts off yourself and you are placing them on the circumstances and the pains and the needs of other people. You're forgetting about yourself and you're going to the Lord and you're beseeching God to do something wonderful for them. That's what love is. It's an otheroriented kind of act. Their trials become your trials. Their problems become your problems. Their hassles and their temptations and their circumstances become your concern. And you carry that with you in your heart and you bring it earnestly before the Lord. You actually can engage in a time of struggle on behalf of other people that God may help them and work in their life. You are wrestling against evil spiritual forces that you can't see but are there, and you wrestle against them for the sake of other people. And you have to keep believing, because what happens is not dependent on how sharp the person you're praying for is, but on God who knows how to deal with any kind of a person, personality, or circumstance. You are coming to beseech omnipotent power to work on behalf of a person who is still in the flesh. That is what the Lord Jesus was doing for these believing men. He loved them, he prayed for them. He had to remain alert in prayer for their sake, because that night they would doze off, their bellies full of lamb and all kinds of other things, and they would not understand the momentous occasion that was happening that evening that would change all of history in their lives as well. Also, I want you to know that Christ did not just love these eleven men. He did. But he did not just love them, and he did not just think of him on the night that he was crucified. I want you to know that Jesus loves you too. that he thinks about you and he prays for you and he loves you. I want to show you something that ought to bless you this morning. Did you know that just as Jesus prayed for his disciples, he specifically mentioned you in this prayer as well. You say, Where? I don't see my name in there anywhere. Well, what's wrong with your translation? Look a little closer. Don't you see it It's right there in verse 20. Please look at it. I do not ask on behalf of these, these eleven, remember Judas is gone, alone, but for Those also who believe in me through their word. Do you see that those who believe there, that's us. That's us. We are those who believe because of the word and the testimony of the apostles. You see, up till now, Jesus' prayers concentrated on those first-century disciples. But now in verse 20, he brings in a larger group. That is, all of the other Christians down through the centuries, including you and me. as we are here today. Christ is praying for us because He knows that we're weak, He knows that we need His intercessions, and He loves us as well. In verses 20 to 26 I want you to see four parts of this last of his three petitions in this prayer. This is the third and the last petition we're covering today. And it's in verses 20 to 26. First, we're going to see the first part of this request is the people whom he prays for. He mentions in verse 20. And then we see the purpose of his prayer in verses 21 through 23. Then the petition itself in verse 24. That's where the third petition is in verse 24. And then the motive or the personal motive of his prayer in verses 25 and 26. So we have the people whom he prays for in verse 20, the purpose of his prayer in verses 21 to 23, the petition itself in verse 24. and the personal motive of his prayer in verses 25 and 26. Look again at verse 20 to the people he prays for, and we'll read it again. I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but for those also who believe in me through their word. So Jesus tells the Father here, these requests are not just for the eleven. I'm also praying for the whole church down through the centuries. That means also that the previous two requests that he prayed in this prayer were for us as well, not just for the eleven. Do you remember what Jesus has prayed for already? Let's do a little review. The first request was way back in verse 11. Look at it. He said, Holy Father. Keep them in your name the name which you have given me. And so we ask the Father, he petitions the Father to keep them. That means Protect them, guard them from evil, be evil one. Verse twelve even says, While I was with them, that is on the earth I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I guarded them. And then in verse fifteen he even repeats that request. He says, Keep them from the evil one. That's Satan. So Jesus kept them and protected them from Satan while he was with his disciples on earth. Everybody except for one, Judas, whose betrayal fulfilled a thousand year old scriptures. And so he had to betray the Son of God to fulfill the scriptures which always have to come to pass. But now Christ was leaving the world. He was exiting and he was asking the Father to continue that guarding work and do it in your name, in other words, by the power of your name. His name is Holy Father, and so by the power of that name keep them from the influence and the damage of the evil one. The second petition We covered last week. It's in verse 17. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. We mentioned that to sanctify means to set them apart for a special work, a special task. God, of course, is holy, and everything that is uh set apart to God becomes holy as well. You've heard of uh King Midas' touch, everything he touched. Well, everything that God touches turns to holiness, right? Remember Moses, he's walking up on a very common mountain, but because God is down on Mount Sinai and he's down there at the burning bush, now Moses approaches it and he's told to take off what? His sandals, right? Because the ground he's standing on is holy ground. Why? Because God was there. Everything God touches turns holy, right? So that's why it was uh a holy spot there somewhere in the Arabian desert. God was there, it's set apart for God, and so it's sanctified, it's holy. So by this request in verse 17, Jesus was consecrating his disciples, asking the Father, set them apart from the world. And then he was giving them a mission to go back to the unbelieving world. That's why we should never act like the unbelieving world, feel comfortable with the unbelieving world. fit in with them. We don't. We're separate to God. We're supposed to be separate in our attitudes, our behavior, our motives, our goals of life. It's supposed to be clear we're distinct because now we're sent on a mission back to them. People talk about being relevant to the world today. The only way the Church of Jesus Christ can be relevant to the world is if it's distinct from the world, not the same as the world. We're sanctified and set apart and sent on a mission back precisely because we are very different from them. And that was important to Christ. We are kept and then we are sanctified, and uh we're it's all done by the truth. Truth is truth. Truth is always truth. Truth is absolute truth. That's what truth is. Truth doesn't change. Truth is always true because it's truth. Truth is not whatever we decide truth to be. That's called imagination. There's no such thing as my truth and your truth. There's only one truth. To say that I can make truth my truth by thinking it to be truth is both arrogant and ignorant simultaneously, and that is a bad combination. Truth is not how we interpret life's experiences, truth is not subjective, truth is not the philosophical speculations of men, truth is not Mother Nature, truth is what God says truth is, indeed, his words are truth. Not just true, but truth. And that's how we are set apart. And here Jesus is asking the Father to immerse his followers in the words of God, that is to mold their thinking and set them apart from the world, so they can be useful to the Master in this task. Kept from the evil one because they're surrounded by the works of the evil one in their ministry. Now in making a transition From the second request of the Lord to the third, which we're dealing with today, notice very importantly that some of those in the world that are mentioned in verse 18 become the believers that are mentioned in verse 20. I want you to see that. Some who are in the world, and they're mentioned in the world in verse 18, become the believers mentioned in verse 20. The eleven who were sent on a mission with the Word of God to the world preached that same word to whoever would listen. And some became believers. And so Christ is praying for them now. How were people to be converted from the world and into being one of Christ's followers? Did it happen by water baptism? Was there something magical in the water? No, Christianity is not a religion of magic. Was it through forced conversion by the sword? No, Christianity never needs to intimidate anyone because they have the truth. It was the word of God that affected the conversion. The truth affected their minds and changed their hearts. God's word worked faith into the hearts of some, not all. And those some are you and me and the rest of Christ's true church who have believed. And that's exciting because this has worked. What Christ prayed for in John 17, 2000 years ago, it worked. What he prayed for came to pass. What we believe today in the year 2013 is not a new word. We are never to adapt the message. It stays the same. It never changes. We don't dare alter the word of the king. Any church that creates a new word for the new world or mixes their own thoughts with Scripture thinking it makes it better is departing from God's word and God's truth that was handed down to chosen men through the generations. The message that we believe and that saved us from our sins came from the apostles, came from Christ, came from the Father, should never be altered or changed. We believe the word of the apostles from the word of the apostles were the words of Christ, and the words of Christ were the words of the Father, and the Father knows the truth because he knows all things. Romans 10, 17 says that our faith, saving faith, comes to us by hearing, and the hearing is the word of Christ Ramatas Christu, the Word of Christ, the very utterances of Jesus Christ, lead us to faith that saves us. A true Christian. Is not one merely who has been baptized in water and whose parents happen to be Christians, who comes to church and attends church who tries to live a good life and live by the golden rule or the Ten Commandments and comes and takes the Lord's supper. You can do all of those things and not have the truth in you and still be lost. A true Christian is one who believes and receives the word of Christ into the center of his life. God's words take over his thoughts and his beliefs, and he continues in those words and grows in strength of faith. It is those kind of people Christ is praying for right here, true believers. Thank God the apostles were faithful to get the words of Jesus Christ out. And all of them suffered badly for it. Thank God for men and women who received that word and taught it to the next generation, and then the next generation, and then the next generation. So that we today could hear and believe. Thank God for the zealous reformers five centuries ago, five hundred years ago that said The Catholic Church has buried the Word of God in the language we don't understand and won't allow us to read it for ourselves and they stood up and said this is wrong God gave us the words of Christ, and we will proclaim them to the church. And they took the pulpit from the side of the room and they put it in the middle and they put the Bible on the on its throne and they began to proclaim the Word of God again to the church. And the Protestant movement was born. This is the primary calling of a man of God to preach and teach all of God's word and to not sift through it and decide what's relevant for today or not. Look at the confidence Jesus expresses in verse 20. I pray for all those who will believe in me through their word. He's about to be crucified as a criminal. No one has believed anything. The Jews have rejected him, and he's praying for all of those that are going to believe in him. That's confidence in something he didn't see yet. How did he know that? He knew it because he knew that when he prays, God answers his prayers. Do you remember I just love the personal touch that Jesus prayed for Peter? I love this. It just speaks so much about this whole time of intercession. I've read it a couple times when we've gone through this Prayer, but I want to read it again. Luke twenty-two, thirty-one and thirty-two, where Jesus turns to Peter. His other name was Simon. Simon, Simon. How do you think he said that? Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith might not fail. And you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Absolute confidence God was going to hear his prayer. Do you see that? It's amazing. Luke 22, 31 and 32. Jesus also promised: I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. And this prayer 2,000 years ago guaranteed the success of the church for them and for us today How exciting that is. Now that's who Christ prayed for the people. Let's look at next the purpose of his prayer in verse twenty one. Look at it. Verse twenty one. and following there. That they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent Now, verse 21 is not another request. Some of you might think of it that way. He's not asking God to make them one. He's saying that he's asking God to sanctify them in order that they may be one. Oneness is the outcome of his second request for sanctification. Verse 21 begins with a Hinna clause in Greek. It indicates a purpose. I ask this Father for the purpose of them being one. This was also his purpose in the first request. If you remember back in verse 11, he said, keep them. Why? In order that they might be one. So the request leads to oneness. And we're going to see that as the outcome of his third request as well. Clearly, oneness among the followers was important to Jesus. Unity of all of the followers was on his mind as he headed to the cross. He did not want his followers fractured. He did not want them separated from him. What is the kind of unity Jesus was praying for in John 17? It's been interesting to see how people have used this passage to promote what is called the ecumenical movement. The ecumenical movement is a church movement throughout the world that began mostly among liberal Protestant denominations. It was promoting organizational oneness and cooperation among all Christian denominations throughout the world Various efforts in the early part of the 20th century led uh over time, over the decades, to the formation of the World Council of Churches in 1948. The Eastern Orthodox Churches originally resisted this movement, but now they're engaged. The Roman Catholic Church, though not yet members, also seems to be working towards this unity. Evangelicals, particularly here in North America, have seemed very divided over it. Some welcoming it, others warning of compromise and false teaching. Today, let's face it, there is a thirst for organizational oneness. It's a very powerful push that is happening. Those who resist organizational oneness appear to others to be divisive and to be petty and to be small-minded, caring only for their own little area. But what kind of oneness was Jesus praying for in John 17? People can read it and assume he's talking about a denominational organizational oneness. Is that really what he was praying for? Well, there it is in verse twenty-one. What kind of oneness? Even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they may also be in us. Beloved, that is not denominational oneness. That is not an organizational unity Christ is praying for. It is not a unity where doctrinal truth is shed in order to try to achieve it. It is a relational unity, resulting in a unity of mind and purpose in the world between himself and God, and God and his followers It's the same kind of unity between the Father and the Son. This is not talking about their divinity here. It's talking about their oneness of relationship and oneness of purpose. In some mystical and organic way, the Father lives in the Son, and the Son lives in the Father. We can't understand that. That's ontological. That's that's the eternal Godhead. The close, intimate communion the members of the Godhead have with each other. They're of one substance, three persons. We can't really understand that. Such a relationship is sweet, it's unhindered by any taint of evil. The Son always does the will of the Father. There's never any tension or friction between the Father and the Son. They have complete unity of mind and purpose. In a similar way, every believer has God the Father and God the Son living in them. We saw this earlier in the Upper Room Discourse in John fourteen twenty-three. If anyone loves me, Christ said, He will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. So Jesus wants the close relationship where God lives inside of man. He wants that kind of unity. This is a unity of love, a unity of relationship. The disciples would be so close to Christ and to the Father and desire to fulfill the will of God on earth. Keep in mind, beloved, that if the purpose of this prayer by Jesus was to attain an external organizational kind of oneness, As the ecumenical movement seems to jump on board that and claim, then Jesus' prayer to the Father here has been left unanswered for hundreds of years. Even before there was a Protestant movement 500 years ago, there were plenty of splinter groups from the original churches, and East and West have been split for over a thousand years. Poor little Jesus. The Father ignored his request. I don't believe that. That's impossible. Why is that impossible? Because Christ fully knew the Father. He knew the Father, and he knew what the Father wanted, prayed to him. He believed the Father. He never doubted the Father. And the Father loves the Son and does what the Son asks. So all of Jesus' prayers were correct. He never made a mistake in his prayers. All of them got answered. And indeed, the answer to that is in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 3 and 4. I'll read it to you. Particularly verses 3. But on in that whole passage that we had for our scripture reading, Ephesians 4, verses 3 and 4. Being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, for there is one body. He wasn't hoping for that. He says there is one body. And he says, one spirit and one calling. Contrary to the opinion of many people, Paul never commanded us in Ephesians 4 to create unity. Never. It's not in there. Paul doesn't say get together and and and build a unity for the cause of Jesus Christ. No, we didn't make the unity. All we can do is preserve the intents of that unity in the Spirit. The Spirit is the one who created the unity. What unity is that? It's the unity that the Holy Spirit brought about When he formed all of the disciples into one body on the day of Pentecost, put them all into the body, and everyone else from there on out that got saved was placed into one body That has happened. That still goes on. That has not changed. That's ontological. That's invisible, but it's true. It is there. It becomes visible in our heart of the same purpose to glorify Christ. That is the meaning of the one body of Christ, formed by the one Holy Spirit. That's why there's one baptism. We are one. We can't really change that. We just work at preserving that, building the outward expression of that unity. The very fact that all true Christians together make up the body of Christ means we are all joined. We're joined to Him who is our head, and we are joined necessarily. to one another. Christ prayed for the unity, and the unity happened. It happened on the day of Pentecost. We were all put and placed into one body. BBC is starting their new worship service today. Are we one with them? Absolutely What about that other church down the road that is also proclaiming the gospel of Jesus and they're faithful to the Word of God? Are we one with them? Absolutely. We couldn't change that if we wanted to. It doesn't matter that we're organizationally tied or not organizationally tied. We're tied in purpose and in mind. We want to glorify Christ. We want to expound his word. We want to live to obey him. It is a permanent organic unity. And that underlies Paul's exhortation for us to preserve the unity of the Spirit. Paul says: since we are one, we are to act like one. When this true unity is understood, it's easy to see that there is more oneness between many of the evangelical denominations or even just individual churches today. than some of the large denominations that are tied together organizationally. Yes, even the Roman Catholic Church that maintains a semblance of organizational oneness while being fractured into hundreds of divergent groups and beliefs within their organization. Organizational unity can be nothing but a facade. That is what the ecumenical movement is producing. Christ wanted something much deeper. He wouldn't pray for something superficial. He wanted something deep. He wanted something lasting. He wanted something that couldn't be broken. And so he prayed for it. Or he prayed through his request that it would come about. He desired true unity. He didn't want his followers tied together with false teachers. Listen to what the will of Christ is on that in Romans 16, 17. Now I urge you, brethren, keep your eye on those who cause dissensions and hindrances. Contrary to the teaching which you learned, and turn away from them. That's organizational disunity in order to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the truth. Sometimes organizations have to separate in order to keep working at the unity which is a unity in the truth This happened in 1 John chapter 2, where he says they went out from us, but they were not really of us. If they had been of us, they would have remained with us, but they went out in order that it might be shown that they all were not really of us. That division, that split, John says, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, was necessary to show some are not really part of Christ, even though they carry the name Christ. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is not. It's not. It's not of Jesus. It's not Latter-day Saints. The only thing they get right is the Latter-day, I guess. We must remain separate from all false teachings on central doctrines and false gospels. When true Christians do not act like we are members of one another, it does though hurt our witness to the world. Notice the unity Christ wants must become visible in some way to the world so the world may believe. That you sent me, Christ praise in verse 21. That mutual love we have towards one another, that fellowship of the Spirit that we share. That's supposed to be attractive to a lost world. It's so important when you think through what an evangelism strategy is for the local church that you understand the evangelism strategy of God for the world is the local church It is the local church loving each other, being connected to one another. That is the evangelism strategy. He didn't say go out and evangelize everything. He said go out and and evangelize Form them into communities and let those communities visibly show Christ to the world, then they'll get it. You could have just left the message, you could have let an eagle fly around the mid-heaven and preach the gospel to everyone to take us out of the world, and he didn't do that. He wanted the world to see local churches and he wanted to see them house Christ. That is God's evangelism strategy for the world, the local church. And so we need to work hard at unity so they can see that. It's exciting when unbelievers come to a church event or picnic or whatever they'll be willing to come out to and they see Christians relating to one another. You know men getting together instead of bashing their wives or talking about how much they love their wives and how much they want to grow and that's foreign to them. They don't understand that and that changes them. These people are weird. These people are different. My buddies are not like this. That's important That's important they see that. That's important that's the witness of the whole community working together, loving each other, caring for each other, meeting needs These things are not just activities in church, they visibly show the love that Christ wants us to have towards one another. He wants us to be unified in all of that Having time together, working together. Sometimes we have disagreements and we try to work through those disagreements because the the the love of Christ comes first, right? And his word. Notice Christ elaborates on this unity in verses 22 and 23. The glory which you have given me, I have given to them that they may be one just as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you have loved me. Christ takes his glory and gives it to all of his disciples. The glory is the radiant beauty of God in Christ and then thrown upon us. so that we would shine with that same glory. There's an aura even about Christians. Their countenance changes. Their love towards one another is a beautiful thing. Their acts of humility, that's a wonderful glory that is in the world that the world Can behold, and it'll become greater in the future. Now the disciples would reveal Christ, for Christ's glory would be in them. We all reveal Christ together. I can't individually reveal Christ. I'm not the body of Christ. We are the body of Christ. Collectively, with our different gifts and maturation, working together with the body of Christ, and we reveal Christ that way. No matter where Christians are, anywhere in this world today, the world can see the exact same Jesus Christ in them, the same exact Spirit. And when they see that same Jesus, they perceive the glory of God. And they perceive our unity with one another and with God. And it leads them to understand that God sent Jesus into the world, that this is true. And that Jesus loves us just as God loved Christ. So this intimate relationship of love Christ wanted with his disciples is his great concern. in this prayer. And that leads us to the petition itself. This is number three, third today, but also the third petition in the prayer itself in verse 24. Look at it. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory which you have given me. For you loved me before the foundation of the world. And Christ has a glory, and he wants his disciples to see it You know, on a wedding day, uh all the eyes are focused not on the groom up front, but on who? The bride in all of her glory, right? She gets dressed up, and mom and aunts and uncles and best friends, and not uncles, aunts and best friends are all helping. her to look the best she can. So when she comes down that aisle it's perfect, right? Just perfection. There's a glory about a bride. There is a glory about Christ that we've only partially seen now, beloved. We're going to see the glory in the fullness, and our jaws are going to drop open There's that song that tries to figure out what we'll do when we see him. Will we fall at our feet? Will we dance and sing? Can't really figure it out. I know what I'm doing. I'm gonna fall down as low as I can possibly get. I've already figured that one out. I'm gonna get down low before the Lord I'm figuring out from Revelation chapter one, verse twenty, when John, who knew him best and leaned on his breast and loved him, maybe the the closest of any of the men on earth, he saw him and he fell at Jesus' feet as a dead man. I think that's how I'll be I think it's just going to be wonderful, a tremendous glory. And Jesus says, I want them to see me in my glory. That's what he wants. Christ wants you to see him for who he is. This is on his heart It's not just that we will, it's that he wants us to see. He wants us to know who he is in all of his glory. We get it, we read about it, we have doctrinal class, we sort of understand it, but when we see him, oh my, oh my Oh my. That's when he's still around, I could tell. This third request fits the first two requests. Only if we are protected by the Father while we minister in the world. And only if we are set apart from the world by the truth will we ever be able to be brought all the way to glory. When will that be fulfilled? Well you might say at death, we go into the presence of the Lord. I think primarily the Lord was speaking of the time where there will be resurrection at the rapture. And in our full being we will behold him. and receive you to myself. That is the rapture. That has to happen before the second coming. Logically there's no other way that can fit. And so that is what he's talking about. So in the rapture we're going to see his glory and that's when this is going to be fulfilled. If someone were to shipwreck their faith and fall away from the Lord now, be consumed by the evil one, which I'm sure Satan would love. Or if someone did not have and believe in God's word of truth to set them apart, then this third request would never happen. Makes sense that it's third. But because Christ is praying for us, every believer ought to be absolutely assured that they are secure. There are none that have truly believed that will be lost along the way. Isn't that wonderful? How do I know that? Because Christ always has his prayers answered. Always. We are protected by the power of God. We're not protected by self-will, by our ability to give ourselves faith and keep our faith We all know that we're prone to wander, right? We all know if it was left up to ourselves, we'd see things in the world, we'd hear false teachings, we'd think about the lusts in our own body, and we'd wander away from God, but we're protected by the power of God. 1 Peter 1. 5. We are protected by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. We have it now, it'll be revealed in the last time. If you ever doubt how safe and secure you are in Christ, remember Christ prayed for you. And other passages say he is praying for you. Some people are worried about losing their salvation. They think they have to do something to make God keep them. I don't know how you could ever get peace like that. I think you'd be a nervous wreck The Apostle Paul understood God's protective care, and in Romans 8 he said, If God is for us, you finish it. Who can be against us? Well, there's lots of people against us, but the point is that their being against us doesn't matter. If God's on your team, when you play the game, you win. Doesn't matter who who's wearing the jersey on the opposite side, they're gonna get trounced. The if God is for us means since God is for us. That's the meaning. But we have to believe that. And through that we gain security. But God's only for those that are a certain way. See, we start to doubt ourselves, and the focus gets put on ourselves, and we start And we doubt ourselves, and so then when we doubt ourselves, we doubt God. You got it all wrong. You've got to believe God. You don't it doesn't matter whether you believe yourself or not. It doesn't matter what you think about yourself. That's irrelevant. What you need to think is about God Since the one true God, and by the way, he's Almighty, yes? Almighty means, well it means Almighty. If he's on your side, if he's for us, if he's worked in such a great manner to save us, secure us, and bring us to glory, give us great promises, all those benefits for every believer. What opposition could c possibly be of any significance against us? Doesn't matter who's on the other team. He will make sure we prevail. So, whatever you've been a loser at in life, you're a winner here. There's no one who can prevent you from experiencing the fullness of God's salvation and Christ's glory falling all over you. God is for us. The opposition is nullified. Once you're saved, you're saved by God. And God doesn't save and then take it back. No one stops God from finishing what he starts. No one, not even you, you can't even stop it. Remember the last thing Jesus said before praying his prayer back in John 16, 33. These things I've spoken to you that in me you may have peace. He didn't want them to be anxious about what was going to happen to them. And he continues, in the world you have tribulation, but take courage, I have overcome the world. I'm in Christ. Christ has overcome the world. Take courage. Be at peace. Christ is a victor. The world loses. There's competition. There's opposition. There's a war. Christ wins. We got told ahead of time what's going to happen. We're the victors. 1 John 5:4. Whatever is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. And so Christ petitioned the Father that we would come up to see him in glory. Let them come up, let them see the fullness of my glory is his request. To one degree, the disciples have had sneak previews of that glory. John began this whole gospel back in chapter 1, verse 14. Saying this, the word became flesh, that's human flesh, lived among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. They got that. They perceived that. As Christ lived among them and they saw his grace, the beauty of his character, the truth, what joy they must have experienced to know They knew Christ so closely. They saw him. They came to love him and his character. In John 2:11, Jesus turned water into wine simply by speaking. Just even having it stirred. Remember that at the wedding of Cana? And then it reports there, this beginning of signs, that means miracles, Jesus did and manifested his glory. See a little shine forth of his glory there in that miracle. And his disciples believed him. A little bit of glory, and they believed. On the Mount of Transfiguration, probably Mount Kermon, Christ revealed some of his divine nature to the inner three: Peter, James, and John. His clothes and his face shone in brilliant white, a little bit of the deity coming out of his humanity, and they got to see that. When Christ died upon the cross, all that looked at him, they might have seen blood and shame and nakedness, but there was a glory there. There was a love, a humble love that would lay down one's life. One's reputation and everything for the sake of those whom he loved. There was a glory that came from the cross. We even have a little bit of that light of glory shining inside of us according to 2 Corinthians 4. 6. God who said, Light shall shine out of darkness is the one who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. We're aware of that glory to a degree right now But you and I and the disciples had never seen Christ in the fullness of his glory. In the fullness of his glory. 1 Timothy 6:16. God alone possesses immortality and dwells in unapproachable light. Imagine that light that is so bright you can't even approach it. Whom no man has seen or can see, to him be honor and glory forever. This intense and absolute display of God in Christ their eyes had never seen, and the world could never behold. Revelation 22, 5 says, there will no longer be any night in the future. They will not have the need of the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, because the Lord God will illumine them and they will reign forever and ever. He's going to shine himself, because he always shines. Jesus wants them all to see it. He wants us all to see it. He wants us to behold his full heavenly glory. In fact, when we see him, something's going to change in us. Did you know that? This is the beatific vision. The scripture says that when we actually see him, we'll be instantly changed. We wonder, how are we going to go through this? You know, it's been so hard growing in the Lord and becoming sanctified and more holy, and it takes years and decades, and this is hard. But when we see him, we're going to be changed instant instantly. 1 John 3. 2, we will be changed to be like him, for we will see him just as he is. And boom, we'll be changed because we see him. This is our intense and earnest hope, and it is Christ's intense and earnest plea. And now fourth and briefly. The personal motive of his prayer in verses 25 and 26. Oh righteous father. Notice how he uses again another title for the Lord in his prayers. O righteous Father, although the world has not known you. What does that say about all the religions of the world, by the way? Wish I could just spend some time on that alone. People don't come in other paths to know God, right? Although the world has not known you, yet I have known you. That would be a very arrogant thing for one person to say, unless it were what? True. And these have known that you sent me And I have made your name known to them, and will make it known, so that the love with which you love me may be in them, and I in them. Now since chapter 13 of John, over and over in various ways, we have been talking about how chapters 13, 14, 15 And 16. Really this whole upper room discourse and in chapter 17 now where they're probably out of the upper room and he's praying. Outside to the Heavenly Father on their behalf, all of this has been mostly about Christ's relationship with his own. The love that he has for them, loving them to the end, his washing their feet, his teaching them how he's not going to abandon them, he's going to send his spirit to be with them. that his peace and his joy and his love have been to them, that they are to abide in him the way a branch abides in a vine. All of it has been about relationship. Relationship is the dominant theme, and you see the oneness that is the dominant theme in chapter 17 in the prayer. It's all about this love relationship that God and Christ have, not with the world, but with believers. The world does not know God. They're so busy indulging in their unrighteousness they can't know the righteous Father. They have no desire to know a righteous God. The world does not have a relationship with the Father. They're cut off from God. None of the religions bring people in touch with God. Jesus said so. They just solidify themselves in their own thoughts, their own sin, their own pride, their own lusts. But Christ says, I know you. I know you. Genosco is that word know again. Same as in verse 3, to know God is eternal life. And my disciples know that you sent me, and I manifested my name, your name to them. I showed them who you were. And Christ even says that he would continue to make God's name known. That's an interesting comment there. It probably is reference to the coming of the Spirit and his continued teaching ministry to the disciples in Jesus' absence. So, according to Jesus, the only way to know the true God is through Jesus. And that fits well with verse 3, where it says, This is eternal life, to know the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you sent. Why did the Son make the Father known to the disciples? So the love the Father has for the Son would be passed on to us. Jesus wants us to know and to enjoy God's presence and God's wonderful love in our lives. 1 John 4. 16, what a powerful verse. Write that down and look it up and think about it this week. 1 John 4. 16. We have come to know and have believed the love which God has for us. Do you believe in God's love for you? We have come to know and have believed the love which God has for us. Do you sense that love? Do you perceive that love? God is love, it goes on to say, and the one who abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. It's all about the relationship. Do you see that? Do you hear it in the words of Christ? These are the words of God. See how intensely Christ wants us to know him and love him. And to know that he knows us and loves us. It's relationship. How sad it is when we hear all this teaching about relationship and how much he loves us and what he has done to secure a relationship with us. And we put other relationships before this relationship. We neglect our relationship with God. Why do you neglect your relationship with God? You ever thought about that? You ever thought about what replaces that relationship with God? Love of material things, busy shopping, buying things, making things prettier, building things up, accumulating more things, trying to find more security. When your heart is in all that, you can't develop a relationship with God You can't serve two masters. Remember Christ? What he said. If you find satisfaction and your temporary happiness and what you buy and what's new and what you get to wear and what you get to drive. How can you develop a relationship with God? How can that permeate your your love and your heart? And then when people are bored, they turn entertainment into games. Boy, we have a lot of games these days, don't we? You know me, I I like to goof off. I I like games. There's so much entertainment. Even when we say it's good entertainment, there's just so much of it. It's one game after another after another after another, electronic this, electronic that. And what does that do? That keeps our minds in that realm. And we never know how impoverished our soul is. We never learn how wonderful a relationship with God is because we're so busy filling it up with all these little things that keep us going all the time. And where's the time to just sit and love Christ and and sit at his feet and learn from him and push out all the things that seem to seem to please real quickly, but they don't last and they're not passed. So we keep filling them with one after another after another, but we don't feast on Christ, which is much more satisfying. Or the lusts which we turn to. We engage in lusts of the mind and try to create a world where we would want it to be and create a fantasy the way we'd want it to be and fulfill all the desires of our body. And in that find fulfillment. And then where is the room for the relationship with God there, you see? Others fill their lives with The next thing they have to get accomplished. It's the pride of doing, the pride of accomplishing, graduating, looking good before others, landing the job, doing this, accomplishing that, and their mind and heart feed off of that. And where is their love for Christ? Where's the relationship with Christ? These things, much of which we're supposed to do in moderation and have as part of our experience in this world, become too important and they push out our love for Christ. And it's poison to the soul. And it permeates our hearts and it keeps us from loving God. It distracts the mind. It delays our sanctification. Doing what we want to do, rush to church, try to get a little sip, and then back out to live the same way again. Knowing Christ is not merely an obligation. It is the most satisfying thing that you could ever have in your life. There's nothing that will satisfy you more. Knowing Christ is everlasting life. Knowing Christ is what Christ wants for you. Knowing Christ is the aim of this prayer, being unified with him, being brought to glory with him. Knowing Christ is what much of all of this teaching has been about. We come to the end of this wondrous portion of Scripture. The whole intent was for you to know Christ more. An old song put it this way. We want to see him more clearly and love him more dearly and follow him more nearly. Get deeper, get higher See it more clearly, become more confident, know him in your heart. Getting saved and coming to know Christ is only the beginning of an adventure The land that needs to be traversed, the amount of growth in knowing this immeasurable being is beyond our ability even to fathom. We don't have to be waiting out. We're to be jumping in and swimming and swimming and swimming and going deep and learning the love of Christ for us. Father, we pray that our hearts would be attuned to you, we would learn of your love, and not be stagnant and satisfied, playing with little toys. While we push out the greatest experience of life, how foolish that would be. I pray as we go to the time of communion, we would commune with you. Love you. See you, enjoy you. But we pray it in the name of Christ who revealed your name to us. Amen