I don't know, as we've been looking out at the uh yard, it it seems to me spring's coming a little late this year. Does it seem like that to you? It's like three weeks earlier we had uh our cherry trees fully in blossom. I love springtime because I think that It's when you get to watch life emerge again. Maybe God planned it that way, as a reminder to us that Though something looks dead and gone, it's not necessarily gone. And uh God brings life back again. The coldness and deadness of winter I don't really like, but it does illustrate something And uh we know that uh life can emerge again. But is that true? Does life really come back to life, or is that just uh a a wish? What happens When we die. Is that all? Some people, of course, would exclaim, Yeah, that's it, that's all. Get over it. Life ends. Eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow. We die. You know the slogan. But how do they know that? They don't. It's a guess. Let's be honest, some folks don't want there to be life after death. They don't want to have to explain what they did in their life to a perfect being named God. Is there really life after death? Now you know and I know that our society puts a heavy stock on education and on science. True enough? You know that because you've been through the educational system as I have too. Observational facts. But science only goes so far. Science is limited. Science is good, but science is not equipped to answer the biggest questions of life. Many of us were taught that only what science proves should we accept as true. But that statement itself isn't even provable by science. So an unqualified belief in science transcends science itself and therefore is self-defeating. It's a self-canceling assertion, it's self-contradictory Logic demands that that is not true. Logic demands that there is and must be truth and knowledge beyond empirical verification, beyond what your five senses and science can prove. And the question of life beyond the grave or out of the grave, a resurrection. By the way, you can't have a spiritual resurrection, it's always a bodily resurrection, that's what the word means. I grew up at a church that said they believed in the resurrection. We had Easter Sunday like this, but one of the pastors didn't even believe that he was raised bodily from the dead. That's not a resurrection. So, a resurrection out of the grave, the question about that has to be answered by God and by historical testimony. Some people say, well, but a resurrection would be an extremely rare event. I think David Human, David Hume said that we ought not to believe in things that are rare. But some of the greatest things are rare. The beginning of the universe had to be rare, and it has to be believed in. So he was wrong about that. There are rare things that can be believed, and uh if a resurrection was common there'd be nothing special about it. The claim of a resurrection should be taken very, very seriously by everybody. Life is very short. Eternity is how long? Well, it's forever. That's why it's called eternity. Listen, a lot of you are taking time to eat right and sleep right and exercise right. But that's going to last for just a few more years, folks. If if you're worried about messing up your health down here, you should be much more concerned about messing up your eternal health. Today, what we're going to do is consider an historical account about one man named Paul who proclaimed the resurrection from the dead. This man saw the resurrected Jesus himself on the road to Damascus, as is well told. But he saw the resurrected Jesus while he was trying to destroy Christians. He was a very devout Jew. He was dedicated to the law of God. He saw and thought of They weren't even called Christians at that point in time, but they saw this way, as they were called, to be a disruption, to be aberrant teaching within Judaism, and being a dedicated Jew, he wanted to stop the church in its infancy and destroy it But Jesus met him and completely redirected his life. And Jesus even chose this man, Paul, to be one of the key eyewitnesses of his resurrection. So again, if you have a copy of the Bible, I'd like you to open to Acts chapter 17. The book of Acts means the Acts of the Apostles, what they did after the life of Christ. And uh the it's positioned right after the four gospels on purpose. That's where you can find it. Book of Acts, chapter 17. And then just follow along as we get into this. Before we even get into, we're going to start at verse 16, but before we even get in there, uh we need some historical background. And actually the sermon, his message starts later than that. In Acts 17, verses 16 through 33, it records the Apostle Paul's witness to pagan philosophers, very educated men. In the city of Athens, a famous place called Mars Hill, still there today, and this is around 52 A. D. in Greece. The civilized world at that time, including Greece, was ruled, of course, by the Romans. They had trampled over the whole world and they ruled it all. The greatest empire the world has ever known, the Roman Empire. But the Greeks, since the days of Alexander the Great, were the shapers of civilization, particularly known for their education, their art, and yes, their philosophy. None of these philosophers that Paul was about to speak to were Christians. We pick that up from chapter 17, verse 18, where it says they had no idea what this Jesus or resurrection were. They actually thought Paul was talking about two new deities to worship: a male deity called Jesus and a female deity called Anastasis, which is the Greek word for resurrection, and it's a feminine term. In the days of Paul's visit, the city of Athens had a reputation as a city of great learning. It didn't have the same economic prosperity it had in the past, but it still was a center for learning. Centuries before Paul's day, Athens had been the home of renowned philosophers such as Plato and Socrates and Aristotle Also, there were many magnificent buildings and places of worship that had been built in Athens through the centuries. At the center of the city was a rocky hill called the Acropolis. It rose about 512 feet above sea level. The Parthenon, made of white marble, was erected on top of the Acropolis, and it was dedicated to the goddess Athena, from which the city probably derived its name Other buildings of interest on the Acropolis were the Sanctuary of Zeus and the Sanctuary of Pandeon and there were many others. And so here was Paul in this grand ancient city, impressive city, really. But please notice what Paul's response was in verse sixteen to all of his grand architecture in this great city. It was not one of appreciation. He wasn't standing around with his jaw open wide Rather, it was one of zeal for the true God he came to proclaim. It actually says there that his spirit was being provoked within him. He was very bothered. He saw all of the city full of idols statues, shrines to honor other gods, and that did not sit well with him at all. As a good Jew, Paul knew this idol worship was a violation of the very first of the Ten Commandments. The true God of heaven rejected all of this worship of idols. When Paul began preaching in Athens, there was no church established there. According to verse seventeen In the agora, that is the marketplace, which was the social and commercial and political center of the city, he chose there to preach and to teach about Jesus with whoever would listen, whoever was there. It says in verse 18 that he got the attention particularly of some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers. Now, the Epicureans, they're an interesting bunch. They were known for their pursuit of the avoidance of pain, another way of putting that as pleasure. They believed only in the material reality. They rejected the notion of life after death. And they held that gods were also really just material beings. The Stoics, on the other hand, desired to live a very virtuous life in harmony with nature. being content with whatever their lot was in life. They had a pantheistic world view, and they believed in that. Well, Paul got the attention of these learned philosophers. And according to verse 19, he was taken to the Aropicus, and this was the key place within Athens for hearing new teachings. Verse 21 tells us that the Athenians love to spend their time hearing new things, a curious bunch to say the least. Their interest was in having Paul answer this question in verse 19. May we know what this new teaching is which you are proclaiming? And you can see their motivation in verse 20. We want to know, therefore, what these things mean. Now that's the background to the speech that I want us to look at today. And now Paul actually begins the speech in verses twenty-two and twenty-three, sort of a introduction. Let's read it. So Paul stood in the midst of the Aropagus and said Men of Athens, I observe that you are very religious in all respects For while I was passing through and examining the objects of your worship, I also found an altar with this inscription to an unknown God. Therefore, what you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you. So this is his opening. This is his address to them. He addresses them politely, men of Athens. He made contact with them by admitting he sees that they're already very religious people. He saw their objects of worship. But then he said something to philosophers that might have bothered them a little bit. He said, What you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you. So obviously he was very bold in proclaiming the truth And now that was the introduction. We get into the message itself, starting in verse 24. Look at that. He says, The God who made the world and all things in it. Since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and the boundaries of their habitation. that they would seek God if perhaps they might grope for him and find him, though he is not far from each of us. For in him we live and move and exist, as even some of your own poets have said, for we also are his children. Being then the children of God, we ought not to think that the divine nature is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and thought of man. So what is he telling them here? Basically, two things. They got God wrong, and they got man wrong. They didn't understand either They got God wrong. He is not like these idols. He's the creator of everything. He's Lord of heaven and earth. He doesn't need a human temple. He can't really be served by human hands. He gave everybody everything that they have. So their idea of God was very small, and he had to elevate their idea of God so they would know truly who he is. Who is he? That is who he is, and that is how he is to be worshipped. He also told them, You should have known these things already, because you were given nature and you were given human history, and God gave you all of that time and all of the surroundings to see Him, and so you could seek Him and know Him. But then he says, You also got man wrong, and you as men are wrong. He taught them that man was given life by God, and man was just one race. By the way, they didn't know anything about DNA back then. But Paul was exactly right, the human race is one race, and they were all accountable to know God because he is not far from each one of us, he said. Indeed, man is God's offspring. Even some of their own poets had understood that in verses 28 and 29. So he lays out all of that teaching about God and about man because he really wants to come and talk about the resurrection. And so all of that is really an introduction to talking about the resurrection. And all of that truth comes from the Old Testament. You don't see the Apostle Paul quoting chapter and verse. This comes from Isaiah chapter 40 or this comes from Genesis chapter 2. But that is exactly what he was talking about. He was he was teaching them from the Old Testament. He was teaching them from the law of God, from the Torah, he was teaching them what the true God was really like And Paul gave them everything that they needed to know to understand the importance of the resurrection that day. And that was the main thing that he wanted to talk about. And so we're going to spend most of our time in verses 30 and 31 where he declares that. Verse thirty Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should repent. We'll call this what God demands of the world. What is it that God demands of people today? What is it that God demands of you? Says right here in verse 30. Verse 30 tells you what God requires. It's a very simple verse. It's very straightforward. God is willing to overlook the times of people's ignorance, Paul says. Men were ignorant of God and still are ignorant of God. Why are they that way? Well, he doesn't explain it there. The rest of the Bible explains it because of their own evil desires, their own darkened hearts, their own desire for sin. Because of that, they don't know God the way he really is. And we can just look around today and we can just listen to what people are saying. What are people doing today? Are they really pursuing God? Not really. They're pursuing what they want in life. They're doing their own thing. They're not pursuing God's will. God knows that. God understands that. God is not blind to what's happening down here in this world. He knows people have chosen to go their own way And Paul's saying, you know, God understands that. God's very patient, and here all these nations, and they spread out over the whole world from one man, and rather than seeking him, they just went their own way and they created their own gods, and God knows that. And God's willing to be patient. God still loves mankind, but ultimately he's not going to excuse their worship of other gods and their living any way that they want to. I think it's just I think it's just so clear that we're in a country where people have a hard time listening to the things from the Bible anymore. You and you know that, and I know that. We crack a Bible, start talking to people about it, they want to change the subject People aren't really willing to listen to God anymore. And there's a reason for that. We've become a proud nation. We're rich. We're powerful. You know, we think we've had Christianity, been there, done that. Many of these folks know really nothing at all about Christianity. And they look around, they say, you know, we we're living and we're having a good time, there's no judgment of God. Why should we worry about the future? But just because God is patient, that shouldn't be taken advantage of. And that's what people are doing today. They're taking advantage of God's patience because He's waiting to judge. Right now, during this church age, God is being very patient. He's being very loving and forgiving. God is offering something to mankind he really didn't have to offer. He's saying, here's the deal: I'm offering the pardon for all of your sins. It's a good deal. I mean when someone is going to conquer you says, before I conquer you and destroy you, I want to let you know I'm willing to offer you pardon. for all of your offenses against me, forgiveness for all sins. And more than that, I'm going to offer you eternal life. Eternal life to millions. Who deserve death instead? But each person has to make a response. Each person has to respond to God's patient demands to receive the pardon. It's an individual requirement. It's it's not good enough that that a country is somewhat Christian or that an area of the country is is a Bible belt or that You're part of a family that maybe has some members in it that take God seriously. That's not good enough, you see. It's an individual response. You'll stand before God individually. No one's going to hold your hand. No one's going to speak up for you, and you'll have to give an account to God for your own self. And so this goes out to the whole world, but it lands individually on each person, you see And what is it? What is it that God demands of the whole world and each of us individually? Well there it is. God is now, notice how Paul says that God is now declaring to all the peoples, that includes all the Gentiles, remember he's a Jew, to all the people everywhere That takes care of all the continents, I think, right? God is now declaring to all men everywhere that they should what repent This, my friends, is one of those verses in the Bible that you can't mistake. It's not hard. Oh, everybody in the Bible just has their own interpretation. Well, that's it's not too hard. I asked you what was the demand, and you you read it for yourself. There it is. Repent. God has a message to all of humanity, all men and women, everywhere. Athens Today in America, Australia, Azerbaijan, it doesn't matter, anywhere. He sends this message through chosen prophets Chosen ambassadors, Christ had his chosen men, send them into the world. Those ambassadors were called apostles. That's what Paul is, he's an apostle, he's an ambassador for Jesus Christ. He's not talking to each of us individually, he's not going to do that. He's talking to us through his ambassadors, he's a king He sends those ambassadors out. He tells them, Proclaim my word, even if they kill you, proclaim it. And that's what Paul's doing. He's an ambassador and he's saying I have a message from Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He's declaring to all people everywhere that they should repent. This is not hard. You know that acronym KISS, keep it simple, stupid? Well, God kept it simple for us because maybe we're a little dense. Repent When you hear a word like that, you think of uh some wacko in a city street walking around with one of those signs, you know, poorly written. You know, he's disheveled and uh he's yelling, repent, and he's a lunatic. And so a lot of people don't take that message seriously because it's been characterized that way. But I would say that it's not a very wise or smart idea to uh Downplay the message that God has for the world. You know, nowadays people are into feel-good stuff. If we wanted to grow this church ten times its size, we could just do what that guy in television is doing all the time and telling them how wonderful and nice they already are and how they can have a wonderful life and you never hear anything negative from his mouth. I have it anyways. Everything is about how God loves us and there's nothing wrong with us, and all we need to do is think better of ourselves, and it's just a fussy pillow, isn't it? And that's a way to grow a church. That's a way to get people to come. That's a way to get more money to come into your church. That's a way to get yourself on TV and have nicer suits and smile and that's how it works. And that's what people take advantage of. And that's what they think is Christianity. The people and men and preachers who are not willing to say the hard things that God has to say in His Word, they're not really speaking for God, are they? Repent is God's message. It's God's message. To speak for God you have to say what God says. And God, if he could say one thing to you, you know those those books that are written and they say If God if you could just ask God one question, what it would be. And then the then it's like, if God could just say one thing to you, what would it be? If God could say one thing to you, what would it be? It would be repent. He already said it. He said it through his chosen instruments. This is an important message. You know, John the Baptist told the nation of Israel, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It was his message, too Jesus, when he started his ministry in Israel, what did he say? Matthew 4:17, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, said exactly the same thing John the Baptist did. In fact, after he had done miracles in their towns and declared repentance, in Matthew 11:20 it says Jesus began to denounce those cities in which most of his miracles were done because they did not repent. Pretty important that you repent. It's the same message that the Apostle Peter preached in Acts 3. He said, Therefore, repent and return. Those are similar ideas. so that your sins may be wiped away in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. That's what God's going to do for the nation of Israel in the future. He's going to He's going to bring times of refreshing when they finally figure out as a nation they need to repent. And turn back to the Savior. It's the same message that all of God's preachers must preach. In Luke 24, The resurrected Jesus standing with his apostles said, Repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all of the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. It had to begin in Jerusalem. And it had to go out from Jerusalem. Jerusalem was the place where Christ was killed and raised. The message had to begin there. Now it's the same message Paul was preaching to these Greek philosophers. He stands in front of them and he doesn't enter into these long dialogues with them. He's not there to try to prove his intellectual capacities, whether he can keep up with these men or not. He's standing there as an ambassador, and he's declaring a message, and he tells all of these great men of learning, probably with folded arms and their wonderful robes, repent. That's God's message. It's for everyone. What is repenting? Well, in the original language here of the New Testament, the common Greek, it's called Koine Greek, the word is metanoia. It's a compound word. It literally means to change your mind. Change your mind. Or reverse your thinking. It's to have a decisive change of mind, which results in a change of direction in life. You can't really change your mind if you don't change your actions Some people say you have to change your actions in order to repent. Well, if your mind truly has been persuaded and it's been changed, then your actions are going to change and they're going to follow as well. Of course it will You might say that repentance is this. It's uh you ever been on the road and you know you're going the wrong direction and you and and you make a U-turn and you go back exactly the opposite direction So repentance is a mental U-turn. It's like this is the way I've been thinking, this is what I thought was true, this is what I have been pursuing. This is the God that I'm worshiping. This is what my life's about. And you come to the point on that journey where you recognize this is wrong. I'm going in a dangerous direction. And I don't really know where I'm heading and what's going to happen. And I need help. And you reverse your thinking, you reverse your faith, and you come back entirely to God. The prophets would often use, would say it this way when they talked to Israel, when Israel was slipping into more sin, they would say, Turn back! Turn back, O house of Israel! Why should you die? They would say. So this is a drastic change of direction in life. Come back to God. Come back to his prophets. Come back to what they've written in Scripture. Come back to the voice of the Spirit of God from the Bible, you see. To these religious philosophers, they were living a life worshiping other things, worshiping the creation Trusting in their philosophies, arguing with one another, wanting to hear the newest thing that came in the town. Paul says none of that is acceptable in God's sight. You've got to turn away from all of that. It didn't matter if they were Stoic or Epicurean, the opposite poles of philosophy. It wasn't that one was right and the other was wrong. They were both wrong. Turn back God says you must change your mind about all of that. You must turn away from all of that. You have to stop worshiping them. You can't add Jesus to the other things you believe, by the way. Do you notice that? A lot of people say, I believe in Jesus and I believe in Buddha and I believe in what? To believe in Jesus is to repent of Buddha. You can't go that way. God calls all of that wrong. He calls it sin. You have to turn back to the true God, believe in him, trust him, start listening to him. See, the Bible says all of us are sinners. Romans 3, there's none righteous, not even one. Rod did a good job of describing this on Friday night. There's none who understands. There's none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become used. So we can't look to each other. Do you get the point? There's none who does good. There's not even one. I mean, what else does the Bible need to say? Man is not pleasing to God. We're not pleasing in our thoughts. We're not pleasing in our words. We're not pleasing in our actions. Even when we do good, it's never good enough, and it's not with the right motives. We don't love God first. We love ourselves or other people first. We stick God into our life and try to fit a little bit of religion into what is our will and what we want to do. That's sin. Listen, it may not be too profound to say, God made us. And if you made something, wouldn't you have a right over it? God made you. He has a right over you. I remember when I was in a college dorm, I got saved because that's what someone said to me. God made you and he has a right to tell you how to live. And I was like, yeah, well that makes sense. I didn't make myself, and I know somebody had to make my parents and grandparents. God made me. I didn't know how he did it. I just knew he did it. If he made me, then I'm accountable to him. He has a right to tell me how to live on his creation. So when man says, My life is my own life, leave me alone, God's not going to leave them alone because it's not their life, it's God's life. He gave you your life, and he expects you to live the way he says, He expects you to listen. And me too. By the way, every time a preacher is pointing a finger out, remember there's three of them pointing back at themselves. Okay? And I know that. I preach it myself during the week, okay? So you remember this is God's message for you, but it's also God's message for me. By the way, you don't have to be a murderer or an adulterer or a thief to be a sinner. Jesus talked about the law of God and he explained to the Jews: if you don't murder someone, but you hate in your heart and wish that you had, you already committed murder in your heart and God already saw it. That was the intent of the Mosaic law in the first place. If you don't commit adultery, but you spend time on the internet lusting and wishing that you did, you already committed adultery. That's his point. You're a sinner, see? If you don't say those vicious words, but you set them inside of your head, you already sinned. God knows it. God can read thoughts. Every lie we've told, every little juicy piece of gossip, every profane word Every time we withheld thanksgiving from God when he deserved it, it is all sin. How many illustrations of sin do we need? That's why God is making this demand on everyone. It's His demand. There are no exceptions. No exemptions from the demand at all. None. Why? Why is God making this demand? Well, that comes next in verse 31. This is why God demands. Verse 30 was what God demands, and verse 31 is why God demands it. Verse 31, declaring to all men everywhere that they should repent, because, because, here's the why, He has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. Message to the philosophers. In the past, God did not always intervene with special judgments. Yes, there was Sodom and Gomorrah, and there were other places that were destroyed by God. But he has let them go their own way. He lets them get away with a lot, it seems, right now. And now he will. Now he's going to hold them accountable. Before he let the nations go their own foolish way. Now he says that time is rapidly coming to an end. And he's sending out his ambassadors ahead. We've got 2,000 years of this proclaimed in our world, right? 2,000 years of warning the world He's coming back to judge the world. The ambassadors have come, they've died, their message has been written, and it's been proclaimed on every continent, it's on the airwaves now. No one has excuses. We have internet. The message has gotten out. And in many places it's been silenced in times past. But everyone who thinks that they're getting away and they're not going to be judged by God and they're getting away with their sin, that's very foolish. Anybody who thinks they're good enough that when God's judgment comes, they'll just take their chances. They're kind of foolish. I know there's a lot of foolish things that go on in American Idol, but have any of you guys watch that? You ever watch the beginning part where some guys actually think they can sing and they stand up front and they sing in front of the whole country and they make fools of themselves I mean I could sing better than some of them jokers. How did they get up there? Yeah, I guess when you're singing by yourself and in the shower or something like that, you think you're good until you're compared to someone that knows how to sing Now there's a problem in the comparison. That's the problem with people on earth. They don't feel they need Jesus as a Savior because they're comparing themselves to the guy next door, to Hank. And Hank drinks too many beers and sometimes he's mean to his wife and you're better than Hank Hank's not the standard. When you stand on judgment day, you know whose life yours will be compared to? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, who always did the will of his Heavenly Father, who never sinned, who Satan in person came to him to try to give him his best temptations, and Christ would have none of it. Who love people and sacrifice for people. Come on, is your life that good? Mine's not. He never cussed. He never lusted. His purity was blazing. He never failed in any temptation, in any circumstance, and he was given the worst temptations. You say it's just not fair. That's just not fair. Who can live up to that standard? It doesn't matter if you think it's fair, it's God's standard. It's not mine. You know, you go out and talk to people about Christ. You know, you start talking about Christ. You hear, why are you judging me? I'm not judging you. I'm telling you about the judge. I'm not I'm not the guy doing the judge. I'm not qualified to judge. I don't know how to judge. I'm not I'm really not judging you. I'm telling you you will be judged There's a difference. I'm on your side here. Trying to help you out. I'm letting you know before you get into the courtroom you're gonna be judged. I'm telling you how it's gonna go. You're not gonna have a defense attorney on that day Anything you say, if you even dare to open your mouth, he's just going to show you all your sin. You don't have a chance. It doesn't matter you think it's fair, it's God's standard. The best among us would be rejected by the perfections of heaven. Heaven's a perfect place. If we go there, we would what? Mess it up We have to be changed. We have to be forgiven. We have to be washed. We have to be cleansed. And only Christ can do that. The casual attitude that people have, when they die, they'll go directly to heaven. I don't know about that. You know, at funerals no one wants to say the truth. So-and-so probably did not go to heaven. Guess you wouldn't be allowed to speak at a funeral like that. But most people don't. They don't die having given their lives to Christ. They die taking their chances. The Bible says Jesus' eyes are a flame of fire. His face is like the sun shining in its strength and glory. There is a day, a real day coming. This is not a figurative day. It's an actual day that's coming of God's judgment God has some kind of a divine calendar. I don't know what he uses. I'm speaking humanly here. And he circled a day, and he doesn't even let the angels peek over his shoulders to know when it is. It's a day that's fixed. And he said, that's the day everyone will appear before my courtroom. And he chose one day and one man to do the judgment. How many m how many people are in the world? We're over seven billion now, right? Seven billion, how many lived before, how many will live, ten billion, twelve billion, whatever it'll be. Out of all of those, one man Only one man gets to judge every other man that was ever on this planet. Man, woman, and child. He picked the day. He chose it. Who's the man? Well Having furnished proof to all men by raising him, that man, the judge, from the dead. It is the resurrected man, God's appointed man who will be the judge of all the world of human beings. Jew, Gentile, male, female, slave, free, small, great, black, white, doesn't matter. Jesus is the judge He is the man risen out of the realm of the dead. He went down into the dead, and God raised him out, and only him. The others that were raised from the dead in the Bible were really resuscitations, they ended up dying again. Jesus did not die again Remember what the angels said to the ones who came down to the tomb that first morning? Why do you seek the living one among the dead? Don't you come down to a bunch of tombs on a rock hill, where we say graveyard today, although it wasn't a graveyard in the normal sense, these were tombs into the side of the mountain. They were rock-thewn tombs. Why have you come down here? To seek the living one among the dead. He is not here. He has risen. The Bible says Jesus Christ is the only Savior in the world that God will even consider. How do we know that? Because God raised Jesus from the dead. What did God do with Buddha? Left them dead. Buddha's dead. Buddha died. Buddha stayed dead. You say I'm picking on Buddhas. All right, let's pick on someone else. Muhammad died. They can go to their tomb. They still do. His body's in that tomb. I don't doubt that his body's in the tomb. His body's in the tomb. Muhammad died. He stayed dead. Confucius died. He stayed dead. Joseph Smith died, and he's dead. Mary died, and she's still dead. She was not caught up in the heaven. That's a church tradition. You will die too. Only Jesus Christ was raised. Only He is God's chosen man. Only He didn't deserve death Remember what Peter said to the Jews? He said, death could not hold him. Why? Because he didn't die for his own sins. You and me, we died for our own sins. He didn't die for his own sins. He died to pay for our sins. And that's not fair, is it? And so God didn't leave him dead. He rose him from the dead, so everyone would see he was innocent. He never sinned. He shouldn't have died. And I'm declaring him to be my son by this resurrection from the dead, you see. Peter was so bold in Acts, he said, There's salvation and nobody else besides Jesus. There's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved Jesus said, I say to you, he who listens to my word and believes in God who sent me has everlasting life and will not come into judgment. Will not come into judgment, but has passed out of death in the life. That spiritual life that we have now and in the future will be granted physical resurrection life. It says in the Gospel of John, he who believes in the Son has everlasting life. He who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath, or you might say, the terrifying judgment of God remains on him. God gave proof to all men everywhere that Jesus is the judge of everybody. Paul says he did it, and the proof was Jesus' bodily resurrection. Please understand that Paul is not saying that everyone gets to see the resurrection, that everyone gets the same offer the doubting Thomas had to put the finger in the nail prints. No He's not saying, I'm going to put you on a boat, you Athens people, and I'm going to bring you to the land. I'll let you interview the folks that are still alive that saw Jesus risen from the dead. He's not saying that you're going to get all of that extra proof. He's saying God has proven to the world of man that Jesus is the right one to Because he raised him from the dead. It's an established fact, and God declares it. And so he says, You better turn, you better repent. Let me give you some good news. Romans 10 9. If you, this personalize this, if you with your mouth will confess Jesus as your Lord. And believe in your heart God really raised him from the dead, you will be saved. From what? From God's judgment. Isn't that good? What is Easter really all about? Easter is a celebration, not of chocolate bunnies. But of the renewal of one person's life to save the lives of millions. One person who was put to death publicly Jesus' death was a very public execution after a brutal public flogging, with his blood poured out for all to see next to a very crowded and well travelled road outside of a major ancient city, Jerusalem, right during the daytime, with full knowledge of all the authorities in his day, many standing by and waiting for him to die, hurling insults of em at him as he died He was dead and he was seen as dead. Anyone who says centuries later he didn't really die, don't know what they're talking about And then the same exact person, just three days after his execution, really less than 72 hours after this public execution, was raised from the dead bodily. The solid rock cave tomb he was laid in, and which had a huge stone rolled in front of it, and had a trained military Roman guard posted in front of it to watch it and guard it. with the seal of the Emperor of Rome placed across it so no one would tamper with it. It was empty. There was nobody And everybody knew exactly where the tomb was. They knew the place. They knew the owner of the tomb, Joseph of Arimathea. There was no mistaking it, it was empty. Except the grave clothes. They were in there. Jesus was wrapped when he was taken down from the cross, you may remember. Those were all still in the tomb, undisturbed. The cloth was seen, it was touched, picked up, and examined by the apostles, by a number of people. Some people wonder if the shroud of Turin is is real or if it's a phony. It's baffling scientists, I know that. I don't care whether it's real or not. It doesn't it really doesn't affect my faith. If it is, it's amazing that it's been preserved. If it's not, it doesn't mean anything to me. What those disciples saw is there were the clothes he was wrapped in, and it was as if his body just passed right out of it, and the clothes just sunk right in there and the head. Piece was folded up and in its right spot, and there it was. And that's not all. Jesus was then himself seen publicly, not once or twice. Not just three times, but in dozens of settings, dozens of times, hundreds of people. Five hundred people at one time, it tells us, and not in the middle of some weird and eerie, gloomy rainstorm where people might Misunderstand what was happening, some wild experience of hallucination. He was seen over a period of 40 days in the very locations in which he was raised all around Jerusalem by people that didn't even believe he was going to be raised from the dead. He was touched. He was handled. He told them I'm not a ghost. I have flesh and bones. Give me something to eat. He ate it in front of them. They had a hard time believing it. And he rebuked them for not believing it. They were just people like you and me. They weren't special people. He showed them the nail marks in his hands. He told them, quit being doubters. He taught them all of this was predicted by the scriptures hundreds of years in advance. And these same people who saw him went out everywhere in the city and the surrounding districts and told everyone that Jesus from Nazareth was raised from the dead. They were totally confident that that was a confirmed fact. No one ever refuted that claim by producing his body. No one ever claimed to have the body. The Romans didn't have the body. The Jewish leaders of the day did not have the body. No robbers could have gotten the body. The guards were paid off by some to circulate a story that the disciples stole the body while they were asleep. How do you know what happened when you were asleep? The disciples were not cod artists. They were simple men. They suffered imprisonment. They suffered economically. They suffered even death because they believed he was literally, bodily, risen from the dead. They stake their lives and their eternity on this fact. Their written records show no evidence of any kind of collusion. The four accounts All from the first century, not like the later so called Gospels that are from future centuries, long past the time that the eyewitnesses were dead Those four accounts all from the first century having varying details as you would expect eyewitnesses to have of their accounts emphasizing this one detail or another one emphasizing that detail, but in complete agreement about his death, his burial, his empty tomb, his personal appearances Listen, evidence of the life of Jesus exists both inside the Bible and outside the Bible as well. No one's life from ancient times was more carefully documented by eyewitnesses than Jesus' life God made sure there was plenty written about this unique man from those closest to the facts to write about his life. And God made sure that those writings were copied right away and distributed all throughout the ancient world. Even hundreds of those ancient copies and fragments are preserved to this day, even thousands of them. Easter is not a religious holiday. Easter is a historic holiday. This is an event that happened. And God is telling everyone, look at the event and understand, you will be judged by this man. Better repent now. He proved that there's life after death. He proved there's a judgment coming. Paul knew this. He knew the message that he proclaimed was true. He didn't give the philosophers a chance to refute it. He didn't allow them to sit in judgment of God's message. He came there to declare to them what they did not know. No human being ever has the right to sit in judgment of God and his message. Paul didn't even present positive evidence for the resurrection. He said, God has already furnished proof, not evidence. This is God's message. He demands to be believed. They had but one responsibility, repent, or face the consequences eternally Did they repent? Well, the responses very quickly are given in verses 32 through 34. It says that one group just sneered when they heard about the resurrection from the dead. Another group was very curious about it. They said, we want to hear you again concerning this. The third group gave the right response. They gave repentance and faith. It says some men joined him. That shows the repentance and believed. Only that small group that listened that day came to know the unknown God. I'd like to ask you this Easter Sunday, what group are you a part of? The group that sneers, the group that's curious, or the group that's ready to repent? I know many of you have already repented and you're hearing a message that you Rejoice in and want to pass on to others. Keep keep uh spreading the message. Keep spreading the message everywhere. But if you have not repented The curious response is not what God is looking for. He's not looking for you just to come to church. He's not looking for you to just agree in your mind that these things probably did happen. He wants your heart and your soul. He wants you to repent and give Him your life by faith in his Son Jesus Christ. And you can do that today. And God can change your life and save you this very day. Be the greatest day of your life. where you would be born into the family of God and be waiting for his son Jesus from heaven who will raise the dead. We're going to pray now And uh as we pray, I just want you to think about your own heart and life. And uh following the time of prayer, there'll be a couple of nice folks over there by the doors if you'd like to have someone to pray with today. about your relationship with God, you need more of an explanation, or your heart is just heavy about something, you need someone to pray with today, then these prayer counselors would like to just take. a little bit of time with you and pray with you or explain more about Christ and His resurrection if you have some questions or some objections or concerns or whatever it may be And uh just pray with me right now. Father, thank you for the truth of your word that you had preserved through these uh twenty centuries. We know we're much closer to that day when the Lord Jesus comes back, though we don't know the day We know you've kept that a secret because it's not good for us to know. But we know it's true. There is a judgment coming. There has to be. Our conscience tells it tells us it's coming. Your word tells us it's coming. Even logic demands that those that have done wrong Will bear the judgment. And Lord, we know justice demands it. We just pray that you would minister to the hearts of people, help them not be embarrassed, no matter what background they are. Maybe they've gone to church a lot and they just have never responded Lord, help them to get past that, be humble, and believe, and know, Lord, that you will be willing to save them and give them new life. Thank you for this beautiful resurrection Sunday. We proclaim Christ is risen from the dead. Amen