After I found the Lord saying or prompting me to speak about humility this week, I just happened to come across a video of I I don't know what the guy's name is, but he I guess he's taken over for Ray Cuthbert that goes around and that does the interviews on the street. And he was speaking to a young couple. Um you know his name? Mark Deber or something. Um but he was speaking to a young couple And the young couple was unequally yoked. The young lady was a believer, but the young man was not. So he stopped on the street and you know, they they go through their stuff, um, what do you call somebody that's sins? What do you call somebody that steals and all that? confessing his sins right there, the young man said to the interviewer, I've never had somebody approach me with the kindness that you did when sharing the gospel I feel like most people just jump on me for not believing or they judge me. They look at my relationship and that's the first thing that they see instead of somebody that doesn't know Jesus. And that's honestly the way that I was for a while as well. You know when you discover Christ, you're excited about it But you immediately want to just push it down everybody and if somebody doesn't necessarily accept it and right then and there, we sometimes get upset or bothered by not checking our hearts Not realizing that all those years that we were rejecting the gospel, Jesus Christ, petitioning for us, was patient with us. But yet for some reason We're not as patient when it comes to sharing the gospel. And if people don't receive it, we throw our hands up, we catch attitudes, we walk away because we feel Like though we're insulted. As though them receiving the gospel is about us when it truly should be about them. And so what your feelings is hurt So what you're embarrassed? How do you respond when you're rejected for sharing the gospel? Hopefully as we go through the study of humility this morning, we take a introspective look at our lives. And we begin to make changes as the Lord sees fit in our lives in terms of how we address and treat others that have yet to receive this good news that we've been so fortunate to receive. This top section where I have um written out introduction is typically part of just my notes only, but as I was writing it for myself, I said, you know what? I want to leave this here and Just read it out to the class this morning. Before I go into that I wanna read this c this um quote that I have up here from David Jeremiah When people are filled with themselves, they cannot be filled with the Spirit. When you are filled with yourself, there is no way. You can be filled with the Spirit of God. Either he fills you or you fill yourself. Which is it gonna be? In the beginning. God looked upon all that he had made, and indeed it was very good. God's perfect creature, man, received his assignment to obey God, and he went to work. God looked at his creation And he, God, determined, not man, God determined it was not good for man to be alone. Therefore God created Adam, a companion. Eve. However, man allowed another voice to speak into his life. That voice whispered, Did God actually say, followed closely by, you will not surely die? Directly contradicting God's clear instruction. to not touch or or eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. These nine simple words transformed God's perfect abiding man into a corrupted creature who could no longer commune with God as he had once did. Can you imagine that? God walking at the cool of the day, speaking with you, you have no shame, no remorse. Everything is perfect. And all of a sudden, shame. Yo, you want to cover yourself, cover your nakedness. Because you are no longer perfect and you just felt it. I think sometime we jump to conclusions like, well if I was there, I wouldn't have done that I know for me I would have been gone faster. I don't know about you. But I know me I probably would have gone faster. Unfortunately The lasting effects of those words still impact man today. Man is no longer a perfect being. Though he retains the ability to reason, to think, to create, he has limited love. We don't truly know what love is As I think about the concept and you all were learning it, Scott, I don't know how often you pause to think of the words that says, while we were yet sinners. You didn't say Seth, get yourself together, and then I'm gonna die for you You didn't say, Greg, come on, clean yourself, go get that off of you, and then I'll die for you. He looked at you. He said, There's no way you're going to be able to do this. But guess what? I got you It's a simple story that we all know, but we don't take it seriously anymore because well maybe I'm just speaking of myself because we're saved. We know God. So we don't meditate on his word anymore and just read Reflect on what He's done for us. And we go through our lives, we wake up, we care about ourselves first and foremost, not seeking and saying God What would you have me do today? You have to raise your hand. And I know I say it all the time, then I'll say raise your hand again. But how many people woke up this morning and said, God, what would you have me do today What is your will for my life as I go to class this morning, as I interact with people? Is there someone that's in need that I just happen to hear? And go by and help them. Thank God. When Christ looked at us in the midst of our sins, he didn't respond like that. All right. Somebody help me out. Where was I? Okay. Man is no longer a perfect being, though he retained the build the reason, built, and expressed limited love towards others. He remains corrupted. Man's heart, soul, and mind, your heart, soul, and mind is no longer in the perfect condition that it was created. It desires, as I've said over and over again, to please self rather than God But God being rich in abundance and mercy made a promise to mankind. God would grant humanity a new opportunity, one made possible only through the redemption, the Redeemer. This promise, Redeemer, would Be God himself. He would enter the what's my wife said? Maybe we're gonna have to go again with some glasses. Um he would enter the very world he spoke into existence, existed in the form of God, yet did not count it equality with God, a thing to be grasped. You did that God didn't come down just like, hey, I'm God. I'm holy. I'm a king. Worship me. That's who he is. He's our king. He's our Lord. But yet he didn't hold on to those things when he came in the form of man. How many would let go of their treasures and their possessions to serve others in this matter. Granted we're not kings, but to give up all of your wealth, everything. Granted he still held on to his divine nature, but he still came As a man, the thing that he created, he became to save you, to keep you from being slaughtered. Because without the shedding of blood, there is no You know it. You can say loud. Without the shed in the blood, there's no remission of sin. So there has to be a debt that is paid. And we talked about this when we were talking about salvation earlier. If God is just The debt has to be paid. It can't go unpaid or he's not a just God. Okay, I'm gonna jump to the last paragraph. Um no, let me go back to here. Grass but empty himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of man but without sin. Upon his arrival to fulfill his mission, to save humanity, he would be despised and rejected by the same men that he was getting ready to save Instead of putting man, you might as well just toss it out and put your name. Maybe that will make it hit a little bit harder for you. Um it was tough while I do this, but I was going through it I have to reflect on myself and to realize that everything that I'm writing about is and everything that God is doing is for my benefit, for your benefit And it's just cutting the way at you saying, man, do I view you as a holy God? Do I approach you as the holy God that you are? Are you part of the camp that just says, Jesus is my homeboy? You just approach him however you feel, in the midst of your sin, in the midst of anger. Um What was it? A couple months ago I guess when the uh president of Ukraine came to the to the Oval Office, think he was wearing some sort of um uh army gear or something and it became a headline because of how he was dressed. A lot of people thought that it was inappropriate the way that he approached the presidency I find it hilarious that we could get upset at this in terms of how you approach the presidency, but yet we approach God any way we feel like. Here I am, fix my problems. And if he doesn't fix it, we get upset, we turn away from him. Not realizing that his way is not our way. And so when he says no, trust me it's not for his benefit. We get upset. We get impatient Catching an attitude with God. Think about that. Catching an attitude with God who again died for you while you're in the midst of your sin. Because you were unable to do anything about it God is not impressed, m some thing, he got it by them. But God is not impressed by you. He is king. He is Lord We submit to him in everything that we do. Regardless whether you feel like it or not, it doesn't change who God is. He came to his own, us, but he was rejected. And acquainted with grief. He would he didn't come as a VIP, writing under big Stalin or I guess in today's day, I guess a big Tesla or something. I don't know, that's what's the hottest talk. But no He would not be esteemed by his own creation. And we are told in Romans 1, we'd rather worship the created rather than the creator. Because we think that everything is right in our sight. We got this, Scott. You stay on the sideline. We'll call you when we need you. I don't know. Maybe I'm just talking to myself and I just feel like being real with you all this morning that we don't approach God with the reverence that God deserves. The punishment was brought The the punishment that brought Manichai peace would be placed upon him. And you all know this. And by his stripes we would be healed. Now, knowing this, I've been asking it over and over again over and over again. But knowing this, how do you approach God? Do you approach God with the reverence of Isaiah, woe is me? I think Isaiah thought he was doing something. And then he saw the presence of God. He's like, man, oh, I'm filthy. I'm disgusting. But look at that. He never realized that when he was in the midst of others. Because all of us have sinned. All of us have gone astray But it amazes me how we compare ourselves to one another, to other sinners. When I was young, um guess I'm not young anymore. When I was young, uh when I met my wife we were like twenty-three or something like that, she met my friends at the time. My friends were sixty, seventy, eighty years old I wanted to hang around people that were older and wiser and better that I could just understand from and grow from because the guys that were my age and a lot Maybe we weren't doing things that I wanted to do. So I wanted to hang around older individuals. And so we compare who we are based on the person that's next to us. Oh, let me see how Morgan's looking today to elevate myself. Let me see how Scott is moving today to elevate myself. And when I'm confronted or something, well, I'm not Seth. I'm not Morgan. I'm not Scott. I'm not Mike. As opposed to keeping my eyes on price. That's who I need to keep my eyes on. Not the guy that's next to me because he will never get me where to where I need to be. Only Jesus Christ could do that. He is the standard We as brothers hold one another accountable. And sisters, you all hold you as a body, we all hold each other accountable. But I'm not looking to see how you're moving. I'm looking to see what does God want from me today And the only way that I could do that is to keep my eyes on him. And how do I keep my eyes on him? By remaining in his word. Pastor Gabe often repeats this quote from A. W. Sullivan. What comes into our mind when we think about God is the most important thing about you. So as I'm speaking this morning, when you're thinking about God and when you're thinking about some of the things that I'm saying, what is coming into your mind about God? How did you approach him this morning? What are your thoughts for the rest of the day? Do you have a time laid out to say okay I'm gonna pray this time? And I'm speaking to myself. When I wake up in the morning, do I seek his face? Do I take a moment to truly say wow There's air in my lungs. I woke up. And as much death as we see for me this week, nothing made it more real than waking up and seeing that message on my phone. It was just like, What, 2025? What's going on here? Then I go online and sure enough MacArthur had passed. Um so what's a believer's posture before a holy God? In Matthew 18, 3 to 4, Jesus said, When the disciples said, okay, how can we be great God? How can we enter this game then? How how do we come great? He said, um, number one, chill out. Not you. And he says, truly I say to you, unless you turn and have an arrow pointing there to convert, to change. It's almost like be paying to change your mind. The way that you're born unless you change it and become like a little children. What's a child? When's the last time you see a child paying the mortgage, going to work, driving around? You said your baby Morgan? You said your baby's driving? Right? A child is fully dependent on someone. They can't change themselves. They can't get out of a crib. They yell And yell and yell and yell. And you're like, Alice Help You will never enter the kingdom of heaven. What is Jesus saying? When you look at children, they don't hold on to um their feelings too long. My wife and I, we uh our four-year-old and our seven-year-old Man, they just go at it and you're constantly turning around like stop stop stop but then you turn around they're laying on the couch with each other putting their arms around It's like That's that's a child. Whoever humbles himself like this child, realizing that you're not better than anyone else Realizing that you need to stop being arrogant, realizing that everything that you are and everything that you ever will be is not even dependent on you, and it is fully dependent on God. That's what God is saying When you begin to have that mindset that who you are and who you will be is dependent on God, your mindset begins to change. You begin to start looking at people different. You begin to start interacting with people with love because you know that God loved you first in the midst of You begin to be patient with people, right? You're not losing it anymore because somebody messed up or didn't do what you wanted. Not taking the moment to reflect to say, okay, what exactly happened Could I have done something to help you? We tend to look at our own hurts and what we desire before anybody else. But God is saying, I've been looking out for you. I sent my son to die for you I sent my son to pay the price for you. And I need you to be a reflection of him to the world. So again, unless you're like a little child and you humble yourself You will not see the kingdom of heaven. Okay, Psalm 119. 11. With all my heart, Lords, I have sought you. Do not let me stray from you, your commands I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not. Man, I'm really pulling this morning. I know you all know the word. I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not you Maybe there's part maybe there's some individuals here this morning that think that they could not sin without the word of God. I know that's not the key for me Whenever I am in his verse, I'm held accountable. My attitude changed. My mindset changed because I see that I'm nothing. Absolutely nothing. without God. There was Pastor Gabe, I believe, um, in a sermon, I forget the title, where he said, if you were at the gates of heaven and God said, Why should I let you in? If your response is not Nothing I did. I got a ticket from Jesus. Then you've missed a point. It is only through him that you could approach God. Not because of anything that you did yesterday, that you'll do today, or that you'll do tomorrow. Who you are. And who you will be in the presence of a holy God is only because of Jesus this sacrifice. Not anything that you could have done. And for you millennials out here, don't try to find someone chat GPT Number two, have a teachable heart. Do you have a teachable heart? Or when somebody corrects you, are you by full? Ah You know, I'm not even gonna look over here this morning. Christopher Green looking at me. Do you have a teachable heart? Are you humble? If Richard comes up to me And says, hey brother. I heard the tone that you were speaking with Elise earlier. If I say Richard man back up, I got this. Is that a humble spirit? That's a prideful, arrogant spirit That does not truly reflect Christ. I have a scripture here. 1 Peter 5. 5. God opposes the proud and gives grace. So the humble. Approach your life with humility. And as we're talking about humility, it's your entire being. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Ah man where's the coffee? Help me out. Thank you. Anybody uh was raised up in a Pentecostal church? But they get loud. So we can do better. Pulit number three, in terms of believers' posture in the before holy God. We should seek direction and understanding rather than dictating to God. what we want. Lord, give me this. Lord, give me that. Lord, I want this. As opposed to, Father, what is your desire and will for my life. By the prayer of agar, um, Proverbs 30, give me neither poverty nor riches. Give me what I need just for today. Right? I don't want too much that I forget you and reject you, God. When I saw that out of my wife. But he knows. Agar knew that God knows him better than himself. Don't give me too much that I become arrogant, that I completely forget about you and go chase the things of the world. But don't give me too little that I reject you as well, saying, where is God? Why aren't you looking up for me? You say you take care of the sparrows, but why are you letting me go hungry? Anger is just saying I just want the right amount. I just want that Goldilocks, the perfect temperature. Because I want to stay Right there, where I'm not too far from you, God, where you're directing me and you're still providing for my need. Come now, you who say tomorrow today or tomorrow We will go to this or uh to that city, spend a year there, carry on business and take and make a profit. You do not even know What will happen tomorrow? When I'm learning that concept, and it's a car's house that's alert. I learned it from um, believe it or not Pastor Thomas Lee, listening to his sermon. I never got to meet to meet him, but I was listening to his sermon, and that's what he was talking about. Now that doesn't take away from planning and being a story over what God has given us But this boastfulness, I'll handle it tomorrow. When you have the ability to do it today. Store your time wisely. Use it for God. Say you've give me eight hours, twelve hours, whatever the case may be, how can I use this time to glorify your name? To serve somebody, to evangelize to someone. Maybe I'm the only one that's praying that God helps me out with these things because I'm struggling with them. Maybe you all have it under control But I'm telling you what I was going to do that was like, man, I don't want to type this. If I type it, I have to read it. If I have to read it, I have to submit to it. And if I'm sharing with the class, I feel like I have to be accountable to it. So give me a little scripture. Like, no. Sinful man I am. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord is willing, we will live and do this and to do that that who has that mindset here and who have conditioned themselves to have that mindset. You gotta raise your hands. Be proud. Praise it high. That was my wife. She had four fingers up. I have it. All right. Number four. Acquire a right view of self. Put pride aside. If a believer is going to have the right posture in front of God, acquire a right view of yourself, which we don't often do. Do we? Because the the the first thing that we do when somebody says something about us or uh to us that to help us correct our behavior is we become offended You imagine me saying something to Daniel to correct himself? I'd be like, what you talking about? I got this. How many of you would be like, brother, I didn't realize that. Thank you so much. I'll start working on that right away. Anyone in here? So you see what you got people doing putting up forefinger? Have a right view of yourself. And I have uh a little box on the side. Exaltation of self. But God says you should have you should not have any idols. You should not put anything above him or before him. But when we exalt ourselves, what we're doing is we're Pushing God off the seat, I'm gonna drive now. I hope you're not part of the group that used to have that sticker on this thing that said Jesus is my co-pilot. Remember those? I thought it was the coolest thing I didn't have a car so I put it on the bus. Jesus is my co-pilot. But when you think about it, like, what? If Jesus was my copilot, my car wouldn't even start My engine wouldn't turn on. Nothing would happen. Jesus has to be the primary driver. You get in, you don't even sit next to him. You get in the back. Not in the back seat. In the trunk For by the grace given to me, I say every to every one of you, do not think of yourself more highly than you ought to. Do not think of yourself highly than you ought to. That's hard. That's hard to do. So go throughout your day thinking about the needs of others. Now, there has to be a good balance. When I saw Morgan walking this morning I thought she would bend me a cup of coffee, but it looks like she was bringing it for her husband I was like oh I thought you were thinking of me. Do we wake up, go through our day and say, man. I thought I heard Richard say something. I thought I heard Seth say something. Let me see if I can help him with that. And if I can't, let me get another brother. That's part of the body. That could help him. That's when you begin to humble yourself You begin to make yourself lowly, like the servant that Christ was when he came. He emptied himself, he humbled himself. Once again, not for his benefit, but for yours I have here a um not the exact quotation from uh Matthew 5 16 said when you go out into the world, shine for God, not for the approval of man. When Scott first um I remember my first time teaching in this class. We we were in obviously in the SLP program, so I knew a lot more than I had known in the years past. But my nervousness was how effective was I gonna be in sharing the gospel My first time up here, it was what are they gonna think about me? Am I gonna be able to share where they're like where they're fed properly? Am I gonna humble myself and say, Lord, whatever you want that happened here this morning, you make it happen. But one of the fears that I had, what are they gonna say about me? What are they gonna gossip about me? Are they gonna tell Pastor Alan, Pastor Gabe how I did? You have all these thoughts that are going through your mind 'cause you're worried about what others are gonna think about you. Instead of Lord, I don't want to be the super intelligent person. I just want you to give me the wisdom and the knowledge that I need to serve you. I want to be faithful in studying. I want to use my time wisely. I don't just want to open up books and go through and just copy and paste everything. I want you to feed me and then I want to sit there and type what you have for me And I pray that I am able to give it to your people effectively. But so often when we get in front of others, that's not the case. We want status. We want people to pat us on the back. Good job. Oh you killed it. And when you don't get that, it's But I tell you what, for those of you that are hesitant in terms of teaching, for those of you that don't want to evangelize, God will use you with what you have if you're faithful with it. Don't stand on the sideline thinking that you need to have this, this, and this. If I've not pushed it enough, it is God that gives everything, even your knowledge and your wisdom. We have a lot in the world today that feel like oh I'm too smart and so I deny God. God doesn't truly exist. And it's so unfortunate. They don't realize that the intelligence that they have and their ability to build stuff or to make Teslas or robots and all this is God's grace. And tomorrow they may not even be here to enjoy everything that they're building. And that's a shame. And so I want to pray for Elon Musk. I want to pray for Sam Altman who may trans I want to pray for God that does perplexity and all these AI things, that they will come to know their creator and be saved and use the gifts that he has given them. Given them for his glory. Do we pray for these individuals? Or do we just see them and they don't matter? These billionaires, they don't matter. They take advantage of people. They're sinners just like us Who needs grace. And I challenge myself, and I hope you will challenge yourself as well. When you see somebody that doesn't know God, whether you know them personally or not, say at least take a moment and say, Lord, I pray that you will Illuminate them, that you will allow them to know that you are the true God, the author of their life, the one that sustains them, and that they will submit to you and be part of this wonderful family of God that we have right here That is a humble posture before God. Oh man. I think I went to page three instead of two. Now to forgive me. Who said yes? I was gonna question it. So humble of you to help me correct me. No, I'd like to do it for you. Alright, let's go back to phase two. Anybody else noticed that? Yeah. Wow. Wow. Oh maybe it was correlated wrong and you had requirements. Oh now you want to jump. Thank God. Yeah, that's yeah. Exactly. I was being humble. You know better than me. You know better than me. Nice one. Put the car in reverse. Then go back. Page two. Yeah, leave. You guys. And she's right here in front of me. Scott. Okay. Christ is an example of humility. I think I pushed that home enough. But I'll still read it Though he was made in the form of God, he did not count it equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking on the form of a servant, being born to the likeness of man, and being found in human form He humbled himself and become an obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. When you think about the cross, and I want to ask, what do you think about this? What comes to your mind? Torture. Torture. Okay. Chain. Chain. What else? Forgiveness. Forgiveness? Suffering. Suffering. Supreme love. Supreme love? Should have been me. Who said that? Should have been me. A lot comes to my mind when we think about the cross. I'm always baffled by the the words, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Forgive them because they are enslaved to sin. I started off by talking about that small voice and talking about how it's still impacting us today. Forgive them, Father, because I love them, even though they're putting me up here. Spreading my arms wide open, mocking me piercing my side and what's disappointing is you look around and you're just like where are my boys at? Where are my homies? You be by my side right now? Huh? I know I know you do. Right? I think that was devastating. That probably broke his heart as well. I mean even though he was dying for the whole world. Christ had feelings. You know that, right? He was fully man and fully God So just like you would have been hurt, just like you would have been heartbroken, I think we continue to just focus on his divine nature, forgetting what was going through the human side of him when he was up there. If that doesn't humble you. But the thing about this is And I I feel like a lot are listening this morning. As humbled as we may get right now for the next thirty minutes, an hour, two hours, some of us are gonna get out of here And go right back to what we were doing. We're gonna be sanctified for three hours, four hours, but for the rest of the week or maybe by the time we get to our small group we may jump back into the sanctification mode. But we're not gonna work on this We're not gonna train our minds to say, okay God, I need you. I need you, just like I need it I need you as though I was in a desert parched and dying in need of water. This is really pulling at me. Personally, taking God for granted. Not going to him in the way that I ought to. Now when I need something Now when I'm praying for my wife or my children, not when I know a friend is in me, but I need this attitude, this humble mindset, and that's what it is Being humble is a way of life. It's who you want to be. And I mentioned it before. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. He didn't go around boasting, but he went around serving. Think about that. The God who became man sitting there with the brothers as they traveled those dusty, dirty roads. With them Spartacus slippers, their toes all crusted and everything dirty. Then you're like come sit next to me. I'm gonna wash your feet. We don't even have to do that today. And if somebody takes their shoes off around us not the lady No man, will I oh. Need a little help there, bro? I can get you some hot water. But when was the last time that we humbled ourselves and washed my feet? I'll even challenge uh spouses. When was the last time you sat with your spouse I haven't done it? When was the last time you sat with your spouse? Just wash her feet or she washed your feet to humble yourself. Uh I live with Jalen Morgan first. So the more you practice it at home, the easier it becomes outside of your house. If you if you can't um get a hold of it in your home, it's like uh humbly serve your wife and I'm trying, forgive me, I'm trying. I may have messed up this morning, I don't know. But but I'm but I'm trying, I I promise. Um if you don't practice it at home, you know, it's this is just like in church We can talk about God and I could evangelize to you all day, which you already know, G, but I can't go out into the street and talk to somebody else. So the more you become uncomfortable with certain things, the better you become. So thanks for sharing that. Uh anybody else? It is, it is, and you made some great points because um maybe I I didn't mention this in the beginning. Like you said, uh the Greek word for humble is tapenos, which is to make yourself lowly. You see a lot of that in the Old Testament. Those that didn't want to submit to God, he humbled them. But Christ Himself came and and and and we we're given the instruction in the New Testament to humble yourselves Take yourself through that process. Make yourself lonely just like Jesus did. But if you belong to God and you're not doing it, he will humble you as well. That's true, I agree with that. I think he was the one writing it down as the most humble. No, I've heard that before, but I I don't have the answer right now so I'll have to get back to you. But I I do agree with you. If he inspired it, it's definitely true, but if you can answer as well. Um as we I I just want to read these last uh two things through that we didn't get to on page two. Um I think Rosemary just made mention to it, but humility is not thinking less about who we are. Rather, it is thinking rightly about who God is. and what he desires of us. And that's where we were talking about the watching us being stuff like that. It's not you're not doing it to oh look at how humble I am. It's more so we used to do it at our church a while ago, um I think it was called like watch night service It wasn't about showing how humble we are. I think it was just can we act or walk like Jesus. And then the second um part that I have here, uh private show I'll go is at the bottom. That I wrote, humility is seeing others as a person of great worth because they are made in the image of God and seeing ourselves as their servants. Treating others the way that Christ treated you, realizing that there was nothing great or perfect about you, but you were made in the image And he died to you. And so I challenge all of you all to go out into the world and to serve one another, just the same spirit of Christ. As Sean was mentioning, not to be boastful or look at me. We're not trying to be parapherical. It's about our heart It's about our response, it's about our humility and the way that we treat others. And the the more we practice it, the easier it becomes. Um I also want to apologize as you all are leaving. I think uh let me close this here