All right, let me uh let me open us with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you've made. We thank you for the privilege of gathering as a body of Christ to worship you and corporate worship and uh we just thank Thank you for uh this uh Christmas season that we're coming through and uh the opportunity we had to particularly pause and remember that part of your great plan of salvation which involved the the incarnation of Christ. Uh Christ coming to the earth as a little baby, as a uh as a man, and living that sinless life and dying on the cross for our sin. And we thank you for all that, Lord, and we thank you for this opportunity we had to uh celebrate the Incarnation. Uh we also thank you, Lord, for the many, many blessings that you showered on each and every one of us during uh 2023. We thank you for uh this year uh that's that's passing now and we thank you for uh the opportunities that you'll give us in twenty twenty four to serve you. Uh we ask Lord That through your Holy Spirit you would uh equip each and every one of us, uh as you always do, uh, for the work of service, uh, to serve one another and bring glory to your name. We pray that that would be uh our mission. Uh we thank you, Lord, for your word that we're about to open now. We pray, Lord, that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds so that we would really be able to understand what you're trying to teach us from your word. Word today. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Okay. So, uh part eighteen. Um this is a 39 part series. series as we walk through uh the book of Revelation. So we're we're coming close to the halfway point uh of our study of the book. Um so this part eighteen we're gonna start into the we're gonna open the seventh Seal, and then we're going to start into the trumpet judgments. We're going to do the first four of those seven trumpets. So the seventh seal, when we open the seventh seal, we'll see silence first. We'll see then sound. We'll see supplication and we'll see a storm break across the earth. And then we'll get the first four trumpets. And those trumpets will bring hail and fire and blood, and then a fiery mountain into the sea, and then a star falling on the rivers and then the sun, moon, and stars turning dark. And so things are getting worse. Worse and worse and worse. We've had seven seals. Um and the seal judgments, six seal judgments, uh have been bad, progressively worse Worse and worse for for people that are living during that time of the tribulation. But now it gets worse. The trumpets will be worse than the seals, and then the bowls will be worse than the trumpets. Seal contains the seventh tr seven trumpets, and the seventh trumpet will contain the seven bowls. So the seven bowls will be the worst of all. But first let's do a little review. So uh my thanks to uh Larry for Stepping up to teach last time. Uh we'll walk through a little bit. I'll just do a little review and if you have any remaining questions, I'll answer those as well. So we did the second half. Larry did the second half of this chapter seven last time. And so we saw um a great multitude. So the first half of chapter seven you had the hundred forty four thousand. Those were particular Jewish witnesses that were gonna that are gonna to be witnesses as we'll see during the the Great Tribulation. And now we see this great multitude here in the second half. They're clothed in white robes. It's a va vast crowd of victorious, joyous saints standing before the throne. The lamb is also there. They have palm branches in their hands, symbolizing celebration, deliverance, and joy. They cry out with a loud voice. Uh they're identified the the first group identified along with this vast multitude is all the angels. They're also standing around the throne. And there's also elders and four living creatures. So there's this big group that are around the throne. Uh the twenty-four elders As we talked about before, represent the Raptured Church. Uh the four living creatures or cherubim and exalted order of angels. Uh we we we discussed those four living creatures before, and we discussed the reason why Um we think that they're actually cherubim is because as we saw there's a passage in Ezekiel that goes into great detail about these four living creatures, these same four living creatures, and in the Ezekiel passage it specifically says that they're cherubim. It doesn't specifically say that here in Revelation, but in the Ezekiel passage it does. Um then we have this uh the reaction. What's the the appropriate reaction of all creation is to prostrate prostrate themselves before the presence of the living God. And they give this prayer, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. This great multitude. And then there's this curious little interaction where John uh where so this um um There's one of the elders, one of the 24 elders, comes up to John and says, Hey, who are these guys over here? Who are these great multitude? And John's perplexed, he's bewildered. Why are you asking me? He says, My Lord, you know. Um and so he shows great respect to one of these elders. curios, the Greek word he uses, it doesn't doesn't mean he's uh uh he's uh imputing deity to him, it's just a a term of respect. He says, Well, you know, uh you know, I I'm just uh I'm just a guy here. You you must know. Um and so the elder says these are the ones who come out of the Great Tribulation, uh, referencing Jesus uh from Matthew 24. Um and so this term Great Tribulation i it it applies to These future events which we're about to see. It's the Great Tribulation is the second half of the seven year tribulation period, uh which w which is starting to unroll. It starts to unfold it during the sixth seal and then the it really unfolds during the uh these the seventh seal that we'll see the trumpets and the bowls. And so that's who these saints uh that's who this elder says these this vast multitude are. They're clothed in white robes, uh they have washed and made white in the blood of the Lamb, and so that means they're believers. They're their these white robes are because Because they've been washed white with the blood of the Lamb. And they're before the throne. They're in the presence of God. They serve him day and night and night. Um so they will enjoy the eternal presence of the Lamb in the center of the throne. He's their shepherd, he's their guide, he guides them to springs of eternal uh water of life. Um Um, and wipe away every tear from their eyes. And we see that language repeated again after Christ comes in uh in uh Revelation twenty-one. Same, wipe away every tear from their eyes. Uh so uh Um any questions about the this vast multitude? Is everybody clear who they are? So we went through last time who they are. Everybody knows Who that who these are. They're separate from the 144,000. Those are particular uh Jewish believers that are going to be witnesses during the second half of the Great Tribulation. So this great multitude is from every tribe and tongue and language and nation. Gentile and Jewish believers that have come out of the tribulation period. Uh they're coming out from the Great Tribulation. The Great Tribulation is starting really during the sixth seal. Uh so they're not going to experience on the earth the Great Tribulation. They're coming out from that. And there's a vast multitude of these uh believers that have died during the first six seals. They've died during the first seals. Some of them may be martyrs. We saw the martyr group of them in in Revelation chapter six, but it's all the those who have died during the the the first six seals. Could be martyrs, but it doesn't have to be martyrs. It's all the ones that came out of the uh those first six seals. Um Okay. Uh so everybody clear on what we've seen so far? So this little interlude in chapter six seven hundred forty four thousand and this great multitude we see. That's uh after the sixth seal, but before the seventh seal So here in chapter eight, we're about to uh the Lamb is about to open the seventh seal, and we'll see what happens there. Uh so here we have the seventh seal, we get divine destruction, and we get the first four trumpets, and so uh as I said the s the seventh seal contains the seven trumpets. And we'll see that the seventh trumpet contains the seven bowls. So we're going to do the first hal uh actually we're going to do all of uh the entire chapter, uh eight today. So Revelation chapter eight, if you open your Bibles. Open your Bibles or your devices to Revelation chapter eight and read along with me So this is the word of the Lord. Revelation chapter 8, beginning at the beginning, verse 1. When the Lamb broke the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven. For about half an hour. And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them Another angel came and stood at the altar holding a golden censor, and much incense was given to him, so that he might add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne. And the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel's hand. Then the angel took the censor and filled it with the fire of the altar, and threw it to the earth. And there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake. And the seven angels, who had the seven trumpets, prepared themselves to sound them. The first sounded, and there came hail and fire mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth And a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up. The second angel sounded, and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown. into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood, and a third of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died. And a third of the ships were destroyed. The third angel sound Then a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of the waters. The name of the star is wormwood And a third of the waters became wormwood, and many men died from the waters because they were made bitter The fourth angel sounded, and a third of the sun, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars were struck, so that a third of them would be darkened, and the day would not shine for a third of it, and the night in the same way. Then I looked and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell in the earth because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound. So, this is getting worse. It's getting really dire. So we've had um this increasing crescendo of wrath poured out on the earth from God in these seals, and now the seventh seal is open in the and the seventh seals Seventh seal contains these trumpet judgments, and these trumpet judgments are worse. Things are getting worse, worse and worse and worse and worse, and at the very end we hear we have this um Um this uh eagle flying in mid-heaven saying, Hey, it's gonna get worse. It's gonna get worse, no matter how bad you think it is now, it's going to get Worse. Yikes. So um so that's our passage today, and I want to read just a little bit of uh John MacArthur again. As he um he summarizes these uh these verses here in his commentary. So MacArthur says this when the Lamb opens the seventh and last seal in the little scroll that was the title deed to earth, the judgments of the day of the Lord The final seal contains within it the full sweep of the remaining divine judgments of the time of the Great Tribulation. including the trumpet and bold judgments. That the seventh seal contains the seven trumpet judgments seems clear since there is no description of judgment in the seventh seal. But an anticipation of severe judgment followed immediately in In a similar manner, the seventh trumpet does not describe a judgment, but rather contains the anticipation of heavenly rejoicing over the judgment to come which will lead to the final destruction and Establishment of the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ. As chapter ten, verse seven indicates, the seventh trumpet is the finish, and it contains the seven bowls. Chapter fifteen, verse one makes clear that the seventh trumpet, which finishes the work of judgment, contains The final fury of God's wrath, which the pouring out of the seven plague judgments pictures. When I saw another sign in heaven great and marvelous, seven angels who had seven plagues, which are the last because in them the wrath of God is finished. Chapter 16, verse 1 identifies these seven plagues as seven bowls of the wrath of God. They are then described in detail in the remainder of chapter sixteen. The progressive judgments within the seventh seal will take place over an indefinite period of time. The effects of the fifth trumpet, for example, will last five months. We see that in chapter nine. While the exact timetable for the trumpet and bold judgments is not revealed, their escalating devastation indicates that they will all they all occur during the last half of the tribulation. Therefore the seventh seal encompasses all of God's final wrath. up to the triumphant return of the Lord Jesus Christ in glory. So the seventh seal is gonna work itself out in the seven trumpets. Seventh trumpet works itself out in the seven bowls. And then the wrath of God is finished. And we have the return of Christ. Okay. Um and then uh McCarthy goes on to say as the time of the trumpet judgments to begin approaches, the world will have already experienced for years the frightening and relentless reality of God's wrath, about three and a half years into this now. As the seven year tribulation period unfolds, there will be wars and famines and plagues and devastating earthquakes and fiery celestial objects massing into the earth and a worldwide reign of terror by the Antichrist. That's all already happened, but the trumpet judgments will be even worse. So horrifying are the trumpet and bull judgments contained within the seventh seal that it's opening stuns the heavenly hosts of angels and redeem people into silence. The first four trumpets are described in a brief and straightforward manner, far more details given about the last three So we're just gonna do the first four this week. The first four trumpets all deal directly with the earth. They do not symbolize political, social, or economic judgment. These type of judgments come later in Revelation. Nor do they describe any judgment that has ever happened in history. The trumpet judgments are actual, literal, physical events that will affect the whole earth. God will use nature to punish sinners in that day. The partial destruction described by the repeated use of the word third, one third, in each of the first four trumpet judgments indicates that these are not the final judgments, that there's more to come. And we see that specifically with the eagle saying, Hey, it's gonna get worse. Uh so the the th the fact that it's only a third means that there's more to come. So that's uh MacArthur. So uh these trump first four trumpets. We have a first trumpet, hail, fire, and blood. We have a second with the fiery mountain to the sea, we have the third So let's take a look at the details. Let's go verse by verse through this. So back to verse. one and two. So the o the breaking of the seventh seal. So when the Lamb broke the seventh seal there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. Um it it's a long time to maintain silence. Uh if you if you want to try that sometime. Uh just see if you can maintain absolute silence for 30 minutes. Uh no little ding from your phone, uh not nothing nothing whatsoever, thirty minutes of complete silence. It's kind of a long time. to have complete sounds. So uh this is a unique thing because there's been sound all throughout this vision. There's always somebody talking or somebody praising, um loud sounds all the time Uh so the review of the visions up to this point, he's heard a good deal of noise in heaven, John has. There's been always been sound. Um and so w we had all up to this point we have all these sounds. Uh in chapter four, for example, emanating from God's throne were sounds and peals of thunder. Um the four living creatures did not cease saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty The 24 elders added their song of praise. In chapter 5, we have this the angel proclaiming in a loud voice Who is worthy to open? Uh we have um the the first four living creatures of the twenty-four elders and then the host of angels in chapter five with their proc proclamation um of um God's holiness. The the praise of unending praise is that's noise. There's lots of of loud noise associated with all of these visions up to this point and then silence. After all that loudness, the fury of the final judgments is about to be released, we get silence falling in heaven. All of those multitude of angels, all those multitude of saints, the 24 elders, the living creatures, all of them have been making this huge amount of noise of praising the Lord and then they see the seventh seal opened And they see these judgments that are about to be poured out, and it stuns everybody into silence for 30 minutes. So uh we have the seven seal broken, scroll unrolled the redeemed and the angels fall silent, anticipating this destruction. Half an hour of silence is a kind of a calm excuse me, a calm before the storm. Uh silence before uh foreboding, before the intense expectation and awe of what God's about to do. Uh so silence is the only proper response to this divine judgment. We have other places in scripture we have this uh same kind of thing, Psalm seventy-six, the earth feared and was still when God arose to judgment. Habakkuk two, the Lord is in his holy temple, let all the earth be silent before him. Be silent before the Lord, said Zephaniah in Zephaniah one, for the Lord The day of the Lord is near. Zechariah two hundred thirteen, be silent all flesh before the Lord, for he is aroused from his holy habitation. So silence prior to God's wrath and judgment We've seen this before in Scripture. Psalm, Lebekah, Zephaniah. So there's no time in heaven. God is outside of time. But the Apostle John, of course, who's seeing the vision He's he is uh uh subject to time and so thirty minutes is for John's benefit and ours. Um it must have seemed like forever for John. Uh he's waiting and waiting and waiting. The seventh seal is broken, he's watching this visit. And all there is is silence for thirty minutes uh in his vision as he's watching this uh unfold. Um after he's seen loud praises and noises and all this sort of thing, all of a sudden There's silence and nothing's happening. For a minute, as the minutes tick by, he's watching a vision of nothing. Nothing but silence. Um and so then we have the hour of God's final judgment coming, the saints will be vindicated. part the last half of the tribulation, the Great Tribulation. And so there's some some some suspense in heaven before that happens. And then following that half hour silence He experiences a new feature of this seventh seal, namely the seven angels who stand before God. So there's a definite article here. It's not just seven angels, it's the seven angels Um and that sets them apart as a unique group. It's not just seven angels, it's these seven angels, sometimes referred to as the presence angels. It's these seven angels who stand before God. Um and as John watches, the seven trumpets are given to these seven angels in preparation for the trumpet judgments, which are about what we're about to see. Um and there's of course with the seven s the sealed judgments we've seen up to this point, uh there's angels involved. Um there are angels involved with these trumpet judgments. We'll see in chapter sixteen that there Angels involved in the bull judgments. And so angels participate in God's judgments here throughout. Seals, trumpets, and bulls. Uh consistent with what Jesus taught. Jesus taught in Matthew thirteen Matthew 16, Matthew 25, that angels would take part in God's judgments. Each of the seven trumpets will unleash a specific judgment of greater intensity than the six seal judgment. judgments. Uh, but not as destructive as the seven bowls that we'll see. So we get this progressive pouring out of God's w wrath and judgment, which gets worse and worse and worse and worse, and that's a constant theme here. Um and it's really uh emphasized at the very end of chapter eight with this eagle saying, Hey, these trumpets have been really, really bad, but it's getting worse. It's gonna be worse when the final three jet trumpets blow. Uh the first four trumpets are focused on the Earth's ecology. The next two, the fifth and sixth, that we'll see in in subsequent lessons, produce demonic destruction of humanity. And the seven trumpets, and the seventh trumpet introduces the final outpouring of God's wrath with the bold judgments. So that's the structure of it. And then we move on to verse 3. Another angel came and stood at the altar holding a golden censer. So we have the seven angels. with the seven trumpets and then we have another angel. Another angel came and stood at the altar holding a golden censer, and much incense was given to him so that he might add to it, add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which is before the throne. So we saw uh previously this altar of incense with the prayers of the saints in chapter six. Uh now we have an angel with a in the censor and he's adding more prayers of the saints. His attention is drawn to this seven uh to from the seven angels to the seven angels and he's got an uh come he comes to this altar of incense. Uh it's the heavenly counter part of the altar incense in the temple, which was also made with gold. We see that in Exodus chapter 30. And so the real one is the one in heaven. The imitation one is the one on earth, right? That's the way it always is. The things that we see on earth are shadows of the things in heaven. And so that altar of incense was there for the purpose of showing something that's in heaven, a shadow of something that's in. The real one is the one that's in heaven that we see here in Revelation. And we can see that there was a foreshadowing of this, an altar of incense, in um uh i in Exodus chapter 30. Um it's the same golden incense altar seen by Isaiah. Isaiah sees that in his vision of heaven in Isaiah chapter chapter six. Ezekiel sees this same altar of incense in Ezekiel chapter ten. And so here we see it again in Revelation. Um the description of the altar as before the throne assures John's readers that the altar of incense was the uh is the uh was the earthly counterpart to this heavenly incense altar. So i John's drawing the connection. So anybody that is familiar with the Old Testament will immediately see that this is the altar of incense and oh yeah we had one like that uh on earth uh before. And consistent with the Identification of this with the altar of incense, the angel has a golden sensor or fire pan, just like the Old Testament priest did. When they went to the altar of incense in the temple. Yes. Okay, uh so the angel takes much incense, which symbolizes the multiplied prayers of God's people. Uh we've seen that theme before in chapter five and chapter six. Um and it was given to him. Uh that much incense was given to him. Um and it doesn't say specifically here uh who gave the angel the incense, but that verb Didoni uh was uh it translates was given. Um in Revelation over and over and over again there's very specific cases where we know for sure it's God that's doing the giving. In this case it's not clear, but in other places this This verb particularly is God giving something in chapter six, in chapter seven, and chapter nine, chapter eleven, chapter thirteen, chapter sixteen, nineteen, twenty. So I think we can make the assumption that it's God that gave these uh this incense to the angel. So the prayers come to God. God gives the prayers to the angel in this case. The purpose of the angel being given the incense was so that he might add it to the prayers of all the saints already rising from the altar. The angel added his incense to that already burning of the altar, the smoke of the incense, the prayers of the saints go up before God out of the angel's hands. These are undoubtedly the cries of believers. And so we have the this uh altar of incense that has all the prayers of the saints And then we have uh some additional prayers that are coming up, most likely in this context, from those who are being persecuted, that are living through this uh w essentially the transition. They've lived through the first six seals, but now we're going into the trumpets and the bulls, which will be uh the really pouring out of wrath and the great tribulation. So the prayers of the saints during this time are coming up to this altar of incense in heaven. And they're praying against the their persecutors in many cases and all who blaspheme God in Christ in that time. And so then we see the smoke of the incense and the prayers of the saints went up before God out of the angel's hands, and the angel took the censor and filled it with the fire of the altar and threw it to the earth. So the state he he's got his prayers, he adds his prayers to the to the altar of incense, and then he gets some fire from the altar And he throws it to the earth. That's what John sees in the vision. The angel throwing fire from the altar down to the earth. So here's this angel. He's standing at the golden incense altar He's uh emptied his censer and he f then he fills up his censor with coals or fire from the altar. And he clings it to the earth. Uh then in an act which must have stunned John and the multitude in heaven, he throws this fire on the earth. Uh the results uh are catastrophic. God's judgment falls upon the earth uh out of the sky. And so this is a symbol of God's judgment falling on the earth. Um usually uh and so i the sensor of course is linked with the prayers of God's people and it becomes the something that's uh linked with god the prayers of god's people becomes linked with uh God's divine wrath being poured out on the earth. Um and so it reveals God's judgment that will come uh and the symbolism seems to be come in response to the prayers. Remember we had before, how long, O Lord? How long will we wait until you're going to judge our oppressors? Well, now we really get the answer to that question. It's now. And and the prayers of the saints before been how long? And now we get the golden incense with the prayers filled up with fire and then unleashed on earth. And so this is really the answer to those prayers of how long? Well it's now. Here it comes. Uh this is the answer to those prayers. And we get kind of this direct connection, the prayers of the saints and the rest. of God. And we get uh of course we have in the James chapter five uh the the effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much. And so we have righteous saints praying to God how long Do we have to wait until you're going to judge uh these wicked people that are blaspheming and profaning your name? Um and now we get the answer. And that's gonna be now. Uh And there and there followed peals of th there's an immediate reaction, immediate effect of this uh fire being thrown out to heaven from the from the altar, and there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake. And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound them. So everything's been silent, remember. Totally silent. Uh nothing's been happening for thirty minutes. And then we get this uh fire thrown down in heaven, and there's immediately Lots of sound and fury, uh after this thirty minutes of silence. Peals of thunder, sounds, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake. And that evidently is the sign for these seven angels to s bring the trumpets up. Uh so the immediate After the firestorm or the wrath that bursts upon the earth are peals of thunder, sounds, flashes of lightning. And that's a direct contrast with the silence we had in verse one. So imagine there's all this noise and then there's silence. And it goes on and on and on for thirty minutes. And now we have this huge crescendo of sound again. And imagine how much um how much more loud and jarring it is when you hear a loud sound in the midst of silence. You know, i i you're you're in the you're watching the scary movie and everything is really silent and then boom you know the bad guy bumps out jumps out and makes a loud sound. Um and that's you know that's really jarring. So that's what's happening here. Silence, silence, silence, silence. Boom! Thunders and peals of flashes of lightning and earthquake. Questions? Comments? Um No T Tales are given about this earthquake. We don't know how big it was, but it's but by the the way things are getting progressively worse, my guess is that it it's at least as powerful as the one associated with the six steels since things are getting worse. worse and worse and worse. And following the earthquake will come the horrors of the trumpet and bold judgments. And by the end of those judgments, God's judgment of his creation will be complete. Uh so we have a specific language coming in our um in some of our upcoming lessons that says that the wrath of God is complete. Once we get to the end of the Seven bowls. So this powerful earthquake was the signal for the seven angels who had their seven trumpets and they prepared themselves to sound them. So they'd been waiting. Uh they had the seven trumpets, they're waiting. And then we get the sounding of these seven trumpets. So starting in verse seven Verse seven says, the first sounded, and there came hail and fire. Mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth. And a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up. burned up. Hail, frequently associated in scripture with the divine judgment, we see that in Exodus, we see that in Job, we see that in Psalm, we see it in Isaiah twenty eight, Haggai two. So there's a consistent um association of hail with judgment. And so is fire. Uh Genesis nineteen, Psalm eleven, Ezekiel thirty eight, So hail and fire, uh associated with judgment throughout the Old Testament, and now here we have it in Revelation as well. Uh the combination of fire mixed with blood is reminiscent of Joel two thirty, which also describes the day of the Lord. Uh the specific cause of the hail and fire thrown to the earth is not revealed, but from a scientific standpoint we can surmise that a giant earthquake, um uh uh the extent that must have been um uh most likely was uh w the earthquake in chapter six was a huge one. Uh we can assume that this one's a huge one too, not just the earthquake that nobody would notice, uh likely trigger trigger volcanic eruption. So um the same kind of tectonic activity uh that produces earthquakes also can produce volcanic eruptions. And so if we had a giant earthquake that was uh spectacular, uh you would also expect volcanic eruptions and atmospheric disturbances caused by those eruptions could trigger violent thunderstorms and produce large hail. And so that's a um a scientific guess about where it may have come from. Or God could just decide to throw hailstones on the earth without any kind of precursor whatsoever. Um he has the ability to do that. It doesn't have to be that all these things are uh have to be explained in a naturalistic way. Uh there are potential naturalistic explanations, but it does not have to be There does not have to be a naturalistic explanation for God to do something with his creation. Yeah, so we've got hail and fire falling falling from heaven here Um and it and it beats up the earth. It really beats up the earth, this this hail and fire. Um and so the angel h uh there's the there's This massive outpouring of um an earthquake and hail and fire, uh and it's doing tremendous damage to the earth uh is really the key. Uh God is judging the earth and and and damaging the earth. Uh a third of the earth was burned up, rendering the soil in which crops are cultivated unusable, and a third of the earth. A third of the trees are burned up, destroying fruit all over the earth. A green grass is burned up. So the fire fire falling from the sky kindled raging infernals. They consumed one third of the earth's vegetation and forests. And so this is an ecological disaster wrought by God in his wrath and judgment. of the earth. Um catastrophic fires would be widespread and devastating if there's fire falling from the earth, uh from the heavens, including destruction of crops, death of animals on a massive scale, from The hail and the fire, uh loss of wood for construction, uh destruction of watersheds because uh plant life is an important part of uh watersheds, w where w where and how water flows aro around the earth. And where it doesn't flow, um, it's a fitting judgment for those who exchange the truth of God for a lie and worship and serve the Creator rather than the creature. I mean think about the way um People these days seem to almost worship the earth. And so God is going to destroy it before their very eyes. So we've got this ecological disaster. Uh that's one trumpet. And so in verse 8 we get the second trumpet. Second angel sounded, and something like a great mountain burning with fire. was thrown into the sea. And a third of the sea became blood, and a third of the creatures which were in the sea had and had life died And a third of the ships were destroyed. So this is uh first trumpet, the land, destruction of the land, second trumpet, destruction of the sea Um and so God's destroying the ecology of his creation. Say land and then sea. He created the sea to be a blessing to mankind, to provide food, to provide oxygen. We talked about oxygen. oxygen. Uh quite a bit of the oxygen that's generated is generated by phytoplankton and algae in the oceans. Um and if you destroy a third of that, that's a big uh blow to the ecology of the uh of the world in terms of that oxygen cycle and the hydrology cycle hydrologic cycle as well. The hydrologic cycle is dependent on evaporation out of the ocean um and then uh rainfall falling on the on the land. Uh if you destroy a third of the sea, um you you can have problems with that hydrologic cycle as well. Yes. Yeah. A third of all the creature Yeah, that's yeah. Yeah, and it's a big uh disaster for food production as well. I mean a lot of cultures, a lot of places around the world really depend on uh f uh food from the sea and if a a third of that gone is a that's a big deal. Just like a third of all the trees gone, uh, no matter where it is, uh where it happens, a third of all those sea creatures being dead all at once is a huge blow to the food production for the for the earth. Um people have repaid God's gracious provision of this ocean with ingratitude and idolatry, revering the sea as the supposed source of their remotest evolutionary ancestors. So the great the latest story that's taught in evolutionary biology is that all life came up out of the sea. uh that God didn't create, but life just came by evolutionary processes up out of the sea. Um so the sea is our creator, um not the one, the living and true God Um and so yeah, not the one who created the sea. And so uh and God won't have that. He won't have anything set up um as as uh as worthy of worship above him and so he's going to destroy it. Um so this massive object plunging to the sky uh must have terrorized uh observers on the earth. Uh it's described John describes it. So remember John's seeing a vision and he's doing the best he can to describe what he sees in the vision. Something that looks like a giant mountain fire uh on fire falling out of the sky into the ocean. And so What would that what could that be? It could be a giant meteorite or asteroid that falls because if if a giant meteor that that's going to make it all the way to the Earth, it's going to look like a giant fireball as it comes down. Any meteorite that comes down. down and hits the earth looks like a giant fireball. Um now the typical ones that hit the earth are pretty small. Sometimes they do hit the earth, uh but this is a big one and it's gonna hit the ocean. Um So uh most likely I think this is John seeing a giant asteroid or meteorite that comes all the way down and impacts the ocean. Um so it strikes somewhere in the world's oceans, huge explosive power, um there's three catastrophes that result from this. We have a third of the ocean becomes blood, a third of the creatures in the sea had life died. Um it's it impossible to say whether the blood was the miraculous deposit of actual blood or uh It's the death of these billions of sea creatures and their blood uh churning up the ocean, or the red issue of the sun shining through the pall of smoke from the earthquake and the volcanic eruptions, or it could just be blood. God made the earth turn into blood. I mean that's what happened in the plagues of Egypt. And so there are is there are actually a number of parallels in what's happening here with the plagues in Egypt. And one of the plagues of Egypt, God just made water turn into blood. And so that could very well be what happened here. God just poof, water becomes blood. Um so yes, so that's definitely the the we don't as I mentioned There could be some naturalistic explanation where there was a red tint and it looked like blood, but that's not necessarily necessary for um uh interpretating this this or interpreting this prophecy. It could be so gone John saw what looked like the water turning into blood and he described as the water turning into blood. It could be that God just turned that water into blood. Um okay. Um so the impact will also generate uh huge tsunamis. So i if in fact uh you can actually do a computer simulation of what would happen if a huge object went into the ocean. Um we have enough data to be able to to do computer simulations of that. And it would really make big tsunamis. Uh if a big a asteroid uh or meteor impacted the uh the sea, you would get gigantic tsunamis uh a around the world. Um and that if you had a tsunami like that, it would crush ports all over the earth and it would destroy ships all over the earth too. Um and so that could very well be what happened here. Uh uh John seeing what's going to happen is giant meteor hits the ocean, huge tsunamis swamp and sink ships all over the earth, it destroy port facilities all over the earth. um and destroy sea creatures uh all over the earth, uh th uh all over the oceans a third of them. Um and so we see a third of the ships destroyed, uh completely swamped, ports, uh disruption of Commerce and transportation causing economic chaos. So you've got a third of the trees are gone, a third of the uh ocean creatures are gone, a third of the ships are gone. Uh this is massive uh massive disruption of the global economy. Massive. And then we have the third angel. So that's two. We have the the land and the sea destroyed. We have a third angel sounded. And a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs and the waters Um so this third judgment, um this this third judgment uh in in Luke twenty one, uh uh Jesus said terrors and great signs from heaven. Uh this is a a great star falls from heaven. This uh the Greek word Aster um translated star here It can refer to any celestial body other than the sun and the moon. So there's a separate Greek word for the sun and a separate Greek word for the moon. But this word uh this Greek word means everything else that's in the heavens. So stars, but also things like comets and meteors and and things like that. Possibly a comet or a meteor because of its fiery tail uh disintegrated as it reaches Earth's atmosphere. So this one doesn't smash into the earth. Uh it disintegrates and the debris f falls on rivers. Uh so it falls on all over the earth, but uh specifically it affects affects rivers. It's described as burning like a torch, and that Greek word lampas, torch, was used in ancient times to describe meteors and comets. And so that's why it's most likely that John's describing a meteor and comet because that was the language that this Greek uh word refers to burning like a torch, uh meteors and comets. Um and so the the debris from whatever this thing was falls on a third of the rivers and on the springs of waters and pollutes the fresh water around the globe. So we've had massive destruction of the earth, physical destruction of things on the earth, we've had the sea. Now we have the water supply being affected. Uh essentially poisoning the water supply. So uh the name of the stars called Wormwood, and a third of the waters became Wormwood, and many men died from the waters because they were made bitter. So those that survived the fire and hail and destruction of a third of the earth, those who survived the massive tsunamis and the sinking of all the ships, now they face death by poison water. Uh it's getting bad. Things are getting bad. Uh the st because of the deadly effects, the star this whatever this thing was that fell out of the sky is called wormwood. The text does not reveal who We will name it Wormwood. Wormwood translates a Greek word aspintheon. It's a word used only here in the New Testament, so nowhere else in the New Testament, just here. Wormwood is a shrub whose Leaves are used in the manufacture of the alcoholic beverage absent. Uh I don't know if anybody's familiar with that particular alcoholic beverage. Um there were uh there were rumors in the kind of the Middle Ages and through the eighteen hundreds that this was a poison liquor and it was actually banned in many countries. Um and but now it's sold in many countries and it's it's it's it was not i it was kind of a uh hysteria that this thing might be poison, especially because of the passages here in Revelation. Um and so it was banned in a bunch of countries, but um th it's not poison. Uh the the Liquor is not poison, you can drink absent, uh in many countries. However, the the the wormwood that's mentioned here in Revelation that's that fell on these in the fresh water system is poison and it kills people. Uh it's m one word is mentioned in the Old Testament uh eight times. Uh it's associated with business bitterness, poisons, uh poison and death. That's in Deuteronomy twenty nine, Proverbs five, Jeremiah nine, Jeremiah twenty three, Lamentations three, Amos five, and Amos six. In three of those uses one wood is connected with poison water, specifically with poison water. Um and so So that's the that's the key here. This is something that poisons fresh water. In Jeremiah 9, for example, God says of rebellious Israel, Behold, I will feed them this people with wormwood and give them poison water to drink. And so this is uh there's lots of references to the Old Testament. n n not always specific references like quotes, but but things that are symbols that have been used in the Old Testament always appear here in this book of Revelation. And this is another one of those. Uh whatever Whatever the poison represented by the name wormwood is, it is lethal. Since a third of the fresh waters became poisonous with this wormwood. So uh we have this uh these um Cascading disasters on the land, on the sea, and now we got fresh water. It's being poisoned and many people die. Uh so whoever's left, many people are dying from the poison water No human deaths specifically were mentioned in the first two trumpets, although undoubtedly there was a severe human toll. But the third judgment, John records that many men died. from the waters uh that were made bitter. Uh rivers will run with deadly poison, wells will become springs of death, lakes and reservoirs will be filled with toxic water. So it's getting I mean worse and worse and worse and worse and And of course, we're going to find out at the end of chapter 8 that no, this is only beginning, it's going to get even worse. So people who were able to survive for a time the destruction of food supplies caused by the first two trumpets, living off stored provisions, but people can long survive without fresh water. Uh the loss of a significant portion of the world's fresh water supply will cause widespread death. So a third of the fresh water that's a lot. A third of the freshwater poison That's a huge that's huge. Um that a third of the fresh water supply is made bitter or poison. Um and then we have the fourth angel So starting in verse 12, the fourth angel sounded, a third of the sun, a third of the moon, a third of the stars were struck, so that a third of them would be darkened, and the day would not shine for a third of it, and the night in the same way And so we've got the sea and the land and the sea and the fresh water, and now we've got the heavens. Divine judgment everywhere. So still ruling for the effects of the elec eco ecological judgments. People are desperately seeking for answers. No doubt there will be seminars and conferences and emergency sessions of the United Nations Uh just think about it. People are seeing all this happen. What do we do? We're well let's have a conference. Um scientists are discussing what can we do? Desperately, futilely seeking to cope with the damage. Uh Uh, what can we do about these ecological disasters? What can we do about the fact that all these trees are dead and all all these animals are uh dead from the hail and fire and all the sea creatures are dead and the water's all poison, uh what do we do? Um and in the midst of all that we get a uh a third of the moon, a third of the stars struck, and a third of the sun. Um we're struck plateau um is the verb from which the Noun plague is derived. And so this is uh heavenly bodies are hit with a plague from God. That's the picture, the word picture here. A plague from God on the heavenly bodies. Um and so what exactly does it mean that a third of them are dark and um it's a little bit easier to imagine what a third of the stars being darkened, but what does it mean that a third of the sun and a third of the moon is dark? I don't know. I don't know what that means, but I think it's bad. Yeah, so that could be it, that that you y y you've uh a third of the intensity of the sunlight is not reaching the earth. It could be that, uh, with a with a canopy of smoke and and things like that in the air. It could that could be. Um but there's no specification of exactly what that is and and just So just remember, John's seeing a vision, he's doing the very best he can to describe something that's indescribable. Um and then so then we get this viral thing, we look up and we see John looks up and he sees an eagle, something that looks like an eagle, flying in the mid-heaven. So way up there in the sky. And he sang with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell in the earth, because you ain't seen nothing yet. Because the remaining blasts of the trumpets of the three angels, he didn't say you ain't seen nothing yet. Uh He says that because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of three angels who are about to sound. So in other words, this is terrible. I mean everything's it's a disaster of biblical proportions. Um and but it's gonna get worse. is is the the final thing here we see. Um so um we see uh flagging mid heaven the bird would be of such a height uh like the s the midday sun visible to all. That's that's the picture that John's seeing here is that This is uh a voice crying out that everybody can hear that hey it's going to get much worse. Yeah, these four trumpets are the beginning of this pouring out of the massive wrath of God, but it's going to get worse. Uh woe is used throughout scripture to express judgment and destruction and condemnation uh in many, many places in Scripture. Um and it's gonna fall, uh the this voice of the eagle says it's gonna fall on those who dwell on the earth And that's a phrase that we've seen over and over again in Revelation that describ it's a technical term for those who reject the gospel. There's going to be worse coming for them. And so later in Revelation we see um that the rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the work of their hands. So we're gonna see that in the next chapter, chapter nine. Unbelievable. Um they're not going to repent. Uh they will be destro destroyed Because they fail to heed the warning of God addresses to all sinners, uh therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Hebrew three. Okay. Um any questions? Yes. So So we saw that in the sixth seal actually. In the sixth seal it started to become clear to people on earth that God was judging and they were hiding from him, they were they were praying to the mountain to fall on them. Um but there was uh uh a kind of a a budding understanding that started in the sixth seal. Yeah. Yeah. Any others? All right, let me close this Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your love and mercy and grace to us. Um we know that you have uh withheld judgment. Uh we see in Second Peter uh uh scoffers saying, Where is this coming? Um and and we know that it's only because of your mercy uh that you haven't already poured out this kind of judgment on the earth. Uh we thank you for that mercy. Uh and we pray, Lord, that uh this kind of warning that we see in the book of Revelation would be something that would motivate us as followers of Christ to to earnestly seek to uh to uh to to preach the gospel, to spread the gospel to those that especially to those that we know our our friends and neighbors and coworkers and family members who are unbelievers. Uh that that this kind of judgment is coming and we can see it and they can't see it and we pray Lord that that would give us motivation uh to uh to be about the work of spreading uh the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we thank you, Lord, for the great love that it took to send Jesus to that cross to die for the sins of the world. Uh we pray, Lord, that uh as we go to the corporate worship that um the the things that we do now, the uh the meditations of our hearts, the words of our lips, the the songs and hymns and spiritual songs that we sing will be acceptable in your sight, pleasing to you, and bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.