The evangelical movement here in the United States of America has not been typically known for a very high view of the church. If you went to a non-evangelical, whether they be secular or religion, and you asked them What is your view of evangelicals? Who are they? What are they about? Many, of course, would point immediately to our influence in politics To some people, all they know is the TV preacher they've seen. Others would have a little more insight. They'd say, those are the people that go around talking about Jesus. They have a strong emphasis on evangelism and missions. Others would say they're always into the Bible, doing their Bible studies, starting Bible schools. Maybe as we just experienced praise music would come to mind, radio ministry Others would point to the many organizations under the banner of evangelical, broadly speaking. That build up the family and fight for the family, or that defend creation science, or stand for certain kinds of morality in our society. After all of that input, someone then might say, oh yeah, and then they have church as well. They go to church. But typically our connections to our churches churches have been less formal than other denominations and movements within Christianity, less formal and I would add more transient. Even with the growth of the megachurch movement phenomenon, there are not that many firm connections that are made with a local church because it's frankly not stressed. Many treat the church particularly as it gets larger and has more to provide for their congregation as a club to come find the few things that give them joy, that meet their needs or their family's need, use it a little and then move on, rather than as a family to come to know and to serve. In short, you might say us, we evangelicals, have a strong soteriology, an understanding of salvation and the gospel. Salvation doctrine with us is strong, but we do not have a strong ecclesiology, understanding of the church, what the church is about. We're weak in that area. Maybe that's in part because we evangelical Protestants have reacted against the abuses of the churches we might call the high church denominations. In the Roman Church in particular, also the Eastern Orthodox Churches, but to some extent in the higher Protestant churches It seems often that one's connection to the church, to the organization itself, becomes more important than one's connection to Christ or to God. It's necessary to receive grace and forgiveness to be connected to that organization. And so the emphasis is there through the sacramental system rather than directly to God. The Roman leader we know is called a supreme pontiff, or a holy father, or the head of the church. Those are lofty titles. Their leaders claim to be priests who stand between the laity and God and are mediators in between. Their sacraments, what we call ordinances, are said to infuse grace into those who are the faithful Their cathedrals are high and lofty, their traditions are long and elaborate, the attire of their leaders is elite. The great leaders of their past, men and women, have been canonized as saints. And thus they are called high church. Their people seem to be more concerned with their church and the relationship to the church than to Jesus Christ. In fact Many believe as Cyprian of Carthage in the third century declared, No one can have God for his father who has not the church for his mother. We evangelicals reject most of that. We're quite the opposite, but it's led us in the other extreme. We play loose with the church. In part, I'm sure that practice has been fueled by modern technology here in America. Why get together with other people when you can listen to a great preacher at home? Listen to a DVD series that you like, turn on that Bose system and listen to music just the way you want it. What's the point in coming out in cold weather and gathering together with people? What's the point in doing all of that? Why even have a local church? Many of our churches themselves feed this attitude, I'm afraid. Some no longer even practice the ordinances, or if they do, you can't tell. They certainly don't practice church discipline anymore, removing someone from the church for unrepentant sin. Where do you see that? There's no protection of the church as a distinct body, as holy people for God. Many don't even have membership requirements. They come to our church and we have a membership class and we say, Where was your membership last? And they can't really say. They just were there at another church. There were no formal membership requirements. I would say the chances are that our evangelical subculture has influenced your thinking to some degree. Your expectations concerning church, your dedication to church have all been influenced by the greater evangelical subculture. It affects the way you think. about who you are and your involvement here. Many of you, I would say, and all of us to a certain degree need to have a higher understanding of God's church Indeed, we need to come to have the same view of the church that God has, the divine view of his church. So today, as we think about the church We must ask the question, what saith God on this matter? What is his view of the church? Our text is 1 Corinthians 3, verses 16 through 23. Follow along as I read. 1 Corinthians 3, 16 to 23. The Apostle Paul writes, Do you not know that you are a temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you thinks that he is wise in this age, he must become foolish, so that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written, He is the one who catches the wise in their craftiness And again, the Lord knows the reasonings of the wise that they are useless. So then let no one boast in men, for all things belong to you, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world, or life or death, or things present or things to come. All things belong to you and you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs. It should be clear to you as you hear those words that Paul still has not left his main concern if you've been tracking with us all the way since chapter one of 1 Corinthians. These Corinthians had a divisive spirit and it was permeating that entire local church. It was fueled by human pride, by by immature Christian faith, more of a carnal attitude. It was manifest in these party loyalties they had, the different teachers that they felt gave them greater status by identifying with greater names. That all came out of that Greek worldly mindset where they honored their great speakers more than the great content that they taught of. And so Paul spent so much of that time in chapter one and two exalting the cross. What an opposite message that is from what people want to hear today, that the way to know God's wisdom is through the slaughter of a man on a cross, executed as a criminal. And he developed the whole understanding of what the essence of Christianity was because they were so worldly in their thinking, more so than they realized. And he combated all of that with the doctrine of the cross. More recently here in chapter three, although we took time out by going to 2 Corinthians, so I'll give you a little bit more of uh remembrance of this, Paul zeroed in on their carnal way of thinking there at the beginning of chapter three. And he went on to talk about spiritual leaders in the church. and who they were and what they're about, that they're really a team of workers. They're not there to exalt themselves. They're servants of Christ and the people. They have to answer to Christ for how they work in his field and how they construct his building. They're building on a foundation which is Christ Himself. They're going to have a future time of accountability, and they need to be careful with what they teach in the church. And now here he's bringing all of this argument, all of this doctrine and teaching from chapter 1 to a head right in this passage. a climax, you might say, that that confronts the Corinthians with the truth again and warns them as well. The language in this section I think is very strong and it's very emotional. It's charged also with great truth about the church. It is truth that is meant to drive the mind away from valuing the world's way of thinking and onto the greatness of what God is doing, and God is doing particularly in his church. So he writes here of the importance of the church. It must be treated holy, he says. No one should harm it or else. He goes back again to the foolishness of education, apart from divine revelation that anyone who thinks he's educated or wise in this world needs to start all over and learn from God. I'm going to actually save that message for next week. But then he ends with a crescendo with mighty privileges and resources and possessions of the church to bring all of it to a head. And of course, all of that teaching had a pastoral purpose for it. He wanted that church to be healthy. He didn't want that church dragged down in any way He wanted them to stop bickering with one another and to focus on what God says, to see the big picture and what was most important and to get themselves in line with what God was doing, to be mature and to be united in Christ. So I'm going to save verses 18 through 20 for next week. I'm going to bring a message then on defending the faith, apologetics, how we can expose the foolishness of unbelievers. Today we're going to focus on verses 16 and 17 and then leapfrog 18 to 20 and go to verses 21 through 23. Verses 16 and 17 and 21 through 23, and we're going to learn some incredible truths about the church here. Three, really. The first incredible truth about the church is the exceptional nature of the church. And then the extraordinary defense of the church, and then the extravagant possessions of the church First, the exceptional nature of the church. That's in verse 16. But you look back at this and see, this is just amazing. The exceptional nature of the church, verse 16. Do you not know He asks the Corinthians, that you are a temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you. Please notice how strongly Paul starts. Don't you know? That's really a rebuke, you know. The Corinthians prided themselves in what? Their knowledge. They were always in the know, they had spiritual gifts of knowledge and all the rest. But Paul asks them right here, don't you know? You should know. In fact, this is a device that Paul's going to use some ten times in the letter, each time to let them know, you know, you guys have a lot more that you need to learn. There are things you don't understand. Don't you know? Haven't you been taught and come to realize and understand that you are the temple of God? Now that word temple is naos in Greek. It means the inner sanctuary of the temple, the real place where God came and dwelt. It's distinguished from another word that was broader, Haron, which meant the whole temple mount, including of course the part where God actually dwelt But this is talking about the inner sanctuary. So they are the inner sanctuary, he says. You are the very place that God resides. The Spirit of God has come to live within you. You house the very presence of God. Don't you know that? He's asking. Now understand this is talking about the church in a collective sense. In the future, in chapter six of First Corinthians, he's going to Point out that each and every single Christian is a temple of the Holy Spirit. That's true. Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit. If you're born again, the Spirit of God has come to live with inside of you. And so your body needs to be treated with holiness no matter how or where you go. You are a temple of the Holy Spirit. That is not what the Apostle Paul is referring to here. He's talking about the local church collectively. First of all, the word you there, you is plural. He's talking to the church in the context and you can see that. Remember the image we just finished back in verses 12 through 15 was about a local church being built up by leaders. And that's the context. And of course In verses 21 through 23, he's talking about the possessions not just of individual believers, but of the entire church So just like the Spirit of God has come and lives inside of each individual believer, so also in a collective sense, God is housed right here among his people. Do you understand how special that is? Do you understand when you read those words what he is really saying? Have you come to grasp who we are, what our identity is? The very idea of us, of you and me, simple creatures that we are, we are the temple of God, he says. Do you not know that? That is a precious and magnificent truth. I think it's one we need to think a little more deeply about, don't you? See, God is omnipresent, yes? He is everywhere in the world and the universe at the same time. Nowhere can you flee from his spirit, Psalm 139 declares. We know that. He's here, he's there, he's where we're not gathered, he is where we are gathered. He's at the farthest place of the planet, he's under the water in the deep, he's everywhere. God is omnipresent But even though that is true, the scripture also teaches in many places that God chooses to make his presence manifest in certain special locations at certain times. Those two truths work together within Scripture. For example, and we sung about this earlier: that the heavens are the tabernacle of God. The Lord dwells in heaven. There's a fuller, much fuller manifestation of God Almighty. His glory shines in a greater way in the heavenly places In Acts 7. 55, Stephen, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed intently into heaven, the scripture says, and saw the glory of God. Whatever he saw, it was wonderful, it was amazing, and it was a manifestation of God's presence we don't see down here on earth just because God is omnipresent. Revelation 5. 13 gives a heavenly scene also. It says, Every created thing which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them I heard saying To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. And you could just hear the resounding, echoing the loud voice of all these creatures that are singing glory and praise to God. That is a manifestation of God's presence that comes with incredible power. It overwhelms every creature, no matter what kind of a creature is in the presence of this being, they're overwhelmed by it. They're excited. They're awed. They don't know what to do except to worship. That's the mighty presence of God. Why then does God need a temple down here on earth? And the answer is this: So that God can live with people. So that God can dwell with people. Remember when God made man on the earth? He made man on the earth before they sinned. He stuck them there in beautiful paradise in a garden. And the scripture tells us that God actually came to them. He came, he took some kind of a physical body, and he came walking in the garden. Genesis 3. 8. They heard they that's Adam and Eve heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. That wasn't too smart. But the presence of God was with them there. And the way that is written, it makes it sound like this was a regular occurrence. that God regularly came at this time in the cool of the day and he had a regular meeting time and a regular meeting place with man because he wanted to fellowship with man. He made him in his very image. But when they sinned, they not only incurred the death penalty, but they were removed from the presence of God, you see. They were banished, they were excommunicated from God's presence. Say, why is that significant? Because now they were no longer privileged to be in the presence of the greatest, most glorious being in the universe. They no longer were allowed to hear his voice, to fellowship with the Almighty, to see him in that manifestation, to experience the highest joy. Psalm 16, 11, write that down. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures forever. Now if you're a young person you're here today and you're wondering, is it really an exciting and wonderful and joyous thing to learn to know God? That's what that verse is saying. Parents make your kids memorize it. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures forever. It is a curse. It is a punishment to be removed from the presence of God. Instead, today our existence here in this world is more like Isaiah 59, 2, but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. After the Garden of Eden, when they were banished, in order to meet God, mankind was ordered once again to come into his presence, but this time they had to come with blood, with a sacrifice, with the death of an animal. to an altar that was built in order to make that sacrifice upon the altar and meet God there. These altars were places that were marked off as special places for meeting with God Very special places, places where God sometimes would manifest Himself in a vision or a dream. A place set apart for the highest purpose that man had anywhere in the world, not his occupation nor in his family, but coming into the presence again of God. In Genesis 8:20, we're told that Noah built an altar to the Lord and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar, death and blood to meet with God. In Genesis 12, 7 it says, The Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants, I will give this land. What did Abram do? He built an altar and he worshipped God, who had appeared to him there. This is where God connected with man in his sinful state as sacrifices were made. When God had multiplied his people and called them out of Egypt, brought them through the wilderness, he brought them to Mount Sinai, and there he gave them elaborate instructions about how they were to build a tent, a tabernacle, a place for God to dwell and live among them. He made it portable because they had to travel into the land. We know it as a tabernacle. Exodus 25, verse 9. Build it according to all that I am going to show you, as the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all of its furniture. This is how you shall construct it. Hebrews 8. 5 says that he was that Moses was given a blueprint of a heavenly reality. The thing on earth was only the type, the thing that was in heaven, the tabernacle, the place of worship in heaven was a real place. It had to be built exactly that way. This is where God chose to meet with his people Israel. In Exodus 40, verses 34 through 38, it records this. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. That's the tabernacle. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, some bright shining Brilliance there. Moses was not able to enter the tenth of meeting because the cloud had settled on it and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the sons of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, they did not set out until the day when it was taken up. For throughout all their journeys the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and there was fire in it by night in the sight of all the house of Israel. Why? So they would know God lives here, right there among us. And if the presence of God was treated poorly, you know what would happen. Leviticus 10:2 is a pretty good illustration, I would say. Fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. Nadab and Abaihu, toast, quick. You do not mess with the place of God. Once they were in the land, after a few centuries, David looked at his palace. He looked at the little portable tabernacle that God had to dwell in, though it was beautiful. He said, I want to build you something greater. I want to I want to build you, Lord, a a a greater temple, a greater building And God said, No, you're a man of bloodshed, but your son will do it. So Solomon built it, that's what we read for our scripture reading. When that was constructed it says in 2 Chronicles 7, 1 and 2, Now when Solomon had finished praying fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices and the glory of the Lord filled the house. The priests could not enter into the house of the Lord because the glory of the Lord filled the Lord's house. Solomon's temple then, after it was destroyed many centuries later by Nebuchadnezzar, was rebuilt by the people under the leadership of men like Ezra and Nehemiah, and then Herod came along in the time right before Christ. And he made great improvements to that temple to give it a greater splendor. But all of that, though God was there, was In the Old Testament, to point towards the coming of the one who would be God's presence among us, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus would bring the very presence of God down to man. It says in John 1. 14, the Word, that is the eternal word, the Lord Jesus, the Word became what? And dwelt among us. That word dwelt means that he pitched the tent among us. He tabernacled among us. Jesus was the tabernacle of God, you see? And then it says, and we saw his glory. There was the temple, Jesus Christ. There was the tabernacle living among them, and we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. He pitched his tent and he dwelt among us. They saw Christ. They saw the glory of God in Christ. He was there bringing the very presence of God down among them. It says in Colossians 2. 9, in Christ all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. Jesus was God come down to earth living in a body. He was God Almighty, the creator of the ends of the earth, come down here to live among men God in human flesh, tabernacling among us, the temple of the living God. You say, well But our text says that the church is the temple of the Holy Spirit. How did the church become the temple of the Holy Spirit? Well, Jesus said, destroy this temple when he pointed at Herod's temple, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And he was referring to the temple of his own body, the resurrection he had on the third day. After the resurrection, Christ Jesus ascended into heaven to the right hand of the Father. He received from the Eternal Father the promised Holy Spirit, whom he took as his own possession, and he poured out that Holy Spirit not on the whole world, but on who? On his church, on his gathered disciples, and that's the day the church was born, and they were filled with the Holy Spirit of the living God, and God came to dwell in them and among them. That was the day of Pentecost We now then the Church collectively house the very presence of God in this world. Collectively we are The presence of God to the people of this world. If they want to connect with God today, they don't go to an altar and they can't find Jesus walking around on the earth. They certainly can't go back to the Garden of Eden Friends, they find the presence of God by the presence of the church, us. That's who we are. The temple of the Holy Spirit Jesus said, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. He lives with us. He's here with us. In Ephesians 2, 19 through 22, Paul writes of this. He says, So then you, Gentiles who are believers, are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints And are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. We are growing. We are being built by Christ. We're being built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, their doctrine. Christ Jesus is the cornerstone. We are spiritual stones, and we're being built into a temple in which God will live. God is taking us one by one, adding us to his church and constructing a spiritual building that he wants to live in. His house. Beloved, this is New Testament truth for God's church. Sometimes when we read our Bible, we go to the Old Testament, we read things in the Old Testament, but we have to understand it through the New Testament. This is the greater revelation that has come to us in New Testament times. This is the New Covenant. And here, the church in the New Testament is spoken of in two distinct ways, and you need to understand this. First of all, the church is talked about in a total collective way throughout the entire world, the universal church. The word Catholic actually means universal. The universal church. All believers in all locations in all countries Doesn't matter what organization they're a part of, everyone that is a true believer in the Lord Jesus Christ is connected together and is one universal church. You know, Jesus prayed for this. In John seventeen, he beseeched the Father that they would all be one, all of his disciples, and people say, gee, Jesus is still waiting for the fulfillment of that request to happen. We Christians need to get together and we need to be more unified. Listen, that request was already answered on Pentecost He made all believers one. We're ontologically stuck together, joined together. We're all joined in Christ together. Wherever there are believers, we're joined again. It doesn't matter if we have different denominations. or different locations. We're connected together in one body. We are one. The Father certainly would not have ignored the prayer of Christ. There's a second way though the church has spoken of also here, and that is it is called the local church. The local church. You'll read in the Bible and you'll see to the church at Thessalica or to the church at Corinth or the church at Berea. And there we're talking about the universal church. Which you can't see the whole universal church. It's invisible in a sense to us. We don't know everyone who's saved, but there are outward manifestations of it, visible manifestations of it in certain locations. And so you come in here today and you look around and you see the saints gathered and say, Oh There's whole Bible church, a local church. The church at Corinth was a local church. The expression of the universal church in different places, the local church. Of course, we have to add today that there are other kinds of churches too. They would be false churches. Apostate churches Churches that used to preach the gospel, that used to hold to the true Jesus, that used to believe in all of the Holy Scripture and now have departed from that for one reason or another. They've added another book on top of it. They've said the Bible's not really true anymore. They have the traditions that have eclipsed it And one way or another, now they have a church and it's called a Christian church and it has a cross and all that, but they've departed from the gospel and what they teach can't save a soul because it's not the true gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel that is by grace through faith in Christ alone, right? In fact, that's the doctrine. If a church doesn't teach that you're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, they're not a true church. They have a gospel of works, and the gospel of works can't save anybody because nobody can be good enough to work their way to heaven. It has to be totally by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. That all we do is put our faith in Him and then we're saved. And those God those churches that have left that gospel are false churches. But there is a local church. I remember when I was growing up in the United Methodist Church, we had a really nice sanctuary. It was a gorgeous sanctuary. One of those high, lofty ones, you know. stained glass window all around the candles up front gave you the sense of awe. When the lights were really down low and there was no one in that sanctuary as a kid, you'd walk in that place and it was an intimidating place. I used to think with the altar down front and all that, this is where God is. God's in this place. Folks, that's Old Testament truth. New Testament says it's not the building. God isn't in this building and that building and that building and that building. It's not the building, it's the people. If we gathered under a tree somewhere, God would be there. We house the Spirit of the Living God. There is no altar really here There's no presence of God down on this platform. It's not here. It's not the building. It's the people. The people are the building. The people are the spiritual building. God lives and dwells in us. We are the temple of the Holy Spirit. We need to know that as New Testament believers. I want you to mark this down. 1 Corinthians 3 is so emphatic. Just write it down and think about it all week. You are the temple of the Holy Spirit. That should affect every way we conduct ourselves in church, every way we think of ourselves no matter where we go. We should want, by the way, to be together with God's people. We were designed to fit together. I'm a brick, you're a brick I'm a stone, you're a stone. Not stoned, but we're a stone. We all fit together. We all are are designed to to play our little part. You know, sometimes people think, you know, I I can be a good Christian and not go to church and not be involved with other believers. But you're stuck to us. You're part of a family. You're part of the body. You're a member of the body and you're a brick in God's house. We should want to spur one another on. You come here and say, Well, I don't have a job up front. I'm not strumming a guitar, I'm not singing, I'm not one of the ones laying down the chords and all. You have a job when you come here on Sunday. That's to find another believer and to build them up in the faith To listen to them, to learn how you can pray for them, how can you be an encouragement to them? To figure out what their needs are to meet them. That's your job, you're part of the body of Christ Together we're to build ourselves up as the temple. We should want to obey God more and worship Him more. Find someone and then build up their faith so their worship will be more genuine and God would be honored. It's God's design to put a temple in this world, to house his presence, and we are it. And so it is imperative that we understand in the midst of a dark world, a world where there is no light, that has been blinded by Satan. That we are the light of the world. We shine down here the presence and glory of God. That is our purpose. That is what makes us distinct from everyone around us. When we belong, we now belong. I remember when I was saved, one of the guys that was witnessing to me went and bragged to his non-Christian friend, Tom is now one of us. I didn't really understand what that meant, but now I do. You've come to Christ, you have been pulled out of the world in a judgment that will face it. You are a called out person in God's church, and this is the place you belong. This is where you fit. I think for the Corinthians that should have jolted them. They were nothing like, Paul is saying, nothing like the temples of the false gods you see around in that city of Corinth in that day. Remember atop the Acro Corinth was the temple of Aphrodite, the goddess of love, should say goddess of lust. By the way, the way people are treating Anna Nicole Smith these days, I don't think that that kind of worship is left, has it? I think the worship of Aphrodite is alive and well. We are to be nothing like that. We are holy unto God. The Corinthians were the only true temple in town. They needed to know that. Wasn't the outward bricks, it was the spiritual bricks. What does it mean to be holy? It means we're set apart for God, for his purposes, for his use. People have strange ideas of holiness, I think. Being a monk, heading off into the desert, being separate from the world. No, we need to be separate from sin and our hearts and be and carry out our mission to the world. Holiness is so misunderstood. It's not defined by externals. Would I be a more holy pastor if I had a longer gown on this morning? Some of the little special jewelry to wear? Would that make you have a little more confidence in my holiness? What is your thinking as you come out of various backgrounds and you think about what is a holy man like? What is a holy person? What is a holy church? What is a holy family? What are they like? Someone who's gone through holy water baptism, that special water that had some incantation set over it? Having come down to the altar, do you feel more holy because you're in the presence of God down at the church's altar? Maybe you donated more money and now you feel holy. Holiness is not defined by these externals, how much time you spend in church. Well, I was at church on Sunday and Wednesday and Saturday. I'm a holy person. Whether or not you're first to church or last to leave, it doesn't matter. Whether or not you shop on Sundays or play games on Sundays, it doesn't matter. How many Bible verses you have memorized? It doesn't matter. All that by itself really has little to do with holiness. It's easy to pretend to be holy and pretend to be a holy church. Put on the tie and the dress and come in here and say, see, we're singing the songs and we're holy. Holiness is a matter of your heart and your mindset and your practice from Sunday to Saturday. It is about who you really are. It is about who we are. We're holy people unto God. It affects how we think of Christ. It affects how we think of our lives and our practice. It is a burning passion to see Christ exalted in our lives. That's holiness. That's who we should be. That's what should characterize us, not those externals Don't be worrying about whether or not someone's got a nose ring sitting next to you. Be sneaking out the smoke in the back What are you thinking about right now? What are you thinking about right now? What's in your heart? Are you holy unto the Lord? In this context, holiness is about getting along with others in the body of Christ. Joyfully pleasing Christ in all they do. 1 Timothy 2. 8 says, I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands. Listen, without wrath and dissension. What are holy hands? Hands that are not fighting each other. Colossians 3. 12, so as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. A holy tongue is kind, is compassionate, is gentle, is patient. You see the beauty of holiness which befits the Church of Christ. The bride of Christ, adorned in holiness. Well, secondly, we look at the extraordinary defense of the church. This is unbelievable, really. The extraordinary defense of Christ's church in verse 17, right at the beginning. What a warning. If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy. And that is what you are. What's the key word you find in there? It's the word destroy. You see it? It's twice. For pharaoh, to destroy, to ruin, to corrupt, to spoil, to mar, to damage. It could be used literally or figuratively. It was the Greek word that was used for ruining a house. In this context, that makes sense, destroying a house, being built for God. Or it could be used for ruining a marriage, destroying a marriage, or corrupting a virgin. To seduce a virgin. Moulton and Milligan say in common Greek it was used as spoiling milk. Vincent's word study says it was used to mix pure colors. Fathora, the noun that's associated with it, just means corruption or destruction. It's used in 1 Corinthians 15, 33. Do not be deceived bad company. Here it is, corrupts. Good morals. Destroys good morals, you see. Ephesians 4. 22, that in reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit. Same word Revelation 19:2, because his judgments are true and righteous, for he has judged the great harlot who was corrupting the earth with her immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his bondservants on her. That shows that perversion is part of the corruption. With that understanding of the term and its New Testament use, what do you think it means here in this context to destroy the Church of God? Why was Paul warning about that here in this very context in Corinth? Well, whatever it is, it is some harm that would be done to the church that goes beyond even the error that was warned about back in verse 15. from those true ministers of God who did not minister carefully and lost their reward. It's something beyond that. Yes, there's some Christian leaders who are saved but do shoddy work. They're going to lose their reward. They need to be warned about that, but they will still be saved, it said. But now Paul's warning goes beyond poor work to those who would corrupt, ruin, spoil, destroy the church, and through that corruption do her great damage. The context speaks of ruining a house, and the house is the house of God, the temple. Now since we know that the church ultimately is indestructible and that it is going to be here to the very end of the age and raptured out here before the time of the tribulation. That the gates of hell will not prevail against Christ's church, as he said in Matthew 16, that presents a bit of an interpretive problem, does it not? Why would he warn about destroying something that is indestructible? How can someone destroy the temple of God? Well, because it's not referring to the universal church. The whole church will carry on. It's referring to the local church here at Corinth. See, local churches can be, and many, many, many times have been corrupted and spoiled and ruined and destroyed. And today they may have some land and a pretty, pretty building, but their church, as it should be, is gone. Destroyed. No, it's not talking about tornadoes coming through and tearing up church buildings. The way the church is destroyed is much worse. It's a spiritual destruction. Paul doesn't really say here how this might happen in the church. He just gives the warning. Likely from the context, he's still warning of the dangers of human philosophy, human teaching, worldly wisdom being brought into the church. church by those that would be arrogant and not humble and follow the way of the cross. In the context too, I would say that those that were having petty disputes in the church should take warning that they might be used by Satan to do further damage to the church. Maybe there were some of the main leaders, Paul in particular, was warning there at Corinth, thinking some of them may go beyond the poor work of verse 15, and they themselves would end up being destroyed. Leaders in the church, those influencing the church, better take care not to harm the church of God. They're not building their own homes, they're building God's. In Exodus 3. 5, God said, Do not come near here, Moses. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place in which you're standing is holy ground. In Psalm ninety three five it says, Your testimonies are fully confirmed. Holiness befits your house, O Lord, forever. The church is holy ground, the church is a holy house, it is not to be attacked, corrupted, or destroyed So this is a strong warning, wouldn't you say? Terrible ruin of some kind, Paul warns, awaits any that would do that. Not some physical chastisement, but God's destruction. Do you get a bit of a sense of God's attitude towards his own church, how he feels about the church, how he's so ready to defend the church His holy bride, his holy temple. God feels an intensity of jealousy, a guardian jealousy for his church. Even in the Old Testament, we already saw that there was a punishment for defiling the temple, and that was laid out so clearly. In Leviticus 15, 31, it says, Thus you shall keep the sons of Israel separated from their uncleanness. so that they will not die in their uncleanness by their defiling my tabernacle that is among them. You can't be unclean and then defile the tabernacle or you will die God said, same in Numbers 1920. If God felt that way about that tabernacle in the Old Testament temple, imagine how he feels about his church, the temple which houses the Holy Spirit now. Do you remember the zeal that Christ had for the temple of God when he entered in on Palm Sunday? Do you remember? Can you picture how his face might have been? Taking up the cord and driving the people out. My father's house will be a house of prayer, not a den of thieves. And zeal for God's house consumed him. He was jealous for the purity of God. This was his feeling and sense. Paul taught the same holy separation and consecration for God's people from all false religion. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, he writes, What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, he writes. Just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, come out from their midst and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch what is unclean, and I will welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. Yes, God has zeal for his church. Oh yes, he does. You know, zeal is a close cousin to godly jealousy. One who is jealous of another in a good sense seeks to protect her from defilement. That's God. And let me tell you something, if you have zeal and love for God, then you're also going to be jealous for his purity and the purity of his church because this is his temple. Ezra seven twenty-three, he said, Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven Let it be done with zeal for the house of the God of heaven. That was actually, I think, the emperor back in in Persia. Phineas was commended for his great zeal for turning away the wrath on the sons of Israel because he was jealous for the name of God. Second Kings 23, 19 and 20 says, Josiah also removed all the houses of the high places which were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made, provoking the Lord. And he did to them just as he had done in Bethel, all the priests of the high places who were there, he slaughtered on the altars and burned human bones on them. And then he returned to Jerusalem. For Josiah, he understood that there was violence in zeal for God. A hatred of things that polluted the temple of God and the worship of God and his holiness. You and I need to be radical with our understanding of God's holiness. God has warned he will destroy those who destroy his temple. I'll tell you something. For Paul to write this must have brought to his mind unspeakable joy as he thought of the grace and mercy he had been shown. Because as he writes in Galatians 1, he tried to destroy the church of God before he was converted. And he could only think of his life and how he'd been spared wrath. I think the warning here in First Corinthians three not to tamper with God's house It's similar to the warning in Revelation 22 not to tamper with God's word. Do not add, do not subtract from the words of the prophecy of this book, or God will add to you the plagues that are written in this book. God's word is holy. God's temple is holy. They're not to be touched or corrupted. And lastly, and shortly, the extravagant possessions of the church, verses 21 through 23. This is beyond understanding, but there's an important message here. He writes, so then let no one boast in men For all things belong to you. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all things belong to you. And you belong to Christ. And Christ belongs to God. All comes back to God, doesn't it? It's a little hard at first to understand the connection Paul is making here. Don't boast in men, why not? For all things belong to you. What does that mean? Well, if you remember back in chapter 1, verse 12, they were all saying, I belong to so-and-so. I am of so-and-so. And now Paul is reversing that and communicating, no, you don't. Everyone belongs to you. So they were actually in their boasting, boasting about too little. I am a Paul. That's nothing, everything belongs to you, he's saying. Why are you even saying that? It denies who you are as the church. God has given you Paul and then Apollos and Stephus and every other church that there, every other teacher that there is in the church. You Corinthians are missing the greatness of what's been given to you. Your possessions, you're too small-minded, you're too narrowly focused, you're too willing to fight for petty little picky things to build yourselves up. Your worldliness has affected your vision. You have tunnel vision. You can't see what God is doing in the church and what you're a part of. You're a part of something greater and bigger. Your gifts are greater. This is so sad, but the reality is that often problems in church come over much much smaller things. Often little things in church become big things to people in church, and then they become a big problem in the church. Because the little thing now is looked upon as something that's big. You know, it may not be the same petty concern the Corinthians had here, but I think uh we would be proud if we skipped over this and said we don't have problems like that. You know, soon soon, Lord willing, we're gonna be choosing something as mundane and simple as carpet color and upholstery color. Some are gonna want this and some are gonna want that. And The beginning reason for that might be fine. But in the end, that's such a small thing if you don't get what you want, right? Besides we all know it's going to be the color I choose anyways, right? How foolish we are in some of the things we get focused on. What are other petty locations? We're studying now locations for the church. Wherever we move this church, some people are going to be disappointed. Might be a little further away, might be closer. You might get the jackpot, you might have to hike. We're looking for the best place, we're praying. We're gonna do the best we can. There are other smaller issues that may bother you, the way things are set up, the timing of services as things change, classes that are offered or not offered, whether or not this happens or that happens, the right kind of donuts in the back or whatever. And we have to look beyond small things and we get upset and say everything he says belongs to us. We have all these teachers You have teachers galore to help with you, books galore. We are in an age where we have access to libraries and people online and all kinds of teachers. I'm talking about false teachers. I'm not talking about Robert Schuher and Benny Hann Brian McLaren. We're not talking about those who have denied essentials to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're talking about those who are true Christian teachers. They're all for you. They're all provided for you. Not just in this church, but any church. They're all there for us, he said. That's just wonderful. You know, we're twenty centuries into the church history. We're not going to be reinventing the doctrinal wheel in the 21st century. When I come up here, my goal is that you aren't just hearing me or an exposition of the word, but I'm trying to bring research of many, many other godly men, their research from commentaries and other kinds of sources. and bring them so you're not just hearing me, you're hearing them. We should be listening to all of God's teachers. We belong to all of them. The church has many, many excellent teachers down to the century we need to learn about, not cut them off. People today seem to be enamored with today's teachers, but some of the best were in times past. We need to know who they were. It's not good for a guy to come up and just give his own Bible study. What about all the men that know the Word of God greater than you? Bring them to bear upon the people. Bring that kind of depth and strength to your teaching. We want to hear all of it. What tremendous resources we have. I can't even speak to all of this because we're out of time. The world is ours. This fallen world, this planet that Maybe you don't even own any land at all. You don't even own a house right now. You say, how can the whole world belong to me? Well it does. Matthew 5. The humble will inherit what? The earth. Didn't just say heaven, say the earth. There's your millennial kingdom, people. The earth. It's all gonna be ours. We're all gonna share this planet, and it's gonna be better then. The curse will be lifted. Life or death is ours. Understanding life is pretty simple. We possess life. We have eternal life. These things I've written to you believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life. Why would we ever want death as a possession? Well, maybe he means it this way: even if we die, to be absent from the body is what? Present with the Lord. Death has been conquered and captured, it even says in 1 Corinthians 15. Death is swallowed up in victory, or death Where is your victory, O death? Where is your stain? Death has been captured. We own that. And then he next list things, present or things to come. Everything we do in the present is for God, and it relates to the future And the future to the present as well as we're motivated by that. We play and work and build relationships and serve the Lord and witness and evangelize and eat and drink and do all things under the glory of God in the present and we have an eternity that's coming that's going to be even greater and more glorious for whether we're in the present or the future. Everything has been given to us. We win now and we win greater then. What we don't own now, we'll own all then, anyways. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and what? All these things will be added unto you, yes? Paul wrote in Romans 8, Who will separate us from the love of Christ with tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? Just as it is written, for your sake we're being put to death all day long. We are considered a sheep to be slaughtered. But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. For I am convinced, Paul writes, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from what? The love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You belong to Christ. All things belong to you as a church. And you belong to Christ. And Christ belongs to God, not in the sense that he's inferior to God ontologically, but that it was his role and his mission in a functional sense to subject himself to the will of the Father and present everything that he won. back to the Father so that all things go back to God in the end. Everything goes back to him with praise and glory. Yes? It's just amazing. We as a Church of Jesus Christ need to know our exceptional nature as the temple of God. Our extraordinary defense that God will attack and destroy anyone who attacks our church and value our extravagant possessions in Christ and God forever. That's a high, high view of God's church. We evangelicals in the right sense need to have. Amen. Lord, we commit to you once again the things that we're learning our morning as we continue to learn in the classes, our children, our conversations, that our lips would be holy as we turn and speak to each other. That you will spur all of us on to get past small conversations, our fears, and spur one another on to holiness and good deeds as your church, as your temple, we ask it in the powerful, gracious name of Jesus. Amen.