Tell you what, for just a second, let's skip down to the grammar of Grace toward the bottom of the page. So I have those four references there. Um I'll have you note that most of them are from the like the 1930s. Um and I don't want to make too much of this point, but there does seem to be a significant shift uh in the mid to late 1800s that extended itself into the 1900s. Moffitt, one of the the guy that actually wrote that book that I said was very difficult to uh to find, actually ended up having to get it like an old library copy from a secondhand bookstore Um uh he actually opens his book by saying that many of his peers despise the word race. And and he is a commentator and a theologian and uh academic and taught in seminaries and other things. Uh but at the time he was writing that word uh was considered verboten. And it was because it meant so little. That was his ultimate contention is that the uh meaning of the word, the substance of the word grace had been lost. And we just spread it all over everything. Those of you that are old enough to have seen the old thing, well I guess how many of you are old enough to have seen that old uh uh T TV show the smirks. I never identified with Papa Smurf when I used to watch the show, but now I feel a lot more like it. But anyway, um they used to uh spread the word smurf over everything. Like that it was an insert word. You didn't have to You didn't have to uh use the whatever the correct word was, you would just add smurf to it, and that somehow meant whatever they were supposed to do. And uh for years, not just as an entertainment factor this morning, for years I've said, that's kinda how we use grace. We just smear all over everything. Um well it it should not be smeared all over everything. Um it is uh it is pr it is one of the key foundation stones to what we have in Christ. But because we have made it mean little in our misuse of the word, it is often a despised word. And that's how uh Moffat opens his book in the nineteen thirties. How much worse today. How much worse today. You know what men hate more than anything else? They hate hippoctrists. And we talk about grace as this uh tectonic thing, this thing that moves the plates of earth, right? It moves sinners from damned to redeemed. It does does the impossible. It it moves dead to alive. And they watch us, the world watches us use this word grace, this thing that should move the plates of earth, that should be reality changing in our lives. And there's no change So what's it mean? Doesn't matter what you say it means with your mouth, if your actions, if your life, if the things that you value aren't also changing with it I did not mean to put covenant in with Grace. I uh I guess I should apologize to you. I don't actually have a strategic roadmap for this class. I have a whole bunch of words written in the back of one of my journals that I've been keeping notes in for several years that I'd like to teach on this. I'd like to teach on this. I'd like to teach on this. And I'm kind of picking and choosing those words as the Lord leads me from week to week. That's really annoying. Um it's because it's not a PowerPoint display, so it's uh out. Um I did not mean to associate this word with uh this word grace. Hebrew with this word covenant in the Hebrew. Um through this word tested in the Hebrew. It was unintentional, but as I picked up these references, every single one of the references forced me to go back. and cement the word grace in the Hebrew, in Hesed in the Hebrew, which of course necessitates Burief. There is no Pasid, there is no covenant love unless there's a covenant. And so I find that the way that we actually work through this class was providential. Started off with love, and we covered that first word, a haver, a haba, and test it. And then we moved to Christ as king and we talked extensively about covenant And covenant came. And so we've really kind of built up the sequence over the course of the class accidentally, if you will, or providentially. if you will. More simplistically, the the grammar of grace is easy to trace into the Old Testament through uh the Septuagint um and the Greek word karse. And you see there I've got the strong's reference for it. You can look it up. Most of the statistics in this next section you could pull out of like blue lever. blue letter Bible or uh one of those other um grammar helping resources. Um how pleasant Um chorus in the Septuagint occurs seventy-six times in seventy-four verses of the Old Testament, translating this word. uh hen or hen depending on what uh I actually looked up why is it sometimes H E N or H E S E D instead of um C H E S E D or C H E N Um and it's just two different schools of uh of of thought. Um so I'll stick I tried to stick with the one way of translating it. So anyway, uh Karus is the Greek word that translates hen in uh Hebrew. Um and uh why is there a distinction? Oh, sorry. Um chorus is used of several different words in the Old Testament, but sixty-nine of the seventy-six times. it is translating, Taurus is translating this word hen, which is most often translated into the English as simply favor. Noah found favor with God. Um it doesn't always have to be used of God, although it is significantly it can be used of uh you know this th this woman found favor with this man or uh this servant found favor with this master or uh you know whatever the case would be there. So it doesn't always have to be used exclusively of God. It does not require a specifically religious connotation, uh but certainly the scriptures have picked up uh the use of both the Hebrew and the Greek words and cast them into a specialized domain for purposes of describing God's relationship with man. I found that I don't know why I hadn't thought of this previously or even run into it previously, but I I emphasize that God's relationship with man Um if if I told you that in my studies there was one word that was defined as God's relationship with man, what would you think that one word is or was is, I guess? That's good. That's good. Whoever said that, that's I like that. Not the right answer, but I I see why you said that and certainly that is a true enough statement. So very common word we use all the time. Yes, ma'am. Um Religion. Religion. I liked that. I liked that it brought it out of ecclesiology and theology and orthodoxy. I liked that it brought it down to very simply God's relationship within the current world is how that the one author expressed that definition. I thought that was great. So I have there right often translated favor Uh I'm on page two right below the Greek for grace if you're wondering where I'm at. I know I uh I'll go back to the beginning in a minute. I just wanted to start here with Um so that that word uh hen in uh in uh Hebrew uh is uh translated favor and it usually means kindness and graciousness in general where there is no particular tie or relationship between the parties concerned. Now the Important part of that is here. This word necessitates a relationship, a defined relationship. But favor does not. Favor doesn't have I'll say continuance. Covenant love does. Covenant love says I entered into formal agreement with you, requirements and promises And I will observe those loyally. Right? And and we extended that for the way that God does, it tested that covenant love, right We extended that to even when you become covenant breakers, I will be faithful to the requirements and promises of my covenant. Favor has no such contingency. There is no reason the one giving favor, which in the scriptures is always the superior to an inferior. That's also important for you to note. It's always the superior to the inferior. There is no reason why favor should be given. As a matter of fact, in most cases, it's the opposite of what should be given It generally suggests that for no reason that's required of the superior, and usually in the face of rejection, rebellion, mistreatment, whatever the case would be, by the inferior to the superior, that there is a decision made, and this is important too, to restore relationship and the benefits of it. To restore relationship and the benefits of it. Maybe you can uh kinda explain. At least in your graphic you have like a a line like an arrow kinda leading one into the other and they all seem to be of equal line to the other, but then in your text explanation you're saying there is no sort of direct uh tie or antecedent bond between the parties. So it seems to be at at opposite end of the Between the text and and the visual. Yep, totally understand that. Uh I'll punt a little, but I'll also try to respond a little. So uh meaning I don't think you're gonna be fully satisfied with my answer because This is a dynamic this this this word is uh a little flowery, but hopefully it will help you understand. This is meant to show you the drama of the narrative of the Bible. God created us to be in perfect relationship with And we ruined it. And we ruined it totally. Utterly. In that context, in that in that with that played on the stage, and with all of our expectations as an audience, ex Expecting the Lord to work in judgment and in wrath and in separation and rejection. He did the exact opposite. And he loved us his response to that amazing rebellion Personal rebellion was love. So that's just you talk about antecedent. That is the most antecedent truth that we can get to in the scriptures, other than God being as creator prior to that As a result of that love, and this this is important because they're not just silos of truth in the scriptures They create an entire narrative. If you pull out a piece of it, you break it. You no longer have a cogent or coherent narrative in the scripture. And that's really a lot of what this class is about. This scarlet thread from beginning to end, right? This golden value, this vein of gold that's unimaginable in its value. Because God set his love upon us for no good reason, beyond all expectation, he then entered into covenant with us. He made the first covenant. I made the first covenant to Adam and Eve. I was looking for you. Oh, she's got more. I mean don't be hurt. That's really what I'm hoping for. Um he entered into covenant with us. He said, I will bind myself to you, right And all those think about all that we studied for kings and think about all that we studied for love. And if you can't remember it, just go get the notes out. That's why I spend all those time on those notes. But he entered into covenant with us. Formal requirements He basically said, you screwed it up so badly, I am going to create a pattern, a framework for us to be in relationship. You broke the relationship. You fundamentally broke it Everything about it, you broke. You tore it apart. There would be no way to restore that unless God Himself assumed Establish a means by which we could re-enter relationship with him, but still be true to his nature. Which means you don't just dismiss sin, you don't just look away from wrong, you don't just unbreak the the broken. He created us for a certain thing. We violated that certain thing, and God is not one that can just be like, well I'll let the corrupt nature exist He can't do that. That's against his nature. And so he entered into covenant with us, a formal establishment of relationship with requirements and promises And oh by the way, we broke that instantly too. Okay, God, thank you very much for giving us a shot at re-entering relationship with you. Sorry, not interested. And so we have this covenant love that Yeah, there's covenant love. It's on your sheets too, right? So if you go to the first page, it's the top of your sheet, and I'm disappointing because it makes me feel better. Um there's covenant love Even while we are in the midst of breaking the very stipulations of the covenant, he remains faithful with us. He keeps engaging with us He establishes a means by which we can continue to be in relationship with us. He binds himself to his own faithfulness to us. in these covenants. He works in and around and through our sin and the sin of all other men and the brokenness of creation since Genesis 3, 2. And he remains faithful. To us, all rooted in this n word that we use to describe what he is This if I had to, and I don't think this is a a perfect rendering, this is what he is and what he is manifesting about himself so that this action makes sense. We understand it because of what he is. And this is how we see this played out through this. This is this is what we can actually see. This is something different. This is God revealing to us that despite the fact that he's established this framework for relationship, these requirements and these promises, we were incapable of meeting the requirement. And he could have responded in different ways there. As a matter of fact, if you read the basic covenant treaty form, he should have just come in and lopped our heads off. Look at the top of your page. Should have just stuck it in PowerPoint and then it wouldn't have done that. Um so this is the crazy thing. Because we broke covenant with him, there is no basis for in He owes us nothing. There are no requirements. He owes us nothing. There is no no contingencies. And he has already demonstrated to us our fundamental brokenness. If you want to understand Leviticus a little better. It it ultimately is saying this, that everything about you is so broken, even the natural cycles of birth or sexuality or sickness or disease, things that we generally would not say have any uh uh you know assign any culpability to us, right? I'm not wrong because I got sick, I'm just sick because I got sick But he shows us that even in those things is is i it it demonstrates our rebellion against him. Those things all resulted from our rebellion in Adam and our rebellion in our lives Those things all result from that rebellion. And all of those things kept us away from God, right? You had to go outside the camp, you had to go wash, you had to go be made clean, you had to go find some way to do it And at the end of the day, we know that no one was justified by the law. It never worked. And so if we were left with these first three things, we would be in big trouble. It was so gracious for God to give us a covenant. But we broke that too. And it's so gracious for God to not just destroy us and wipe away the covenant. He remains faithful to the covenant. But there's this infinite gap Between our ability to satisfy the covenant, even if we were actually trying to do it, by the way. I'm acting like we're all like scraping it, trying it, right? But that's not what we read. We read in the scriptures that while we were still enemies of Christ, right? Shaking our fists in his face, he had to do a work to change even that part of us. And then we discover Christ, and even now, right? What was my prayer? My prayer was, I'm not I'm not satisfying God's covenant I didn't pray that gee Lord thank you or uh I'm so sorry I spent my week in pornography or I spent my week swearing at people or I spent my week in the lust of money. I didn't say any of those things. Because they're not true of my week, praise God But I did spend a week with a heart that I know was not honoring to God. It was angry or it was grumbling or it was discontent or it was annoyed or it was hateful or it was I don't know fill in I do know but I'm not gonna tell you right now especially on a microphone I'm just gonna put it on the internet. But um You know, e even then when I'm trying to seek God, trying to seek God, I I I didn't get it. I didn't make it. I didn't satisfy the requirement. Grace in the Old Testament, and then you need to carry this through, grace is that action of God that has no requirement, not required to do this. He is a superior, we are inferior, we deserve everything we get. Grace is that this is not a proper way to say it, but I don't have better words. Grace is the activity of God's heart and God's mind that replaces the due justice and judgment of God with open arms that I can best describe as Christ standing above Jerusalem when he said says I would that you would have come I would that you would come to me that I could embrace you but you would not. Right? That's the best in my mind the best picture I can think of to help you understand what I have in your sheet that it's always in the noun form always anarthrus. So every anybody know what anarthrist means? It just means without the definite article. You say, why don't you just say that? I don't know, because you know that's the way they say it. They say an arthris, so I say an arthris. But it just means no definite article. It's never dull grace. And whether I should or I shouldn't, I'm not sure, but most of the study helps that I use, most of them, make a fairly big deal about this In both Hebrew and in Greek, for thing to have a the in front of uh in front of it recognizes that wow, struggling Recognizes it as a tangible thing. It's a thing. I can pick it up and I can hand it to you because it has a the in front of it. When you pull away the the You change how you think about it. And this is important when we start to think about grace in the New Testament. We often talk about grace like it's something God gave us. Here's a gift, here's grace. And we receive it and we tuck it away, and I have God's grace now. That's not really consistent with the way the scriptures Talk about grace. Paul does have some usage of the word free gift. Although I will tell you most of the time if you read not all Most of the time, if you read around that passage, the gift is actually something resulting from grace, like righteousness through faith. Because of grace, we get the gift of righteousness through faith. Now it's not all the time like that. Paul does occasionally make grace Very rarely. And yet we consistently talk about grace as the free gift. I'm going to challenge you that grace is better understood as God's disposition toward men to restore them to covenant relationship with no need for him to do it, to be consistent with his truth, his goodness, and his beauty And in the face of our moral depravity. And that's important. That that notion of moral depravity. See if I can say that. God's grace is his disposition to restore us to relationship with himself without any need for him to do so to be consistent with his nature and in the face You'll notice atonement comes after grace. God's disposition to restore men to relationship. Well that can't happen by any activity on our part. And so we need him to provide a means by which we can enter re be restored to that relationship while he remains consistent with his nature, right? Always true, always just, always right, always honest, always faithful to his promises. And he promised that his wrath would be poured out on every sin. This is a another word that we don't have time to discuss today, but we often talk about what Christ did on the cross is like, well, he satisfied it all Yeah, he satisfied it in in the sense that God took the entire bucket of his wrath that was due to you and poured it out on the fire. Christ. All that wrath God poured out just to be clear. All that judgment got enacted just to be clear. But Christ took it in his place. That's not grace. Grace was the disposition of God That caused him, if you will, caused him to do what he did with his son completely unmerited by us. Okay, or we have another coffee. Another coffee incident? Oh sorry. Uh in your in your definition uh you said without any means um in that grace is So that or his yeah, with graces so that for he didn't um have that no consistent. God did not require grace to be consistent with his but what would have been required then is the wrath. Only the wrath. Um there was there was a degree out with major parts. That's a great question. Um I don't know because the scriptures don't directly interact with the reverse. Right. They don't they don't they don't say if God had not been gracious, blood. Right. So I can't go quote a passage there. But I would argue and I I say I would argue but uh because you asked I would offer this response. Um I'm not sure how often deemed I would argue with you. We broke covenant with God right away. Whether it's in the garden or right away in our own lives, it's right away, right? So let's use the garden as uh as the example, but we all know we did it too. And God still expressed his love toward us, and in therein is mercy. That God responded with a haze guys, it doesn't get That God responded with Ahab at all is a demonstration of his that he then entered into covenant with us in order to restore relationship and demonstrate all that he demonstrated to us even through those early covenants Mercy. That he didn't annihilate us either in the Noaic one or in the Abrahamic one or in the Tibetic one or Mosaic one or the Davidic one, that he that he over and over again returns to that covenant love, that binding himself to those things. Mercy upon mercy, upon mercy, upon mercy, upon mercy. I would argue that he's satisfied At least as near as I can understand it, I mean you're asking me to reconcile the nature of God's mercy, right? That's that's a hard one. But as near as I could see, the overwhelming deluge of God's mercy was all Ready. And we just kept I see, excuse me a second. And we just kept doing what we do. And in so doing, we kept justifying the wrath and the anger of God. Abraham would argue with God and said, like if there's forty righteous, we still kill everybody, and we're just thirty. And now he was showing mercy without really showing grace. And he did end up destroying Yeah, just so you know, I made that answer up on the spot, so I may come back to you on Thursday and be like, you know, I'd like to qualify. Just to be clear, uh we did talk about uh Hesed a lot. There's really only two times that the uh Septuagint translates um Hesed as as uh caris, as grace So anybody that says, Oh, you gotta talk about Hesed when you talk about grace, because you know that's how the old uh uh Jewish um Scribes and and um you get the idea. Uh the the authors of the Septuagint understood it. That's that's a bit of a stretch, right? Just just two times uh out of the many times that they use uh in the new testament the word occurs 155 times so just in that you can see that it's a significantly larger theme in the New Testament than it is in the Old Testament. I'm back on page two. You see a distribution of those words, and I've I've broken them out, the non-Pauen versus the Pauline references to grace I think it's notable uh that uh Luke, whether if you sum up uh Acts and Luke actually uh exceeds Romans in its number of references to the grace of God. And I find that interesting because we're studying through Luke and Luke is clearly all about discipleship. He is all about drawing distinctions between true disciples and professing disciples. And yet grace is clearly an emphasis in that passage. And I think that should be suggestive to you Uh Peter uh is another one. We often try to get Peter and Paul to uh fight against each other in the way that they uh Talk about grace, but you'll notice that Peter has a significant number of references to in in 1st and 2 Peter uh to um to grace, right? If you look over at some of the other ones, he rivals most of the other books that epistles that Paul wrote, excepting Romans and Corinthians. So it's about fifty-six references in the New Testament and the non-Poline uh references to grace. And then of course nobody's surprised about ninety-nine uh references in the works of Paul Um I didn't want to make the table too long, uh, but a lot of his other ones, I think there's like twenty or some unaccounted for here in my table, Pauline references, and they're just in his other epistles. Um I just Listed the dominant ones there. It's very interesting to me, and I haven't reconciled in my own mind what I should think of this yet. Paul never quotes from one of the Old Testament passages Concerning grace. Not a single reference in the Pauline corpus to one of the Old Testament passages referring to grace. Not sure what to do with that. I already mentioned to you that the noun is an arthris. And I really what I want to convey to you most there, it's not exhaustive, it's not entire. I don't want to be too wooden about it. But I do want to push on this idea that somebody handed you grace. It's yours, you have it in a pocket, it's this it's more closely um in in that sense This would be great. My wife handed me a gold ring, which, you know, consistent with my nature is now out of round. Like she handed me this gold ring. That's it. I've got Grace. She's married. I'm not letting her out of that marriage bond, right? Like legally I refuse to let her go And I just say it like that because I I feel like we we talk. I don't mean we do it with that secret of sarcasm or hostility, but there are often times when I contend that we talk about grace As though it were something like this. I've got it, I have it, it's mine, nobody can take away from me. And here's a bunch of slathered-on proof texts to make sure that you're not going to argue with me It would be better to think of grace as the love that my wife has for me that sets me apart in her heart and mine from all others and from all others That is what I want most. If I lost this ring, I would be sad. But if I lost my wife, if I lost the respect and care of my wife Will you please, will you please, if you get nothing else out of this class today, will you please think about grace like that? There is an atonement And it is much more like this ring. There are things that God has done and given us, His word is one, that are much more like this ring. I am not suggesting that we do not have analogy to this in our Christian life. Tangible evidences of God's covenant love for us and all that He did to restore us to relationship. But for just a minute, can you please think about God's grace as that all-consuming love that we want from our spouse? It's not a thing you can hold. It's a thing that you desire. It's a thing that you value. It's a thing that if you have any wisdom at all, you work for. You work to encourage it. You work to enable it. You work to Secure it. You work to remember it. You work to be faithful to it. You work to be loyal to it. There's a difference there. I own this ring. I solicit my wife's affection. Are you getting that? I can't tell you're all looking at me a little funny, so I can't tell if I I mean you're nodding, but I feel like you'd nod if I spoke in smirk language. Is does that make sense to you? Do you see the distinction there? If you can rightly understand God's grace, this disposition of Him towards you to restore you to relationship, you then understand that grace is God opening his arms and establishing a bridge across a gulf that was insurpassable by you. Those are laid out before you And what he's calling you to do is walk across that thing and enter into relationship with him. Grace necessarily creates I'll call it an obligation. I'm actually quoting from one of the things on the notes here. Grace establishes the obligation of man toward God because it's God's open arms We treat it like God took the ring and threw it at us across the Gulf. Well there you go, you're good. We should be lucky I have to let go of the ring. Bent again. You're good, you got it. No. If you were walking in the grace that Paul extolled Then you are walking with every effort failingly. That's why we needed God to establish the atonement bridge. Keep that reference. But we needed him to establish the means. But if you sit down on the other side of the bridge and go, well, I caught Grace. Let's go back to the first page. A little bit of Scott did a lot of talking there, and I'm sorry. Not inspired, not inerrant. I get all that. God said his love This is just a a rehash on us and entered into covenant with us. He remains in covenant with us because of his covenant loyalty. We are all covenant breakers. And God determined to open his loving arms to us and call us back into restored relationship with him, despite the total lack of merit, contrition. or reasonable expectation of the covenant breakers. That's that that's that hen word or hen word. To make it possible for this offer of restored relationship to succeed and for him to be righteous He poured out his wrath on his sons in atonement and thus satisfied the requirements of the covenant. Deuteronomy seven, six to eleven, right? I'm gonna read that whole passage It's that good. For you are a people holy to Yahweh your God. Yahweh your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Out of all the people who are on the face of the earth, it was not because you were more in number than any other people that Yahweh set his love on you, a different word for love there. on you and chose you. For you were the fewest of all peoples. But it is because Yahweh loves, there's that word, right? You, and is Keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers, that Yahweh has brought you uh with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the land of Pharaoh, king of Israel. Egypt. Know therefore that Yahweh your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him, and keep his commandments to a thousand generations, and repays to their face. those who hate him by destroying them. He will not be slack with one who hates him. He will repay him to his face. You shall therefore be Be careful to do the commandment and the statutes, not status, and the rules that command m I think it's that I command you today. I'm sorry for the butchery of uh copying that Ephesians 2, 4 through 8, right here, this is one of the key grace passages. But God being rich in mercy because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up with Him and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works. So that no one may boast. I would challenge you there that it is not the grace that is the gift of God, it is the saving that came from the grace that is the gift of God. Again, there are other passages that say that the grace is a gift, not this one. Not a result of works, so that no one may boast. You couldn't earn it, you couldn't merit it, in the midst of your moral depravity. God extended, disposed Himself to restore you to relationship with Himself. There are other key New Testament passages that say, having been saved by grace having that initial reality that you are outside of Christ and are now saved because of this disposition toward you to restore you to relationship So you now try to earn, continually earn your status in Christ? Don't do that. You couldn't have earned it at the beginning, so don't try to earn it now. And a lot of us are like, oh yeah, that means don't do anything. Well that's not what that means What it means is you remember every day that no matter what you do, you are a covenant breaker and you are dependent on God's disposition to restore you to relationship with Himself and the provision of the means of atonement. You are every day dependent on those two things. And so if your work Which is supposed to happen, by the way. Other scriptures say he saved you through his grace for good works. But if your work becomes the thing that daily hides the amazing value of God's unmerited grace toward you and the provision of the means of atonement, then you too have gone back to living under the law. What does the law teach? The law taught there was no way to marry it. There was never a way to be reconciled, to right relationship with God. God opened his arms Dispose themselves to relationship, establish the means by which it could happen, and we couldn't do it. That's the law. It's only ugly because we can't do it. The law would be beautiful If in fact it were a means of securing restoration of relationships, we couldn't do it. We are what's wrong with the law By grace you have been saved through faith. This is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we I love this, for we are his workmanship. We are the thing that he created and designed, master in design. In case any of you wanted to know, the most godly profession is an engineer. Because it best describes God. Just think about that. But if there's gonna be a piece of today's lesson you forget, make it that piece. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. For Good works. Do you see how smashed up those are against this other thing in Paul's writing? Do you forget to keep reading the surrounding verses when you get to those grace verses? Oh, there's my ring, I put it on, I'm good to go He did all that to create for himself a new creature, a workmanship created in Christ Jesus, the atonement, the means. of reconciling right relationship with him for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. um is a very powerful book. And one of one of the things I thought that the the the equivalent of the wedding ring, okay, wasn't the grace but was It was his grace that gave us the ability to have the faith because we cannot love him until he uh calls us to love him. And that is the faith. So I always thought the the the gift is the is the faith because you cannot you're getting your classic, you cannot have this faith and recognize all of this about the truth of the and Until it has been given to you and that is the that is the gift, but the grace is his disposition to call you have that gift. Am I off base on that because that's always where you find it in other questions. Am I on faith? Um I am not being glib, but the answer is yes and no. When we discuss faith, it still isn't like this No more than graces. Um that God must work in us so that we can have faith? Absolutely true. You said that. That is absolutely true. True. That in that sense we get something from God that is not of ourselves and that we need to enter into relationship with Him, that is a hundred percent But to think of faith like my ring is not good. For the same reason that it's not good to think about grace like that. I just was trying to No no it's it it I mean I that's why I was trying to I want to be very gentle with my response. You are asking the right kinds of questions and if this class today were on faith I would engage you more significantly in your inquiry. But those are good questions to ask. What is how does faith interact with grace? If I've got this sequence and I wanted to push it further toward faith, what would that sequence look like? How do we capture that consistent with the narrative of Scripture? Those are all the right questions. So I mean you asked a great question I'm not prepared to discuss faith today, and I wanted to be able to say yes and no to your you know the way you frame that. I I don't want to talk about faith like my ring, but there were other things that you said as part of that question where you're dead right I meant that. Not down, but a step over from the way to the face was what allowed us to be recognized from my perspective. God God does a work to make us alive. God does a work to open our eyes to things that we I'm not going to say we cannot see, we will not see is a better way to say it. God opens our eyes to things to see the truth and the value of things that we will not see. But then before salvation and all through our lives in salvation. He calls us to do what he has already enabled us to do. And you say, well, if he's already enabled it and he's already secured it, how does that work? I don't have to explain that to you That's actually not you personally, right? But that's actually not my problem. That's your problem. You have to figure out how to interpret the scriptures in a way that says his sovereign work and your sovereignly appointed responsibility. And when he describes face. He wrestles with that intention. I have loved you. I have disposed myself. That's all him. And without him we would be ruined. He established those things. We couldn't do it. There was a huge gulf. He made that way. We were still resist- I mean all that he did. And yet he says, you must walk by faith. You must resist You must resist even after you come to know Christ, trying to walk by your own merit. But by faith. I cannot understand, to be very honest with you, I know My sin. I know it clears. It I don't know why. And I am one and I know there's people like this and there are people that are not like this. So I apologize to you But some of you in the room are like me. And the record of your sins plays over and over and over in your mind. And it grieves you And it it makes you afraid and it makes you sick. And the older you get, the worse that gets. Because you become more honest about it. And because you see that the years of the sins keep piling up and it's discouraging to you. And in the midst of that the Lord says, but Scott, praise. And faith is walking in that. Faith is putting down Any idea I might have of becoming in any way meritorious before or after salvation Which I don't actually like the timeline of salvation the way we usually describe it, but it doesn't matter. Right? Any idea of Mary, you will always need my grace and the means of atonement in order to approach So get up and walk in obedience. Get up and walk in the joy in what you have in Christ. Get up and be useful. Get up and spend resources for the glory of God that you can't find on your person. They're not in your heart, they're not in your arms, they're not in your bank account, they're not in your emotional makeup. You spend More than you have for the glory of God. That that's faith. In a teeny little nutshell, it doesn't do it justice. Uh somebody raised a hand. Um so I was just gonna um try to frame it somewhere. Um talking about God's grace, so you said over and over it's his disposition for us. So that now it opens our eyes. We now have that is our turf. We're previously rebellious towards God, now our disposition, not actually, but our disposition towards God has now been spiked. And that is now the faith walking in. So faith is not you know something we put on up on the shelf say got it cool it's now how we walk out that perspective attitude. Is that a fair way to summarize that? I like that. I think that's the Oh I'll leave that. I I like how you framed that. It makes me want to again draw in other details to make that a richer, you know, picture of it. But there was nothing you said there that I didn't think was God honoring. So I I'm gonna say I like that. I I have like one minute. Um I want to go to the bottom of page two. How should we think about grace? Here are four points that I found very helpful from Moffat's book on Grace in the New Testament. And it starts off, these are almost the whole s this whole little section is almost a quote from his book. Almost a direct quote from this book. Uh the relationship due to his initiative in eternal goodness, that's that grace, especially in view of mortal Sin and weakness. And he makes a big deal about if we ever talk about grace outside of the context of our current Sin and weakness and need for what God is doing, then we make an abomination of grace. We offend men and God in how we uh express grace, either in our words or in our lives. So, especially in view of mortal sin and wheat, four things. Men owe the blessing of their lot to God as good. Blessing where he is not bound to any course of action, right? So that's kind of a what is grace, it's it's us owing uh our good lot to God when he is not bound in any way to do that. It's also recognizing that he enters human life to be forgiving. That's that atonement section of the chart, right? Even after he disposes himself to restore relationship, it requires action on his part too, because we we can't do it. We won't do it is a better way to put that. And so it requires uh forgiving. And again, I just hope that you'll go back to that daily Lord's Prayer. I am dependent on grace every day when I go to the Lord with that prayer and say Father, in heaven, holy is your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Forgive me this day of my daily sins. Why should I have any expectation of that? I need that every day. Please think about grace as that which you need every day. He enters human life to be forgiving. His attitude of kindness is one of authority or majesty, since it is as creation and subjects that we enjoy his goodwill. That's that superior to an inferior. We get it wrong in the modern age when we try to make God our friend. I'm sorry, that's not appropriate I get the father metaphor, the abba metaphor. I see that in scripture. There's a place for that. It's close. It is closer than a marriage relationship, if we can understand it. But it is always that of creator and creator. Superior to inferior. God and men. And so when you think about grace, you need to think about the king of all inviting you into relationship. He brings you into the court. And do not forget that there is a standard of conduct in that court that comports with the courtiers, those that are invited in. If you forget that, you forget that to your peril. There is an expectation on you. The closer you get to God, the higher that expectation becomes in some regard. Don't take that too far. This attitude of kindness is one of authority or majesty, since it is as creation and subjects that we enjoy his goodwill. And then finally it draws us to him in close and continuing relationship Grace suggests that one is under obligation to God. That's a direct quote from Moffat and accords with loving restoration with you despite your amazing sense. And then I want you to see as a result of that his activity to bring you back into that relationship. because just him disposing himself wasn't good enough. And then thirdly, I think I want you to stop thinking about grace like something you are given at a point in time. And it's yours and in its son's grace is God's disposition constantly be drawing you in. It's not appropriate to look at God or see God as somehow grasping or wanting for something. But if you could somehow m change that that picture in your mind so he is still magisterial and complete and all he is, and yet he's doing this with you. every day, drawing you in, refining your life, bringing you closer, consistent with his holiness and his beauty beauty and his truth and all those other things. Can you please start thinking of grace as that, that draw of God on your life to bring you closer to Him And all the means that He provides you to accomplish that when you can't do it on your own, and your obligation to walk in those means to be close to God. That's what I want you to remember most about grace. I have a bunch of references at the end of my notes. They were meant to provoke discussion, which I dominated with my mouth, so we didn't have any discussion, I'm sorry. Please read some of those. Read the extended passages around them to to see what you learn about grace and how we're supposed to deal with it. I I tried to dive right into Paul there. I'm not afraid of Paul. I I I I think we are interpreting wrongly in many cases, but I think he says some wonderful things consistent with what we talked about this morning. So also consistent with Paul, go in grace in the peace of the Lord and be blessed.