Love reading the historic biblical accounts of the birth of Jesus. So many talk about it as if it is meant when it's clearly written as history from eyewitnesses who carefully research the details. Skeptics are not always balanced and objective in their skepticism. Those accounts reveal why Jesus came into the world. You know it, you just sang it. In Matthew 1:21, the angel told Joseph these words, and Mary will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. For it is he who will save his people from their sin. Why was the Son of God born into this world? The answer is so clear. To save his people from their sins. There's a Pew research survey on religion and public life that was conducted earlier this month. It said only fifty-one percent of Americans think Christmas is primarily a religious holiday. So I think, well what is it then? Trying to figure that one out. Well thirty percent think it is a cultural holiday. All right, but the culture got something from the religion, right? Yet, even though we know the date, December the 25th, is probably not accurate, Christmas is the Western Church's celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. It is that celebration. It is a religious holiday. He is the Savior. In fact, his name, notice, in uh Matthew 121 that I read, was divinely chosen. They weren't allowed to pick their name. They didn't go through a A little book, what would you like to call this child? No, they were given the name. His name was to be Jesus. Um that's because it fit his mission as savior. Jesus is a shortened name for the Hebrew Joshua or Yeshua or even Jehoshua, which means Yahweh will save, the Lord will save. Actually, a very common name in Jesus' day. There are many others that were called Jesus, but he was the real Yahweh who would save In Greek it is Jesus, and uh it's a special name as well. Well the son of Mary had to be given that name. That name, and only that name, no other name. Why? Because it was said he will save his people from their sins. That scripture many people misread They read it something like he will try to save his people from their sins, and that somehow he failed. But he didn't fail. It says he will save his people from their sins. It's guaranteed that he will do it He would not save all people. He knew that. It was never prophesied that he would save all people. It was never intended that he would save all people. But he would, in fact, save his own people. What does it mean to be saved? What does it mean to be saved? Talk about being saved all the time. Well, it means that we are rescued. We're rescued from something. We're rescued from Our own sins and the consequences for our sins. When we commit sin, we commit that sin in a universe where there exists a holy God who hates sin and vows to punish sin. And so we will not be an exception to that. Every last one of us is responsible, not for someone else's sins, but for our own sins, and we have them And so we have to be delivered. Many people think that they will not face the wrath of God, that God doesn't really have wrath, but if you need to look around in the world, there's plenty of wrath already present. People die. There are diseases and sicknesses. There's plenty of God's wrath already on this world. The world is cursed and there are many sorrows and you know of them And so God does have wrath, and he has even a fuller and a worse wrath, and every individual person needs to be saved, delivered From that wrath that will will most certainly fall, and people ought not to take advantage of God's patience. Just because he waits doesn't mean that there isn't indeed going to be wrath Sinners cannot save themselves. Why? Because they're already liable to God's court. They've already broken his laws. They can't save themselves. So there has to be someone who is sinless without sin to be able to deliver us and to save us. Well Jesus was no sinner. He was the sinless Savior. As we will see in today's message, Jesus was able to save us because of what he did, the work that he did, the work that he accomplished. I would like to ask every one of you, whether you're sure Christ is your Savior or not, to focus on this thought today. Without the Savior Jesus, without him, without Christmas and all the work that Christ did follow that, without the Savior, you would have right now no safety at all with God. You would have no assurance that you could enter into heaven, and anyone that would tell you otherwise would be lying to you. Not one of the sins that you have committed, the debt that you owe to God, would be paid, none of it would be paid. You'd have no chance of everlasting life, and you would have no escape from the wrath of God Doesn't that make you grateful if you know you're saved, right? This Christmas Sunday it's our joy to look again at what Christ came into the world to do from Titus chapter 2. We'll read all of verses 11 through 14, but we're going to focus on verse 14 today. Please open up Paul's letter to Titus. And we'll read chapter two, eleven through fourteen. Follow along, you'll always get more out of it if you follow the reading of God's Word For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope And the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus, who gave Himself for us To redeem us from every lawless deed, and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous. for good deeds. This is a full and a a rich text that we look at again, just one verse, but it says so much. In verses eleven, twelve, and thirteen we looked at the the past work of Christ and the present work of grace that he's doing. And in verse 13, we looked at the future uh work of grace and how more grace will be brought to us when Jesus is revealed. In verse 14 it is all this is the final verse of this little section here And it is all focused on who that great God and Savior Jesus Christ really is and what he did for us. He's mentioned, notice at the end of verse 13, he's our great God and Savior Christ Jesus. He's coming back in full glory. Everyone's going to see him. But what did he do to prove that he was our great God and Savior? And how in the present can we connect with that? What's the response we're supposed to have? This is a message for everybody here today Now obviously this verse is teaching us that Christ gave himself its gift-giving time, and Christ decided to come and to give himself. What was the gift that he gave? You're going to give gifts. Christ gave not just a gift, he gave himself. So we're going to focus on the giving of himself. It's all about the great God and our Savior coming into the world and giving himself. First, we're going to see the action of the Savior in the first part of verse 14, the action of the Savior. And then we're going to look at the purposes for the Savior, kind of in the middle of the verse And then last, what the Savior gets out of it, the possession of the Savior. So we have the action of the Savior, the purposes of the Savior, and then the possession of the Savior. Let's look back at the beginning of the verse where he says, just those few words Who gave himself for us? We could preach on that for weeks and weeks, just what that means. Who gave himself for us Pause it right there and think on that, even though you've heard it many times before. This refers to Jesus our Savior offering himself as a sacrifice for us. That's so abundantly clear here. There's nothing hard to interpret. The giver is clearly who? Jesus Christ, right? If you're unsure of that, the Greek masculine singular pronoun provides a direct link back to verse 13. There's no question about that. The giver is Jesus Christ And what is the action of the giver? He gave. That's what he did. It's a very simple verb in Greek, didomi. It's a past tense, so it points to this one time he gave something. So it's not talking about continuous giving, although he does do those things. It's referring back to one event where he gave something The Savior gave himself, obviously. It unmistakably points to Jesus, the event of Jesus. It's kind of looking at all of his incarnation leading right up to the cross. He comes into the world, he's born a baby, he lives a brief period of time. really only like thirty-three years. He teaches, he heals, he offers himself in ministry to the people. But all of this points to the one act of him going to the cross to offer himself, the climax of his mission. Going to the cross, determined to head to the cross, That's exactly what it says in Matthew 20, verse 28. The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to what? give his what? Life a ransom, a payment for many. It would pay for the sins of many. And that's what he said himself. So he gave. He gave what? He gave himself. There's a reflexive pronoun that's used there. No question about that. Jesus is the giver, he gives, and he gives what? He gives himself. It's all about Christ, right? You know, our great God and Savior, that's Jesus Christ. The grammar indicates the whole title belongs to Jesus. Our great God, he is God, and He is our Savior. With that full title, it says he gave himself. Think about that, the eternal, the almighty, uh, everlasting All-knowing God decided to come down here to his frail human creation and give of himself to us. What an amazing, amazing truth this is He is our great God and our Savior. He didn't have to give us anything, and He came and gave us everything. He gave us Himself. He is the eternal God. Colossians 1 9 says, In Jesus, all the fullness of deity Dwells in bodily form. Couldn't be clearer. All the fullness of God is in Christ in a body. Jesus was God walking around in a body. And he was there to give himself for us. The one who made the stars, the one who made the oceans, the one who made the mountains, the one who created us The one who gave us the soul and gave us life, he came also to give his life and to save and to redeem that soul. He came to give of himself. It's amazing. Never get tired of hearing that story Jesus Himself is the greatest gift that you will ever get from anybody in your entire life. I don't care what's under the tree, I don't care what's in the future, I don't care how much money you have, you will never be given a greater Let's think a little bit about the gift here and go through some attributes of it. First The gift was a voluntary gift. Sometimes we read in the Bible that God the Father gave his Son, you know, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That's true, but it was voluntary. The Son came of his own accord. In John ten seventeen it says, For this reason the Father loves me. Because I lay down my life so that I may take it up again. Well, he's going to lay it down and he's going to raise it up again. Jesus. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I received from the Father. Those are Jesus' own words. He voluntarily laid down his life. Secondly, it's not only that he volunteered to give his life, it's that his giving of his life had to be, in this sense, a sacrifice. A sacrifice. Sometimes we give thanks to people and they're they're nice gestures, but they're by no means a sacrifice But Christ didn't just make a sacrifice, kind of give himself a hard time to be able to help us out. He gave everything, he gave his life. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 2 mentions that. It commands us to walk in love. Just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us An offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. His life would come up and the sacrifice would be pleasing to God as he would smell it, so to say, and he'd say, with that sacrifice I am pleased. That's what he did. He gave himself up in order to be a sacrifice to God on our behalf. Third, it's a tremendous act of love. Why is he sacrificing for us in the first place? Because he is immensely generous. When you pray and you think about God and you have a relationship with God, do you think of him as someone who is generous to you? Do you think of him as someone who abounds in love toward you? Not in an abstract sense. Not in a sense that you know God so loved the world, but God so loved me. God so loves me personally right now that He's generous and He cares about me. That's the message also, right? It is an act of love, an act of generosity. Fourth, it was an effective rescue. He didn't just come in with love and sacrifice the maybe the way maybe a parent would rush into a burning building and there's a child in there and try everything they could to save the Child, but in the end, alas, the child was lost and burned, and the parent was unsuccessful. No, when Christ came into the world, he was successful. He did do what he came to do. He did save his own people from their sins. And we're going to see the fullness of all of that for the nation of Israel in time. But he did accomplish what God sent him to do. It was effective. He really did deliver. Look at uh Titus three just for a second. Just a few verses forward and verse five. It says He Saved us. That's effectiveness. You see that? We are saved. We are rescued. Now there's more that we're going to see, but we are in our souls rescued. Now he did what he accomplished to do. He actually Saved us. He fulfilled his mission. The angel said he will save his people from their sins, and Jesus did save his people from their sins. And the last thing I'd like to say about this gift is that it's substitutionary. Now we're going to get into that. We're going to get into the fact that it was a substitute. In other words, if something something should have happened to us and the giving He kind of pushed us out of the way. He took our place. And so that wrath that was due us, he was a substitute for us. We're going to get into that. But I just wanted you to feel what the beauty of that gift is from other verses of scripture. Now, lastly, look at the object of the gift. It's us. He gave himself up for us. Huper Hamon, on behalf of us all. For the sake of us. The us is clearly here in Titus believers. Everyone who puts his or her trust in the Savior, Christ gave himself up for us. That's what he says The us can be you today. If you're not sure the us involves you, all you have to do to make sure the us is you is to make sure that you turn from your sins today and trust Christ. Then you'll be part of that us and you'll know he gave himself up for you. And that's exciting. We were the ones in need of rescuing He saw that we were in need of rescue, and so he came and he did what was necessary and effective. He gave himself up For us. We were on his heart. We were in front of his eyes. He understood what he was doing. He was knowledgeable, and he came and directed that gift toward us. This was his intent Allah 2 Corinthians 5, 21. God made Christ who knew no sin, no acquaintance with sin at all, no practice of sin, who knew no sin. To be sent on our behalf. Why? So that we might become the righteousness of God in him. We couldn't do it any other way. Never get right in God's sight any other way He did it on behalf of us because we were wrong in the sight of God so that we could be right in the sight of God. Isn't that wonderful? 1 Thessalonians 5. 9, just to echo this. For God has not destined us for wrath, but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Who died for us. Do you see the F there again? He died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we will live together with him. Now why do we need this saving? Why do we need this deliverance? Well look at what comes next. This is part two. Second is the purposes of the Savior, right there in the middle of the verse. Right in the middle of the verse. And he says, Who gave himself up for us to redeem us from every lawless deed, and to purify for himself a people. I'm going to stop right there, right in the middle of that. The first purpose, only two purposes here, and it is a purpose. There's a little word there. It's called a henaclause and it indicates this is the purpose He gave himself for this purpose, for this reason. And really he gives two reasons, and the two reasons are interrelated. He said he gave himself first, the first purpose is to redeem us. To redeem us from every lawless deed. Do you see that? Redeem us is an heiress past tense verb again. It's from the verb in Greek lutrao, and it means to set free or to redeem by the payment of a price, a price that's called a ransom So it's to set us free, to redeem us by the payment of a price, by the payment of a ransom. That's what redeem means. It again points to that one event of redemption. He did it at one time. He gave up his life on the cross, and that one time is where he came to purchase us. He came to redeem us. You know, in the Greek and the Roman cultures of the New Testament times, redemption was a very common thing. We don't talk about it outside the church that much in our culture anymore, but they did. It was common in business to buy something back. It was used in the military. It was used in the religious worlds of even in other uh worship of other gods as well. That idea was there Just a couple of examples here. A slave might want to purchase their own freedom. They could take money, a ransom, and pay it at some temple to a god. And then received papers back declaring that they were now slaves of a particular god, and now that they were slaves of a god, they bought their human freedom, but they had to pay a price no longer a slave of fellow man, but a slave of a god. Humanly speaking, it bought their freedom. Similarly, slaves could be bought back from war for a price. You'd go in, you'd conquer people, you'd put 'em in chains, you'd bring 'em back And once once in a while you'd look over your hall and you'd see, there's a very important person we have in here. He's not very good for menial work. Let's see if we can get some money for him. And you'd send a little notice back to the land that you conquered and see if you could get some money back. with this very important person, and they would pay a price and they would redeem that person. That's what redemption is. Redemption is not new to the New Testament. The Old Testament is filled with the idea of redemption. The greatest act of redemption that God ever had in the Old Testament was what? The deliverance from The land of Egypt, right? The great deliverance was a redemption. Listen to what God Himself says in Exodus chapter 6 and verse 6. I am the Lord And I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. You see, they were slaves. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. God refused to pay Pharaoh a price because those people that Pharaoh was holding were really whose? His own. He said, Let what? My people go. So he didn't pay him with money, he paid him with what? Plagues. And outstretched on. I'll redeem them, all right, you'll see, and you'll get plagued. So he told Pharaoh, Let my people go. You see, redemption is a wonderful concept if you understand the bondage that you have been encased in. If you don't think you're in bondage, you look at this whole thing as some abstract religious thing. That has nothing to do with you, and you'd be looking at it incorrectly. It was deliverance from some terrible bondage by the payment of a ransom so that there was a resultant, exuberant freedom to be enjoyed. Usually by someone who has some prior claim of ownership. Okay, but what are we in bondage to? We are Americans. We are free. Our red, white, and blue flies over the land, the home of the brave, and the land of the free, right? So what do we need to be freed from? And the answer is we need to be freed from sin. Your sin, the sin of the human race, the power of sin, the penalty of sin, the presence of sin, everything that has to do with wickedness, evil, unrighteousness, ungodliness, and sin In John 8. 34, Jesus stated very plainly, truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin. Have you ever in your life committed sin? I hope that you understand the answer to that is yes. And so apart from the redemption in Christ, you are presently, right now, a slave to sin. You might not think of yourself that way, but that's because you're not thinking of yourself the way you actually are We have inflated views of ourself and our abilities as man and God tells us the truth. You're in bondage to sin. You can't break The penalty that's going to come on you, you can't break the practice of it, you can't break the presence of it. It's clung to you. It is around you, it encases you, you cannot do anything to get yourself free from that. You desperately need redemption. That's why we're talking about. We are sinners, by the way, not just by practice, but by what? By nature. We inherited it from the first man and woman. When they fell, all their seed fell Except, of course, Christ, that's why he was born of the seed of the woman, not the seed of the man. Christ has come down here to redeem us with his blood. Why do we say his blood? Because his blood was was his life. When the blood was poured out of the body, the life was poured out of the body, right? The life of the flesh is in the blood. We learn that in Leviticus chapter 17. So when the blood is poured out, the life is poured out. What did Christ come to give us? He came to give us his life. Life. He poured out his life. He poured out his blood for us. Ephesians 1 7. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. Acts twenty twenty-eight, Paul talking to the Ephesian elders, Christ purchased the church with his own blood. He bought it. It's his. He bought it with his life. He bought it with spilled out blood. It's all his. Revelation 1. 5, we just read it. To him who loves us and released us from our sins by his what? By his blood, right? Blood poured out. Blood poured out unto death all the way. So who did Jesus redeem? There it is again. He redeemed us, Hemos. This teaching is not meant to be some abstract religious theory, but a personal redemption for you. You were to think of this in a personal way. He redeemed us. You were enslaved to evil. He came with you on his heart and his mind. And he came and he redeemed you. You needed redeeming? And uh he did that. Now many verses make sure that we know that Christ went to the cross and died with a particular group of people in his heart and in his mind. that his interest was to secure a people for himself, that that's what was in his heart and in his mind. Ephesians 5. 25 commands husbands to love your wives, and then it gives us the model, which frankly is impossible. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. There was a special relationship. He came with the church in his mind and in his heart. He came to die for the church. For those he would make into his church. His love and his sacrifice was targeted. It was particular. He came to die for them. He says the same in John ten eleven. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for who? For the sheep. In that very context, he said, Not all of you are my sheep. He came to lay down his life for the particular group who were his own sheep. Revelation 5, 9 and 10 makes this clear. Looking to the future out of the great harvest that comes out of the tribulation time, it says, They sang a new song saying Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals, this is the Lamb of God in heaven. For you were slain, listen, and purchased For God, with your blood, men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. He didn't say he purchased every people and every tribe, but men from every people and every tribe and every tongue and every nation. And you have made them to be a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign upon the earth. That's why we're premillennial right there, brothers. Okay, we will reign upon the earth. This is where we will reign. We were purchased. He saw the masses and he purchased some of us. That's what he did. It was a definite and particular purchase Why? Because he loves us. Because he loves you. Because the act was not an indifferent kind of bland act. It was with you and his heart and his mind. He desired and coveted a relationship with us. We are connected to him, you see. We owe him. Now that he has brought us back, we owe him everything. We are owned by him. You get it? What do we owe specifically? Could say everything and end it at that. But here it says obedience Obedience. What do we owe him? He purchased us from every what? Lawless deed. What does that mean? He doesn't want us doing the lawless deeds anymore. What does that mean? That we would be obedient. That we would be loyal to him. That we would, in all of our life, be loyal to the Lord Jesus Christ, to put away all the foolishness and be loyal to Christ, you see. Put away every lawless deed. Apo Apo is the preposition to move us away from every lawless deed. He wanted to take us away from lawless deeds. Remove us from the sphere of the practice of lawless deeds. He bought us so we would cease our criminal activity against God. He doesn't want that. He doesn't want us doing that. That's where the lost world does that. They're not bought. You see? They haven't accepted the gift. They're not bought, and they continue in their lawless deeds, and their lawlessness just increases. In fact, in the in the end times it says that the epitome of lawlessness will be in a In a man, we call him the Antichrist, who will appear and pretend to be the Christ, and yet his title in 2 Thessalonians is he's called the lawless one. He's so perfectly filled with lawlessness against God's law that he can be called the lawless one God doesn't want us lawless. Lawless is a word that means that you have contempt for the law. I'm not talking about human laws I know some of you guys I don't obey all the human laws or not. Some of our laws are very important. Some of our laws seem frivolous and they change a lot, right? Think you got a law this day and a law that God's laws don't are not like that God's laws are eternal and they're binding on him. Do you know that God holds everybody accountable to his law, even if they've never read the Ten Commandments in their life? Even if they don't have a Bible Even if they've never read one wit of Scripture, never heard of Christ, God, because He's made us in His own image, put a stamp on every human being, and that eternal law of God is stamped on every single creature who is made in His image. Man knows, at least faintly, in some sense. Sometimes in corrupted ways, that there is a moral standard, and he has a conscience to that moral standard, and he knows a judgment is coming, and he fails to live up to those standards. He breaks God's law. Look around you, people. Whose universe is this? Did you make it? No. Did I make it? No. God made this universe. It's all his. The stars are his. The planet is his. We are his. He owns all of it. And when he gives a law and he says, This is how you are to live, those who don't live that way are what? Lawless. And Christ doesn't want lawless people. He purchased us that we would not be lawless. That's what he wants. And God's not mocked in any of this. You think that people are getting away with stuff. I'd like to remind people of Galatians 6. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. You can't make fun of him. For whatever a man sows, this he will also reap. Give it time. Think you're getting away with something? Oh no. Oh no. No. God is very long suffering. And he knows all things going on in your heart. You will pay for that. Even as a believer, you think that you won't be chastened for what you're into. Yes, you will. You will learn. You'll learn a hard way. The principle of lawlessness, unfortunately, is found in every unbeliever. Romans 6. 19 says that. But here he wants to redeem us from every lawless deed. Do you hear the intensity of that? Not from some lawless deeds He wants to redeem us from every lawless deed, total redemption. If you were wondering what God's will was for your life, you've come to the right place this morning. Because I can tell you it is God's will that you keep his commandments. How about that? Start there. I don't know what God wants me to do in life. Okay, I don't know what God wants you to do either, but here's what I do know, He wants you to keep His commandments. Get busy doing that. Don't sit there scratching your head and wondering. Just start really zealously obeying the commandments of God. That way you'll do what James says, prove yourselves doers of the word and not merely what? Hearers who delude themselves. Now you did plenty of lawless things in your life, I bet. But now the joy and the beauty of full pardon is offered. To you. All of it. If you could write it all down, which I'm sure you can't remember, but the angels have inscribed it all down, they know. Every last lawless deed. Okay, when you were seven, you were doing this. And when you were eight, oh my, do you remember that? No, I've forgotten that. And then when you were nine? And then just the whole list. It's all there. Every last lawless deed. Pardon for every single word, every single hateful action, every single blasphemous statement, every single Crime that that humans would say is worse than other crimes. Every single sin is all to be forgiven. Romans 4, 7. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered. That's why we sing. That's why we sing with joy. You know, God's grace is greater than all of our sin. Like a O little town of Bethlehem, it says, O holy child of Bethlehem, descend to us, we pray, cast out our sin and enter in. Some people think that they can have Christ enter in and just lead the sinful lifestyle there. Ah, it's going to be just fine. They should have listened to the old carols. Because they got it biblically right. Cast out our sin and enter in. Be born in us today. The Bible constantly reminds believers that since we were redeemed, we owe God. 1 Corinthians 6 20, write it down. For you have been bought with a price, therefore, glorify God in your body. Are you into sexual sin? Right now, your body belongs to Jesus Christ. We should never use the body that was purchased by Christ to be an instrument of lawlessness. What about Second Corinthians six fourteen? Do not be bound together with unbelievers. For what partnership have righteousness and Lawlessness. There are a lot of applications to that, not being bound together with unbelievers. Sometimes we bind ourselves together with things and we have partnerships, particularly in marriage, and that's wrong It's wrong to make that decision. If you're in that situation now, of course you need to live for the glory of God in that situation. But we are not to be bound together with unbelievers. Why? Because they're lawless and we're to be righteous. That's the whole point First Peter 2 14, Christ himself bore our sins in his body on the cross. Why? We must say so we could go to heaven. It's not what it says. It says so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. That was the point. That's what he wanted, you see. That leads us to the second purpose, and it's marked by that little conjunction, and, chi, not only to redeem us, but to purify us. Again, an aorist active uh referring back to his act on the cross. Comes from uh the word katharidzo, to cleanse, to make clean, to purify. It can be used of cleaning up dirt on the outside of a cup, such as in Luke 11, 39. Again, the tense of this verb points to Christ and is one act of giving himself up for us to purify us. How we put these together. Redemption puts us out of sin, and purification puts sin out of us. We had been polluted by our deeds. We needed purification. First John 1 9, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to purify, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, same word. No, we Americans are really into being clean. You talk to people, they travel abroad and you like, well what's it like to travel abroad? Well it's a little different. Here in America we like things clean, don't we? You go to the you go to the store, you go into the island, they got cleaners for everything. It's got this special cleaner for granite. You know, you you you use this on granite and uh you got you got cleaners for uh clothes, we got cleaners for every kind of surface that's in the home. All kinds of we have tons of cleaners. We like cleanliness. We probably gonna leave here. We're gonna wash our hands before we leave, even with people of God, right? We're gonna be washing our hands, make sure it's clean, we don't get any diseases. We're all about cleanliness. The Jews of Jesus today were also into cleanliness, but with a different twist. Their cleanliness uh was was more than like killing germs and removing odors. It had to do with the religious significance They had washings that they were commanded by God to do, external washings, and they were to teach them things about cleanliness. If they touched a dead body, if they touched someone with leprosy, came near someone who was sick, there were all kinds of uh cleansings that they had to go through. But Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount talked to the Jews and he said, Blessed are the pure in heart. So the cleanliness was all on the outside, fine, fine. But the more important part was the cleanliness on the inside, the heart. Blessed are the pure heart, for they shall see God. And that's the greatest blessing to see God. So you're saying all those Levitical purification laws and external washings were not sufficient. They were to point to something that was far more important. You don't make yourself inwardly pure by coming outwardly to church or going in the waters of baptism or doing any other ritual that any other church, any other denomination says You cannot be purified that way. Water, the externals cannot wash away the impurities of the soul, right? Purity of the heart is vastly more important. When God looks at the insides of the hearts of human people, what does he see? People today would answer, well, I think we're pretty pretty decent people down here. We're nice. You know, just follow your hearts, the best advice. Most of us when we die, we just go right to heaven and we're all just wonderful people Basically good at heart. Jesus told the rich young ruler, who's a very religious and outwardly obedient man, he said, no one is good Except God alone. Is there anything difficult to interpret about that? No one is good. Don't call anyone good. No one is good except God alone. That's God's standard. So we're on the wrong side of that equation. God? Good. Rest of us? Not good. That's the side we're on. Not good. Christ told us what God sees when he looks in the hearts. In Mark 7, that which proceeds out of the man, that is what defiles the man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts. Fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds of covenant, and wickedness, as well as deceit, sensuality Envy, slander, pride, and foolishness. All these evil things proceed from within and defile the man. That's what God sees. He sees those constant thoughts and evil Actions that emerge from those thoughts in man. People are dirty. People are defiled. People are unclean. We're not picking on any class of people. All people are this way. We're all of one race. We're all part of a fallen race in Adam. This is in the innermost being. This is the heart. This is the mind. This is who we are on the inside. We can deny it. We could try to say it's not really true of us, but it's true. You know there are many people who are, maybe all of us to some degree, are too much in the image. Would you agree? A little bit too much in the image. We roll the clock back fifty years and we weren't quite as obsessed back then, Duncan, you know. We're all into the externals, looking right, the right clothes, the right hair, teeth, polyps and get them white. Smell good, look good, car needs to look good, house needs to look good, decorations look good, front of the house look good, everything doesn't look good. We're all about looking good, jewelry It's all there, you know, well groomed. Everything has to be done that way. We're into the nice sky, nice scal image. But on the inside, Jesus says we're all dirty. Can you clean that up? So busy cleaning up, straightening, decorating things. Beautiful, beautiful homes, I bet. Beautiful light displays, I bet. Can you clean up the inside? You can't do it. Can't do it. You're a dirty person trying to clean up dirt, and all you're doing is smearing dirt around. We all do evil. We all do evil. We all break God's commandments. We all have tarnished and tainted and corrupted hearts. And what's God like? He's perfectly wonderful. Oh, to see God one day. He's holy. Think of the clearest, most beautiful waterfall you have ever seen in your life, the most sparkling, pristine creek somewhere that you've been a part of. And think of how Pure that is, and now God's way beyond that. Think of the the most virgin snowfall you've had in the most remotest part you've ever been in, and everything is blanket in this pure white snow, and that's nothing compared to the beauties of God Think of the sun shining in its strength, and God shines brighter. God is so pure. We need cleansing. We're going to be living with him. We're going to be with him. We need to clean it all up. That's why we need purification. That's what Christ did for us on the cross. Purify. He purified us. And he did it for himself. Did you notice that? It says he purified for himself. Did you catch that? It's pretty important. He gave himself a pure people. What does he want? What does he get out of all of this? The answer is he wants a pure people That's what he gets. He gets a pure people. A people purified for himself. That's what that's who we are. When we leave from this place and we start saying, This is what I want to do, and this is how I'm going to live my life, and I'm not going to listen to those people and do this. We're supposed to live for Christ, he owes us. That's what he gets out of this. He smiles and sees us acting in a pure fashion, you see This is what John the Baptist said would happen. Luke 1. 17. This is John the Baptist's father talking about what John the Baptist would do. Verse 17 of Luke 1 It is he who will go as a forerunner before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers back to the children and the disobedience of the attitude of the righteous so as to make ready a people prepared for the Lord A people, a people prepared, a people prepared for the Lord. We're his. And this is what Jesus wanted when he prayed to the Father. This is what the Father said he'd give to Jesus, John 17, 2. Jesus praying to the Father, even as you gave him that is Christ authority over all flesh, that to all whom you have given him, he may give eternal life. Father, you've given me a people And I'm going to give eternal life to them. John six thirty nine. This is the will of him who sent me, that's the Father, that of all that He has given to me I lose nothing but raise it up on the last day Christ gets a people. That's what he gets. This is what the redeemed and the purified church is to Jesus Christ. To him, we are his people. We are for his possession. Remember 1 Peter 2 9? You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for what? God's own possessions. We belong to him. He wants us. We're his. And that leads us to our third and final point. And that's the possession of the Savior. The last part there of verse 14. The possession of the Savior. A people for his own possessions zealous for good deeds. What does a people Who are possessed by Jesus Christ look like? Answer? It's right there in your text. Do you see it? They are what? Zealous for what? Good deeds. Do you need me to interpret that for you? Oh, I'm so excited here because this is this is where we lose it. This is where a lot of us lose it, right? Like we understand our duties in Christianity and our obligations and all of that, but if you ask us or ask someone about us Is so-and-so, would you describe them as zealots for good deeds? Well, I go to church and I do some nice things, I'm dedicated at work. Are you zealous for good deeds? Because people who've been redeemed by Christ and are purified, and they're for his own possession, what they look like the way they're supposed to look like, what pleases Christ is they're literally. They're looking for good deeds to do, and they're zealous for good deeds. Do you know what zealous means? It means zealous. You know exactly what it means. Young people don't use that term anymore. I don't know why. I don't really hear young people talking about let's be zealous. I don't really hear that anymore. They say things like uh uh I'm totally into something, man That's zealous, okay? Or or that person is OCD, you know? That's zealous. Cowboy Redskin game today? That's zealousness. So you know what it is? Could you transfer that to yourself and ask yourself, and I ask myself the same question: why is there not excitement for doing the work of Christ? The work of the church, the work of evangelism, the work of caring for the poor, the care ministry needs, building this ministry up, that why do we have to pull teeth sometimes to get some of y'all involved and others of you who are involved dragging the feet? Why is that? And I'm going to help to answer that. It's not in our text, but the rest of scripture talks about. We are in a warfare. We are in a warfare. And if you got kind of just go lollygagging through life You're not going to understand what you're in. You have to understand that when you s signed up to be a Christian and Christ saved you, now you have a target on your back and there's spiritual warfare going on. And there are forces in this world that do not want you enthusiastic and zealous for Jesus Christ. Sometimes it's pretty obvious to see in the media, you know, this duck guy, I'm not into the duck dynasty thing or whatever, but he says something against homosexuality, I'm not sure it was said the best way, and he gets attacked, right? Gets dumped Well, not even that. Just speak in the name of Christ. Just say Merry Christmas at a store at Christmas time. Right! What? Everyone that says happy holiday. Merry Christmas. That's why I say Merry Christmas. Happy holidays. Happy holiday. There are forces at work, not just those, but even behind the scenes that want to keep you quiet. You got excited about Christ once, did you not? Are you excited about him like that today? Or has the system worked to tone you down and you're quiet now? Many of you are distracted. The reason why you can't be zealous for good works is you're zealous for so many other things that are And you're into all of that, and you wonder why you're not zealous for good deeds. And there's the answer right there Because you're zealous for other things. You've got to make a decision. Some things that are acceptable and allowable you have to say no to so you can be zealous for greater things that Christ has given us Some of you have made Christianity about you. You're not happy. You don't have your friends. Your counseling needs are not met. Your church is not what it ought to be. And you're so focused on that you can never be zealous for good deeds. You think the whole thing was arranged for your happiness. And it was not. By the way, if you come into counseling, I'm going to tell you that. This whole thing was not arranged for your happiness. So I'm not coming in. Okay, well you make up your mind whether you want to come in or not, but that's what you're going to hear when you come in. This whole thing was not designed for your happiness. Guess whose happiness it was designed for? Christ, He suffered and bled and died so he could have a people zealous for good deeds for his own possession. Are you that person? Are you that man? Are you that woman? That's what he wants from you. Now, if you're feeling guilty and you're feeling panged in the conscience, you need to know there's total forgiveness. What he wants from you is not to stay feeling guilty, he wants you to resolve in your heart that I want to be zealous for good deeds I I want to I want to live for Christ. I want to get out there and give the gospel of Jesus Christ to somebody else and feel the shame of being a Christian and have someone laugh at me. I want to find someone in need in the church and I want to meet that need. I want to see a prayer request somewhere on Hope Book or some other sheet and I want to make sure. I'm the first one to pray for that. I want to be zealous for good deeds because Christ redeemed me from sin. And I love him. It's a terrible thing for someone to do something wonderful and great that needs, that you need, you desperately need. And to walk away or even run away from that and not give thanks. To not be thankful for something like this, so tremendous like this. Just to miss the whole point of it all. What Christ has given to me and to you is unspeakable. It's wonderful. It's blessed. And we've only begun to taste all the glories that are to come. Amen. This Christmas You remind yourself, you're owned by Christ. Don't let any of the bad deeds of other people, any of the discouragements of other people Any of the hypocrisies of people around you keep you from being zealous for the mission of Jesus Christ. Amen? Father, help us and assist us with your spirit to stay focused and not be turned to the left or to the right with all that is done. Help us to get rid of excuses, be humble, cry and even mourn for our sin. And for those who were lost, they may have even fought before they were saved, Lord, help them to see they were lost, that they only had a mind knowledge of Christ and not a real repentance of sin. That they've been living their life for themselves and that's why they're so unhappy. Father, help them to see that and to turn to the Blessed One and that receive the blessedness of all lawless deeds being forgiven. Thank you for sending the Lord Jesus into this world. Thank you for this Christmas season. Help us to be zealous for your name and for your mission. We do pray in Christ's holy and blessed name. Amen.