Let's open our Bibles again to 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. I'll begin by reading our text. Now we request you, brethren, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to him. That you not be quickly shaken from your composure or be disturbed either by a spirit or a message or a letter, as if from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first. And the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction. who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, displaying himself as being God. Do you not remember that while I was still with you, I was telling you these things? And you know what restrains him now, so that in his time he will be revealed. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way. Then that lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will slay with the breath of his mouth And bring to an end by the appearance of his coming. That is, the one whose coming is in accord with the activity of Satan, with all power and signs. and false wonders, and with all the deception of wickedness for those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth so as to be saved. For this reason, God will send upon them a deluding influence, so that they will believe what is false, in order that they all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in wickedness. Well, we began this last time, and we broke this second part of the events surrounding the day of the Lord into four happenings. This was after we dealt with the first part of the message, which was that Paul was trying to convey to the believers that the day of the Lord had not come. There had been some kind of a forged letter, some message from a prophet, a spirit, some message that had come to this church after Jesus had planted it, after Paul had planted it, excuse me, on the foundation of Christ. And then this message came in after Paul left, and it disturbed and shook the church up greatly. And so Paul was concerned with that. Indeed, that is the main reason why he wrote this letter. To help this church that had been disturbed by false teaching to regain its composure and to understand that first great truth, the day of the Lord certainly has not yet come, if believers believe that it would have terrible effect upon their congregation. And so in verses 1 through 3, the first part of 3, he's dealing with that truth. The day of the Lord has not come, don't let anyone in any way deceive you. And we covered all of that last time. We began talking about the second great truth, and that is in the middle of verse 3 to the end in verse 12, the events that surround the day of the Lord. And we talked about uh the first event that was last time. The day of the Lord cannot come and will not come. Until certain events happen. The first one we looked at was the apostasy, that great apostasy, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first. An amazing statement, a little bit of chronology for us with end times, very helpful. We took a little bit of time to understand what that apostasy was. That word apostasy indicates some great falling away from God by the professing church, obviously not the saved church But there's a tremendous amount of this world that is professing Christianity that are not Christians. They will fall away entirely from the Lord It's not a single act of rebellion by the Antichrist or by any one person, but some worldwide great apostasy, something so great that it can earn this title, the apostasy. And so unless that happens first, the day of the Lord won't come. That's what Paul is saying. There have been many apostasies throughout church history This final one will move so greatly away from the Lord, it'll all lead towards the worship of Satan himself. It will constitute the greatest victory for the devil and for Satan, his greatest achievement. It will not be long lived But it will be his greatest achievement. The second event we also began last time is the revealing of the Antichrist. We all want to know who is the Antichrist. Well, nobody knows. But he will be revealed. It's like Christ is going to have a revealing when he comes. The Antichrist is going to have a revealing. He will be revealed. When he's revealed, if we stick to the scripture, the people that are here in the world will understand who he is. The term anti-Christ most people think means against Christ. If you're anti-slavery, you're against slavery, right? If you're anti-something, that's the way we think. But actually anti, the preposition in Greek means in place of or instead of or substitute. In other words, he is someone who's going to come and he's going to say, I am the Messiah. He is going to present himself as the Messiah. He is the in place of Christ. And so Anti ends up meaning against the true Christ, but its primary meaning is in place of. He's a phony. He's going to imitate Christ. He's going to fool the world that he's Christ. You're going to see even demonstrates supernatural power to convince the world. Now we saw last time that this Antichrist called here the man of lawlessness to describe his character, and the son of destruction to describe his end, for he will be destroyed. will take his seat in the temple of God, and in that seat he will proclaim himself God. The greatest blasphemous human act ever committed. What we did not have time for last time, as we were in the midst of all of this, was to connect this act of seating himself in the temple of God. With statements that are made elsewhere in the scripture that refer to this act as the abomination of desolation. Jesus talked about it in Matthew 24. Verse 15, what we call the Olivet discourse that also describes end time events. His words there are these. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation, remember he's talking to the nation of Israel there. When you see that, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place Then he adds this comment, let the reader understand. Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains when he goes on talking about how you need to get out of there. Jesus called that act the abomination of desolation, and he referred back to the prophet Daniel, who first called it that. In Greek, that means the disgusting thing, a revolting thing that brings desolation, that brings emptiness and destruction. Jesus says in Matthew 24, 15, it will take place in the holy place We know that exact phrase, the holy place, is used in Acts 6. 13, Acts 21, 28, and indicates not the city of Jerusalem, but more specifically the temple in Jerusalem. Paul also says this will take place in the temple. He must mean and has to mean the temple in Jerusalem, which doesn't exist today, and it will be rebuilt. There's no doubt at all about that. I don't know how many commentators miss that, but it's so certain there's going to be a temple in Jerusalem, and this is exactly where it's going to happen. I mentioned to you that the Jews have already constructed each article for the temple. They're ready, the or the orthodox and and the superorthodox Jews are ready to have all of this done. The political conditions just have to be right in Israel. And you never know what God may use to trigger the building of that temple. Jesus referenced Daniel's prophecy. That phrase abomination of desolation occurs three times in Daniel's prophecy. Just for example, Daniel 1131. Gives the definition of the abomination of desolation. It says, Forces from him that is the Antichrist will arise, desecrate the sanctuary fortress. And do away with the regular sacrifice, and they will set up the abomination of desolation. Evidently, along with seating himself in there, an image of himself will remain in that place as well So the Antichrist is going to desecrate the temple in Jerusalem. He's going to stop the sacrifices, and then he's going to pour out destruction on the nation of Israel, breaking the very covenant that he made with the nation of Israel at the beginning of the seven-year tribulation time. Listen also to Daniel nine twenty seven. And he, that is the Antichrist, will make a firm covenant with the many for one week. Remember the week means A group of sevens literally, so it's talking about seven years. But in the middle of the week, that's three and a half years, he will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offerings, and on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate Even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed is poured out on the one who makes desolate. So he will receive his end. Also listen to Daniel 12, 11. From the time that the regular sacrifice is abolished and the abomination of desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days. Scripture is so specific in these prophecies that's exactly three and a half years. The seven year tribulation time begins when there is made a covenant between the Antichrist and the Jewish nation Then three and a half years later the Antichrist will break that covenant, because he will reveal his true colors. He'll go into Jerusalem and set himself up there as God. That will constitute the abomination that causes desolation The halfway point of the tribulation. It's good to remember that a foreshadowing of this abomination already happened in history. And some people thought it fulfilled this prophecy, but it did not. A ruler named Antiochus Epippanes, a Greek ruler over Syria, from 175 BC to 164 BC, about 400 years after Daniel's prophecy But still before Jesus' day, he persecuted the people of God, and that is recorded in the apocryphal books of first and second Maccabees. He murdered thousands of Jews and he desecrated the temple. He offered up a pig on the altar to render it unclean so he would stop all of the sacrifices. Sounds like what Daniel was prophesying. But Jesus, in his day, interpreted the prophecy and declared that the abomination was still future, and he was still warning the people in his day to look for it. So Antiochus Epiphanes, what he did had similarities, but it did not fulfill the full thing. It is what we call a prophetic foreshadowing. This abomination has yet to be fulfilled to this day. The Roman emperors did indeed deify themselves, but they never accomplished this act Caligula, one of the Roman emperors, attempted to set up an image of himself in the temple, but his plans were interrupted by his death. So much for being God. Some have considered certain popes to have been so evil or even the entire pontiff, but uh no pope ever did this, and the office of the pope is a series of men, not one man. This is going to be one man. Dr. Leon Morris is correct when he writes this. All attempts to equate the man of lawlessness with historical personages break down on the fact that Paul was writing of someone who would appear only at the end of the age. The man of lawlessness is an eschatological figure. That's true. He's still coming. And we need to understand this rascal. We need to know what's going on. We need to be well taught. That brings us up to verse 5. Would you look at it? Do you not remember that while I was still with you, I was telling you these things? The fact that these things had not yet happened proved that the day of the Lord had not yet come, but Paul had taught them about this already. He told them about this, but they'd been knocked out of their game, knocked off their game, so to say, because of this false teaching. And that's what can happen. You can come in here to church and you can hear some teaching, some doctrine, and you can say in your head, that sounds right, I got it, and then you go out there somewhere and some message comes along and it confuses you. And that's why I just want to add a little emphasis here. When you are gathering for a time to learn the Word of God wherever that is, please take that time seriously. Get yourself alert Take notes, review your notes, do what you need to do to make sure you are learning. Because it's just like this. They heard it, they understood it, they nodded their head, but then something came along and it knocked them off. So make sure you're getting everything out of a message that you can. I think it's important. There's a reason why God has us going through the books that we go through and the messages that we have here at Hope Bible Church, and that reason may have something to do with your week or things that happen to us collectively. Now we come to the third event, and that is the restrainer. This is in verses 6 and 7. Look at verse 6 The third event is the restrainer is going to be taken out of the way. This is the third big event to look for for the coming of the day of the Lord. The restrainer is going to be taken out of the way. Verses 6 and 7. And you know what restrains him now. So that in his time, talking about the Antichrist, the man of lawlessness, he will be revealed. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work, only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way. So we're told that the removal of the restrainer is according to God's timing. The man of lawlessness is going to have his time. God's going to give it to him. It's going to come before the day of the Lord is fully realized. And we should see in this the sovereign control of God over the affairs of men, even the most evil men. All the evil that is allowed and is going to be allowed in this world is on a schedule. God's going to allow it and then he's going to stop it. It can only operate when it's on God's schedule. What does that mean? Well, we have a phrase we say all the time: God is in control. Well, there it is. The greatest events that are happening, God is in control. And here we have the reason the man of sin, the Antichrist, has not yet been revealed in human history. Why do we not know who he is? Why has he not been revealed? We have the reason right here We don't know who he is because there's a restrainer not allowing him to come out. Twice Paul mentions the restrainer. Did you notice that? The man of lawlessness is restrained and will be until the restrainer is taken out of the way. Now admittedly that's rather vague language, isn't it? If you're looking for something specific from this, you have to scratch your head and say, who's that? What's that? What's going on here? And it requires some interpretation. We don't have the specifics Who or what is the restrainer? And how would he be able to restrain such an evil person? Who can hold Satan back and the man of sin? Well, the suggestions of who the restrainer are have been multiple down through church history. I'm sure I don't have all of them here. Some said Michael the Archangel is the restrainer. See him warring with the dragon in Revelation. Some say, no, it's Elijah. Elijah's restraining him. Elijah's got to come back first. Others have said it's the Jewish state. Others have said it's the preaching of the gospel That the preaching of the gospel holds back the appearing of the Antichrist. That's not likely because the preaching of the gospel is going to go on also in the tribulation time. Others point to Revelation and say, no, what this is is the binding of Satan. But you know when the binding of Satan happens is actually during the millennium, not now. Some say it's the church itself, the church itself. Or others say Gentile world dominion and human government, that human government holds back this man of sin from appearing. Many down through church history have interpreted the restrainer as the Roman Empire. Isn't that interesting? You say, how could the Roman Empire be restraining the man of sin? Well, their thought pattern went something like this. Often when Paul was preaching the gospel He'd go into a place and the Jews would stir up persecution against him and the church, and it would be the Roman officials that would come to the rescue and would allow for the preaching of the gospel. That's interesting, but of course, just a few decades later, it was the Roman Empire that put Paul to death and brought out many persecutions against the Christians in the centuries to come. And then Rome is gone now anyways, and so Rome couldn't possibly function as the restrainer, so that was wrong. Let's try to unravel the mystery of this restrainer. First, I want you to notice That the restrainer was present and was working in Paul's day. The now shows us very clean clearly. The restrainer now is restraining That also means then that the restrainer has been doing his restraining for the past 2,000 years all throughout the church age Since the man of sin is still future to us, he's been restrained for 2,000 years. That's the first thing to note in trying to figure this out. Secondly, I want you to note this. The restrainer must have some supernatural power. In fact, he must have quite a bit of supernatural power. For he's able to hold back supernatural power from coming. Restrains is the verb kateko. It literally means to hold down or to suppress or to restrain or to prevent Sometimes it is translated to hold onto, but it would only be that way if you're holding on to and not letting it go. It's still restraining. So this is some power that's not working in harmony with Satan, but is holding Satan back, holding what he wants to do By the way, the same verb is used in Romans 1. 18, where it says, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress, there's the verb, the truth and unrighteousness. But here something is suppressing the lie from emerging. So who is strong enough to hold Satan's plans back? We're getting closer now, aren't we? Third, he must be someone who would want to hold supernatural evil back. And so I would think he has to be good. Satan surely wants to express his evil plan against God, he's not being allowed to, at least to the fullest. Fourth, the Thessalonians knew the restrainer. You know what restrains him now, Paul said. That's got to mean that it's not too difficult to figure out They had maybe even a personal acquaintance with the restrainer. So it's not some unknown dark figure from human history we have to try to figure out who it was. And fifth, there's a variation in the very use of the gender in referring to this restrainer. Notice this It is both the neuter participle in verse 6 translated what is holding him back and the masculine gender in the next verse, he who now restrains. So who could be a he and a what at the same time? Well the answer, of course, is the Spirit of God. In fact, in Jesus' description of the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God in John 14, 26, 15, 26, 16, 13, and 14 We see the Spirit of God sometimes being referred to as a Hymn, for He is a person, the third person of the Trinity, and also as a what to talk about His energy and what He does. This is the Spirit of God. The special presence of the Holy Spirit then must be the answer that is restraining him from coming. The Spirit of God, of course, is always present in the world, but not in the special kind of a work that the Spirit of God has been doing since the day of Pentecost when he came into the world in Acts 2. Clearly, there he came because Jesus poured him forth. And so in some special, powerful way, the Spirit of God came into the world on the day of Pentecost. It is here with the church, and he has great power. He came abruptly at Pentecost. He gave birth to the church. And he will be removed abruptly, at least in this work, when the church goes away. And when will that be? The time of the rapture, when the church is caught up at the gathering to be with Christ. Dr. Thomas writes this Once the body of Christ has been caught away to heaven, the Spirit's ministry will revert back to what he did. for believers during the Old Testament period. His function of restraining evil through the body of Christ will cease similarly to the way he terminated his striving in the days of Noah, according to Genesis 6. 3 At that point, the reins will be removed from lawlessness and the satanically inspired rebellion will begin. Wow. This, of course, is evidence for the rapture occurring at the very beginning of the seven-year tribulation period when the apostasy will happen. But even now, please notice, the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Wasn't Paul's day that must be and it still is now. The mystery of lawlessness. When you hear the word mystery here in English we think of a mystery novel, we think of something mysterious, we think of dark alleyways, you know, something like that. The word Mustarian it just simply means a secret, something that no one knew and then is later going to be revealed. You could translate it as secret. Lawlessness, evidently, and the forces behind lawlessness have their secrets also God has secrets, and he reveals secrets in the Word of God to us. When we read the Bible, we're reading secrets. The rest of the world doesn't have any idea what's going to happen on this planet. We do You're in here today getting a scoop that no news organization can possibly give you. You're going to know the future because you're reading what's revealed. The secrets have been revealed to us, the secrets of the kingdom of God. But there are secrets of lawlessness as well. There's the mystery of lawlessness already at work. 1 John 4 3 says the spirit of the Antichrist is already at work in the world. It's already here, it's already maneuvering, it's already bringing about the lies, it's already trying to achieve something. What? What's the secret of lawlessness? Well, it's not a secret to us because again we have the Bible. We have the Word of God. What an amazing book! We're gonna we're gonna know what's gonna happen. Everyone else is gonna be like what? The secret aim of the devil Which the world does not perceive is to throw off the reign of God entirely and set himself up to be worshipped and bring the entire world its economy, its politics And most of all its religion into harmony in worshiping Satan. Dr. Hebert writes, So monstrous will be the depths of iniquity plumbed by the man of lawlessness, that human thought would never have fully conceived of such depths apart from divine revelation. Wow. So this is the restraint. Thank God for the Holy Spirit. Thank God He's here with us. He teaches us every single Sunday. He inspires us to sing of His glory. He convicts us to think to repent of our sin, but he also works through the church in restraining evil in the world. And he in this time will not allow that man of sin to come forth. And I believe that's pretty powerful evidence for a pre-tribulational rapture of the church. Well now we come to the fourth event that has to happen, the fourth and the last. And really we're reverting back, flashing back to the second one. The fourth one is this: the Antichrist supernaturally deceives. Verses 8 through 12. It's really, as I said, a flashback to the second event, but it fills it in more. Look at verse 8. Then, after the restrainer is removed, that lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will slay with the breath of his mouth. and bring to an end by the appearance of his coming. The word then signals the chronological order. Only after the restrainer is removed will the man of lawlessness be allowed to be revealed. With the restraining influence of God's Holy Spirit removed, the world will be ripe for a great apostasy, and the delusion will be unparalleled in human history. You think deception is bad now That lawless one, the way Paul writes it, refers back to the man of lawlessness. That guy, in other words. So here we have in one verse, verse 8, the beginning and the end of the man of lawlessness. Wow, he comes and he goes. By the way, I think it was written that way so you would understand, don't fear him He has his revealing, but we're immediately reminded the Lord will slay him. Now he doesn't talk about the chronology in terms of time there. But um it shows that his end will be quick. Slay by the word is an aire'o. Usually it means to kill, slay, or execute, but literally it means to take up and away. And then it takes on the sense of to eliminate or to kill. And you can see that in Matthew 2. 16 when it's used of Herod's slaughter of the babies, or Acts chapter 12 and verse 2, when James the apostle was executed. But it also can just mean takeaway in the sense of ending him. And I think that's what it means here, rather than killing him, because in a cross reference in Revelation 1920, it says the beast, which is another name for the Antichrist, The beast will be thrown alive into the lake of fire. And that's pointed out that way. He's thrown alive into the lake of fire. And so Jesus is going to end him. He's going to come back and end all that he's doing, in other words. He's going to eliminate the Antichrist. And how's he going to do it? He's going to do it with the breath of his mouth. Did you see that? That could refer to his words. In Revelation 19, the sword comes out of Christ's mouth, and that usually refers to the word of God. It could be a symbol of the Word of God, most likely is, where he speaks and whatever he says with omnipotence carries forth. That could be what it is. Or it literally could just be his breath. He just might blow And blow this guy right into the lake of fire. Of the Messiah in the Old Testament, Isaiah 11 4, it says But with the righteous he, the Messiah, will judge the poor and decide with fairness for the afflicted of the earth, and he will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked Maybe it'll be like a furnace coming out from his mouth. So either his omnipotence will speak and the Antichrist will be sent away and come. To total destruction, or he won't even bother to speak, he'll just blow them away. The breath of the Almighty is often pictured in the Old Testament as a weapon against wickedness. The appearance of Jesus' coming is the final part of his coming. It's not the same as the gathering phase of his coming. The appearance indicates that glorious second coming where he comes all the way down to earth, not where we're caught up in the clouds to meet him. Do you remember the chapter one description of this glory that we covered a couple of weeks ago? These, verse nine, will pay the penalty of eternal destruction. This is chapter one, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. When he comes to be glorified in the saints on that day and be marveled at among all who have believed. What a bright, shining, glorious, incomparable coming he will have. Here we must understand that our gentle, humble of heart, Lord Jesus Christ, who humbled himself and carried out all the will of God and set an example for us that we should not put our own interests first This same Lord Jesus will come back to carry out the interests of the Father, and he will be a roaring Messiah. He will come to do battle. He will come to wage war and to win. Isaiah 66, 15 and 16, for behold, the Lord will come in fire. And his chariots like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For the Lord will execute judgment by fire and by his sword on all flesh, and those slain by the Lord will be many. Our Lord Jesus will put to death untold millions when he comes back. Revelation 19, 11, I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he who sat on it is called faithful and true, and he's not going for a little gallop in the countryside, right? And in righteousness he judges and listen, wages war. A little bumper sticker says war is not the answer. That might be true in many cases, but in this case war will be the answer It'll be God's answer to a world that is in rebellion and deserves a sword, and God should never have waited this long. His patience is unbelievable with this world. But in his grace, of course, his wisdom knows when his patience should end. Jesus will at the end of verse 8 Bring to an end Christ's entire, I'm sorry, anti-Christ's entire arrogant plans. Katargeo is the verb to abolish, to bring down, to render inoperative. As with the description of those in hell, this does not mean that he will be annihilated. It means he will be rendered inoperative. Everything he planned will be destroyed. He will be there in shambles. Antichrist's reign over the last half of the tribulation, 1,260 days, as Revelation specifies, 42 months. As Revelation 13, 5 specifies, will end abruptly, not one more day for him Here, false Christ, the one who said he was the Christ, encounters the true Christ. And look what happened. There's no contest, there's no contest here at all. Antichrist's gig is up. Jesus has returned Yes, the Antichrist will be revealed. Yes, he will have his way for a short period of time, but it's not going to be much of a battle when Christ comes back. I love to write, in the end, Jesus wins. That's the message. You say Jesus is Lord today, people don't even understand what that means. How about just this? In the end, Jesus wins. You're not a loser for following the winner. Antichrist and all of his compadres get trounced. No worries for the believer I love the hymn that says, The Prince of Darkness grim. We tremble not for him. His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. One little word shall fell him. Holman commentary says, the residual effect of the Antichrist's reign will be destroyed by the glory of Christ's presence. The systems, the power, the structures The religious perversions he created will crumble with Christ's second advent. But now, Paul, after saying that and letting us all know what's going to happen, reassuring us He's going to go back into some of the details of the evil one, and so we're going to do that also. Just to make sure these Thessalonians have enough teaching and by God's Providential design, all that would read the letter do as well. Make sure there's no being fooled about the times. Here we learn three major things about the Antichrist. Sort of a outline inside of an outline. Three major things about the Antichrist. First, verse nine. This is the one whose coming is in accord with the activity of Satan. There it is. So the Antichrist comes. And his workings are in accordance with the activity of Satan. No question about that. The working, energy, we get our word energy from that, the working out of power. It refers to the actual exercise of that power. This Antichrist, make no mistake about it, is Satan's man, his choice man. This is his number one man. His coming into the world is the brain thrust of the devil. The devil is going to put his weight behind this man. This is the guy he sets into the ring to do battle, to try to win. What he does, he does in accordance with the activity of Satan. That name Satan, you know, means adversary. Satan is God's opponent. He always opposes the work of God. This shows us too that the man of sin is not Satan, but acts under Satan's control. He is the son of Satan in that he imitates Satan. Satan energizes him. Satan is a supernatural heavenly being. In Job we see he's able to cause tornadoes to be stirred up to bring about the death of Job's children and destroy his homes. He's able to afflict Job with sores. In the gospel, Satan physically snatched up the Lord Jesus and carried him to the pinnacle of the temple and tempted him with throwing himself down. He also gave Jesus a vision of all the kingdoms of the world on top of a high mountain. Just as angels have supernatural powers, such as striking men blind, as in Sodom, so also fallen angels have supernatural abilities. And God will let Satan have his power in this time. And what does Satan do? Well, he's going to attempt to counterfeit God's work. Satan's going to do everything he can to convince this is the Messiah to fool the world and have everyone fall in line and bring that worship ultimately to himself. Notice second, his second activity, with all power and signs and wonders. With all power and signs and wonders. Do you know that these three words, these three things, are said about Jesus' ministry, that he did powers and signs and wonders? It's also said of Jesus' apostles in Acts 2:22 and Hebrews 2:4. Power is the word dunamis. It shows supernatural power is happening. It means miracles. And the all refers to every kind of miraculous There's going to be an incredible display of miracles by this man. And my guess is they will be of the very showy kind of miracles, knowing his arrogance. Remember the Lord Jesus when he did his miracles almost just did them quietly. There were very few that were showy. He was just trying to point the way to people for people to come to him. He could have used his power all the time in great and showy ways and he never did it. Here I think he's gonna want the wow effect and he's gonna really show 'em. Signs also. Is Sameon, sign miracles. They point to something. With Christ, they pointed to his deity. Here he's hoping they're going to point that he is the Messiah. The world wants proof of the supernatural. You know, the world is so interested in supernatural. It's an interesting culture in which we're in where you have this vehement denial of anything spiritual and religious by the so-called scientific community. Along with this incredible thirst for the supernatural and all the growth of the occult that's happening, at the same time, all of this science is supposedly disproving the supernatural. It's not. And people I think know Well, they're going to get the proof of the supernatural, and this is going to so amaze them. And then notice the last word, because that speaks to the amazement, terrace, wonders. It goes with miracles. When miracles happen, people's jaws drop open and this is the wow effect. These are wonders. That that adjective false in front of it does not mean they are not miracles. Some people think that the Antichrist just has a bag of tricks. How's he going to deceive the whole world with that? That is definitely not true. That's not what the scripture says. The words in this triad indicate real supernatural power. False has to do with the deception that they foster. Dr. Thomas, again, from the Expositor's Commentary, says this, these remarkable phenomena, which in the past have been so used so effectively in laying a foundation for the church, will be redirected to purposes of deceit. They will not be counterfeit, but genuine supernatural feats to produce false impressions, delude people to the point of accepting the lie as the truth. They work totally in harmony with the devil's lies. Hey, the devil is the father of lies. Remember John 8:44. Now the third thing we learn here in verse 10. And with all the deception of wickedness for those who perished, because they did not receive the love of the truth so as to be saved. In other words, the false wonders go with the deception. It is going to be great deception, the deception of wickedness. Wickedness is able to deceive. And Antichrist will employ every method of wicked deception you can think of. But he's only going to be able notice to deceive those who what perish. Those who perish. See, deception and perish and go hand in hand, do they not? Why is it that so many will perish? Why will God let them be deceived? What's the answer given? Because they did not receive the love of the truth. There it is. Listen, the gospel's not hard to understand, people. Jesus came into the world to save you from sin, died on the cross, and took the wrath of God so you wouldn't have to face it in eternity. If you just turn from your sin, put your trust in the Savior, you can be saved. I was a fourth grade teacher for years. Fourth graders understand that. This is not hard to understand. But they didn't receive the love of the truth so as to be saved. That means they rejected the truth. They didn't love it. They spurned the truth. When they heard it, they understood to a degree what it meant. They didn't want it. They hated the truth. It meant that they somehow were a sinner and they had to bring themselves under submission to a Lord. They don't want that. Truth was the path to be saved and to be rescued from this. But they didn't embrace the truth. They didn't love it. But truth is our friend. Truth leads us to life. When you have truth, you gain life. It's deception that leads to ultimate death. These will be so blind that they will think this evil man is good. They'll think he's the Messiah. They'll praise him. They'll worship him. They'll fall before him. He's the answer to mankind. And he's the most evil man ever. That's how deceived they'll be. There'll be no discernment in them whatsoever. They'll be so blind. You see people today lauding evil people because they have some great skill and they overlook all of the wretchedness of their character, whether it's in the Hollywood or it's politics and their character is terrible and they overlook all of that and they praise him. That same delusion is already present, but I think it's going to get worse Verse eleven. For this reason God will send upon them a deluding influence so that they will believe what is false But this reason is that they did not receive the love of the truth. Because they didn't receive the love of the truth, God will send on them a deluding influence. Yes? You read that correctly God will send on them a deluding influence. God will make sure they believe the lie. That's what it says. This is judicial blinding. God will blind them. God will make sure they're deceived. God will make sure the powers of evil have their full effect on these ones. God makes sure what they've chosen, they're locked into and they have no way out. Isaiah 6, which is quoted in the New Testament, verses 9 and 10 says, Go and tell this people, keep on listening, but do not perceive. Keep on looking, but do not understand. Render the hearts of this people insensitive, their ears dull, and their eyes dim, otherwise they might see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their hearts, and return and be healed. Or, if that shocks you, first Kings chapter twenty-two, verses nineteen through twenty-three, where God requests The help of a lying spirit to go and lie so that King Ahab will believe a lie and die in battle so that God can bring judgment to that evil king. You say, is God in control of evil? Of course he is. God uses evil to bring judgment. He never commits evil. Evil always flows from the creature, not from God. Or Romans chapter 1, verse 21, for even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their Speculations, philosophies, and their foolish heart was darkened. That means that there was a force on the outside that darkened it. God is sovereign in all the affairs of salvation. If you've come to Christ, you've come to Christ because of God's sovereignty. But the choices of evil people are real choices, and their choices will be judged by God. God will send the deluding influence on them so that they will believe What is false, literally, that is the lie. They refuse the love of the truth when it came. The only alternative is to believe the lie. What is there besides truth? There is lie. And so God makes sure you didn't love the truth. I gave you the truth. I gave you the pathway out. I gave you a chance for life. You didn't love it, and now you're locked in. A powerful diluting influence over the world. And furthermore, they will not be saved. They will be judged. Verse 12, in order that they all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in wickedness. Those last two phrases make it clear they deserve it. Listen, God has the power to send more truth if he wanted to. But he chooses not to. He's sovereignly in control of salvation. He sent him truth they didn't believe, he takes it away He traps them purposefully in their lives so he can bring upon judgment on them and display his wrath and his anger against them. He gives them no escape. They don't deserve an escape. How wretched our theology sometimes is when we look at something like this and think God is unfair. God doesn't have to save anybody. He doesn't have to give people equal opportunity. People sin against God, they deserve judgment, it could just end right there. You thank God every day that He chose you and He gave you the eyes to see, because you couldn't do that for yourself He's sovereign in salvation. But please notice also the choices of evil men are real choices, and God's judgment works in accord with those choices. God's intent is to bring them down to everlasting judgment. This is our sovereign God. Listen, 1 John 2 says Antichrist is coming. I don't know the day. It's a privilege to be able to study these things and think about it. It could be Could be soon. Could be soon. You listen to Israel is Israel's dilemma with Iran. I don't know what's gonna happen. The fact that the spirit of the Antichrist is in the world already, John says, is proof that the Antichrist is coming. We already have a foretaste. When we see all of the anti-Christian mood. Why is that there? That's there because the Antichrist, the more powerful expression of that, is coming. It's like the winds before the storm. We're supposed to know it. Jesus said, many will come in my name saying I am he. There's going to be a lot of these impostors, and then there'll be one final impostor. Just as that spirit of the Antichrist seeks to replace the true Christ with a false one, so this man will be Satan's counterfeit Messiah. That's what Satan is. He's a counterfeiter. You know, God's creative. I meant that in two senses. He created everything, right? But when you look at everything he created, you have to stand back and say, He's what? He's created. That's interesting. You look at some of these animals, their faces and stuff. You look at some of the plants and the beauty that's there. You see how things are organized. This is created. Who could have thought of that? God did. Satan doesn't have any original thoughts. He's bland, he's dull. He looks at what God's doing, he says, I can do that better. He can't. He imitates it, he wants to counterfeit it. That's what he's always trying to do. The Antichrist is going to be a political ruler. Why? Because Jesus is being sent back to be a ruler. So he's going to try to get his man in there before Jesus comes back to rule, do you see? In Revelation 13, 1 and Revelation 17, 12, it says he has seven heads and ten horns. It's referring to power there. Ten shows total power. Ten horns refer to the ten powers or the ten kingdoms, and the crowns are the symbol of his authority. He's going to be the head of a revived Roman Empire of some kind and some substance. We know that because Daniel 9, 26 says, the people of the prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. That refers to Rome Rome is the last great world power that is outlined in the book of Daniel. And so it's very likely this man we will see arise in Europe. The theory that he'll be a future leader of the European Union has some biblical merit. His influence, though, will not be contained in Europe, it will be worldwide. For he rules over all nations according to Revelation 13, 7 and 8. In Daniel 11, 36 it says he rules with absolute power. In Daniel 1130 it says his chief interest is in might and power And just like Jesus had a forerunner named John the Baptist who said, Repent, the kingdom of the Lord is at hand, and he came, in a sense, running before the king, announcing the coming of the king who is Jesus, so also this Antichrist will be heralded by a man called the false prophet. He'll be a religious leader. He'll deceive the world into worshiping the beast. And the false prophet will actually call fire down from heaven and probably convince the world that he is the prophet of fire whose name was what? Elijah. Do you remember that? Calling fire down from heaven. Imitation, imitation, imitation. All the way through. And so now two of them will look like Jesus and John the Baptist again, or Elijah. And we just see that imitation. He also means politics and religion will all be united in one world system, one world religious slash economic, slash political empire. The whole planet is not going to be satisfied with one continent. So the similarities with Jesus will be purposeful. The whole point is to deliberately imitate Christ. He is the Antichrist. Both of them will have a coming, a revealing, Jesus and the Antichrist. Both will have a message. One's the gospel, the other is the lie. Both will claim to be God, Christ did. Both will perform miracles. Interestingly, both will have a three and a half year Public ministry, the reign of the Antichrist, three and a half years, Jesus' ministry three and a half years. Both are called in Scripture the coming one. Both are labeled princes. Jesus was slain, killed, and raised from the dead. The Antichrist will have a mortal wound, and yet he will appear alive again. Dr. Hebert again says clearly he is Satan's parody of the true Messiah. While imitating Christ, he will be the complete contrast to the character of Christ. Yes, that's right. The complete contrast to the character of Christ. The similarities are there. The contrasts are far, far greater. John 6. 38 says Christ came from above. The Antichrist will arise from below. Revelation 11. 7 Jesus is called the Holy One, Acts 3. 14. The other one is called the Lawless One, 2 Thessalonians 2. 11 Christ humbled himself, going to the cross on our behalf, Philippians 2, the Antichrist will exalt himself. 2 Thessalonians 2, 4. Christ was despised of men. Isaiah 53, 3. The Antichrist will be admired by men, Revelation 13, 3 and 4. Jesus Christ refused any power from Satan when he was tempted in Matthew 4, 8 through 10. Antichrist is going to be energized by Satan. 2 Thessalonians 2. 9 Christ came in the name of the Father and was rejected by Israel, John 5. 43. The Antichrist will come in his own name and will be foolishly accepted by the nation of Israel. Christ did the Father's will, John 6. 38. Antichrist will come to do his own will, Daniel 11, 36. Christ is the truth, John 14, 6. The Antichrist is the lie, 2 Thessalonians 2. 11. Christ came to save us, Luke nineteen ten. The Antichrist comes to destroy us, Daniel eight twenty-four Christ is the man of sorrows dying for the sins of others. The Antichrist is the man of sin using others for his own glory and kingdom. Second Thessalonians 2 3 Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Antichrist is the Son of destruction, 2 Thessalonians 2. 3. Christ is the promised seed of the woman from Genesis 3. 15. The Antichrist is the seed of the serpent. Christ is exalted to the right hand of God in the heavens. Antichrist will be thrown down live into the lake of fire to burn forever and ever. Revelation 19:20 Jesus Christ will reign upon this earth for a thousand years, Revelation 20. The Antichrist will get just three and a half. Beloved Jesus Christ is the true resurrected King of kings, the Messiah of Israel, the Savior of the world, who, according to Revelation 5, holds in his own hand the title deeds of this entire planet. It's his. He's coming, Maranatha, Lord Jesus. Amen. Maranatha, Lord, come. Come and Reveal your glory and help us to love you and imitate you and not the son of the devil. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.