If you don't have a Bible near you, I would encourage you to take a quick moment to grab one that you can look at. We will be looking at Scripture today as we talk about the sufficiency of Scripture. and psychology. So be sure you have that and you can even start making your way to 2 Timothy chapter 3 for our text. But I do want to start with some disclaimers because what we're talking about is a very significant issue and very personal issue and so I think it's helpful. To start with giving you some disclaimers so you understand where I'm coming from and kind of put put some boundaries around what we're talking about. It's impossible in a one-hour session to uh to to fully say everything that can be said. uh to nuance things the way that they perhaps they should be nuanced, to acknowledge exceptions, to uh broadbrush st statements. And so consider these disclaimers as as you listen to the message. First disclaimer is that there is a very large umbrella of psychology You you use the word psychology and uh it could it means different things, different people depending on uh what they're thinking about. There's child psychology, which studies child development. Um They study how children develop from the earliest ages. Research psychology studies they run studies to observe and understand human behavior. There's occupational psychology, which seeks to improve the work environment. And there's just many other types and categories of psychology Today, and really anytime you hear me or anyone in the church really talk about psychology, we're focusing on clinical psychology and psychiatry. These are the fields which seek to identify and address mental and behavioral problems in people's lives and bring about healing, relief, and change through therapy. Please understand that when when we speak critically of psychology, we're not speaking critically of every form of psychology, but rather just clinical psychology and psychiatry. A second disclaimer is that I am well aware that this is a very personal subject. Every single one of us has been influenced by clinical psychology and psychiatry in some way. For some, the influence is almost imperceptible in that psychological thinking is the air that we breathe in this culture. And so there may be certain ideas that we have, concepts that are in our minds that we believe to be true or we assume to be true, but we haven't really realized that they are really psychological ideas that go against biblical truth. In fact, you might even hear me say some things today that challenge the way you think about things and not realizing uh that that that was a psychological idea that that's um uh contrary to scripture. Uh others have been influenced because you or someone you love has been formally or informally diagnosed with a psychological or psychiatric label. And that label has factored into your self-perception and maybe even your identity. It's e even possible that you or someone you love has been helped by clinical psychology and psychiatry. Well, my purpose today is not to demonize practitioners or patients. Please hear me on that. My purpose is not to deny or minimize whatever help you or someone uh else has experienced Rather, my hope is simply to help us think carefully about this field that deals with the very issues that the Bible talks about extensively. Third disclaimer, I got four of them. So third one. In speaking of psychology critically, and this is really important, I am not saying that there is nothing that can be learned from it. Nor am I saying that everything taught in psychology classes must be rejected. I mean, first of all, there are all kinds of things that are taught in psychology classes that are not inherently psychological ideas. I mean things like listening, communication skills, showing sympathy, empathy, asking good questions, understanding issues as a result of observations, case wisdom, and so on. I mean, there's just all kinds of things There's also remedies and certain kinds of treatments that can certainly be helpful. So I'm not saying wholesale this is all uh uh you know, awful and and just ignore everything you've ever heard uh and and so on. Uh the final disclaimer is that in saying what I say about psychology, I'm not denying that people have real and legitimate issues. and problems. My intent is not to say that the problems psychology seeks to address don't exist. In fact, it's really quite the opposite. What I hope you get out of this message is that the Bible is the only source of inspired, inerrant, and authoritative and sufficient truth. To deal with the problems we face. And actually, if we understand our problems truly And perhap we will perhaps realize that they're actually worse than psychology would tell us. But the hope that we have Is infinitely greater than what psychology has to offer. Alright, so those are my four disclaimers As we go through this message, again, I know I guess this is a fifth disclaimer, but uh I didn't name it as such in my notes. I know that I'm speaking in broad brush strokes. If we had more time, again there would be nuances, there would be exceptions that we could talk about. But broad brush strokes. But I think they're accurate while acknowledging that there certainly are exceptions. I mean everything in life is complicated. There are very few black and white absolutes uh w with this kind of issue. And so yeah, there will be exceptions, there will be nuances. And so if you're so inclined, I would encourage you as we work through this to write down questions that come to your mind as as as we go through the material. I don't know if we'll have time to discuss them today, depending on uh how long it takes me to get through my notes But you are more than welcome to contact me or of course any of the women leaders and give me an opportunity to address whatever questions you have. Uh and I would be glad to interact with you and and think through the these issues. Um What I want to do with our time is to look at Scripture where God reveals the nature, the uses, and the purpose of Scripture. Have you ever thought about that? Have you ever wondered why God inspired the Bible? Or put another way, what benefit does God want us to derive from Scripture? Let me ask you this question for self-examination. What does your engagement with Scripture say about your perception of the value of the Bible for your life? Or put another way, what does your interaction with the Bible personally say about how necessary and practical you believe the Bible to be for your life? Well I hope that today as we look at what scripture has to say, uh if if you're not already everybody, good. Everybody crack the windows? Yeah. Okay. We work through this message if you're not already there, that uh that you will be strengthened uh and encouraged uh through through what the scripture says here. So again If you have your Bible near you, go to 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17. That's the passage. 2 Timothy 3, verses 6 verses 16 and 17. Now, those of you who are part of our church or one of our sister churches in the Gamma Network, you know that we are an unabashedly Bible-teaching church. We preach the Bible, we read the Bible, we teach the Bible, we sing the Bible. We just sang Psalm 42, put to music. Our church is Bible, Bible, Bible. Why? Why do we spend so much time studying the Bible Well, there are a variety of reasons, but several of them are found in this passage. And I'm not going to do a full exposition of this passage. If I were preaching this passage on a Sunday morning, I would preach it very differently than we'll work through it today. Because I just want to focus on the uses and the goal of Scripture and contrast that with psychology. In this passage we see that Scripture gives us four uses. And then the goal of those uses. That's what the Holy Spirit reveals to us in this passage. So here's the text. Let me read it. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness so that the man of God or the woman of God, the person of God, may be adequate, equipped for every good work. So often you hear verse 16 quoted, and I would just encourage you if you have verse 16 memorized, but not verse 17, make sure that you memorize both, because it's all one sentence and Well, I think it's pretty obvious what those four uses of scripture there are. It's teaching Reproving, correcting, and training and righteousness. Someone has put it this way: the scripture tells us what is right, how we're not right How to get right and how to stay right. And then the goal of that knowledge is that we might have everything we need to live a life pleasing to God. So we're going to walk through each of these uses and the goal and compare what Scripture says with psychology. So let's start with the first use. In the Bible, God has revealed reality. God has given us the truth about what is right and what is real. He has explained the nature of life as it really is. First of all, he's explained himself. He's revealed an explanation of who he is, what he's like, what he's done, what he is doing, and what he will do. He's also revealed who we are, how we're made, what we were designed to do. how we're supposed to function, uh, what is the purpose for our lives. He has revealed the composition of a human being, like what we're made of, that we are psychosomatic beings, which means that we are made up of body and soul. He's revealed the purpose and proper functioning of relationships, what roles a husband and wife should have, what responsibilities parents have to their children, or children to their parents. He's revealed how we are supposed to function in society with neighbors and employers, the government and authorities. He's revealed what life is supposed to look like in terms of righteousness and morality. How we're supposed to think about and how we're supposed to think and speak and act. He's revealed what are the blessings and benefits of following his design And the consequences of going against his design. And he's not only revealed the what of behavior, you know, this is what you're supposed to do, this is what you're not supposed to do, but he's also revealed the why. He's told us why we do what we do. He's revealed to us what motivates us. The explanation of why we think the way we think and why we speak and act the way we do. He's revealed the impact of sin in the world and in our hearts. He's revealed how sin directs our hearts and then how our hearts direct our lives through our thinking, emotions. speaking and acting and relationships and pursuits. And while the Bible gives us an extraordinary amount of knowledge through didactic teaching and instructive history, The epitome of the knowledge of God and man is revealed in the person of Jesus Christ. And this is so critical. The man, Jesus, is set before us not only as our God and Lord and Savior but also as our model of how we are to think, speak, and behave He models for us how we are to relate with God and with our neighbor as well as our enemies. He models how to think and live in the best of times and the worst of times So if you want an objective, clear picture of perfect mental health, if I can put it that way, or human wholeness. We have to look no further than a portrait of Jesus Christ as he is revealed in the Scripture. So in short, God has revealed everything we need to know to understand Him and ourselves to be complete and whole individuals. And that's just a summary of what Scripture teaches. There's more we could say, but that's just a brief summary Now let's contrast this with the field of psychology in terms of what is right, what is real. What does the field of psychology tell us about what is reality, about what is right? Well, the first thing we have to say is that the field of psychology has no objective agreed-upon source of truth. It is 100% subjective. Unlike the medical field where we can have objective facts about the human body, you know, we can look on a petri dish, we can we can understand how the body's put together with uh the the organs and the veins and the muscles and tissues and you know everything that happens and you know w how my heart works is just the same as how your heart works because it's objective. That's just how a heart works. You have that kind of objective truth in the medical field. Well, you don't have that kind of objectivity in the field of psychology. There is no objectivity. As a social science Studies are extremely difficult to do because of the massive variety of people and all the things that influence them. So whereas in the medical field you can do you know double blind studies and you can limit the number of variables uh to to figure out you know the impact of medications and and treatment. And some things like that. Uh you you just can't really do that in the psychology field because there's there's so many different variables that are impossible to control. So therefore, what is real and true and right Ends up being relative to the psychologist and their particular client. Okay, so truth is relative in the field of psychology, just out of necessity and by virtue of their worldview Second, as a field of study, psychology is spiritually and theologically somewhere between atheistic and agnostic. Some psychologists would say that a person's belief in God is actually a sign of their mental illness. While most would say it's irrelevant, meaning A person can be mentally healthy regardless of their religious beliefs. Do you believe in Joseph Smith or Allah or are you a Buddhist or a Hindu? That's irrelevant. You can be a mentally healthy person. You can be a whole person regardless of what you believe religiously So God's existence and his role in the universe and in our lives in particular has no bearing on clinical psychology and their view of the world and what is real. Or put another way, for the vast majority, again not all, but for the vast majority of psychologists and psychiatrists, reality from God's perspective is at best irrelevant for one's mental health or at worst detrimental. Okay? Really important understanding that. A third thing that we need to understand is despite the ubiquitous phrase mental health, there is actually no universal understanding of what it means to be mentally healthy. I think we all generally understand physical health. We can look at uh we can run tests, we can you know do blood tests, we can uh even just almost look at a physical body and say that's either a healthy body or an unhealthy body, you know, obviously relatively speaking, but that there is objectivity of what is physical health Again, there is no such thing as objective definition of health, mental health in the psychology field. The World Health Organization defines mental health this way A state of well-being in which the individual realizes his or her own abilities can cope with the normal stresses of life can work productively and fruitfully and is able to make a contribution to his or her community. That's their definition. Of course, that's a very influential international organization. Well that definition sounds good at first blush. It's actually deeply problematic. In fact, uh a group of European psychiatrists uh rightly pointed out a number of weaknesses in that definition You know, you just start thinking about different s scenarios, situations that people can be in in their life, and that definition just wouldn't apply, it wouldn't work for those individuals. So they came up with their own definition, and here's this one, it's a little bit longer. Quote, mental health is a dynamic uh is a dynamic state of internal equilibrium which enables individuals to use their abilities in harmony with universal values of society. Basic cognitive and social skills, ability to recognize, express, and modulate one's own emotions, as well as empathize with others, flexibility and ability to cope with adverse life events and function in society. social roles, and harmonious relationship between body and mind represent important components of mental health, which contribute to varying degrees to the state of internal equilibrium. I know that me reading that to you is like, okay, I I need to see that. I need to think through each of those components. But actually I would tell you from a purely humanistic perspective, that's not a bad definition uh there would be th I think there's elements of truth i in many of that and when when you read their explanation of the different elements Now it's generally speaking, again, from a humanistic perspective, it's quite a good definition. But having said that, Because it doesn't account for the spiritual realm at all. It falls short of reality. It ignores a whole realm of reality. and uh elements of our lives that that God has created and and therefore it falls short of of what mental health can be or should be Now, fourth and final thing we can say in this element area of what is right from a psycho psychological perspective is because the major theories of psychology are based on humanistic worldviews. They have no basis for meaning, significance, dignity, purpose, or hope. All of those concepts are subjectively defined and determined. So again, think about your own personal significance, your own purpose for life. You in the in the world of psychology, you have to come up with your own meaning and significance and purpose. Or you think about hope, uh, you have to figure out what can keep you going in life. In fact, last October uh our church, HPC, had a table at a suicide prevention walk uh here around Lake Elkhorn. And the word hope was everywhere. It was on t-shirts, signs, water bottles, and other paraphernalia. It was a major emphasis in this event. And of course, if someone is suicidal, that is what they need. They need hope. The problem is, there is no real hope apart from Christ The kind of hope the world has to offer those wanting to take their own life is at best wishful thinking. You can do it. You can hang on. Life is going to get better. It's not that bad. There's hope Well, you ask, start asking questions about that line of reasoning, and you quickly realize, yeah, that's really just wishful thinking. I mean maybe life will get better, maybe it'll get worse. Apart from Christ and apart from seeing life from God's perspective, apart from an eternal perspective, there is no hope. And so uh things that that are so intrinsic to what it means to be um uh healthy, uh spiritually alive, uh uh what what it means to be a a person that God has created us and designed us to be, they're just completely absent uh in the world of psychology. So that leads then to the question of uh okay if if that's their worldview, if that's the worldview of of of Christianity, of of of real uh life from God's perspective, how are we to understand what is not right? Okay, so we've briefly and again in summary fashion talked about what is right, what the Bible reveals to be true and right and real and what psychology you know s tries to address, but lacking objectivity, everything is subjective. Let's talk about what is not right. The second use of God's inspired word is reproof, right? You see that in the passage. The word reprove means to bring to light or to expose that which is wrong. When you reprove someone or you're reproved by someone, you're pointing out what is wrong in their life. So what the scripture is saying here is that The Bible explains not only the nature of our problems, but more importantly, it explains the source of our problems. It would really do no good if Scripture only acknowledged our problems, right? If we read Scripture and it simply pointed out that life is troubled and full of suffering. That would certainly allow us to say that at least the Bible is true to life, that we all suffer. But God goes much further. In the scripture, we have recounted for us where the problem of sin originated. We can actually trace all of the wickedness, all of the sin, all of the suffering in life back to its original cause in history. And in addition to the historical source of man's problems, Scripture explains to us the pathology or the central nature of sin in general. And of sins in particular. In other words, if you were to ask the question, why do I sin? What is it about me that produces sin? Or why am I suffering like this? The Bible has the answer for those general kinds of questions. But then if we get more specific and we ask, why do I get angry? Why do I lust? Why do I get anxious? Or why do I say horrible things The Bible has specific answers to those kinds of questions as well. Let me give you just a couple examples. In Matthew 15, 18 to 19, Jesus says. But the things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and those defile the man. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, and slanders. So Jesus says here that the reason a person commits adultery or steals or is malicious is because there is something going on in the heart. Now what's going on in the heart? Listen to Colossians three five. Paul writes, Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire. and and greed, which amounts to idolatry. Let's think about this for a second. What the Holy Spirit is saying here is that immorality and these other sins Are not just bad things, they're not just unhealthy behaviors. He says that those who engage in these behaviors are actually committing idolatry. They are worshiping a false god. They are looking to a person or object or lifestyle or status or something else. to provide for them what only God can provide. So again, I asked what's going on in the heart? Jesus says these These sins, they come out of the heart. Well, what's going on in the heart, at least with regard to these particular things, is idolatry. It's worshiping a false God. Now let's look at another example. James chapter 4, verse 1. James asks this question, What is the source in quarrels and conflicts among you? And then he answers it, Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. So a lust here is a compelling desire. You know, typically we use that word in the sexual context, but it just simply means a strong compelling desire. And and and when I'm desiring something that strongly, I will, uh, unless something else prevents me, I will set aside other desires in order to try and get what I want. Uh if if I'm really lusting after something, you know, whether it's a relationship or a possession or a a control of life, my control of others or or other things, I will set aside my otherwise desire to glorify God. Or I will set aside my desire to love others Or I'll set aside my desire to do what's right. Whatever desires, whatever good desires I might have when I'm in my right mind If I'm lusting for something, I will set aside those good desires in order to obtain what I lust. Or, as James says, I will murder someone in my heart when I can't have what I want. In other words, I'm believing the lie that the object of my desire, of my lust, is worthy to be desired more than anything else in that moment. Someone actually said to me one time, if I can't have this relationship, then what's the point of living? That is false worship. It's making a god of something, in this case someone. that can't live up to reality. It's looking for something other than God to give you what only God Himself can provide. Well, when there's a problem in some someone's life, whether it's a problem of personal sin or a problem of suffering The Bible has the truth to help us understand what is wrong in me and what is wrong in others that explains our sin and our suffering. Now I've only really talked about What the Bible says with regard to sin and and and personal struggles that relate to sin. It of course deals extensively with suffering as well and the impact of sin in the world. So I haven't talked about that, but I'm I'm not assuming that every problem in someone's life is related to their own sin. So just be aware of that Now, what about psychology? What does psychology say is the problem? What does psychology say is wrong with us, if you will? Uh when it comes to understanding the nature of our problems, psychology rejects, of course, God's revelation, and thus it has no understanding of the nature of man, you know, or make up the impact of sin and the nature of sin. Because the predominant psychological theories are based on humanistic worldviews, Their explanations of what is wrong with us, why we have the problems we do, are also based on evolutionary materialistic thinking. And there's no standard way of understanding what is wrong. We already mentioned that you know there's no objective truth. It's all subjective. So there are those, for example, who think that your problems are sourced in society. You're the victim and the problem is society. Or there are those who think that your problem are your problems are sourced in your family and the way you were raised. Maybe your parents didn't love you enough or you didn't or or you have a father wound or your room was the wrong color when you were a child or you didn't have the right opportunities growing up or so on There are those who think your problem is your environment. You have toxic people around you, and you work in toxic environments, and so you need to establish boundaries to protect yourself There are those who think your problems are your are the result of your own moral standards that you've adopted. In fact, your guilt is based on unrealistic standards, and to get rid of your guilt, you need to change your standards. There are those, and this is probably the predominant theory of today, there are those who think that your problem is your biology, despite the complete absence of scientific evidence. That is a true statement, which I can give you resources if you're interested. The idea of chemical imbalances rules today And one in five or one in six, depending on when the study was done, people, one in five or one in six people are on medications for theorized medical problems that can't be demonstrated. Okay, that's that's a long conversation. And uh I'm just gonna leave it there, but uh that that's demonstrably true. There are no uh there are no studies, there's no scientific proof that chemical imbalances exist of the kind that produce um psychotropic medications, antidepressants, you know, things like that. So we could go on and on and on looking at the host of psychological theories of what produces problems in people's lives. But the point is that psychology offers no clear authoritative truth about what is wrong. Why do we do the things that we do? Why do people do wicked things? Why do we suffer? In fact, think about psychological diagnosis for a minute. The world of psychology and psychiatry revolves around the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders. This is a book. It's often referred to as the DSM. And the DSM provides therapists with diagnostic language which is necessary for insurance billing. You can't bill insurance without having a specific problem that you're treating. And so the DSM is the book that everyone uses to make a diagnosis. Well, the DSM itself acknowledges that a diagnosis does not explicitly or implicitly say anything about the source of the problems. They only affirm that the problems exist. Or let me explain it this way: because of their blindness to the nature of man and the biblical worldview of the heart. All of the labels and diagnoses for problems are simply descriptions of symptoms not explanations of pathology or why those problems exist. Okay? So when someone is given a diagnosis such as depression or ADHD or bipolar or anxiety disorder or schizophrenia or TSD or obsessive compulsive disorder or any other label that comes out of the DSM What those labels mean is that the individual is experiencing a collection of symptoms that a panel of psychologists and psychiatrists have voted, and literally they voted to call a certain name. The label does not mean or imply anything about why the person is experiencing those problems So again, this is not my opinion. This is what every psychologist or psychiatrist would tell you. This is what is explained inside the DSM itself. A psychological diagnosis It's like one person saying that their head hurts and another person diagnosing them with a headache. It's simply a term that refers to symptoms, but it doesn't explain the problem. Now, if you can just get a hold of that reality, that will have a dramatic impact on the way in which you think about labels like ADHD, OCD, depression, anxiety, disorder, and all the rest. For example, people tend to make statements like, I have ADHD, or I have an anxiety disorder Or they might even say, I am OCD. Or they'll explain something they did by saying, that's my ADHD. But again, these labels are not diseases in any meaningful sense. They're not intended to be used that way. They're not things that we have, or certainly not things that we are. These labels are not an explanation of the problem. They are simply a summary of emotional or behavioral struggles. Now, let me give you two reasons why this matters. First, if we think of a diagnosis as an explanation of why we think and we feel and we act the way we do. We're actually being deceived about the true source of the problem. And that can lead to blame shifting or denying responsibility for our behavior. Like, for example, a drunkard denying responsibility for the consequences of his actions because he claims he has the disease of alcoholism. And people do that all the time Second reason why this is important is because the way you label a problem will determine where you seek help for that problem. If we use labels that psychology and psychiatry give us, we will not be able to look to Scripture because those words aren't found in Scripture. But if we use biblical language to describe the same experience, the same struggle, the same behavior. Then we can find sufficient help in God's Word to help us endure or overcome whatever challenge we're experiencing in life. Okay, so I hope I hope I've made that clear and that you again you understand I'm not denying the existence of problems and struggles. I'm trying to help you think of what those labels are and what and what they're not. So we've looked at uh what is right, what scripture says about reality in life and then what psychology uh says in in all its various ways. We've looked at how scripture and how psychology identify what is wrong with us Uh what what is the source of our problems and how psychology doesn't even get there? They can't, they don't know. There's all kinds of theories, but no one knows Now let's talk about the third use of scripture, which is how to get right. So this is the that you scripture is useful for correction. And the idea of correction here is the idea of straightening that which is crooked, or setting upright that which is bent over. It is restoring that which is broken. So this is where we get to the really the primary task of counseling and therapy Counseling is what happens, one person has defined it this way, when one person with problems, struggles, and questions seeks help from someone they believe to have solutions, solutions, and answers to those questions. So, the Bible gives us wisdom for how to bring healing and restoration and comfort and correction into a person's life In fact, this is not just a side issue in the Bible. I would say this is the main work that God is doing in His people. From the moment God gives a person a new heart and a new spirit, he is actively working to bring about healing and restoration in their life. To be a Christian, fundamentally, is to recognize your brokenness, to recognize your own sin and need for restoration. And counseling is the intense process of working on restoration in particular areas of life. So if you think of it this way, what what I do and and what biblical counselors do in the counseling room is is the same as what we all do in our small groups In our corporate worship, in our growing disciples classes, in our Bible studies, in our homes, it's just much more focused and much more intentional. We are seeking to grow someone away from their sin and toward restoration into the image of Christ. Now, how does healing and restoration take place? This is not a magical process. This is not a mystical activity that the Holy Spirit just does, you know, somehow without our awareness. The Bible actually gives us A three-pronged approach to biblical change. It not only tells us what's wrong, not only tells us what's right, it's uh and it tells us how to go from being wrong, being broken, being sinful. to changing the way that God would have us. In Ephesians 4, 17 to 24 is one of the primary passages if you want to jot that down and We won't look at it in detail, but I'll walk through those three prongs briefly here. Paul explains here, he starts out talking about how we are not to live like unbelievers in their wickedness. When he describes the way unbelievers live, he says, you did not learn Christ in this way And what he means is Jesus didn't teach us to live like those who hate God. We understand that. Jesus told us to live very differently. He gave us a whole new way of life. So what Paul does next is he gives us this three-pronged approach to change. So I'm going to read the passage, but see if you can identify the three elements as I read them. Paul says that in reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit. and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth Did you see those three prongs there? The first prong is to lay aside our old self. This is the idea of taking off an old dirty garment. It means to cease from living the way we used to live. It is to put to death the desires of the flesh. It is to cease from sin. It's to turn away from temptation. Okay, that's the first prong. The second prong is to renew the mind. This means that we are to adopt God's thinking about Himself, about ourselves. about the world, about our sin. We are to affirm the things that God affirms, and we are to deny the things that God denies. We are to love the things that God loves and to hate the things that God hates. We are to delight ourselves in the Lord so that his desires become our desires. It's the adoption of a biblical worldview and a heavenly mindset. So we are to take the mind of Christ, as revealed in the scripture, and to make it our own. That's what it means to renew the mind. Now the third prong is to put on the new self. This means to start living consistently with this new way of thinking We are to allow the truth of God's word to shape our words and our behavior. We're to engage in relationships the way God instructs us to. were to actively work on developing habits of living that reflect the way Jesus lived, were to imitate God in our character and our motivations and our words and our actions. Okay, so put on, renew the mind, or put off, renew the mind, and put on. This is the three-pronged approach to change. And when we apply these three-prongs to specific areas of our thinking and living. And we recognize that we have the Holy Spirit indwelling us to empower us to do it, then we are guaranteed to change and grow to become more like Christ. Guaranteed, we will change. We'll be able to overcome depression and anxiety and anger and sexual sin and all manner of what we're struggling with. We'll learn how to handle conflicts and communicate effectively. We will restore our marriages and better parent our children. If we truly take on the mind of Christ, we adopt what Scripture says, we agree with God about our sin, our wrong way of thinking. And we adopt his way of thinking and we put that into practice in our lives, we will change. Now, what does psychology tell us about how people change? Well, there are over 250 dominant theories of how to change. And most of these schools of thought are mutually exclusive, meaning But they basically contradict each other. They they can't work uh together. Uh you can't just take one from one and take from another one because they're just so different in the way that they think about the problems and solutions. There are all kinds of therapies that rise out of a numerous out of the numerous viewpoints of what the problem is. Now I mentioned this earlier, but the most predominant view of how to help people today is the biogenic view, meaning that chemical imbalances explain people's problems. This theory assumes that the problem is incurable, and the best we can hope for is symptom management through ever-changing medications for the rest of your life. There is no hope for real change in this view, and many people suffer deeply under this treatment That's that's that's a tragedy and that's uh the real world that we live in. Another dominant theory is the disease model. In this view, your problem is that you have another incurable disease of depression or alcoholism or whatever it is that the world might tell you. And again, the best you can do is manage your problem, manage your symptoms by regular accountability and participation in a support group. This is where the 12 steps, Alcoholics Anonymous. uh you know those kinds of programs come in where they say once an alcoholic, always an alcoholic. There's no hope for real change. You are who you are and you just gotta Live the rest of your rest of your life trying to manage your symptoms and sta and staying accountable. Or there's talk therapy theory that says that you have the solutions inside yourself. And so if I, the therapist, can get you to talk and reflect on your own thoughts long enough, eventually you'll find a solution to your own problem within yourself. Or there's cognitive behavioral therapy, which is the most popular form of talk therapy today. This model recognizes rightly that your behavioral problems rise out of your thinking. So, if we can just change the way you think, we can change the way you behave and the way you feel. Now that's that's pretty accurate. The problem, at least one of the problems, Is that the treatment to change thinking is client-centered and pragmatic, meaning that what is right and good and true is less important than what works. So, uh for example, if if you feel guilty because you've uh you've been uh violating your conscience and engaging in behavior that you believe to be immoral. And you go to the therapist because you know you just hate these feelings of guilt. And the therapist says, okay, well, what's your goal? Well, I just I don't want to feel guilty anymore. Well, one of the ways to not feel guilty is to fear the conscience. By retraining the conscience in terms of what it it it what is right and what is wrong, and also by repetition of sinful behavior, we can we can sear our conscience. And so that might be in in some minds a legitimate form of therapy. Uh I there's a a pastor uh that uh I remember him telling the story of a couple that he counseled. And prior to coming to him for counseling, this couple had seen three other therapists. uh secular therapists. And uh they had marriage problems and and one of those therapists said, well your problem in your marriage is that you guys are sexual addicts And so what you need to do is there needs to be, you know, certain nights of the week where, husband, you go and you you pursue every exploit you want to pursue And there's certain nights of the week that wife, you you go out and it's your turn to pursue whatever sexual ex exploits you want to pursue. And then, you know, when you come back together you won't have all that pent up uh energy to deal with. And of course that might produce some other problems, so we'll need to continue counseling. Well that's awful. I mean that's tragic. Uh and I I could tell you multiple stories of things that I've heard from people that I've ministered to of awful counsel that they've received from unbelievers. Those things are out there and they're to us at least, they're unimaginable, but to the world it's like, hey, if it works, why not? Well, we could go on for weeks talking about the various theories that are out there, but I do want to say this. I'm not saying here that psychological therapies don't work. I mean obviously if they if they didn't help anyone in any way, they probably wouldn't exist. So I'm not saying that they're all bad and evil. I mean some are, like the one I just mentioned, but not all of them. But because of what we know to be true from Scripture, the most a psychological theory can do is really just treat symptoms, not the true source of the problem And even when therapists achieve success in helping a client overcome their problem, their client has made no progress in glorifying God. and becoming like Christ, which of course is the point of it all. At least that that's what should be the point of of humanity, because that's what God created us for. So even when therapy works, we can certainly be grateful that a sufferer has been helped, but we have to acknowledge that that help has really only treated a temporal problem. But it's left a gaping deadly hole untouched. Again, so much more that we can say on both the biblical and the and the psychological side, but that's that's big picture broad strokes Well, let's talk about how to stay right. And the third use of scripture, I just noticed the time. The third use of scripture is training in righteousness. This is the idea of growth, development, maturing, strengthening, educating, equipping, and so on. Whereas correction corresponds to brokenness, training corresponds to immaturity. And the idea here is that we are like little children who need to be brought up to know how to live in this vast material and spiritual world. And the Bible teaches us how to live in this world as citizens of God's kingdom. It tells us how to grow in maturity, in knowledge, in wisdom. God's word gives us truth to round out our thinking about our world beyond our own personal experience. Things that we might not necessarily need to address a problem in the moment, but truth that develops our thinking and prepares us for the future. The scripture warns us about pitfalls we may experience. It tells us of the kinds of dangers we're likely to encounter. It gives us wisdom for how to deal with all kinds of situations and relationships. God's Word, as I mentioned earlier, uh teaches us about roles in the home, in the workplace, and in society. It describes how we should think and relate. to God in different seasons of life. It tells us about how to manage our money and communicate effectively and treat our employees and employers and neighbors. If you can think of any situation in life, any season in life, any relationship, God's word helps us to know how to glorify Him and live wisely in that moment and also how to respond to mistreatment, abuse, and difficult situations of suffering. And when we grow and mature according to Scripture, we will save ourselves from a lot of suffering and grief, right? Just by virtue of not engaging in sinful behavior. We therefore won't experience the consequences of that sinful behavior. We might suffer for other reasons, beyond our control, or because of other things about us, but not for our own sins in those ways. Instead, again, when we grow and mature according to Scripture, we'll experience joy and peace, even in difficult times. And we'll have harmonious relationships, generally speaking. And we'll have success in life, again, generally speaking The Bible uses the illustration of the tree in Psalm 1 in Jeremiah 17, that will be firmly planted, will be steadfast in the storms of life, will be fruitful in all seasons. The conflict, sorry, the kind of life God develops in us is a God-oriented life where following Christ we are to serve others. We grow in living for Christ and not for ourselves, and there we find freedom and joy when we serve Him. That's what God presents us with in the Scripture. of how to live life in a way that you're not constantly running into roadblocks and and problems and falling into the ditch on either either side and putting yourself in compromising situations. What about psychology? Where does psychology help us with this? Well, again, there's no standard for living. Truth and morality is relative. You want to be monogamous? Fine. Great for you. You want to compete with Solomon? That's fine too. As long as you're not hurting others, you do you, right? That's what the world says. And then when the world teaches about marriage or parenting or relationships, it's always pragmatic and subjective. Every self-help book claims to have found the right way to live, right? And they're all different. The key to living a peaceful and happy life changes shape depending on who you're listening to. And of course, the world is syncretistic, so it's glad to incorporate from any and every religion and philosophy, as long as it suits their purpose of achieving pleasure and material success in life. If someone is making you unhappy, cut them out of your life. If a pregnancy threatens your plants, cut it out of the womb. Do you have negative voices in your life trying to conform you to a different standard? Cut them off And what's tragic about this, I mean there's probably a variety of things, but in this context, what's tragic is that the world's way of accepting every lifestyle is precisely the reason so many people are in therapy. But depending on the issue, the therapist can't even help. For example, a psychologist who is a Christian admitted to me that if she has a suicidal transgender person in her office, The most she can do legally is help them not to be suicidal. She is legally forbidden, at least in Maryland, California, and most other states from trying to help them with their gender confusion, which of course in in in those situations is often the direct reason for their suicidal feelings The standards and morals of psychology change with culture, right? I mean, uh homosexuality in the 70s was a mental illness in the DSM Now, it's a perfectly legitimate lifestyle. And again, it's illegal to try and convert someone or try and help someone change their sexual preferences. Pedophilia currently is still wrong, but there are already some who are advocating to change that status. Only the scripture provides a way to live that leads to lasting. Health. Now, there's there's a whole lot more we could say about the sufficiency and usefulness of scripture, but I hope that this gives you a snapshot, and that's really all it is, a snapshot of why I am utterly convinced That when it comes to helping people with their problems, the Bible is far superior to psychology. But let me take a moment to address a question some of you might have in your mind. What about Christian psychology? What about all those psychologists who are Christians? I've really talked entirely today about secular psychology Well, let me first say that there are some, in fact a very, very small number of psychologists who really operate more as biblical counselors. They they have the psychological training, they're licensed But they really go about their work from a biblical foundation. These are an extremely rare breed, and I'm grateful for them. If a licensed psychologist is really and truly engaging in biblical counseling, then that is wonderful. And I am not talking about them because they're not really doing psychology at all. But again, that's extremely rare. And actually in most states, it's illegal. I know of some in Texas where it is legal. But other states it is actually illegal to truly and fully practice biblical counseling because of the nature of of how we think about life. On the opposite side of the spectrum, there are psychologists who are Christians, but the Bible really plays no part in their work. They work and function using therapies and concepts that they feel don't violate Scripture. But they also aren't trying to incorporate a biblical framework and worldview in their work. They really see the Bible and psychology as parallel lines that don't intersect with each other. And so they're really very effectively secular in their work. And for these folks, I would just love to sit down with them and help them rethink their approach to life. and help them to see how their faith should inform their work. More than that, I I would want to help them see that their way of thinking about problems and therapies actually does violate scripture and denies what scripture teaches about the source of problems and how people go about changing. So there are those. But then there's the more common scenario, I think. Of psychologists who are Christians and who are really trying in varying degrees to incorporate their faith in what they do. But they do it from the starting point of psychology. In the biblical counseling world, we call these folks integrationists because they try to integrate biblical truth in their practice of psychology. James Dobson and Focus on the Family would be the most well-known in this camp. There's also psychologists who are who do the New Life live radio program on Waiva every day at 1 p. m. Virtually all I'll say the word virtually so I give myself an out. Virtually all the best-selling books on marriage and relationships. are are are in this camp like Love and Respect, Five Love Languages, His Needs, Her Needs, books like Boundaries, Wild at Heart, Captivating, and many, many more are all books that sound Christian and they're written by Christians, but they're actually secular psychology dressed in a veneer of biblical language Now, for some of you that may have popped up some significant questions and you're all wondering what? So again, feel free to email me if you want more specifics and I'd be happy to point you to explanations and help on those things. But these folks, these Christian psychologists, clearly they have a good motivation and desire to help people. And they also have a good desire to try to incorporate biblical truth. They realize the importance of handling life's problems from at least a Christian worldview. That's their desire. But if you compare what they say and write with Scripture, you have to conclude that while there is some truth in what they say. say, it is often obscured by unbiblical concepts that are, in my estimation, more dangerous to sanctification than they are helpful. So they have helped people in various ways. I mean, they're best sellers for a reason, because people read the book, they love the book, it helps them, and so they you know tell their friends and family, and so people are helped. But they are not helped to come to a right thinking about Scripture and relationships and the world from God's perspective. because they've really adopted a secular way of thinking, again, under a veneer of biblical language. And oftentimes the counsel that's given actually contradicts Scripture indirectly by twisting what Scripture says. And I don't have time to give examples, but um but but that is definitely the case. I don't I don't know if you've ever listened to the New Life Live program on WeVa I I don't recommend it, but it I mean it is painful for me to listen to. Uh first of all, I don't think you can effectively counsel someone in just a few minutes. Uh I think they violate scripture just by hearing limited information and giving counsel. But second, most of the counsel I've heard them give is purely based on secular psychological assessment of life and situations. Now having said that, I want to kind of wrap this up, bring this to an end by talking about the purpose or goal of Scripture as opposed to psychology. So verse 17, back to our passage, says so that the the man of God, the person of God, may be adequate equipped for every good work. The idea of adequate and equipped here is the idea of proficient, capable, well prepared. God has created and designed us for a particular purpose, namely to glorify him in all we do. uh to to serve him with our lives and to reflect his life and character to the world. That's why we exist. But we live in a broken world and we live in broken bodies and sin affects every aspect of our being. And so what the Lord has done is He's given us in Scripture He's given us the scripture to teach us, to reprove us, to correct and train us, so that we will be in a position to fulfill God's calling for each of us, whether that's in the home or in the workplace or in the church or in the world. And in all the spheres of life, God calls us to glorify and serve Him. And He's given us the scripture to enable us to do that. And so when when we counsel someone, counseling really reaches its end when that person has learned God's way of thinking about life. They have demonstrated consistency, not perfection, in growing to be more like Christ. And the problems often still exist. Maybe they might still be suffering to some degree, but growth in thinking and practice in a God-oriented way is what we're aiming for. On the other hand, the goal of psychology has nothing to do with God. It has nothing to do with God's design for us. It is really all about self. The goal is to build self-esteem, fulfillment, satisfaction, self-empowerment. The goal is to remove hindrances and roadblocks to personal happiness. People often say they want to become a better person of themselves, or sorry, a better version of themselves. Whatever the goal the client comes up with, that's really the goal the therapist has to work toward. There are, of course, those those horrible situations of trauma and abuse where Part of the goal of the counselor, the therapist, is simply to help someone cope with what they've experienced. For example, I've had extended family members who have been molested by their pastor. And a secular therapist helped them work through that trauma. And I'm so grateful for that. But God doesn't just want us to cope with life. He doesn't want us to just merely survive a horrific experience. He wants us to experience his comfort in our difficulties. So that we can take what we've learned and minister to others. That's 2 Corinthians 1, 3, and 4. And once we get the vision of what it means to be an ambassador for Christ, The worst suffering in the world that we can go through can actually result in great good. You can think of Cory Tunboom and the blessing that she's been to the world having survived the Holocaust. You can think of uh Johnny Erickson Tata and how the Lord has used her around the world as a quadriphlegic, or others. You just you go down the list. There's martyrs who have been cut down for their faith and how the Lord has used their witness and testimony. There is no level of suffering that God cannot use. The world looks at extreme sufferers, feels bad for them, and tries to help them cope. But God can take those same people, and if they will adopt his way of thinking, he can use them to impact those around them and maybe even the world. God has a purpose for each one of us, and He has a purpose for all of our suffering. And only the Word of God can help us to know not only what that purpose is. but also how to accomplish it. And can I say this? It works. When the Bible is taken up and used by believers, And the Holy Spirit is at work in their lives, he will actively bring about change. Biblical counseling is 100% effective I have never, not one time, had someone embrace what the Bible says, put it into practice diligently, and not be dramatically changed. The only reason change is slow or doesn't happen for some is because the biblical remedy is not being applied with fervency. Ladies, when you have problems in your life, can I encourage you to first seek help from those who can take you to Scripture and help you understand your problems from God's perspective? I'm so grateful for women like Karen, uh Hong Fein, Becky Levin, Margot, and several others here at our church who are not only who've not only taken biblical counseling classes but are actively seeking to grow in their skills, their studying, they're practicing, they've done co-counseling with me, many of them. Uh you need to go to these women and and learn from them and benefit and receive their counsel. But in addition to that, let me say this, each and every single one of you, if you are a daughter of God The Lord can use you to teach and reprove and correct and train your sisters in Christ with the Word of God. When you hold the Bible in your hand or you have it in your heart, you have something far more powerful and relevant and practical and effective than a psychology degree In fact, Psalm 119, 99 to 100 says, I have more insight than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the aged, because I have observed your precepts. The Word of God is inspired, inerrant, powerful, and practical. So let's learn it and use it for the glory of God. and the benefit of his people. Let me go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word that you have given to us, that we have the privilege in this time of history to each have in our hands and not just one copy but many copies. And we have access to so many resources. And Lord forgive us for not um allowing the Word of God to have its impact in our lives, for not taking it up and reading it and studying it and learning from it and benefiting from it. Forgive us for prioritizing other things in our lives. and seeking help from other sources. Lord, give us the wisdom that you've put out for us. May your Holy Spirit teach us. And strengthen us to gain wisdom for life and empower us to be ministers to others who need help and counsel. Lord, I thank you for uh all the women in our church and the influence that they have, the spheres of life that you've put them in, the families, uh the the workplaces. uh the friends that that are represented by each uh woman who is uh listening to the sound of my voice. And I pray that you would use them as your ambassadors To minister the truth, to minister grace, to minister your love to those around them. I pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.