Well, uh as you know, last week we didn't get through all of the notes, so uh I wanted to back up and um and cover of that, uh a couple of those things Th this is in the notes for this week, so you don't have to pull out the notes for last week necessarily. Um the funny thing is when I taught this class last time the exact same thing happened and I I neglected to look at the week two notes to realize that I had to go back anyway, but uh just to kind of get us rolling into the thought here. You know, there are many uh situations in life, many circumstances, many changes in life that require us to change. For example, I don't know if you know this about me or if you can tell just by looking at me, but I am not now and I have never been a professional athlete. Sorry. Yeah, not there. But uh I do know enough about professional athletes to know that even when they reach that height of exceptional, extraordinary capabilities When they move from team to team as they often do, and I'm thinking of professional football here, it's my particular sport to watch, uh, they have to learn a lot Uh even though their their position, the the role that they play, uh will stay the same. Uh they have a new team, they have new dynamics, they have new coaches who have different philosophies They have a new playbook, and so they have a lot of learning to do, even though what they're actually doing more or less is the same. Or think about immigrants, those who go from one country to another country. They have to learn a new set of laws. They have to basically set aside the way that they used to live. uh obviously depending on the origin and the new country, how different they are. But uh there's a new way of doing things perhaps. There's new culture, there's new stores. I mean even just when we moved from the west coast to the east coast, we had to learn The the grocery store names, you know. What is Harris Teeter? What what what kind of a store is Harris Teter? Why would someone name a grocery store Harris Teter? Why w why can't they just name it Rouse? Or something like what we're used to on the West Coast. You know, just simple things like that. You have to learn a whole new way of of living. I I remember a number of years ago I was standing in line at a JCPenney ch uh to check out and there was a lady being h helped who you could tell was from another country, somewhere in the Middle East perhaps, and she um had not yet learned that bartering was not something you do at JC Penney. She was trying to buy a couple of belts, but she was trying to negotiate on the price. Um yeah, no fault of her own. She just didn't know. So that's part of, I'm sure her education as a customer service lady was trying to very kindly and say, No, I'm sorry, you know, we don't this is the price, we don't change the price. But You know, when you don't know, you don't know, and so you need to learn when you go from one place one place to another. Or consider children who are adopted. You know, maybe you grew up uh with foster homes, multiple foster homes or in one family and then now you m move to another family and they have different house rules, different family schedule, different way of doing things, maybe even different way of dressing. The whole way of of living and uh experiencing life uh needs to change. Consider if you marry someone. You know, most of us here are married. When you marry someone, you all of a sudden have to learn how to live with an with another person who is very different from you Uh even though you've gotten to know each other quite well, uh unless you've been uh assigned, arranged to to to marry. But uh but the experience of living someone, you have to change your habits uh some some of the things about your life. Um maybe if you marry someone who's from a different culture, as you interact with their family, you have to learn different traditions and and uh different do's and don'ts about just what their their culture is. There's all kinds of things. Just getting another job. Again, your job might stay the same. You might go from being an accountant in one job to or one company to an accountant in another company, but just the dynamics that are involved there require you to change. I mean these are all just small examples of when something changes in our life that requires us to change in some way, right? We're used to that. And that is the nature of the Christian life. When God saves us, when he forgives us of our sin, when he regenerates us, makes us new creatures in Christ, there is a whole new life that he calls us to live. Now obviously all of those illustrations break down because those are really external changes, right? But when we are saved, there's an internal change that takes place. There's an odd phenomenon that has been recorded by a number of folks that with some people who have heart transplants, they experience some strange things. Uh there's one story of a sixty-three year old man who says that before his heart transplant he had zero artistic ability. He could hardly draw a stick figure. But after his heart transplant his i uh uh his skills dramatically increased. Now he didn't become Picasso, well Picasso He didn't become, you know, uh uh uh professional but but it increased. And he found out that the donor of his heart was a professional artist. Um There's uh a number of claims of heart uh transplant patients who their their whole uh uh preferences when it comes to diet changes You know, one there was one person who loved fast food. Uh you know, that they basically made the fast food industry successful Because they ate so much of it and then they had their heart transplant. You can imagine why they needed a heart transplant. And all of a sudden they they loved vegetables. Oh my gosh. They and they even became a vegan. Now here's a here's a very strange one that is you know it'd be fascinating to discover more, but uh I I read this account of a woman who was a militant militant homosexual Uh just promoted the cause, was always out trying to promote her her way of uh of thinking and and her lifestyle. But she claimed that after she had a heart transplant that her sexual orientation changed She no longer had interests in other women. She threw away all of her old material and as the world would say she, you know, went straight. Obviously there's questions there in terms of spiritual dynamics, but it's just interesting. Well, in a similar but much more significant way, when a Christian receives a new heart from the Lord Life-altering change occurs. With a new heart, we are now alive. W we're now able, we have capacities to respond to spiritual stimulus. So when we talk about the fact that we're dead in sin, what Uh how I understand that to mean in many ways is that we are incapable of responding to spiritual stimuli, that when we hear the gospel proclaimed, that it's just like I I d I don't feel that, I don't see that, I don't understand that. But now with a new heart, my heart is warmed and enthralled with the truth With a new heart comes new desires to know Christ and to follow Christ. With a new heart comes a new citizenship, a new recognition that I'm I'm not primarily a citizen of this earth, I am primarily a citizen of heaven. With a new heart comes a new mission, a new purpose in life. With a new heart comes a new family and a new unity with God's people that transcends all other relationships. We could keep going, but you get the picture, right? With a new heart comes a whole new life. But that new life isn't something that happens to us in the sense of it's something that we experience passively Uh it's something that we are actively engaged and uh uh making decisions uh in a whole new way. So it's not like we're being compelled and drawn against our will to live a whole new way. It's we have new desires. We find joy in things we didn't find joy in before. And it's our delight to grow in Christ, or at least it should be if we're truly in Christ. And so there's a great emphasis in the New Testament. To pursue the ongoing transformation that God gives us life in. So just with that in mind, I want to walk through a few passages And these are all familiar with us to remind us what should take place when we believe the gospel. So the first passage to to look at, and this is just a sampling, is Romans chapter 6. You don't necessarily necessarily have to turn there. By the way, today we're going to go through a massive amount of scripture. There will be a couple that I will tell you turn in your Bible to, but I'm going to read most of the passages because we're going to fly by through a lot. Romans chapter 6, Paul is talking about how should we, now if we have been forgiven of our sin, how should we respond? How should we live? And so he says, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who died to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. It's our sin that earns us the wrath of God. And it's in response to our sin that God's grace comes toward us to bring us salvation. And when we experience that new life, that forgiveness, that cleansing, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, that then frees us to live a whole new life. That's what he's saying there when he says, so we might so that we too might walk in newness of life. If you know Romans 6, he goes on to talk about how we are now, as those who have been made alive, we're not to submit to sin anymore We no longer have to say yes to sin. Now we can say no to temptation. Now we can choose to please God. And so he goes on to talk about how we ought to submit ourselves to God as slaves. to righteousness. We are to live a whole new life. Well just a few more chapters beyond that in Romans chapter 12, after he has gone through the gospel in great detail in Romans chapters 1 through 11 In chapter 12, he really hones in on the so what? What's the practical application? Why should I care about all of this gospel truth? What what difference does it make in my life? Right? Uh he ends chapter eleven with that ma magnificent uh expression of praise, and praise is what God deserves for his work, but is there anything else? And Paul says, yes, there's a lot more. So he says in chapter twelve, verses one and two, Therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of our mind, of your mind, so that you may approve what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Again s uh again, Paul is reflecting on the idea that once we are in Christ, once we have had our sins washed away. Once we have been given the Holy Spirit and we're regenerated into new life, we are not to be conformed to this world. We're not to live like we used to live We're not to to uh look at the way that our unbelieving friends and family and neighbors think and respond to life and align ourselves to that and and and conform ourselves to that. Instead, we are to be transformed. Our whole way of thinking and processing about life needs to change. Another passage we can think about in this sense is Ephesians chapter 4 verse 1. And again in chapters 1 through 3 of Ephesians, Paul has been walking through the gospel and what Christ has done for us, who we are in Christ. And so it Ephesians 4, 1 is the transition statement in the letter where again he he starts to move into the so what part, the practical uh application of living out these truths. And he says, Therefore I, a prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the c of the calling with which you have been called. I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. That word doesn't mean that we are to make ourselves worthy, that we are somehow to earn uh the calling, that uh we have to be worthy of that calling. Uh and if we don't live up to a certain standard, then God's going to take it away because you're not worthy of it. What Paul is communicating, the word worthy, uh in a sense means equitable. Uh it's kind of like uh uh a scale where you have one side that's balancing out the other side And he says, God has placed your calling on one side, you know, all the way down there. It's heavy, it's weighty. He's forgiven you, he's saved you, he's poured out his loving-kindness and his grace and his mercy on you. He has reconciled himself to you, has given you new life. All of these things that God has done for you says now you need to live consistent with that Not to earn it, it's already done, but now there's there's a responsibility that comes to those who have received God's calling. And so the rest of Ephesians is talking about what that kind of life looks like. Um he goes on in Ephesians chapter four, verses twenty-two to twenty-four to describe how we go from uh changing from our old life to our new life, and he says Um that in ref you've uh you've uh you've learned from Christ uh in reference to your former manner of life that you lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the less of deceit And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new self which is in which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So As we consider what God has done for us, we should take off, it's a clot it's a clothing term of changing garments, and we should take off our former manner of life. We should stop thinking the way we used to think. We should stop uh uh uh uh uh uh valuing the things we used to value, we should stop desiring the things we used to desire We should stop behaving in the ways that we stupid behave. And instead we are to to renew our minds. We're to to think differently. We're to cultivate God's mindset on everything in life. And then as a result of thinking God's way, we're to put on God's way of thinking and behaving and speaking and everything else. There there's a transformation, a change of life that's required. Now that's just a sampling of passages. I mean there's so many we could turn to. I think there might even be a couple more in the notes from last week. But uh you you get the idea that when salvation has come into a person's life, there's a change that's required. There's a transformation of of life. Well, we could then take the next step and say, what should that transformation look like specifically? Simply put, we we are to look more and more like Jesus Christ. If we want to get some definition into What should my life actually look like now that I'm saved and I'm being transformed? What is the change that God expects of me? God Himself does not give us a list of rules, do's and don'ts per se. Uh he he doesn't uh give us a standard that we have to live up to uh that you can put on a on a wall uh in terms of a a list. Instead what he s does is he says Let me show you who you should be like. And so in Ephesians 5, verses 1 and 2, it says, Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children. And walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us in offering and sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. God is calling us, now that we've been saved and delivered from his wrath, to imitate him. To walk in the way that Christ walked, to live the way that Christ lived, to reflect Who God is in his character. We can think of that in several different categories that you have there in the notes. One of those categories or situations of life is suffering. Okay, if I'm suffering, how am I supposed to know how how to live? How am I supposed to respond to my suffering? Well Christ Models that for us. 1 Peter 2. 21 says, For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. So if you want to know how you should respond when someone sins against you, you can look to Christ to see how did he respond when someone sinned against you. If you want to know how you should respond when uh when life is not going your way, when your expectations uh don't work out the way that you desire, you can look to Christ to see how did he respond We'll do that quite a bit in this class. Christ not only died to accomplish our salvation He died to model for us how to respond to unjust suffering in particular. Or think about serving You know, if you are a person who wants to have influence in the lives of others, uh you want to be a leader, you sense God's calling in your life in one way or another to to lead others, to influence others for Christ, well Jesus models for you what that leadership should look like in John 13, 15, which we know is in the upper room. That's when Jesus washes the disciples' feet. You know, he didn't do that because uh well no one else did it, so I might as well do it. Uh he certainly didn't do it because it was his responsibility. He didn't do it because someone asked him to or pressured him to He did it for this reason. John 13, 15 says, For I gave you an example that you should also do as I did to you. Jesus lived his life, yes, to fulfill all righteousness, to obey the Father, but he did what he did also in order to provide an example for us. And that that was a supreme example. That the the the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, uh the one who is the Messiah The the son of David, who should be served, who should be worshipped at all times, he himself did the job of the lowest servant and he served others. And he says, If if I can do this for you, you should do this for others. Or think about overcoming sin. If you want to overcome sin in your life, even though Jesus didn't do that, he didn't have sin to overcome, we can still look to him. And uh learn a lesson of how to do that. We read that in Hebrews chapter twelve, verses one and two, where where it says, Therefore we have so great a c uh since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us Let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of of the throne of God. Now there's uh I think the overall theme there is more perseverance and endurance. But uh even on the narrower issue of overcoming sin, uh you can look to Christ, you can look to him hanging on the cross, and you can look at his eyes To see where is he looking. Because wherever he's looking, that's where I should be looking if I'm going to be overcoming sin in my life. And this text tells us where he's looking. He's looking at the joy that is set before him. He's looking at what God has promised to him would be the end result of his faithful obedience. And so we too, when when we're battling sin, we ought to look at the benefits and the joys uh that that come when we obey the Father uh and honor him and overcome sin in our lives. Think about relationships, Philippians chapter 2, which of course is the well-known passage of the humility of Christ, how he humbled himself. But uh the the context is relationships. And so in verse starting verse five it says, have this attitude in yourselves. which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. His point there is to say we were in conflict with Christ. We were at odds with him. We were hostile to him. He had done nothing wrong. He had only been good to us. He was our good and gracious Lord and God. But we were at odds with him because of our sin, and in order to reconcile us to himself, he humbled himself. He died. He he showed that the one who is at the highest of heights, the name of above all names, if he can humble himself uh to the the lowest of of lows, then we can humble ourselves just the little bit that we need to in order to uh be in right relationships with others Or just generally think about all of life. 1 John 2. 6 says, the one who says he abides in him ought himself to walk in the same manner as he walked. Right? So if you want to say, I am a Christian, I'm a follower of Christ, then John is saying then you need to walk like Jesus walked. You need to talk like Jesus talked. You need to think like Jesus thought. You ought to walk as he walked in the same manner. So that's what we're aiming to do in this class. All of those are just exemplary summary statements of what this whole class is about from here on out. We're going to be looking at Christ and specifically the last 24 hours or less of his life. And seeing in Christ, in his suffering, in his obedience, lessons that we can learn for our life. Now, who has seen the uh Gettysburg Cyclorama? Who who's seen that? Oh good. That's a good number of you. If you don't know what a cyclorama is, it's a 360 cylindrical painting. And there's not very many of them in the world. I mean I think less than 10. And they all depict some historical event. So as you can imagine, the one in Gettysburg depicts the Battle of Gettysburg. And if you haven't seen it, I'm sure most of you have been up there. If you haven't been up there you need to go up there. And you need to go and see this the Gettysburg Cyclorama. Basically you walk up into the middle of it, and it's obviously all around you. And it it shows uh uh the whole battle scene uh and and uh you know obviously different aspects of it. And then there's There's a narrator, there's lights that focus on different parts during the narration. There's sound. It's just, it's a wonderful uh experience. It's remarkable. That painting, or the first Gettysburg Cyclorama, was painted in 1883, and the original one was almost a hundred yards long if you laid it out flat. Uh for some reason I don't remember remember why, but the a artist decided to paint a second one just a year later Uh and that one, which is the one that we see there in Gettysburg, is three hundred and seventy-seven feet long if you were to lay it out. So that's longer than a football field. So again, if you haven't seen that, I would encourage you to take a look. It's just fascinating. I want us to imagine a gospel cyclorama To kind of step up into a painting where all around us are the various scenes of the sufferings of Christ, starting in the garden uh into his arrest and the illegal trials that he went through, uh his his torture, of course his crucifixion, and the the tomb, his ultimately his resurrection. Just a cylindrical painting of Christ. And what we're going to do in this class is we're going to stand in the middle of that painting. And as we walk through the class, we're going to focus in on different scenes of Christ. and draw lessons from what we observe. Of course all of that's going to just rise out of the pages of Scripture. Okay, so that's that's the the the picture you can be having in your mind and uh we'll uh we'll walk through it in that way. We we're gonna do what we'll call good gospel thinking. Thinking about the gospel, thinking about the sufferings of Christ, what Christ has done for us, we're going to observe and we're going to meditate and we're going to consider what this means for us. And we're going to find, as we talked about last week, fuel and direction for our life. Alright? So over the course of this class, we're going to have about 20 gospel thoughts, 20 meditations that we're going to walk through. And we'll get through the first two today. So if you have the notes, uh there it's all written out there for you. But this first one is is this. When I stand at the foot of the cross And I look up at Jesus dying, so that's the scene we're going to focus on today. When I stand at the foot of the cross and look up at Jesus dying, I see The full display of God's glory as He puts His name on display Or in short, when I look at the cross, I see who God is. That's the thought, that's the summary We're going to walk through a train of thought. So you uh the notes will kind of help you uh stay with the train here because it's going to take us uh the rest of the class to most of the rest of the class to walk through this We have to start with the reality that God is passionate for his glory. We have to understand that about God. He is passionate for his glory. He cares more about his glory than he cares about anything else. He he wants his glory to be seen and to be treasured above all things. Psalm 66, verses 1 and 2 says, Shout joyfully to God all the earth. Sing the glory of his name. Make his praise glorious. Or Exodus 14, 4. Thus I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will chase after them, and I will be honored, or you can translate that glorified. through Pharaoh and all his army, and the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord. So when you think about what what the Lord did with Pharaoh and his army, how he he hardened their hearts caused them to change their mind with regard to letting Israel go. They went after Israel, uh the the Lord part of the Red Sea. God's whole intention behind all of that was to put his glory on display as he judged Pharaoh and his army and killed them when the Red Sea came down. The lesson that we should learn, at least one of the lessons we should learn from from that episode and and God's destruction of Pharaoh and his army is that God is glorious. God is glorious. That's what God wants us to learn. Or think about Matthew 15, 16. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Right, the way that you and I live as others observe our lives, they they what whatever thoughts they have in their mind, you know, they might just think, oh, that's a that's a nice person, that's a kind deed uh their wonderful friend, whatever thoughts they have, the end result is that God Himself is glorified. Whether in this life or in the next, God Himself will receive the credit for whatever good we do in our lives as we uh follow and honor honor Christ. That's the goal that we glorify God Think about 1 Peter 4. 11. Whoever speaks is to do so as one who is speaking the utterances of God. Whoever serves is to do so as one who is serving by the strength which God supplies. so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belongs the glory and dominion forever and ever. God has given us each spiritual gifts. He's given you your own particular mix and combination of gifts. Uh so that you might serve the body. Right? We as we've uh heard even just last last year, Pastor Leake did a message on First Corinthians twelve. uh some weeks after that I preached I think it was Romans twelve and w we're we're familiar with the concept of spiritual gifts and we're familiar that scripture teaches very clearly that the purpose of spiritual gifts It's to serve the body, to serve one another, so that we might all grow in Christ. But here, in 1 Peter 4, Peter is saying that our ultimate goal is to glorify Christ. That Christ would be glorified in the way in which we practice our spiritual gifts. Go ahead and turn to Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter one. And here again as Paul is walking through the work of God in salvation. He is very intentional and purposeful to explain that everything that God does in the process of salvation is intended to increase or to put on display his glory. There's a sense in which you can't increase the glory of God. He's already as full of glory as he can be. But increase it in terms of our understanding of it. In Ephesians chapter 1, verses 5 and 6, we're just going to look at several verses here. It says, He predestined us to adoption As sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind intention of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. So He predestined us. He adopted us. He showed us the kind intention of his will for the purpose that his grace would be seen as glorious as it is. That God would be glorified. Or consider verses eleven and twelve. Also we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will, to the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ would be to the praise of his glory In short, God saved us. He does all things according to the counsel of his will. He predestined us so that we would reflect and we would give praise and glory to God. Or verses thirteen and fourteen. In him you also, having uh after listening to the message of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed in him, that is, uh sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise. who is given us a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the rep uh redemption of God's possession to the praise of his glory. Again, everything that God is doing, he's doing to magnify his glory. And finally, verses 18 and 19, I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. So that you will know what is the hope of your calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints? What is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe? Did you see that there in verse 18? So that you will know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. God is passionate for his glory. I mentioned uh Romans uh chapter eleven, uh the end where where Paul uh just breaks out in this doxology of of of praise and glorifying God after he's again gone through eleven chapters of proclaiming the gospel and all of its uh glorious facets and and dimensions. And so finally he says in verse thirty-three of Romans eleven: O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways. For who has known the might of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him that it might be paid back to him? And then this is this is the apex of it all. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. God's purposes in all redemption, in all salvation, history is to glorify himself. Yeah, Doug. Yeah I'm just scouring my mind and I can't think of the name of it, but there's a place in uh LA where the Masters University often does concerts. And uh it's I don't know how wide it is. It might be a hundred feet wide, might be more, but massively wide painting of the the suffering crucifixion. uh and resurrection of Christ. And so we've been to a co couple of uh concerts there. I think one of them where they did Handel's Messiah and it's just, you know, as you're hearing glorious music and then you're just looking at the different scenes, uh yeah, it just lifts up the heart uh to praise. So yeah, if you have the opportunity, great. Um but Uh God's given us minds as well when we don't have that opportunity to imagine. So you get the point, and again, these are just summary p uh uh sample passages. God is passionate about his glory, that it be treasured And seen above all things. That's why the ultimate purpose of life is to glorify God. Right? All that we do. Now, what is the glory of God? The glory of God is encapsulated in his name. The glory of God is encapsulated in his name. And we could add, for which he is jealous. Psalm 102, verse 15 says, So the nations will fear the name of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth your glory. Through Hebrew parallelism, he's equating the name of the Lord and the glory of God. Or Psalm 148, verse 13, let them praise the name of the Lord. For his name alone is exalted. His glory is above earth and heaven. Same same kind of parallelism there. We see it again in Isaiah 48, verse 11. For my own sake, for my own sake I will act, for how can my name be profaned, and my glory I will not give to another. Just a a tight uh connection there, one and the same, the name of God and the glory of God. And because God is or uh is committed to seeing his uh his glory known and seen above all things and treasured. He is jealous for his name. You can turn over to Ezekiel chapter twenty. Just one of a number of places where we see uh God uh expressing how jealous he is. That his name not be profaned, that his glory not be spread or uh mitigated in any way. In Ezekiel chapter twenty, you know, Ezekiel of course one of the prophets of God who is uh proclaiming to Israel, explaining to them why they're experiencing the judgment they're going to they're experiencing, and also promising the the the redemption and salvation. We'll get to Ezekiel thirty-six in a moment, uh the new covenant. But here in Ezekiel twenty we have uh uh verses seven to nine which says I said to them so this is The Lord speaking to Israel, cast away each of you, this is a past tense, uh, cast away each of you the detestable things of his eyes. And do not defile yourself with the idols of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. But they rebelled against me, and they were not willing to listen to me, for they did not cast away the detestable things of their eyes Nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I resolved to pour out my wrath on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land. of Egypt. Now there's a many times in Israel's history where God called them to cast off the idols of of the the people around them. Uh but just by way of example, think about the the golden calf, right? They've seen the glory of the Lord manifested through all the plagues, through the pillar of cloud, the pillar of fire, through the uh uh the Red Sea, uh and they've seen the the glory of the Lord manifested on Mount Sinai. They've just seen God all over the place, the power and the majesty of God And the as soon as they start wondering, well, where's Moses? Haven't we haven't seen him for a while. Who is this God? They they make an idol, this golden calf. Even though they they know that this God is unlike any other God. They make a God like ones they've known and they've seen in Egypt. And so God uh whenever they practice idolatry, he's he's ready to pour out his wrath on them. Consider verses uh ten to fourteen. Where it says, So I took them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. I gave them my statutes and informed them of my ordinances by which, if a man observes them, he will live Also I gave them my Sabbath, to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes, and they rejected my ordinances, by which if a man observes them he will live. And my Sabbath they greatly prof profaned. Then I resolved to pour out my wrath on them in the wilderness, to annihilate them. But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations before whose eyes I had brought them out. Right? So God gave them the law, not only the Ten Commandments, but the rest of the Mosaic Law. He gave them a way of living He gave them an identity that would cause them to prosper, that would cause them to experience joy in their life, that would that would enable them to worship God without fear of wrath. And what did Israel do with that They ignored it. They constantly disobeyed God. They they rejected his words. Even as simple as when when God gave them manna and he said, Okay, just take you know just take a certain amount, a day's worth You know, they didn't trust him, and so some of them took more than that. And uh God God judged some of them. But God was so jealous for his glory that their their constant obedience led him to be filled with wrath that he would express to them. But he refused to annihilate the nation because also being jealous for his name, he didn't want the nations who had observed Israel come out of Egypt to say Man, that God, he was powerful enough to rescue them out of Egypt, but he wasn't powerful enough to keep them under control, or you know, whatever they might say. God wanted to preserve his reputation among the nations And so he was on the one hand jealous for his name in the disobedience of Israel, so there was wrath that would be exerted, but he was also jealous for his name among the nations that he didn't wipe them out completely. Yeah, Anne. Yeah, that that command really means don't attach the name of Yahweh to yourself. I am a person of Yahweh. And then live completely contradictory to who Yahweh is. That's what that command means, to take the name of the Lord in vain. Let's skip over to Ezekiel chapter 36. We won't actually get into the new covenant itself. But in verses twenty to twenty-three, the Lord gives the explanation of what motivates the new covenant. Why will he restore his people after they've been so utterly rebellious? And we read there in verses 20 to 23 of Ezekiel 36. When they came to the nations where they went, so that's when Israel was uh deported and exiled out of the nation, they went to the surrounding nations. When they went to the nation when they came to the nations where they went, they profaned my holy name Because it was said of them, these are the people of the Lord, yet they have come out of his land. Again, the people mocked their God because their God was not able to keep them in the land. But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations where they went Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O House of Israel, that I am about to act, but for my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations where you went. I will vindicate the holiness of my great name which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when I prove myself holy in your sight. So God is committed to restoring his reputation among the nations, and that's why he's going to restore Israel to himself. Because he wants the world to see what he is really like, who he is, how powerful he really is. Right? Alright. So God is committed to his glory. His glory is encapsulated in in his name and he is jealous For his name. That's right. That's right. So the next step, the next uh uh phase of this train we could ask is what is his name? We've said God's name is in God's glory is encapsulated in his name. What is his name? This is this is the crux of of everything. Everything hangs on this question. What is the name of God? What is the name of God that we, as Anne was saying, are not to prof uh not to take in vain? What are we not to profane? Well, we learn the name of God in Exodus chapter 33 and 34. Right. Starting in chapter thirty-three, this is after uh got us initially given the Ten Commandments and and uh Moses broke them when he saw what the people were doing. Moses goes back up, and again he has seen the glory of God uh in ways that we just we can't comprehend Not just in terms of what everybody saw, but he had personal interactions with God where he where he was able to behold and experience the glory of God. He was the only one who went up to that mountain that was being consumed by fire. And yet Moses has the audacity in verse 18 of Exodus 23 to ask or to say, I pray you, show me your glory. But I've seen a lot. Uh I've I've witnessed a lot of your glory, but not enough. Give me more. And in response, God doesn't say no. He says, I myself will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of the Lord before you, and I will be gracious, to whom I will be gracious, and I will show compassion. On whom I will show compassion. Moses says, God, I want to see your glory. And God says, let me tell you what my name is. Victoria? We can ask it when we get to heaven. Yeah, I I don't know what was in Moses' mind, what he was expecting Um I don't know if he was wanting a a physical manifestation of God. Um I I don't know exactly what was in his mind. Right. I mean I mean just generally uh it was probably uh at the very least we could say Moses just wanted more of God. He wanted to to know God more, whatever that meant. He probably clearly he didn't know exactly what that meant. Again, this is a time when there wasn't a whole Bible that they had access to. So Right. Right. Right. So yeah, well we'll find out in heaven what exactly he was thinking when he asked that question. But again the the answer the Lord gives him is, well let me tell you who I am. Let me tell you my name. And so we have that then in verse chapter 34, verse 6. Where the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in loving-kindness, who keeps uh loving-kindness and truth, who keeps loving-kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin, yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished visiting the fathers, the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the grandchildren to the third and fourth generations. This description of the name of God is God's expression of who He is. It's not to say that's all who he is. It's not to say there isn't more to God than what's here. But this is God saying, this is what I want you to know about me. If you want to know me in In the greatest sense, if you want to know in if if you will the most important thing about me, if if we can speak that way, this is what you need to know about me I'm compassionate, I'm gracious, I'm forgiving, I'm full of loving kindness, I'm truth, I'm faithful, I'm just Now, this description of God is not just here. You have a list of verses there in the notes that you can find that same description where God affirms that of Himself repeatedly, time and time again. Now, condensed down, what God is essentially saying here is he is a God of grace and a God of truth and a God of justice. So the name of God is the character of God, which is the glory of God, which is that He is gracious, truth, and faithful, and just Okay? That is who he is. The cross is the most complete display of the name of God The cross is the most complete display of the name of God. We can start even back in Isaiah chapter 49 when speaking of the of the Messiah. It says, you are my servant Israel. Again, speaking of the Messiah, not of the nation, just call them Israel. You are my servant Israel in whom I will show my glory. So back in the Old Testament, the expectation, the prophecy is when the Messiah comes, I will show my glory in the Messiah. Okay? At the cross, we see the glory of God's judgment, his justice, his wrath, visited upon Jesus who took our sin upon himself. So one of the ways that God fulfilled the prophecy that he would demonstrate his glory through the Messiah was to pour out his wrath. Isaiah fifty-three verses five and ten say, But he was pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, the chastening of our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourging We are healed. Verse 10, but the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him to grief if he would render himself as a guilt offering. Right? Remember God's name is He will not allow the guilty to go unpunished. He is just. The Messiah was not guilty. He was sinless, is sinless. But the Father treated him and poured out his wrath on uh be due to that that was due to sinners on the Messiah, so that he could put his justice on display and exercise. that justice fully. So we see the glory of God on display as God's wrath is poured out on Christ. Also, on the cross, not only do we see God's justice, we also see his compassion, his grace, his loving-kindness, his faithfulness. and his forgiveness poured out for his people. Right? Jesus said in the upper room in Matthew 26, 28, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out For many for forgiveness of sins. So as Jesus is hanging on the cross and blood is running down from that cross You see God's forgiveness on display. Or as we saw in Ephesians 1 7, in him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. So as we stand at the foot of the cross and observe Jesus hanging there dying, we we see the wrath of God, which is who he is. It's part of his name on display. And we also see God's forgiveness and his grace and his compassion on display as he is dying as a substitute for God's people. This is such a supreme display of the glory of God that the devil himself is hard at work trying to get people to not look and learn about Christ on the cross. Second Corinthians 4. 4 says, Even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, in whose case the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving. so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Right? First Corinthians one says the gospel is a stumbling block to Jews. And it's folly to Gentiles. Why? Because the evil one wants to prevent people from seeing the glory of God as it's on display in the gospel at the cross as Christ hangs, dying for his people. The glory of God put on display at the cross is also what causes the angels to worship God. And Christ specifically. Revelation chapter five, verses nine and twelve say, uh the uh gives us the lyrics of the song that they're singing in heaven. Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seal, for you were slain and purchased for God. With your blood, men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And the other song is, Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing So the angels look at Christ on the cross. They see that lamb that has been slain, and they give glory to God because that is the manifestation of God's glory. Alright, so when we when we stand at the foot of the cross and we look up at Jesus dying, I see the supreme display of God's glory as he puts his name on display. At the cross I learn who God is, namely that God is full of grace and forgiveness and compassion, but he is also just. And righteous. That's thought number one. Thought number two is where we look at this and apply it to ourselves When I look at the cross, when I stand there at the foot of the cross and I look up at Jesus dying and I see who God is, I learn what it means to glorify God. I learned what it means, excuse me, to glorify God. No leftover water bottles in here. One of the ways that the Bible talks about the the change that God produces in us over time is found in 2 Corinthians 3. 18. And it says it this way, but we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as the Lord, just as from the Lord the Spirit. So we've just spoken about the glory of God being on display as Christ hangs on the cross. And of course we can expand that out to Both uh everything that took place at before that and then his resurrection after that. So as we behold the the glory of God on displaced most supremely at the cross The more that we comprehend what Christ has done for us in that, the more we are transformed to be like Him in that way. So, to put it another way, if what we've seen on the cross is the most complete display of God's glory, and God is seeking to conform us to his glory What does that mean? Oh, thank you so much, Diane. What does that mean? Well, it means a lot of things, and again, we'll talk about a lot of those things throughout this class. But for starters, it means that if we, if you and I want to put God's glory on display in our lives, it means that like Jesus, we must die. We must die. If you imagine in your mind this gospel cyclo-rama, turn your attention away from the cross and look at the scene of Christ in the garden. Where Jesus is praying. And you recall, you can turn there if you want, but we'll just mention it briefly. Matthew chapter 20 26 verses 39. You recall the prayer of Jesus as he was anticipating this suffering, how he said in verse 39 My father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Yet not excuse me, yet not as I will, but as you will, right? Let this cup pass from me. Then he says the same thing in verse forty two, as he goes back a second time, My father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it Your will be done. So Jesus uses this language of a cup of suffering. It's as though Jesus is given a cup. Uh uh and scripture uses the idea of pressing grapes to produce wine as a a physical demonstration of wrath. We read that in Revelation and other places. And so Jesus is drinking the the wrath of God, and he's going to be as he walks from the garden to the cross. Just taking n uh sips from this cup experiencing uh the wrath of God But that language isn't brand new. Uh Jesus uses that language in Matthew chapter twenty as he's talking to the disciples. One of those uh frustrating moments for us is we observe the disciples where we just like w we're just wondering come on guys, don't you get it, right? This is where uh James and John, the sons of Zebedee uh Zebedee uh they are thinking that Jesus is gonna be uh this great king and they're looking around and they're saying, Well, we know the king has a throne And we know the king has a right and a left, and there's twelve of us, so let's be the first ones to ask if we can sit on the right and the left before somebody else does, right? Um I I I don't think that's their I I think they're just thinking Jesus is I mean Jesus is God And he's the king so there's gonna be a r someone like an advisor or uh co rulers who are on his right and his left. Yeah. So they ask that question, and Jesus answers, you don't know what you're asking. And he says, are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? Of course they have no idea what what he's actually means by that, and so they said, Yes, I'll do anything, right? Now listen to this. He said to them, verse 23, my cup you shall drink. You shall drink it. You will drink it. But to sit on my right and on my left, that's not mine to give. There, at least in terms of scripture, we're introduced to that idea of believers. Um Suffering for Christ, following in Christ's example, using the language of a cup But that idea in general is not new. Jesus has already talked about the suffering that is going to be required of those who choose to follow Christ. In Luke chapter 14, verse 25, it says, Now large crowds were gathering, were going along with him, and he turned to them and said, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Jesus obviously was a popular guy. You know, he fed people who were hungry, he healed the sick, he raised the dead, he taught uh things that were just marvelous and ways that the Pharisees didn't teach. And so uh of course people were gathering around him and always following him. And he was not interested in that attention. So he tries to deflect and he tries to to push people away by by saying, Hey, if you want to follow after follow after me You are on the road of death. You have to pick up your cross and you have to follow after me. And, you know, as we think about that, we often Uh think that uh yes that's true, if we want to follow Christ we have to make that final decision. The world behind me, the cross before me, no turning back, you know. Um and I I'm gonna believe in Christ and that's what it means to pick up my cross and follow him as kind of a a one-time decisive decision But when he talks about the same thing in Luke chapter 9, he says, if anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Daily So if we are to live for Christ every day, we have to die to ourselves. We have to pick up our cross and follow him. Just trying to hurry up because of time here, but uh uh in Philippians chapter three Paul reflects this this reality And he says starting in verse 7, but what what whatever things were gained to me, all of my uh good works, all of my righteousness, all of my adherence to the law, my my genealogy, my biology Those things I have counted as loss for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be loss in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish. So that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness Which comes from God on the basis of faith. And then he says this, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. And to that we say a hearty amen. I want to know Christ, we say. I want to experience the power of his resurrection, we say But Paul's not done. He says, and the fellowship of his suffering. Whoa. I didn't sign up for suffering, Paul. I don't know I don't know if I can follow you in that. in that uh desire. But then he's still not done. The next phrase is an explanation of how we know Christ, how we experience the power of the of His resurrection. And he's that phrase is being conformed to his death. As we are conformed to the death of Christ, that is how We know Christ. That is how we experience the power of his resurrection It's that typical paradoxical Christian way of thinking. If you want to save your life, you have to lose it. If you want to uh Uh if you want to lose your life, well just do everything you can to save your life. Again, we're going to talk about this from different angles, different ways, as we look at Christ throughout this class, but so often in life We are so desperate to save our life. We're so desperate to save our reputation. We're so desperate to save what other people think of me and and and my possessions and my desires and my goals. Because we're afraid of what will happen if we lose that. What will people think of me? What if word gets out and people have this wrong perception of me? And that just comes out in a in a host of ways where we try and save our life. And beloved, I would just say We have to die. There is nothing in this life that's worth saving. Not our possessions Not our relationships. That's why Jesus says if you love Father and Mother more than me, you're not worthy of me. Sometimes we have to lose our relationships for the sake of Christ. Our reputation isn't worth saving? Everyone in the world can think wrongly about me. They did of Christ as he hung on that cross, right? As he's hanging there bleeding and dying. What are the Pharisees doing? If you really are the Son of God, you come down. If you really are the doctor, heal yourself. But what they didn't know was Jesus was on that cross demonstrating his Messiahship, his deity, his power, his glory. But everybody thought wrong about Christ in that moment. Even the disciples. I don't know what Mary was thinking, but she was obviously suffering as she observed her son hanging on that cross. I don't know if she was wrestling with I thought he was gonna save us. I thought he was gonna cast us. I don't know what she was thinking. But I'll just say virtually everybody, in case there's someone who ha had right thoughts, was disappointed Because they didn't think this is the way things were supposed to work out. And yet it was exactly the way things were supposed to work out Jesus modeled for us that if you want to glorify God, you have to die. And dying hurts. It hurts. Sometimes it can hurt physically, sometimes many most of the time it's more emotional or or s or spiritual pain, if you will. But dying hurts. But what comes from dying, when we die for the right reasons and in, if you will, in the right way, what comes from dying is God is glorified and we experience the power of the of the resurrection. We experience an ability to live for Christ that we couldn't experience if we were just trying to hold on to everything else. Alright. So those those first two thoughts are just wading into the waters of what we're going to talk about the rest of this class.