Mm-hmm. Sure. This is not spit to as far as I usually do. No singing or anything. Alright. Sorry guys, give me one second. Let's get set up here. Alright, this is my first time doing this on the computer. I didn't have ready access to a uh to a printer, so bear with me. Let me do this. Let me do this. Okay. It just helps me spit. Alright. Well good morning. HPC man, there's some people watching from somewhere or no? No. No? Oh, that's right. Okay. Too bad. Um well it's hard to believe it's been a year. You know, it's almost to the day actually, uh since since we moved. Um but it seems like I was here at the right place at the right time and there was an open slot and I think Steve actually didn't uh never notice that I had left. So when we were talking, uh he just kinda put me put me right in. Um I know the rest of you guys thought you were rid of me, but I'm back. Okay. At least for now. Um So I know you've been studying sanctification. Um and last week Gabe covered uh the means of grace, right? How we grow uh through the word, through prayer, through uh the Lord's Supper and fellowship. And these are essential, right? Uh and praise God you're in a church that focuses on on these things, doesn't it? You know, uh I wanna want to make sure you notice um that the ministries and events here at HBC they don't just occur for no reason. You know not just like, oh yeah, let's just do this. Um they aren't org organized and done for no reason. They're meant to drive you to each of these things. They're meant to drive you to the word or maybe better said drive the word into you, right? Also through prayer meetings, small groups, uh even classes on prayer. Obviously prayer is fostered here, right? Um the Lord's Supper is held in high view for sure here. And of course many opportunities to fellowship. So when I was discussing with Steve about possibly helping with the message today, in keeping with the theme of sanctification, And partly as a way of just visiting again with you guys while we were in town, I thought I would just go through how God sanctifies us through what I would call ordinary means. Okay? And by that I mean just the typical events um that we all go through in one form or another during life. Okay, and you'll see what I mean uh in in a second Um and I wanted to talk about how those can be opportunities for us to grow from. Alright? And I thought I would use my own self as an example in the past year that I had, which was I would say relatively average or typical for a person, not in the specifics. Alright, but but in the sense that we all go through different things over the course of time, right? Um if if I asked you, you know, how was your past year and you were to recount it, there would be some sure some challenges, some ups and downs uh that uh that you've had and that we all have, right? Um so it's not that I'm some special example or that I'm all that interesting, okay? Um but precisely because I I'm just an average person, maybe my story is something that you could relate to. Um because you know there were certain typical events that occurred in the past year, um and and and these events I'll call opportunities that I was confronted with, all right, where I had to choose How I was going to respond. Okay. Was I going to respond in a godly or biblical way? In that case, the the trial, if it was a trial, uh became an opportunity for my growth? Right? Or was it going to respond in a fleshly sinful way, uh in which case it was a wasted opportunity for growth? Uh and and and honestly most of the time I I I I had a mixed response. Okay? I don't think I had a perfect response at any point, some good and some not so good ways of responding to these situations. So again, I you know I think this example might be useful to you to help you think about your own life. That's what I encourage you to do as I'm talking about this. Think about your own life and the events that you have encountered and will encounter, because it's coming if it hasn't already. Trials are coming, difficulties are coming, challenges are coming if they haven't already, right? Um all right, so like I said, we left about a year ago, uh end of September of last year, and uh we left we left the church, moved to Houston. And this I'll call sanctification lesson number one, which is I learned to appreciate God's church and his model for it. Okay, I learned to appreciate God's church and his model for it. So when we left here it was very hard. I just about cried my way through the through that last service, uh Sharice and I. Um And and you know I'm thankful for all that I learned here. And and just skipping ahead a little bit, but you know, whatever way I was able to respond rightly um or eventually came to respond rightly to some of these challenges that that I'm going to talk about. This is no small part to due to what I learned here at at Hope. Alright. So brothers, I just want to encourage you, don't take it for granted. Alright, turn real quick in your Bible to Ephesians. Turn to Ephesians 4. We're going to skip around to different passages. We're not sticking with one text today. Turn to Ephesians chapter 4. In verse eleven. Ephesians four, starting in verse eleven. Says, he gave, skip ahead, pastors and teachers. End of verse eleven. For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man. To the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. So what are what are according to that? What are pastors to do? What does it say then? What does it say? Equip? Yes, the cricket said equip. Yes, they're to equip us, right? Um for what purpose? To build us up, as it says there, right? To w for work of service that we might be united in our faith in Christ. And that's a lofty goal. Right? 'Cause because what's the standard? The goal there says is Christ likeness, basically, right? Anyone there yet? Show of hands? No? Anyone reach the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ? Okay, no hands, all right. So you still need the church then, okay? Once you get there you can stop coming. All right, but uh but until then you gotta keep coming, right? Alright. By the way, what's the result of growing in ministry? Look at verse 14. It says as a result of that, right? As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there. by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. So honestly, and I can give credit to HBC for this, not myself. I walked into that church in Houston, I think, with a relatively solid head on my shoulders. Again, this is not a credit to me. Um I didn't always use that solid head in in facing trials and challenges. as I'll discuss throughout this message. But I think I did have a solid foundation in my mind and heart um because of how we were taught here over all those years that we were here. So that we were not responding to trials like children or battered around tossed here and there. Okay? Or at least not all the time. So again, please appreciate what you have here, okay? And make the most of it Um we I think we do take it for granted. And I think there are times too where I definitely took it for granted. But I'm telling you, having moved across the country and had to uh deal with and trying to find a good church and all that, which we we had already planned and I can give you all that story But still, uh looking into this, you will be hard pressed to find a church with uh exp ex truly expositional sermon. Okay? you'll be hard pressed to find a church with a Bible institute that's open to everyone. All right? I mean the Church of Red has a seminary, which is great, but it's not open to just everyone, you know, like like the GBI is here Counseling classes, you know, new equipment classes every three months, every quarter, like they have here, small groups with trained leaders, a resource center even you have now. You know, you'll be hard pressed to to to to to find this. You know, I having been in the church for a really long time I you sort of it's not like a fish doesn't know it's wet. You you kinda maybe think that, yeah, this is how church is supposed to be. 'Cause this I grew up in a in a very unhealthy church, but then this is really the only only the second church I ever really knew. You know, I was here for seventeen years. Um and so you just think this is normal. But I'm telling you it is definitely not normal. Maybe some of you guys can attest to that Okay, so so make the most of these opportunities and that will build you up. That will grow you. That will s th those things are intended to sanctify you and that will help you as is as uh challenges come along. Alright. Now think i it's not that things are perfect at at HBC, but they never will be. But they don't have to be. Right? Um even Paul's ministry was not perfect, right? Um but God used him to build up the body. So So as we left and at various points over the past year, you know, I was able to look back at at HCPC and all I learned here and and appreciate this specific church. But also appreciate God's plan for his church. Okay? Um how that grew me and how that refined me. Alright? And that caused me to praise God for that. You know, I sort of took a step back and then see God's plan for a church, having l been in a church where the the leader tried to do that, how that benefited me, how that changed me, you know, over all those years. Um and and and so I caused it recognize that his ways, even in general, are good and right. And if we follow his model, um good things come from that. So I grew in my conviction of all that. I I like again I experienced Ephesians four for myself here. Um and I could see the goodness of God in this way, it also caused me to trust his goodness in other areas of life. Does that make sense? Basically how his his plan for the church worked and how it blessed me tremendously. I mean more than I can describe. So I trust it also then yes, his plan for other things probably is also good and right as well. Does that make sense So so that would that would be the the first lesson that that that that that I picked up here was to just appreciate God's church and his model for it So um that was that was September, October. I'm not gonna go through every month, don't worry. Um but in the end of October, uh I found out that my dad's cancer treatment has stopped working And this brings me to sanctification lesson number two, and that's that I started to learn that this world is not my home. All right, and to long for heaven. Alright, this world is not my home and and and to long for heaven. Um so a little just a little bit of background, my dad, he's a member here. Um he had an aggressive lymphoma back in twenty fourteen, lymphoma is of blood cancer. Um where's your your blood cells that that that mutated and turned into cancerous cells? And that was treated and it went away and it was doing great, but then it recurred in June twenty nineteen, so about five years later. Uh then was on another treatment for a few months Along the way he was maybe even possibly misdiagnosed to a degree. But the treatment started to work. But by the end of October he had a follow-up scan and it showed that it was worsening again, it was coming back again. So I brought him down to Houston where I was, the MD Anderson Cancer Center, uh, for this thing called CAR T treatment. Have you guys ever heard of that? It's it's Kind of crazy, it's kinda like sci-fi almost. Uh so in October he was diagnosed. November he went back, they took just some a blood sample over a few hours it was they have to take a bunch of blood of his own immune cells goes to a lab where they engineer them to recognize cancer cells and he came back in December and they put him put his own cells back into him so he could you know circulate all through his body, find cancer cells and kill him. It's pretty crazy. Um and uh but the but the problem with this is that it's also potentially dangerous. It's only been around for a few years, they're just sort of figuring out the side effects from it. So because of the danger of it, he had to be admitted to the hospital so they could watch him because at any minute things could go haywire with this. You can imagine your immune system is revved up, it's sorta like you create like a Frankenstein or whatever and you might let it loose. You don't know what's gonna happen, right? It might tear up the city. Um and and people have died from this treatment. Um that I mean had to sign a consent form saying, you know, I'm coming in but honestly I may not know if I'm coming out. And that's really what we were facing with. Um and if he did come out what condition he'd be in. Alright? And after all that maybe wouldn't do a thing for the cancer. Alright. Uh and all of this in a man who'd hardly been sick in a a day in his life. You know, I I growing up I never saw him sick Except for this one thing, you know, uh literally not even kidding you. Um and even externally he didn't seem all that sick even though he had these cancerous cells um circulating all day through his veins. Uh so it's not something I was accustomed to. Alright? So the the question, you know, is what what do you do when you're faced with these sort of life and death situations? You know, what do what do you do? How are you to think? Um I definitely didn't think of this rightly the entire time. There were some moments of depression, uh moments of anxiety, worry, fear Uh maybe some anger because this cancer was interrupting how I wanted to spend my life. Okay, just even thinking selfishly in that way. But I can't say whatever the ups and downs and the wrong turns um that my thinking took. One thought I clearly had was this and and it was inescapable. We cannot put our hopes in this world, in this life. Right? Obviously, just look around. Turn on the news. Right? Um and even if you if even if you aren't a Christian, what hope could you possibly have in this world for continued relationships with loved ones? Right? For for continued health, continued life, continued enjoyment even of just the fun or good things in life. Right? And so I there's times I had just thoughts of futility, like what's the point? God what's I'm sure there's a psalm with that that says this somewhere. What's the point of living? You know? Um it's all vanity. But then slowly, you know, uh I started to turn my thinking heavenward. Where else was I gonna look, right? Um to the next slide. So turn in your Bible to go to Revelation, let's go to the very end. Um Revelation twenty two. Actually I think it's twenty one. Give me one second and pull that up. Any case, go to the very end. Go to the back of your Bible. Yeah, twenty-one, sorry. Revelation 21. And he says there, starting to verse 1. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there's no longer any sea And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell among them Let's read that again. He will dwell among them. Just think about that. They shall be his people, and God himself will be among them And he will wipe away this and every tear from their eyes, and there will no longer be any death. There will no longer be any mourning or crying or pain. The first things have passed away. And he who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am cut I am making all things new. And he said, Right, for these things, for these words are faithful and true. Then he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without cost. He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be his God. Listen to this, and he will be my son. Uh you know, I we c I I think we we we could sit on that and I encourage you sit just on that passage. So uh uh just chew on it slowly. There's so much in there. Um but but worst case, I have that to look forward to, right? That's the worst case for any of us. If you're a believer, that's that's that's that's the worst case scenario of how your your life's gonna turn out. Not bad, huh? What do you think? Compare that to whatever you're going through at the moment. Okay? This is this is reality. Um but the Bible also tells us directly That looking to our future should give us hope and comfort. Not just sort of let me read in this and then applying it in that way. It tells us to have comfort. Look at 1 Thessalonians 4. Turn there, 1 Thessalonians 4. Starting at verse 13. This is Paul says to the Thessalonians. He says, But we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren about those who are asleep. So that you will not grieve as do the rest who listen, have no hope. As do the rest who have no hope. So so you're to have you're to have hope. Others don't, but you are too. Verse 14, For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall always be again with the Lord. So Paul here he's given a lesson in end times, right? In eschatology, right? He's talking about when Christ returns, those dead in Christ will rise first, and those Christians still alive on earth will then join them. But this passage is not just a Sunday school lesson, guys. Look at the next verse. Look at verse 18. What does he say? Therefore, do what with this? Comfort one another with these words. You ever thought of that? And I remember it was here during an eschatology class that that I came across this verse for the first time and It w I made the connection for the first time of 'cause I'd heard a lot of end time stuff, end times. It just sounded like theology, like like it like you stuff you gotta regurgitate for a quiz. But Paul is saying here, no, it's not just knowledge, it's not just you can sound smart, right? Comfort one another with these words. This should be comforting though, right? God has changed listen to those words. I mean spend some time studying this passage by the way. God has converted death into sleep. Really? Praise God, right? Listen, when you sleep, you fully expect to wake up the next morning, right? Don't you? Sleep is a temporary state, right? So there's a reason God uses those uses that word to to talk about death. Right for the Christian, it is a temporary thing. Amen? Praise God for that, right? It is not the end all it it is not the end for us. Turn to 2 Peter. There's another passage that talks about this, that stimulates us to be comforted with these truths. 2 Peter chapter 3. Look at verse 10. Second Peter 3 verse 10. He says, But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat, and the earth and its works will be burned up. Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way, look at that, what sort of people ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness Looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be destroyed by burning, and the elements will melt with intense heat But according to his promise, we are looking for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. So verse ten there, he's saying the earth and its works are going to be burned up, right? But as a result, what does he ask him? What does he tell him? What sort of people are you to be in holy conduct and godliness? See, the the the stuff of this world is going to be gone soon enough, he's saying, right? And so Should I preoccupy myself with it all that much? Right? Satan, see listen, Satan is perfectly happy with you doing just about anything. So long as you're distracted from the Lord, right? You don't have to be an all-out Satan worshiper, right? He's perfectly happy we're just busy on social media or whatever it is, our hobby or whatever, as long as we aren't Focusing on Christ. As long as we're not doing turn to Colossians three. As long as we're not doing Colossians three, verse one you can turn there or listen. He says Colossus 3 verse 1. Therefore, as you have been raised with Christ, keep sinking the things above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things, you guys know this? Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ and God. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. Again, Sir Antim's talk. Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed See, if you're setting your mind on Christ and His revealing on that great day, it follows you'll also consider your members dead to sin. You know, they don't go together. Alright? You know, we're not you y you can't you can't look at you can't have your eyes fixed on both things at the same time Right? We're not we're not spiritual iguanas here, okay? Where your eyes can go like this. I think it's iguanas that their eyes can do this, am I right? Okay? So if there's one thing you remember from today, remember you're not a spiritual iguana, okay? Put that on a bumper sticker or something like that, okay? Telling you it's gonna go viral or whatever it is. One more turn to first John chapter three First John First John three, starting at verse two He says, beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet, but we will be. We know that When he appears, we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is. Again, end time stop. And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. Everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. You know that he appears in order to take away sins and and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him sins. You see in all these passages of connection between looking ahead to to to Christ and his coming, alright, and the connection to how we live. Right? You see that? They're connected. So again, if your eyes are on things above, they will not be on the things which are passing away. And that has a purifying effect, right? Again, remember, you're not a spiritual Iguana. Okay, so brothers, all that to say, when we take our hope off of this world and put it on Christ and His eternal purposes, that has a sanctifying effect. Okay, so you know it it was hard kind of wrestling through through these things and we're not out of it. I mean my dad's living scans to scan. His last scan looked good, praise God, but we'll see what the next one is in a couple months. So, you know, it Uh n it it's not a fun ride, so to speak, but man, is it good for my heart, right, to have to wrestle with these truths and and be confronted with this and and and preach to myself this truth continuously Okay, so so I encourage you guys to do the same. Alright, so that was like the fall. Then towards the end of the year into December, Sharice is my wife. Sharice and I were struggling. Alright, and this brings to sanctification lesson number three. Circumstances do not determine your godliness. Alright? Circumstances do not determine You got it. So I'm not sure why we were struggling in the sense. You know, there was not one big thing going on. Um it could have been various difficulties that could have stressed and and squeezed us a bit. I mean we did move halfway across the country. There's a new job, new home, new church, new routines for the family and kids, my dad's illness. Um Sharice is also eight months pregnant by that time, which I I I I mean they say is like a big deal, but I you know, not convinced, but I'm joking, joking. Okay, single guys don't remember that, okay. Um what I noticed though that is Cherise and I were having the same types of arguments we had in Maryland. Okay? When we hadn't moved, when there was no no no new job, when there was no new home, new church, when we had the same old routines, when she was not pregnant. Or less pregnant. Okay. So I learned very quickly that circumstances do not change your heart. And why should they, right? What did Christ say in Matthew fifteen? That uh the evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders, it comes out of where? Out of the heart. Out of the heart comes all come all these things. Okay, well guess what? You know when we moved to Houston in addition to our furniture, books. My dirty t-shirts and old shoes, what else did I take with me? My heart, right? It definitely took my sinful heart with me. So that was humbling. Um and you know, it's like I I knew these things. I could have told you these things a year ago, you know, but it's it's different when you're confronted with it. So just remember that. You know, you're you're learning a lot of things, but but when you're when you're sort of in the moment, in the situation, you you have to recall the stuff and really like look at it in the in the face and and and decide how am I going to apply this And that's why these situations you know are are good for us in a sense also. Um but it was humbling because I I I I could only look to myself for my sin, right? I couldn't blame it on my circumstances. Certain chance now to be tr uh uh to be true uh they they can squeeze us some, right? They can make things more difficult for sure, okay? But again, my sin was coming from my heart. But like I was saying, at the same time, it was good for me to see this. Because having diagnosed my issues as a heart problem, then I could begin to address it more directly. Alright, so um again, so that was the that was that that third lesson for me that circumstances do not determine our godliness. Alright, finishing up. So then into January we had a baby. And my dad's treatment again wasn't working, by the way. So this sanctification, that's the number four. God is sovereign, not me. Alright? News flash. God is sovereign, not me. It was a difficult and scary delivery. By the way, the baby's heart rate kept dropping at at uh at times. Um the doctors wanted to get them out soon, but but the labor really wasn't progressing to the point where they could Um she was on different IV medications to help on oxygen. She had these external, internal monitors. At some point I found that she was like there were like seven different things connected to her. Okay. Um you know they weren't sure if they were gonna keep trying for a natural delivery, but then maybe the baby could get stuck, they were saying, and they might need to do the emergency C section, but then could they pull them back the other way? Uh you know, I mean it was a very scary moment. And you know, it it's not a good thing when when there are multiple doctors, you know, in in the room looking like this. You know, you don't have to be a doctor to know that, but I I can tell you it's not a good thing. Well this they are they're and they're all looking at each other. Okay? That's not a good thing. Um and even at one point, you know, one of the medications seems to not be working and they're like no one could figure out why it was working. So maybe we're gonna change it out to a new one, maybe put in a new IV line. It was just the tubing was kinked, but it was kinked like in a pretzel Okay, so so somehow we defied the like the laws of physics. Okay, like it's like a it's like a magic trick where you have this straight thing and suddenly it's like all like uh uh tur curled up on itself. How that happened, I have no idea Okay. But of course, how did all this leave me? You know any any any dads here, have you had a baby with a self-delivery at any point? I don't know if you if you have. How did you feel during that time? Helpless. Helpless. There's no better word. Helpless. You're totally and utterly helpless. So and I recognize that right in the moment. So I'm holding her hand, I still remember by the by the bed. With my left hand I'm holding her hand. With my right hand I reach for my phone. And I just type to myself, let me never forget how I feel right now. I just wrote that to myself. Let me never forget how I feel right now Because in those moments I had a very vivid sight of my true condition. It wasn't just my condition that day. It was my condition every day. It's just we don't we don't realize it, right? It's just the things of life distract us from that truth. That we are helpless, totally and utterly helpless. And and I knew at that moment that that if we made it through that and all was well, I would still be totally and utterly helpless. It's like Job twelve. Job twelve ten says In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. In his hand was my life, my wife's li Life my baby's eyes And his hand was my breath, my wife's breath, even while she was on maximal oxygen. And whether my baby would even take ever his first breath. That was in his hand, right? Or it's like Daniel 5. 23 when Belshazzar is rebuked. You know what said to him, it says, the God in whose hand is your breath And whose are all your ways you have not honored? What breath can I take? What way can I go where I'm completely independent of God? None. In this moment, sitting where you are. Right? Where where where where is it that he cannot see or is he not in control? Nowhere, it's impossible, right? So this along with again my dad's stream and not working yet again and having to go to treatment number three, I never longed for heaven so much like I was saying before. Never never had such a loose grip on this life. Still a ways to go on that with me. But again the main lesson at that point is that God is in control, not me. And just learning that. was was was huge. And being even in that situation, as tough as I was, as much as I I I I never liked being in that situation, um, it was good for me to have that right in my face, you know, and to know that. Alright, lastly, so then comes February, March, and really the last six months, and this thing called COVID hit. Alright, so this sanctification lesson number five in the last one. And that's just, and it's sort of different, but it's follow and submit to your elders. Okay, follow and submit to your elders. Um the church we were the a at there didn't really handle things the way that we would have liked Um like with the with COVID for example, there was no masks required in the church. Um some of it maybe Texas Wild West, you know. You just just shoot the virus or whatever. You know, run it over with your truck or something like that. Um no mass, not much distancing. Um the state in fact had a religious exemption um for churches as far as mass, okay Every other every is uh stores you needed it, restaurants, whatever, um but religious uh organizations did not have to uh wear masks, which of course made no biological sense to me. Um maybe I missed that class in med school. I don't know, where viruses avoid churches, you know, like like vampires or something like that. Oh no. Um and even prior to that, you know, we had some differences with how the ministry was done. They they don't have official small groups, for example, and they they don't have regular classes like like they do here every three months, that type of thing Um so here we were, you know, on top of everything else, not in agreement it with with with our elders on on several things. And that was difficult. Um Do we do we're like do we make the wrong decision with this church? We we knew the church, you know, it came highly recommended. We had been there before for a while. Do we make the wrong decision with the with this whole move? You know, we I I really didn't want to leave and go yet find yet another church. I mean that's just exhausting. And it's just difficult. It's it's it's it's it's a big deal to it should be a big deal to leave a church and it should be a big deal to to Find a new ones. So how are we to handle this? Again, you know, thanks to the teaching here at HBC. Uh we knew that this is how disunity and division can start in a church. Okay? Uh where just a few discontented people can start to spread their discontent, right? Talk bad about the leadership or something like that and complain. But I remembered Hebrews 13, 17, which says, obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls. As those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief. Listen to this, for this would be unprofitable for you. Again, Hebrews thirteen. So you can either be uh a member of a church who's an encouragement to the elders, or you can be one who's a discouragement. And and you know, we quickly noticed this in our hearts. You know, it was being here at the church for so long, uh and being involved in different ways, you know, we we we saw this stuff come and go. people who come in and cause problems or who've been here for a while and then just start complaining and and spread some disunity and this and that. And and and you could see it. And and it was for the first time as as as I were you know thinking about these things, talking about these things uh you know I was able to catch myself very quickly and be like whoa I'm recognizing that now in myself which I never expected you know because I was in agreement with everything here again it's ever this thing right and then now we're in that situation I was like whoa Okay, we we we we need to not be talking about this too much, spreading this, whatever. Let's just let's go directly and talk with the pastor. And and that's what we did. Um We went straight to him and he sat down with us and it was very gracious. We he he heard us out, we heard him out. Um and we came in with a much better understanding of things instead of just assuming things, for example, right? Filling in the gaps with our own omniscience, right? Um it didn't change anything, you know, we didn't convince them otherwise, but now we understood why. And we had renewed confidence in the elders, you know, that they were still approaching this thing prayerfully, carefully. Um you know as best they could. And the pastor, by the way, also, he was very grateful for how we handled it. He pointed it out, just how we handled this. Because I'm sure he's had his share of divisive people who didn't bother to come to him but just or trying to, you know, so so discord. Um so again, even with possible disagreements with the elders, so long as I say they're not violating scripture, you know, and these are biblically qualified men, we follow them. You know, follow them. It will be profitable for you. And I think it was profitable for us to to to to go that way and and to humble ourselves, right? And follow these follow these shepherds. Um so again, so that was just kind of a whirlwind of of my past year, which again I I think th this is just my version, you know, the version that God had for us for the past year and the different ups and downs, challenges, difficulties, some bigger, some smaller. Um, but you have your own, right? You may have them right now, or if not, you're going to. Uh and so each of these opportunities each of these things are an opportunity to to grow from. I just again through ordinary life we're faced with these things of how are we going to grow from it? So for the I I'll have just a single discussion question for you guys, and that would be If we still have time, identify one challenge or trial in your life. Okay, it could even be in the past, maybe it's gone now. What's the lesson in it for you that will lead to your sanctification and growth? All right. What what's the lesson in it for you? Because what you don't want, like I'm encouraging, is is to miss that. Miss that opportunity to respond right. And maybe you blew it. Okay? But but now you can learn from it uh nonetheless. Alright? So identify maybe just one challenge or trial in your life. What's the lesson in it for you that will lead to your sanctification? And growth. Alright, let me let me ask God to uh to to bless with discussion time. Father, we thank you for Your word, God I pray whatever came out uh from this time was was uh pleasing to you and it would be in accordance with your word. God let only that stick, not any of my ideas Just thank you for uh for again for your word which which guides us, which which shows us Lord how to live, how we and that starts with it with our minds, with our thinking, Lord. Convince us of these truths. And help us now to to to d to have wisdom so that we might examine ourselves, examine our our lives, how we were responding to different things and to um see how we might grow through that and see your goodness even in in sending and allowing trials in our lives. Thank you God for for your goodness to us and we thank you, we praise you God that That worst case scenario is we will be with you one day, Lord, and all these things will be behind us. And we will be with you forever. We thank you, Lord, for that. Through Christ, you have made this possible. Amen. Thank you guys.