Two weeks ago, we saw that the key to success for the excellent wife of Proverbs thirty-one was that she feared the Lord. Proverbs 31, verse 30 says, Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Last week we saw that King Solomon, after all his failures to apply his God given wisdom appropriately. Concluded in the book of Ecclesiastes, at the very end of that book, Ecclesiastes 12, 13, and 14, he said, the conclusion when all has been heard is Fear God and keep his commandments. Because this applies to every person. For God will bring every act to judgment, everything which is hidden, whether good. or evil. This week I'd like to conclude our series on wisdom by helping us understand more clearly what it means to fear the Lord. For that indeed is the key to wisdom. Now, the word fear When it's used to say the fear of the Lord or uh God fearing That's used eighteen times in the book of Proverbs, eighty-six times throughout the Old Testament. And all but one of those times, it's the Hebrew verb Yah Re Or a noun that's derived from that verb. And it's most often translated in the English as fear, but its meaning can range from Showing reverence, honor, and respect, or to being awed Even to being afraid, or to being terrified or frightened And because of that wide range of meaning of this word, we need to understand the way it's used in each context. So the question is, is our fear of God to be a simple respect or terrible fright? Well, that word fear, as in fearing God, is used 18 times in the New Testament. In connection with fearing God. And every time, the Greek word there is the noun phobos, from which we get the word phobia. Sometimes it's a verb that's derived from that noun. But it again has that same range of meaning, even in the New Testament. So again, the context will dictate which meaning is intended. And so in order to understand the fear of the Lord, I have categorized the biblical references. to fearing God into three categories. And that will become our outline this morning. Three categories Concerning our fear of the Lord. And first is the consequences of fearing the Lord. That is, what does it do? What are the results of fearing the Lord? I want to start there first. Secondly, we'll look at the connotation of fearing the Lord. That is, what does it mean? And then thirdly, we'll look at the conditions required for fearing the Lord. What does it require of us? So, the consequences of fearing the Lord. What are the results? What are the consequences? What it does. Well, there are seven things I think we find in the Bible. The first is that if you fear the Lord, you will gain wisdom. You'll gain wisdom. Now, sometimes it's referred to as knowledge or instruction or understanding or discernment, but what's in view here is God's wisdom. Proverbs 1:7 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and destruction. Proverbs 9, verse 10 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, meaning the same thing. And the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. You might jot down Psalm 111. 10 as saying very much the same thing. Proverbs 15. 33 says, the fear of the Lord is instruction for wisdom. Psalm 25, verses 12 and 14 say, Who is the man who fears the Lord? He, God, will instruct him in the way. He should choose. In verse 14, the secret of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he will make them know his covenant. So when you fear the Lord, you will gain wisdom, and that's why the excellent woman of Proverbs 31 was wise. She feared God. The second consequence of fearing God is that you will do what is right. You'll do what is right. Proverbs 14, 2 says, He who walks in uprightness fears the Lord. But he who is crooked in his ways despises him. Proverbs 16, 6 says, by the fear of the Lord one keeps away from evil. Now, looking at this in a negative way, In Genesis 20, 11, Abraham said, giving a reason for what he did, because I thought, surely there is no fear of God in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife. So without the fear of God, one does evil. Exodus one seventeen But the midwives of Israel feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt had commanded them. But they let the boys live. So because they feared God more than the king or the Pharaoh, they did what was right. In Exodus 20, verses 18 through 20, right after God provided the Ten Commandments to Moses, We read, all the people perceived the thunder and the lightning flashes and the sound of the trumpet of the mountain smoking. And when the people saw it, they trembled and stood at a distance. Then they said to Moses, Speak to us yourself and we will listen, but let not God speak to us, or we will die. Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid. For God has come in order to test you, in order that the fear of Him may remain with you, so that you may not sin. I find it fascinating that Moses says, don't fear, but be afraid. Don't fear, but fear God. Don't be afraid, but fear God. And the result of that Is that you will not sin? That's the same root word, by the way, in the Hebrew. Don't be afraid and fear God. Same word. Leviticus 25, 17 says, So you shall not wrong one another, but you shall fear your God. I am the Lord your God. Job 1. 8. The Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? For there is no one like him on earth, a blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning away. From evil. Second Corinthians 7:1. Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit. Perfecting holiness in the fear of God. So you see that when we fear God as He must be feared, We will do what is right. And that's why Solomon did not do what was right, because he didn't fear the Lord. The third consequence of fearing the Lord is very related to that. It flows from it. You will obey God directly. You will obey God. Genesis 22, 12 After God had commanded Abraham to offer up Isaac, his son, on the altar, and that knife was just about to come down in obedience to God, God said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad. and do nothing to him, for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Because Abraham feared God, he obeyed God, even though he didn't understand the instruction. Deuteronomy ten, twelve and thirteen. Now, Israel, what does the Lord require from you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and to keep the Lord's commandments and statutes which I am commanding you. Today for your good. Deuteronomy 13, 4, you shall follow the Lord your God and fear him. And you shall keep his commandments, listen to his voice, serve him, and cling to him. The message is clear. If you truly fear God, you'll obey him. Even if you don't understand the command. Consequence number four: if you fear the Lord, you will experience God's love and compassion. Psalm 103, which I read from in our scripture reading this morning, in verse 11 says, For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness. Toward those who fear him. Verse 13 of that Psalm says: just as a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those Who fear him. And verse 17, but the loving kindness of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him. And his righteousness to children's children. Now, God loves us unconditionally Yet he delights in blessing those who fear him. Consequence number five. When we fear the Lord, God will fulfill your godly desires. Fulfill your godly desires. Psalm 145, 18 and 19. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He will also hear their cry and will save them. So if we truly fear God, then our desire will want to be to please Him rather than ourselves. God delights in answering those prayers when we pray according to his will. As the psalmist said, we're calling upon him in truth. The sixth consequence of fearing the Lord is that you will enjoy physical benefits and long life. It's amazing how often this comes up. In Proverbs 3, 7 and 8, fear the Lord and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your body and refreshment to your bones. Proverbs 9, 10 and 11. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. For by me, that is by wisdom, by fearing the Lord, your days will be multiplied, and years of life will be added to you. Proverbs 1027: The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be shortened. Proverbs 14, 27, the fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, that one may avoid the snares of death. Proverbs 19:23, the fear of the Lord leads to life. Proverbs 22:4, the reward of humility and the fear of the Lord. are riches, honor, and life. Deuteronomy six twenty four So the Lord commanded us to observe all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, and for our survival, as it is today. Psalm 33, 18 and 19, Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope for his loving-kindness, to deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. And Psalm 34, verses 7 through 9. The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him and rescues them. O taste can see that the Lord is good. How blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. O fear the Lord, you his saints, for to those who fear him, there is no want. Such promises to those who would fear the Lord. When we fear him, we'll avoid the many foolish things that often have physical and even life threatening consequences. That's wisdom. In fact, sometimes I think insurance companies should offer lower rates to people who fear the Lord. Our seventh and final category of consequences of fearing the Lord is not only physical benefits and long life, but emotional benefits. Proverbs 14, 26. In the fear of the Lord, there is strong confidence, and his children will have refuge. Proverbs 15, 16. Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and turmoil with it. Proverbs 19, 23, the fear of the Lord leads to life so that one may sleep satisfied, untouched by evil. Isn't that great? Proverbs 28, 14. How blessed is the man who fears always, but he who hardens his heart will fall into calamity. Proverbs 29, 25. The fear of man brings a snare, but he who trusts in the Lord will be exalted. In Proverbs 31:30, we read earlier: Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Isn't it interesting that when we fear the Lord, we won't fear man? And when we fear man, we won't fear the Lord. If we are fearing the Lord as a result, we'll have a clear conscience. Contentment, confidence, and the praise of others. What a blessing. So, fearing the Lord results in gaining wisdom, doing what is right, obeying God, experiencing God's love and compassion Our godly desires will be fulfilled, we'll have physical benefits, long life, and we'll have emotional benefits. What could be better than that? Well, secondly, we want to look at the connotation of fearing the Lord. What does it actually mean to fear the Lord? I see the results of it, but what is it? What is fearing the Lord? Well, I think we see five. Perspectives in Scripture on what it means to fear the Lord. The first is that it does sometimes involve a fear of God's wrath and judgment. Matthew 10, 28 says, do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul. Rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. 2 Corinthians 5, 10 and 11, speaking to believers, Paul writes, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So that each one may be recompensed, that is, paid back for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men. But we are made manifest to God, and I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences. Colossians 3, 22 through 25 reads: Slaves in all things obey those who are your masters on earth. Not with external service as those who merely please men, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, do your work heartily as for the Lord, rather than for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of inheritance. It is the Lord Christ whom you serve, for he who does wrong will receive the consequences of the wrong which he has done, and that without partiality. So it's it's not necessarily a bad thing to fear God's judgment, or even to fear his displeasure and disappointment. As believers, God's wrath against our sin has already been born by Christ in our place on the cross. And Christ's sacrifice fully satisfied or propitiated God's wrath against our sin. However, all those who are in Christ will one day appear before the judgment seat of Christ and will be recompensed Scripture says, that is, paid back for all that we have done, whether good or bad, not for the purpose of granting or denying salvation, which is already secure in Christ. But rather to identify and reward what we've done that has eternal value as the final step in the purification of Christ's bride, the church. Fearing the Lord includes fearing not having much to be commended for at that judgment. The second connotation of fearing the Lord is that it means knowing God. Knowing God. Proverbs 9:10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. Proverbs 2. 5 says, Then you will discern the fear of the Lord and discover the knowledge of God. Both of these proverbs use parallel statements to make a single point, which is a common poetic feature of many of the proverbs And in both cases, the fear of the Lord is equated with knowing Him. That is, the more you really know God The more awe, reverence, and fear you experience. Someone who doesn't know God tends not to have any fear of him. And there's a good picture of that In Romans chapter 3, verses 9 through 18, it's a classical picture of the unbeliever, someone who doesn't know God. Verse 9 begins, both Jews and Greeks, that is, Jews and Gentiles, all people, are all under sin. As it is written, and here Paul is quoting from the Old Testament, as it is written, there is none righteous Not even one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. Not even one Their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they keep deceiving. The poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their paths, and the path of peace they have not known. Painting quite a dream or a grim picture of the unbeliever. But then it concludes, again quoting from the Old Testament, about the unbeliever. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Not knowing God is basically synonymous with having no fear of God So to know him is to fear him, and to fear him is to know him. The third connotation of knowing God, what it really means is it means putting faith in God. Putting faith in God. In Exodus 1431, right after God rescued the nation of Israel who were making their exodus from Egypt with the Egyptian army right on their heels, He parted the Red Sea, the Israelites went through on dry ground, and when the army went through, God brought the walls of of water over them, destroying all of the Egyptians. And Exodus 14. 31 then says, when Israel saw the great power which the Lord had used against the Egyptians, The people feared the Lord. And they believed in the Lord and in his servant Moses. To fear the Lord is to believe him, to trust him. Of course, the more we really know him and fear him, the stronger our faith will become. The fourth connotation of fearing the Lord, the fourth perspective on what it really means, is that Fearing the Lord is enjoying obeying God. Actually enjoying it Psalm 112, verse 1 says, Praise the Lord. How blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in his commandments. greatly delights in his commandments. Someone who fears the Lord delights in doing what God has commanded us. It's not a burden, it's a joy. The more we know him, the more we trust him, and the more we want to obey him, no matter what. If we don't delight in obeying God, we don't really fear him and probably don't even know him. Our fifth and last connotation of what it means to fear God is: it means pleasing God. Pleasing God. We read earlier from Colossians 3, 22 through 23, where it says, Slaves in all things obey those who are your masters on earth. Not with external service as those who merely please men, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, do your work heartily as for the Lord rather than for men. Show me someone who is God-fearing, and I'll show you someone who seeks to please God above everything else. Too often we seek to please those around us rather than God. And we need to do everything as unto the Lord. After all, he's our master. Our job is to please him. So fearing God means fearing his judgment, knowing him, believing him. Obeying him and pleasing him. That's what it means to fear the Lord Next, I want to look at the conditions. How do I place myself in the position of fearing the Lord? That those things would be true of me. What does it require of me to fear the Lord? I think as we look at Scripture, we find six things that are conditions for fearing the Lord. First, we need to choose to fear. the Lord. In Proverbs 1, verses 20 through 30, it says, Wisdom shouts in the street. She lifts her voice in the square, at the head of the noisy street she cries out, at the entrance of the city gates, she utters her sayings, How long, O naive ones? Will you love simplicity? That is foolishness, naivete. And scoffers delight themselves in scoffing, and fools hate knowledge Turn to my reproof. Behold, I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make my words known to you, because I called and you refused. I stretched out my hand and no one paid attention, and you neglected all my counsel and did not want my reproof. I will even laugh at your calamity. I will mock when your dread comes. When your dread comes like a storm and your calamity comes on like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come on you, then you will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, too late, of course, but they shall not find me. Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would not accept my counsel. They spurned all my reproof. As we saw last week, we have to recognize that God is the source of true wisdom, not us. And we need to commit to following His wisdom. If we regard our wisdom as superior, we don't fear the Lord. The second condition or requirement for fearing the Lord is we need to seek that wisdom from God, and we need to seek to understand that wisdom. We need to seek to understand God's wisdom. Proverbs 2, verses 1 through 5. My son, if you will receive my sayings And treasure my commandments within you. Make your ear attentive to wisdom. Incline your heart to understand For if you cry for discernment, lift your voice for understanding, if you seek for her as silver and search for her as hidden treasures, then you will discern the fear of the Lord. And discover the knowledge of God. Once we recognize that God is the source of true wisdom, We then need to seek that wisdom diligently. If we earnestly seek for God's wisdom from His Word, then we will come to know the fear of God, to know God Himself. But what do we need to do in order to recognize that God is the source of true wisdom and to seek that wisdom? One of the other conditions here, number three. is that we need to humble ourselves and hate evil. To humble ourselves and hate evil. Proverbs three seven says, Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. It's fascinating how often this concept of humbling ourselves before the Lord and turning from evil are connected. Proverbs 8. 13. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride and arrogance and the evil way and the perverted mouth I hate. Proverbs 1533. The fear of the Lord is the instruction for wisdom, and before honor comes humility. Proverbs 22, 4. The reward of humility and the fear of the Lord are riches, honor, and life. Proverbs twenty-three, seventeen, do not let your heart envy sinners, but live in the fear of the Lord always. Proverbs 24, 21-22. My son, fear the Lord and the King. Do not associate with those who are given to change. That is Rebellion, upsetting society, evil. For their calamity will rise suddenly, and who knows the ruin that comes from both of them, that is from both the Lord and the King. It is impossible, impossible to fear the Lord if we are proud. It is also impossible to fear the Lord if we cling to evil. Those two conditions are often linked in Scripture since it is our stubborn pride. That causes us to choose evil instead of choosing the fear of the Lord The fourth condition requirement for us to fear the Lord is we need to trust God's provision. Trust God's provision. Deuteronomy 14, 22 and 23 says, You shall surely tithe all the produce from what you sow, which comes out of the field every year. You shall eat in the presence of the Lord your God at the place where he chooses to establish his name, the tithes of your grain, your new wine, your oil, and the firstborn of your herd and your flock, so that You may learn to fear the Lord your God always. One of God's purposes in establishing the tithe in Israel was so that the people would see God's provision. See it. And the more they saw the tangible effects of God's blessing, the more they would trust His provision in the future. And that would lead to knowing and fearing God as he was meant to be known and feared. Similarly, condition number five: we need to remember and marvel at God's power. Remember and marvel at God's power. Joshua 4, 21 through 24 He said to the sons of Israel, When your children ask their fathers in time to come, what are these stones? Then you shall inform your children, saying, Israel crossed this Jordan on dry ground. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan before you until you crossed, just as the Lord your God had done to the Red Sea, which he dried up before us until we had crossed. That the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty, so that you may fear the Lord your God forever. They put up that memorial, that pillar of stones to remind them that God delivered them supernaturally. But it wasn't just a remembrance of an historical fact, it was a commitment to fear the Lord because of his provision and his power. Psalm 33, 8 and 9. Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. Why? For he spoke and it was done. That's creation right there. He commanded and it stood fast. That should give us cause to fear God and to obey Him. If our image of God is one that is patterned after man, Then we have a very low view of God, don't we? We won't know him as he really is, and we won't fear him. But when we understand and marvel at his power, that will cause us to fear him, to know him as he really is. Our last condition from Scripture, last requirement for For fearing God is that we need to obey God This is interesting. Deuteronomy 6, 1 through 3. Now this is the commandment, the statutes. And the judgment, judgments which the Lord your God has commanded me to teach you, so that you might do them in the land where you are going over to possess it. Why? So that you and your son and your grandson might fear the Lord your God. To keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, all the days of your life, that your days may be prolonged. O Israel, you should listen and be careful to do it, that it may be well with you. And that you may multiply greatly, just as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you, and the lands flowing with milk and honey. Deuteronomy 17, 18 through 20 records some instructions God gave to the nation of Israel, anticipating the day when he would provide a king for them. It says in verse 18, Now it shall come about when he sits upon the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself a copy of this law on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priests. It shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life. Why? That he may learn to fear the Lord his God. By carefully observing all the words of this law and these statutes, that his heart may not be lifted up above his countrymen. And that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right or to the left, so that he and his sons may continue long in his kingdom in the midst of Israel. Now, did did you notice that not only That God is here saying that obeying him is a condition for fearing God, but we've already seen That it's also a connotation of what it means to fear God, and it's a consequence of when we do fear God. Obeying Him Is a part of all three of those. If you fear God, you'll obey Him. If you obey Him, you'll fear Him even more. So the conditions of fearing God is we need to choose to fear Him, we need to seek His wisdom. We need to humble ourselves and hate evil. We need to trust God's provision. We need to remember God's power, and we need to Obey Him if we are to fear Him. Finally, I'd like to consider what it means for us in our commitment. To fear the Lord. What words of application can we draw from these passages of Scripture? Let me ask you, first of all, have you humbled yourself before God? Have you humbled yourself before God? Are you characterized by humility or by pride? Most of us have too high a view of ourselves, and too low a view of God. We need to be honest with ourselves and with God and submit to Jesus Christ as Lord and Master. In all facets of life, not just Sunday morning. Secondly, do you seek God's wisdom earnestly? Or do you merely ask God as a last resort in desperation? Someone who fears God will be characterized not just by depending on Him in times of trouble. But also by applying God's wisdom to avoid trouble. What does that involve? Well, where does that wisdom come from? The scriptures. It involves diligent Bible study. How is your Bible study this week? It involves scripture memory that the Lord would bring to our Minds his own word at times when we're being challenged, when we're being tempted, when we're confused. He uses his word to fight evil. It involves prayer. How is your prayer life? It involves prayer, not just giving God a laundry list of your wants, although he's delighted to hear from us in that way. But we need to be seeking God in our prayers. We need to be worshiping Him in our prayers. We need to be Communing with our Heavenly Father in our prayers. Thirdly, do you seek to deepen your understanding of God's character? As you study God's word, seek to understand not just God's principles, but to grow in your comprehension of God Himself, His character, His attributes, His promises. Let God remove the constraints you have placed on his power and his love. Constraints you have assumed exist because of your low view of him. And fourthly, do you seek to obey God and to please Him no matter what others say or do? When it really comes down to it, the crux of fearing God is seeking to obey Him, seeking to please Him. God calls all of us to be God-pleasers, not man-pleasers. Yet all too often we disobey God because we fear man more than we fear God. That reveals our pride and that we don't really know God all that well. Commit yourself to please God by obeying Him even before you know the meaning. of his instruction. Or even before you know what he's going to instruct, commit yourself to fear, to please, and obey him. Then you will have the key to wisdom. Let's pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we confess that our view, our understanding of you is often Way too low. We misjudge your holiness. We misjudge your righteousness, your sovereignty, your power. And your love. Give us, Father, a heart that desires to please you, to know you, to fear you. Not that we seek this for our own benefit, although we we see from your word that we will benefit. But, Father, our heart's desire is that you would be pleased. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Like. Well, one is that it's not enough to have wisdom, is it? We need to seek for wisdom being committed to obeying it Whatever God says, we need to be committed to doing it. And we need to ask in faith, not doubting that God's way is best. We don't want to ask for God's will so we can decide whether it lines up with our will and whether we're going to obey it. We need to seek God's will and his wisdom already committed to obeying it. We can learn from Solomon's example, first of all, that we need to use the wisdom That God gives us for His purposes and glory, not our own self-exaltation. Likewise You need to use the wealth that God gives you for his purposes and glory, not your own self-gratification. Third, be content with your own spouse if you have one. If you don't, seek God's wisdom. Control your sensual appetites and lusts consistent with God's design for monogamous marriage. Fourth, worship God alone with your whole heart. Don't serve any of the false gods that our culture worships, even if they don't call it worship. But above all, cultivate the fear of God. We saw last week that the wise mother from Proverbs 31 feared the Lord. And that was the basis for her success. Today we saw that Solomon didn't fear the Lord and realized too late that that was his downfall. These two contrasting lessons point us to the urgent need to understand completely what it means to fear the Lord. So that's what we're going to study next week. Let's pray. Father God, indeed we seek to come to you for wisdom Not just to know what is right, but so that we would do what is right. We thank you that you have provided your word for us as a lamp to our feet. That we would be instructed in the way that we should go. Give us Father An enduring commitment to obey your word. An enduring commitment to subject ourselves to the authority of your word and therefore your authority. May we not be like Solomon, who strayed from that obedience to his downfall. Father, may we be committed above all things to you. Teach us to fear you. To love you and to serve you. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.