So, good morning. It's nice to see you all. Right off the bat, there should be something very obvious to you all. I am not Scott Mahoney. So Yeah. Um if you feel you need your money back, pass a gate from the back, so feel free to go back home. Um so uh Scott and Angela and Drew are still traveling today. So I am hoping to just have a conversation together that sets a little bit of the tone for the class. And then any of the points that Scott really wants to drill in, when he's back next week, he will make sure to go through. So I am thankful for an opportunity to serve with you all. And yeah, I'm excited for it. A number of you know me, um, but many of you don't I am going to ask a couple things if that's okay. I'm going to ask that when you jump in, question, conversation, which you're going to find I'd like to do a lot. Um just say your name. Even if you've been here for years, there may be someone who hasn't been, so if you don't mind, it's a nice way to get to know people. And then on the back side of that, It's nice to worship together. It's nice to worship together on a Sunday morning. Worship is not just about at the 11 o'clock hour. It's all the time we have together on the Lord's Day. And so as we're doing that, part of worship is loving your brother and sister. And so just try to get to know each other as well. As we go through and have conversations and whatnot Just remember, right, the point of us being here is to worship the Lord. Um, it's to honor our Savior Jesus Christ, um, it's to love one another. And we can do all that uh in truth. Um In E and in action. And so I just, you know, I don't want it to be just a classic learning that we then move on from, right? It's it's about relationship together. And really that's that's very much um what uh I think Scott would like to do. Really that sets a lot of the tone for what we want to do this morning. Um We don't want the idea of apologetics, the idea of defense of the Christian faith to be something that is academic and removed from our lives That's in fact not what it is. It is about a holistic Christian life that is so clear that the truth that we have is to be shared with people. But also to be kept in our hearts and something that we are fixed to and anchored to, if that makes sense. And so really that's going to be what a lot of this morning is. But before we do that, I'd like to go to the Lord and ask for just his help and to cover our conversation, and then we'll start chatting a little. So um I like to have a conversation. But what I'd like to know from the class a little bit is Why are just maybe a few people, why are you interested in a study of apologetics? If anyone is willing to sort of jump in. And your name please, yeah. It's Abigail. Hi Abigail. Not just babble around and I don't know, but That's great. That's great. Yeah. Biggest reason for me is because we're doing the full visit for size is Especially when it comes to rev relativism. Everybody thinks that there's all these multiple ways to God. And and most of the time in the media, you know, on the news that criticize creatures as being narrow minded because they think their way is the way to God. And apologetics helps to clear the way and show that all these different systems Since they're so total opposite to each other, how can two contrary systems lead to the same God? And there's a bunch of other reasons that come up And one of the main ones was one of the best apologies I've seen is just come from the Bible. Paul himself. And so That puts a whole light on it. It even points to for Christianship, do what Peter said, happening that it's for the for the word of God and everything. So And that really got me talking because got me um taking apologetics. Because I was leaning more towards Islam. many more towards it. And um that right there shut it all down as you go through it and everything, the reason which God having a son and the Bible being the word of God and a bunch of other professors. That's great. Thank you and I I know your name's Austin, so just so just so people know. Yeah, Austin. Um So right as as we hear some of those answers, there is this idea of when asked having the ability to answer if it's okay to rephrase a little, Abigail. in sort of a in a coherent way, in a systematic way, in a way that makes sense it's logical. The expectation there is that we have that ability and that that truth is available to us. And that's incredibly correct, right? It's that scripture itself and the truth that God has laid out in creation and through his word is logical, it is rational, it is understandable It is by revelation through him. We don't have to mistake those two things, right? And yet it is something that can be understood and can be thought through. And then if I if I can rephrase a little, it's this idea of amidst the noise, if you will, of all the different ideas and whatnot, a clarity on why Christianity, why who Jesus Christ is, why everything that is revealed to us in the Word of God. again is clear, is understandable, but also that we can understand life through it. Right? And so that's incredibly helpful because it also sets the tone, which I for the for Well really what I hope Scott is going to do with the class, but also what what he and I have at least talked about for a long time and the idea for this morning That when we think about apologetics, I would like us to have a consideration of it as a a truth, not with just one audience in mind, but a truth for all audiences. And what I mean by that is it is as much for someone that doesn't know the Lord as it is for someone who knows the Lord. Right? What is the thing that you can do? You can anchor yourself in the Word of God, in the truth of God. And so there are times where as we are studying or we are affirming things and we see life around us through it, that we ourselves as believers need to be encouraged or we have the ability to speak into someone else's life truth. Question is, when we say truth or we say the what we've been talking about as um uh apologies is that idea of a defense, do we just mean it academically? And right off the bat, we know the answer is no, right? Like we can say we don't mean it academically. So um uh just a couple logistics. Um if you all um Checked or not, if you're signed up on the Hope Book class, you would know that Scott uploaded the notes for this morning, which is actually what I'm going to work through. So those are available. If you have them, great. I'm going to systematically go through them. I have one one aside that I'm going to bring in. I don't know if this is this is going to be okay. Comics with an arnia. There's going to be a reference in here. It's going to be specific. But We're going to work through the notes. So just as a reference, if you guys want, you can follow along here because some of the references are there and that might be helpful. If you don't have it, don't worry, you can always go back to it. So um one of the things that we start with is really just sort of a definition of apologetics. And Wayne Grudham in Systematic Theology, which is a really good reference for a lot of topics. defines it as providing a defense of the truthfulness of the Christian faith for the purpose of convincing unbelievers. And that's a traditional definition of apologetics. Just to sort of to use Scott's notes here a little, it's a good definition and it builds itself out of 1 Peter 3 verses 15 and 17, which is, you know, in the room is kind of what we're referencing a little bit. And we're actually going to go there in a minute. We want to see out of this verse, right? So this is our our if it's okay for me to call it our anchor point for apologetics. We want to see a little bit of what the point Peter is making there as we define our apologetics. And then we're going to sort of interact with it. So what I'd like you all to do is actually to turn there now And we are going to read it together. I'm actually going to start for I'm going to start just for a little bit of context in 13. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, You will be blessed. Have no fear of them nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect. having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, not if, when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil Peter goes on and he connects it directly to Christ's suffering, right? And we understand as we're going through this that a lot of A lot of Peter's intention in this letter is fixing yourself to hope in the midst of suffering. I in across the room, I probably only know people, maybe like a third of the room. Okay? So there's a lot of cases I don't know. But even of those, the ability for me to know exactly what it is that you might be going through is even less. Right? And the things that I do know that you might be going through relative to their impact on you, I might know even less. Do you understand? And yet, what I can tell you is that Peter's encouragement, Peter telling us to fix ourselves onto the hope of Jesus Christ in the midst of suffering. And then the ability to have a reason for that hope is true for all of us, and particularly true for the people that he's writing to, right, for the audience here So when we say that we should be ready to give a defense, the context there is to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you But why is that striking? Why is what he is saying striking in this passage in particular? My wife tells me sometimes my questions are vague, and so if they're a little vague, just let me know and then I will sort of like course correct a little. So my name is Mark. I'm I'm guessing because there's a hope that they see that seeing you. Yeah, and and and why is that I mean yes. And what's the striking thing about that? That that your life is different, right? That's right. And that in the midst of suffering, in the midst of enduring something, there is you are marked by a hope, right? You're marked by something that in the midst of it, it would make someone want to come up to you and be like, why are you like this? Well like what what is this about you? If we go on through the notes a little bit, um Yeah, I'm Brian. Um Mark is saying, um a lot of times we go through the formalities, we even as believers, we know that God is taking care of us, you know, through suffering We know God is directing us and teaching us to his word. But I think the difficulty is how do we tell others the truth? They asked us for the hope that lies with us. Do we really know what we believe? And so we need to know so we can relay it to others. And I think that gets like a block. It has a lot to do with the fear of that person. There's other things too, but the fear of that person is hindering us tone Uh I I think that's just an I think that's an excellent point, right? That's like incredibly helpful because it it because it sets up this idea that Um it it's it's both. It's about this hope that you have and it's this ability to convey that information, right? Not not as just information, but the ability would be like, yeah, this is why I have this hope, because we want God glorified. We want an all-pointed in him. We want him honored in it And guess what? We want those people to know the Lord, right? At the heart of it. Even the people that cause the suffering to us. Because you need the Lord just as much as I do. That verse, um right before the um or it's the same verse with a line right before it is but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. An idea of honoring the Christ honoring Christ the Lord as holy is this picture of giving weight to him who is set apart more than anyone else. It is this idea of, but it's Christ first. And then everything flows out of that. And that's the direct focus and the direct point of our hope, right? That's where it comes from. It all comes from the Lord Jesus So as we interact then with apologetics, what we don't want to do then is set it up as this idea about its mental exercises and arguments removed from our lives. Peter Kriest is a fairly well-known apologist, if you guys might have read some of his stuff. So here's a quote. Christian apologetics is weak today because it usually takes one of two incomplete forms If it is orthodox in content, it's usually naively impersonal in form. While if it's psychologically deep, it is usually theologically shallow. You see that it cannot be impersonal but accurate in orthodox and in theology, but it also oh I'm looking at Doug and I got mixed up. Did I say it right? And it cannot be personal and psychological and just about my feelings and then theologically weak. Because we anchor ourselves to the truth, but the truth permeates through our lives. Does that make sense? Going back through Scott Slow, Kree's argument is that if our apologetics is consistent with God's word, it's an assembly of facts that doesn't have an effect on our own lives. It is an assembly of facts that doesn't have an effect on our own lives. It is not a growing persuasion that we grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and live lives in increasing holiness and godliness. Oh I'm sorry, my name is Doug. Hi Doug. Um are you saying that God's word should impact our lives so it like bears fruit in our apologetics? Yes And that your apologetics cannot be removed from the fruit in your life. Does that make sense? Now, don't mishear what I'm saying. What I'm not saying is That your life undoes undoes God's truth. It does not. God's truth stands eternal. What I'm saying is The impactfulness of apologetics, the impactfulness of your ability to share God's truth is as it permeates through your life as you walk with the Lord. It is not a removed thing. And really that's a lot of what um a a and a little bit sort of what we want to interact with, that it's not about separate things circling in your lives. It's about one truth. It's about one one way of walking the Christian life. Okay? It's not about Sunday morning versus like Wednesday in the office. It's about no well no, the truth of Sunday morning is the truth of Wednesday morning in the office. It's just that I need to make sure that my eyes are fixed on Jesus in both times. Does that make sense? And so the heart of apologetics is in that way. And that is that's incredibly relieving to my heart because you know, I've always been kind of this mindset of t if I'm gonna be a good apologist, I've gotta memorize all the logical syllogisms that go along with proving that uh stuff about the Bible. And what you're telling me is I just gotta be in the Word and live my life Am I am I oversimplifying kind of what you just said? And I'm not trying to be devil's advocate. I am really trying to say there's a measure of peace in my art when you describe it the way that you just described it I want you to consider that it is very true of what you said is very true. But It doesn't undo that we can learn more the rational arguments that still play themselves out in that same way of trusting God's truth in the peace in your heart. Does that make sense? I guess what I'd want to be careful with is I don't need to set those up as against each other. I would set those up as together. That as you study God's Word, as we go through a systematic logical flow of all these infinite interactions. God's truth continues to reign and you'll learn more. We like is the hope. And yet you'll still walk in peace, trusting in God's Word. Does that make sense? At the end of the day, you will worship more, find yourself in the Word more, and find and realize that His truth is everywhere I think that's the way that I would look at it. So I maybe I put a little more of the pressure back on, but that's okay. Mark? Yeah. I was just thinking if you if you had a job and you were great at your job And they're like, man, ET really does an excellent job. We're gonna actually let him lead a presentation. So if you're leading a presentation, you would you would dive every eye, you cross everything. You would keep so invested. it's for your for your own like you wanna you want to perform well but you know just think how much more worthy of the board than presentation works you know just be way more Yeah. So if we continue on a little, the truth of God, His creation, works and Word Transform lives, and that transformation is so supported by reality, truth, and reasoning about reality that we have a strong message to share with others It is utterly consistent. God's truth is utterly consistent in our lives and all the way around. If you see me reading, it's from Scott's notes, so don't worry, you'll have a copy of it, just if that's helpful for you all. And also we're recording this. Francis Schaefer was another apologist who talked a lot about his own interactions with life and what what he described as his as his um i its spirituality and the fact that they are not dichotomous. They're not against each other and that they're not separate. So this quote from one of his it's a it's a really excellent book, True Spirituality. As I thought of my reasons for being a Christian, I saw again that there were totally sufficient reasons to know that the infinite personal God does exist and that Christianity is true. In going further I saw something else which I made a profound which made a profound difference in my life. I searched through what the Bible said concerning reality as a Christian. Gradually I saw that with all the teaching I had received after as a Christian, I heard little about what the Bible says about the meaning of the finished work for Christ for Christ, for our present lives. He went on and he founded a s like a pretty well known sort of like um it's it's called library, it's like a discussion center for like skeptics and whatnot. And it's a place where he felt um both believers and unbelievers could interact with God's truth. So I I mean Doug, just just thinking about it a little bit more, just as I as I'm processing, I think at the heart of it what it really is is that when we are in God's Word We don't have to think of it as separate. We can think of it as this idea of it constantly revealing the truth around us. So in small group we have been don't worry Mitch I'm not going to call on you. I mean I might we'll see um in small group we have been working through the Gospel of Luke And we very recently went through the feeding of the 5,000, where the Lord um where the Lord took the bread and took the fish and gave it to the disciples who spread it out and said at least five thousand men, but it was it was counted more because the men and women weren't weren't counted. And a as they were going through, it was, and and you find it all the way through Luke. The Lord is always preaching the kingdom of God, and he is healing, curing people, and then you have this miracle there, and it's always together. And when you pay attention to it as you go through the Gospel of Luke, what you realize is that it is utterly consistent that whenever the Lord was preaching the kingdom of God, and he was doing these miracles, and he was revealing who he was, there was no segmentation of the truth or of reality. Does that make sense? There was no now is the time for a miracle, now it's the time for who Jesus is, now it's the time for truth. It was always together. And that concept is very important for us. And there was no separation between when the Lord was doing miracles, preaching the kingdom of God. Revealing who he was as if they are separate segments of truth. They were always together and always uniform. And that's our picture for apologetics, and that's our picture for truth. is that they are not separate. They are not I interact with this, I interact with this. It's that God's truth God's truth goes all the way through our lives. The reason that's important is that as we go through a study like this, it's not about, again, mental exercises and arguments Separated from the truth of God and separated from your life. And separated from the impact it has for you. So when you have a very well-reasoned argument for why The truth of God has something to say about creation. Has something to say about the interaction between men and women or what marriage looks like. or the reason that there makes a very logical sense as to why Islam is not a not a pursuit of God. as opposed to who the Lord is. In each of those examples, it's not a separate truth from what is impacting you and the encouragement to you. Let me say that again. It's this idea that when I think about creation and I think about God's impact on creation, the God who holds all of creation together Is the one who calls me by my name. And is the one who answers my prayers. So if you think about apologetics and you want to think about it in a removed way, You can go through and have a systematic understanding of why creation and God's Utter command of it is logical and makes sense and you can talk through all those things. But you must not separate that from He's the God who answers your prayers when you're struggling. at night and thinking about what am I going to do tomorrow. When you are scared about this thing, when you are parenting, when you are in your marriage, when you are, yada yada yada. They are not two separate truths, they're the same truth. Does that make sense? So in the study of apologetics, for believers, let it be a good orderly understanding of how to have a defense of the truth of Christianity. Let it be a time of worship for you, a time for you to fix your anchor points in the truth of God. Does that sort of make sense? Let me pause there for a second. is Ayos. Um I wanted to add I was I'm just piecing together what you're saying about being able to reflect or vocalize God's truth in every situation. So I remember I'm going through some trials right now and Brian called me, my small group here, and he says I I checked everything and I said, do you realize that God is sovereign in all this situation? That was an anchor point for me. So when my sister called me I just wonder how you're so so bubbly and everything is this challenging and there's a lot this sort of every. And I was like, I just I said before I was very anxious, everything, and but I've come to have a peace that in all God is there. And I remembered what Pastor Gabe told us in my council. That um God brings you trials so that you can comfort other people and me. Apart from that, he also said that Um there's nothing new to man, but it in every situation it's giving us a way of escape. So I transferred, like you're saying, the truth and the facts of my challenges and peace is God's word and sovereignty. So that's a way we can always put together the trial, the challenges, the creation to God's truth. speaking. Um I feel though very encouraging to all speaking to things. I think that really speaks well to um in uh first Peter three fifteen is that in your heart's honor Christ the Lord is holy. Right? It's that idea of Lord you first. Lord you first. One of the things that um one of the things that Scott had put in the notes, um I I'll just leave this as a reference here Um is this idea of secularism. Why does it matter? It matters because secularism The idea that there are areas of our lives that are not regarded as religious, spiritual, or sacred, and its bedfellow naturalism. The belief that all phenomena are covered by the laws of science and all that are theological, so um like the end purpose of something for like the purpose of the design that something exists for That those arguments and explanations are without value. That they it's this idea that they have invaded our minds, so this is Scott writing, but it's invaded the minds of believers So subtly and so completely that we are losing the witness of a life transformed by the truth of God That's the basis of our apologetic, our defense of the truth to an unbelieving world. So let me sort of like rephrase it a little bit, right? It's this idea that there are two realms of interaction or of thought. One that might be religious or that might be the Christian life. And then one that occupies all the other areas in life. Anything that's not religious, spiritual, or sacred. An idea of a separation. I don't think as believers we tend in this area that much. I don't know that I would say that I think we completely put ourselves into a Sunday morning Christian only. We might. That's more for you to interact with on your own heart. Does that make sense? I think this is the area we live in more Or we let some areas, and maybe just just for a moment of grace, if that's okay, I'll put more overlap. Okay? Yes, Lord, you are good to me. Lord, you do say you will take care of me. Yes, I trust that you will take care of me in this area. Because you hold all things in your arms. But Lord, really in that area? Are you sure that you're going to be faithful? Because this is really complicated. Right? Do you see that that the problem with this idea is that it separates out God's truth from the rest of reality I think this is where we live. God's truth has something to say for every facet of life. And that's the heart of apologetics, right? That's the heart of if you go through any area of life, whether it's logic, whether it's the beginning of reality, whether it's the idea of pluralism Whether it's the idea of creation, whether it's the idea of um ethics In any of those sorry, whether it's the idea of reliable history, reliable witness, can we know that he was there? Can we know that Jesus is true? In all of those areas, we can have good arguments But understand that it's not just about the good argument. It's about the fact that it's because there's only one truth, that it's all there. Does that sort of make sense? Does it make sense this idea of of being careful to not set up things as a false dichotomy? Oh Lord, you have nothing to say about science. Science is pretty complicated Right? That's not that you couldn't have a truth that that sort of speaks into that area. So Wayne Grudem has a definition of secularism. It's this idea of any theory or of the origin of the universe that does not see an infinite personal God as responsible for creating the universe by intelligent design. A worldview that assumes that God will never answer prayer, or seldom if ever. I botched that quote a little. An unwillingness to admit the existence of demons The belief that New Testament faith is something made stronger by ignorance or by believing against evidence Do you note what Grudham threw in there, by the way? He threw in there this idea that spirituality And physical reality are not separated. Right? It's the idea not that only does God's truth speak to every area of our lives. And that we can have a walk through that, but also that it's a spiritual world and a physical world that we live in. Does that make sense? It's easy to separate it. I'm going to screw my heart with conversion I'm doing away. work in your eyes because you don't believe and it's easy to think them because they don't believe that God is not at work in their heart and that Romans divine is not true. Um they know it's true. They're suppressing it, but it's still it's true in their heart, because it's true in their heart case. So there's the argument in the That's a great that's a great point, right? I mean it's a great point and and I think you know that speaks to something that also in that in that first in that first Peter reference that um he references the idea of um do it with gentleness and respect, right? I do not know what the Lord is doing in your life. I know that there is God's truth. I know that God may be working in your life some way, but I certainly will interact with you With grace, because I want you to know God's truth, right? I want to love you, and by loving you I want to share the truth. I want to share God's truth logically, but with hope, right? not backing down from truth and yet with grace. Right? In each of those things we don't have to separate them. But it it's it's such a great point because you you don't know I I will and not that I would sort of take time with this, but my own life becoming a believer was as a young man, uh I was like uh 19 or 20, and I was in a men's Bible study that my brother had invited me to because I was going through a horrible time. And I went and these men, four or five of them probably in their 30s to 50s let me ask all sorts of questions for an entire summer. And I was really annoying. Right? And I'm a I'm a I'm an argumentative person and I But they were incredibly kind and gracious, but they answered my questions. And they loved me and they had me in their homes and they talked and they talked. And by that end I was the Lord. Right? That's how he was doing his work. He was doing his work and and I could not have told you six months ahead of that time, and that's twenty years ago this year, I could not have told you six months ahead of that that I would have done it and I I promise I could have told you um That um that I thought I was right. I mean, sure I was also twenty and like you always think you're right, right? Like but It it did not all of their discussions with me were not separate from their lives either, or separate from the grace that they were showing me. So Scott has a modified definition, a modified definition then of apologetics. The rational defense To the unbeliever, and to our own skepticism and secularism, of our total confidence in the sovereign God leading us to a life increasingly transformed into that which Christ demonstrated as a result of the truth revealed through his creation, his word, and his work through the Spirit. I'm sure you guys got that right away, right? You wrote it right down there. Said more simply, apologetics is passionate truth seeking. First in and for our own lives, and then so that we can give an answer to others that still do not know and believe the truth. I think we have lots and lots of incredibly intelligent people who are able to rationally share the truth of God. I think that is a true statement. And I think what we would desire for each of our own hearts is a rational defense to our own hearts first, and then to others, that's fixed on worshiping God and loving people. Does that make sense? And in that order, I will always say, worship and love God first, and then love people. So you don't swap it, right? When you swap it, you are more willing to bend. And I don't mean bend like be gracious or be kind or be patient or not try to win arguments because it's really not about winning arguments. What I mean is God's truth is fixed. And we hold to that, and that's our encouragement. We hold to Christ. We hold to truth. But we can be incredibly loving to people by sharing these things. Does that make sense? So um Scott has some examples in his um texts where he walks through a um a few different examples of some of the secularism or like false dichotomy that we set through as believers. I'm not going to go through each of the examples and there's a there's a couple of reasons. One, um we don't entirely have the time But the second is that a couple of these examples are out of studies actually that Scott did. And so because of my own lack of familiarity with that content I'm I'm not going to walk through it, but I'm going to ask Scott if he wants to double back and go through it. That's a little bit of the nature of just like me covering the class and whatnot. One of these just turns out to be a very close one to my heart, if you will, which is the false dichotomy between religion and science. That being uh I became a believer in that that summer that I was talking to you uh was also the summer before I went into pretty intense scientific training. And that was why I was really interested in apologetics first, because uh I was a believer, I was locked in, I was sort of like, okay, well how does this work for God's truth? And it was an amazing walkthrough to understand that um We do not need to consider the idea of expert and for the recording I'm doing hand quotes, which is not helpful, right? Expert truth. That is at odds with God's truth. Okay? We do not need to consider this idea that someone is such an expert in their field that they have overcome or attained more knowledge for something than God's truth reveals. So his his point here is we have at least in some part believed that science and religion are fundamentally different and at odds. Romans 120 is a small fump. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So the naturalistic things in our world clearly point to a God who has eternal power, divine nature, and attributes that are invisible, aka supernatural, and that's not observable and therefore outside the field of science. They are not. Science is reasoning. It's reasoning about observable truths, which by definition mean truths about natural phenomena. Religion is about all truth, which includes natural and supernatural. True science supports true religion. Colossians 1:16 For by Him all things are created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authority, all things are created by him and for him And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. We see that what can be known about God and his work include include the visible and the invisible What is able to be known by observation, that which our observational senses cannot perceive, the natural and the supernatural We've been we've been in small group with uh the Mahoneys for ten years, and so when I read his notes I totally get where Scott's going with something. Um But I'm gonna have to do it my way. Sorry. Sorry, Scott Scott here has a reference to thermodynamics. And he has a reference to the idea in science that you have a closed system that requires input into the system. to be sustained because of entropy. Don't worry, we're not doing it. We're not gonna go all the way down But the point here is that very much in that system of understanding and thermodynamics, there is a place where you have to account for an unknown So my PhD advisor is a atheist. From like 20 years ago. But he is a remarkably honest man. And so we would have conversations all the time about the idea of the big bank. And the idea of, but how did it start? And and how did you get all the way there to the beginning for the input in the system? Because something still had to start. And he's an honest enough man that he'd go Yeah, I you just kinda have to have faith that that happens. And and I'm not setting that up as a criticism to him. I'm setting up honestly as a as a praise to his honesty. That he is More willing to admit, I don't know what that is. But we do. And I'm I'm not trying to attribute it to the Big Bang, but my point is we understand this idea of God who created something from nothing. We understand that. Do we understand that all the way to the depths of exactly what happens? Nope. No? But enough to say, God, that was definitely you. God who speaks into my life, who answers my prayers, that was you. Note how we brought brought that back? You know what the best thing I I I apologize if I'm almost sort of like speaking too much to myself here. Um But the best thing for me in terms of becoming a believer before going into my scientific training is that it afforded me an opportunity to worship through my scientific training. He has a reference here towards Blaise Pascal. Do people generally know who that is? He is quite a famous um expert in philosophy, physics, mathematics, economics. He invented the first mechanical calculator, the basis for a study of probability, mathematics, and even fluid dynamics that are still used in hydraulics. His entire life was dedicated to becoming an expert in every field, and he pursued and he determined that all fields of expertise could only point to a sovereign, imminent, and good God. He has um he has a uh collection of thoughts that I I'm pretty sure Scott is actually going to like reference and work through a little bit. It's called Ponse, which is just A horrible rendition of French that just means thoughts. Um I said that really badly is what I'm saying there. Um But it is incredibly, it's incredibly interesting to find that he is worshiping as he's going through his systematic study. He's not saying, well, there's nothing to see here, there's nothing to know. God, you made it, and then I'm gonna throw my hands up in the air. He's saying, no, I'm doing a very like I'm doing a very thorough study of everything in front of me, understanding that God, you are the one who is the creator and holds all these things together. The last there's another section that I'm not going to work through, mainly because I don't, like I said, have the context. And then the last is a lack of reality related to the supernatural. And this is where I am actually going to do a reference from the columns of Monia. So I hope that's okay with everyone, but I just just so you know, um there's a context for this. Our generation is overwhelmingly naturalistic There's an almost complete commitment to the concept of the uniformity of natural causes in a closed system. This is again Francis Schaefer That's its distinguishing mark. If we're not careful, even though we say we are biblical Christians and supernaturalists, Nevertheless, the naturalism of our generation tends to come upon us. Did Jesus really interact with demons? Were we sure? We are. But you see how that thought gets in there a little bit? Have you ever noticed that the armor of God in Ephesians 6, 10-18 is so that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, the things of the naturalistic world, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cause and powers over this present darkness. against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. You do not want to become Naturalistic in your thinking that you remove God from the system. That you forget No, Lord, this is what you said. This is the truth of our reality. This is what we were against. Friday night, we went to watch Prince Caspian at the Museum of the Bible. I had an opportunity I took I took Tegan down there and um there's a scene so I'm not gonna go spend like a whole lot of time with this But if you're generally familiar with the stories written by C. S. Lewis, who he himself was an atheist, became a believer, and then is was an apologist. It's about a magical land, Narnia, where there are children transported through magical mechanisms. into this land where they themselves, their their um brothers and sisters, tendencies, they themselves become Kings and queens as they pursue Aslan, who is the lion of Nordia. He is an image of Christ. The S. Lewis is very careful to say he is not Christ because Aslan belongs to Narnia. Right? So in the reason they're don't connect too many things. We don't need to go too far in this. Why am I bringing this up? In Prince Caspian, time has passed and the children are brought back. And when they're brought back, they're in this really strange circumstance and they have to essentially interact with people, but it's been so much time removed That they were children again, but they re returned to a land where they were kings and queens. And as they're running around And in the play, it's very um it's very stark when you see it. When they're running around, what they see is um that they are put on this mission and they don't understand why, but they're essentially running along. And Lucy, who's the youngest, sees the lion, as line. And no one else sees him. And she tries to convince everybody, he's right there. And they're like, no, we can't see him. And not only that, they don't want to follow where he went. And they're saying, well, how could he be there? We didn't see him, well, we should just go this way. This way makes more sense. And there's another character in the character goes, well, if he was a lion, he'd probably be an old lion. He'd probably be a wild lion. He probably wouldn't be a real one. Chip chip chip chip away at what Lucy said or saw and knows. She refuses She sees Athline again. In my mind, I was reading you guys this section, but I don't think it makes sense. She sees Athline again, and then he comes and talks to her. And she says, they're not seeing you. And he goes, Essentially he actually doesn't answer in the scene. He just looks at her. And she gets it every time. She goes, Are you saying that I should have followed you anyway? Are you saying that I shouldn't have let go of you? Or are you saying, are you saying? And ultimately She understands that she needed to just follow him and eventually the others, because she refuses to let go, she refuses to only follow him, eventually the others see him And then he begins to do all the other things that he was always doing in the scene, which is magical and amazing and makes no sense to the logical mind. We were sitting there Friday night and I was just I you know I read these years ago and I've reread them and I was thinking about the class and I was thinking about wow it's it's really interesting to me just to to consider There is a truth that Lucy knew, and she didn't want to let go of it, and everything made sense around it. But not only was that true something that she didn't want to let go of, it made the most sense. They're British children in a magical world where animals speak. Nothing makes sense unless you understand Who holds the system together? Does the analogy sort of make sense? Does the illustration make sense? I don't think we need to consider any of this study as how do I fit the box of the world into God's truth. Or how do I fit God's truth into the box of the world? I think we fix our eyes upon Jesus and we understand, nope, you're the one that made everything. So it's going to fit. What does that look like? And the study continues, how does that work? How do you control these things? Oh, that's amazing. There's a lot of freedom in this. Oh, there's a lot of truth in this. There's a lot of encouragement in this. This is something that I can share with people. So the basis for the study for this class, so Scott wrote this. He says, the elders have asked that this growing disciples class provide an introduction to the discipline of apologetics and be based on this book. I don't have enough faith to be an atheist, written by Norman Geisler and Frank Turek. Our principal goal then will be to one study what is true. This is always a study of God, His work, and His Word. Two, to be so convinced of the truth that our lives are progressively transformed into Christ-likeness. Three, to be capable of sharing the truths that transform our lives with a lost and dying world. And four, to promote the necessity of passionate truth-seeking with excellence. I'm going to go back to 1 Peter 3, 15 and 17 for another minute. Actually, I'm still going to start in 14 again. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect. Having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit. So, little confession time. I signed up for this class, like just to attend the class. And then Scott asked me to cover the first session. Scott and I will talk about that. That's fine. That's a joke. Um he I gotta remember not that many of you know me, so I gotta be careful. Um And I I was really happy to do it, right? Because I want to walk in on Monday morning to work Confident in a God who is here. And I want to interact with people in my work so fixated on who the Lord is. That in every conversation or opportunity, I might be able to continue to share his truth, and that they would understand how it is entirely consistent with the reality before us And they might not know, and they're their eyes might still be darkened, and they might not understand it, but it will not make it less true. And I want that to be true for when I am putting my kids to sleep, who you know, I have young boys who ask very honest and open and logical questions sometimes. Not always, but you know. But I want to give them a good answer that is connected with who they see me as at the end of the day. So that when I am worried about A, B, C, D in my life. But I'm giving them an answer as to why we can trust that God made the world, why we can trust in a Savior who saves us from our sins. that they understand that those are not separate, they're together. But I can't do it for the sake of them I have to do it first for the sake of the Lord. And I have to do it first for my own walk with him and my own worship first. So even as we go through this, I guess my encouragement or my hope, and I and I really like what Scott is calling us in terms of passionate truth seeking. is that it would be for the Lord first, and that we would be so fixated on him as we do these things that we have We have no one else that we can go to, right? That's what it is. Christ to whom else would we go? And that's where all of it would come. Does that make sense? So um any last questions, comments? Go ahead. So just like like regarding Seth, by the way. Thanks. No worries. It's uh like regarding like the atheists that you had when you were in like your college. It's something where we know that nothing can create everything. God made the universe. We understand all that Something where I and I I really like what you said, we focus on the God and His truth, and then that get then encumbers us when we love others. We love God first and through that we love others Yep. I want to share the truth with people like the let's say the atheistic science professor and everything. I of course It's a it's a scientific impossibility, nothing created everything. There and then it's like we don't want to go cut through and say, But here's God and would we want to do it with love? Yeah. It's kind of when we're speaking the truth, it it's something where we're loving them, but they won't take it the kindest way. And I'm not trying to go in like a blunt way, saying that Essentially we have all fallen. This is a but he hasn't paid our price, it's obvious. The big thing is just That it it that's definitely when I started to witness and so forth, it was definitely I focused too much on people's reactions, not focusing too much on God's truth, realizing that I was trying to come forward. You said Ben, I knew exactly what you meant. You want to kind of like bend that little bit. Not, oh, Jesus died for your buttons, just that little bit of bending. And I recognize fix on this first, then go to that. My big thing is how do I confront these people. Doing it in love. We can burn on the stake, but if we don't do it in love, pointless. We want to do it in love. But again, doing it in love, going to these people, letting them know who Jesus is. Knowing that yes, don't will turn away, but doing it the most efficient way. Because I've heard the amount of times I've heard people say, I like to go through the back door And it's like how many boxes of cookies do you give to your neighbors till they're gonna realize Jesus died for your sinners? Mm-hmm. It's like there is a place where you have to speak Not a brood way. You do it all along. And that's probably the hardest place I found this balance with, especially coming price, wanting people to know I mean one thing is riches, his glory. But uh of course seeing of course they go in a complete they're they're secularism, complete divide, all this stuff My question is just how do I do this in love? How do I win this in love? I guess the most efficient way. I guess it might be just too easy of a question, but that's honestly the way that I could only pray I I I think it's an excellent question, right? I I think it I think it speaks to what a lot of us I think it speaks to what a lot of us try to interact with, right? And I I think the concern even more so, it's just okay, I'm not I'm not saying that this is behind the question, but I I'll say it for my own for my own self. What happens if the fear of the interaction makes me more silent? Right? What happens if then I will say like maybe I'll share a little less because I don't want it to be awkward or I gotta keep going, blah blah blah. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. I don't think I don't I I don't know that I'm going to give you sort of like the answer. Pastor Gibbs right there. Here we are. But here's here's what I want to offer at at a minimum. Um men love the darkness and they hate the light. That's okay. And the truth of The truth of God is offensive. It is no matter how desperate we know as believers we need it, and we know that non-believers need it, no matter what. It remains offensive. And so it is going to offend. I think that There is the place for understanding and trusting in the Lord that we would offend people by his truth and his truth only and nothing else. And I guess what I mean by that is a patience, a hope fixed on Christ, a loving behavior. I'm still baking you the cookies, but this conversation did not go well. And you called me a bigot, and you called me a hater of people, and you called me these things. But I've seen the Lord. What am I going to do? I can't do anything else. This is truth, and this is what the Lord is And you can listen and for legitimate arguments and legitimate concerns that people have or the the the arguments they have You can have an answer that is loving and kind and true, but listens to them, but you don't give up. And you have patience and you are you continue on. uh if that's an overly simplistic answer I don't know that I have a better one. Actually Pastor Gabe, do you have a thought on that? I'd love to I'm sorry. It's not fair but you signed up for the job, so what am I gonna do? No actually I Um I would respond specifically to the word efficiency. I think when we look at how genes interact with other people, efficiency wouldn't be a worried Um God is really not interested in what fishing. Um He has his plans and purposes for each individual and of course the events you can Jesus has over us, he can see right into the heart and he can respond to the heart of the individual. He could shoot past their particular question or stay with the same individual But what he does that we can do is he has a deep love for the person. And his concern is for their greater meanings are different than their perceived means. And so uh the more that we become like Christ That one of the ways that we become like rest is by having a love for the person in their soul and concern for them that uh sets us aside the academic arguments that we might be tempted to engage in. Um or or at least that engages in a in a way that's more relational and loving than let me see might have beat you and and win the argument. Um and uh it just takes um A commitment to love well and love the soul, and that's gonna look different for each person, for each situation. Um and sometimes we might go away from an interaction and think like, Oh, I should have said something and I didn't say it because I was fearful or whatever. Um Sometimes we might uh lack love and say something we shouldn't have said or in a way that we shouldn't have said it. So we're not gonna be perfect at it. But if if our aim is to love the person, uh Sometimes we'll sense by the Spirit's grace that love means I need to say a heart word or a a word of truth. Sometimes it means I don't need to say something. And uh so it's just we as we trust in him as we pray uh and uh anticipate opportunities like that and ask ourselves Or to help you to love the Lord, or to help you to love this person. Um that that's I mean faithfulness and the Lord wants to be faithful Thanks, Jessica. Please. And um based on what what you were talking about Um I think with apop with apologetics that my experience is always to kinda leave a stone in their shoe so to speak. You know, so I don't have to go in with this I guess big apologetic shotgun and go, oh, you know, Jesus Christ is the way You know, it's it's to do it with, you know, gentleness and and and I have found that the Lord just and the Holy Spirit just leads the conversation you know, and and to trust that. You know, and with apologetics, you know, for for me it's not always to at that moment, you know, to get them to see and they gotta believe right now and that's because I know the Lord does that. You know. Um Um but I've always been taught and I've heard actually there's a good book by Greg Kuppel. He's a great apologist. It's called Tactics And um oh it's so good, it's really, really good. And um and he talks a lot about to leave a stone in their shoes so that once they have something to really think about. You know? Um I don't know, just just I was just thinking of that book, that tactics book and how how good that is that helps. You know. What to say, how to say it. You know, because again we don't wanna with apologetics we don't want to go in and just you know what I mean, we do wanna be gentle And and and the Lord the Holy Spirit just guides us, you know, if we pray before we give an answer, you know. Yeah, on on that point what Pastor Gabit said, that that is That is no under that cannot be overstated. Right. The praying for people. And And leaning on the Lord and going to him first. Um that you know, that he would do his work, right? Yeah. That's that's the staying in the top model because even my apologetic evangelistic side of me recognizes that you might hang out here only, right? Yeah. Yeah Let's do this as a last comment and then we'll pray. But please. Um my name's Krista. And speaking of the model, like all throughout this and the reason when you were talking about the dichotomy, and it it It speaks to this as well, is that those the longer I walk with Christ, the more I identify the areas where I have not I've been like, oh, you know, this this is this is where God is, that's whatever. And the the older I get by the grace of God that Venn diagram is collapsing into more and more things overlap. And the more and more everything overlap the more I'm able to have a conversation with somebody and not have fear. Yeah. And to be able to say, oh I I I I understand that you need that way. And even if the the discussion goes terribly, I can show up the next day with cookies because it hasn't it God is in control. I can't all I can do is speak the truth and love that person and nothing else is in my control. Yeah. Thanks. Alright, I'm going to pray and then so we can transition to corporate worship.