Top three statements in your notes. The way we use faith. I uh didn't make these up. I pulled them from various uh sources and references so that you didn't have to think I was Picking on anybody in particular, these are from authors that don't know you from anybody else. The way we use faith often means what is possible but uncertain possible but uncertain. The way we use faith is often very uh much related to a subjective experien Experience of faith instead of centered on the object of our faith. I found that a difficult sentence. I had to think about it a while before I uh understood what the author was trying to get to. So I'll come back to that one and ask you some questions about it. Um we use it to mean the appropriation of God's gifts of justification, righteousness, and salvation, without the obligation of obedience to God. Without the obligation of obedience to God. Underlying obligation in your mind there So just talk to me. What do you think about those three statements as uh how well or not they reflect the way we use faith If you don't answer that question, the next question I'm going to answer ask is you like to interrupt other teachers How come I can't get you to say anything? So our obligation does not vary Not surprised you said that after your Ezekiel Ezekiel thirty six reference last week. to my mind that while we were yet sent as Christ died. I mean in that process right there, mankind didn't have to do nothing, not one thing. God took the initiative and was the source and the order, all of salvation, righteousness and justification Abraham did in no obedience to acquire God's righteousness or justification I'm gonna push on your answer a little bit as we go through the class today. Genesis fifteen, especially for you. I know you're a scholar Genesis fifteen and Genesis twenty-two have some very interesting things to say about faith and obedience. that fast. It struck me reading this last one that I'm called to be faithful and I know that my faithfulness is obedience, but I haven't like mentally Links that to the word of faith, like being faithful in my obedience doesn't necessarily in my mind define my face because it's used as the subjective. So that's it really unfortunate now. Thank you. Um just going back on the gentleman's um example Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him as righteousness, but how do we know that Abraham was faithful in a And believed God because he acted on what God told him to do. He asked him to bring him a sacrifice. Abraham brought a sacrifice. I mean Abraham or God told Abraham, Go go to a country that you've never seen, but I'm going to show you. Abraham went to a country that His faith was his action in obedience to God's command. Genesis 15. 6 counted to him as righteousness is used. Romans 4. 3, Romans 4. 9, Romans 4. 22, Galatians 3. 6, and James. two twenty three uh via direct quotation. So it's a good one to harp on, um and it's used frequently in the New Testament. But anybody that Quickly assess the inventory of those verses, we'll know that Romans four nine in fact quotes fifteen six, but four twelve immediately comes back and says, Who walks in the footstep In the footsteps of Abraham's faith. So I went there because it accords with your answer, right? Just beefing up your answer a little bit. I totally lost my notes there there. twenty one says uh two twenty one says, Let's not Abraham our father justify by words when we alpha his uh Isaac on the altar. Quoting Gen referring back to Genes two, the Greek word dicat ultimate being declared right which is the volume by the answer to be demonstrated that word dic IO can have to so I want to be careful. I thought about a lot about how to approach this class And I do want to shake you up a little bit in how you see faith and how you appropriate faith and how you trust in faith. I very much want to unsettle you. What I don't want to do is just me you feeling frustrated and angry. Alright? And so I'm gonna try to walk that balance carefully. I'm gonna push on some of the very traditional and very accurate statements of faith. Like the one that you make. Your statement is Traditional and accurate, but it doesn't tell the whole story. And we have too long, again, taken a very traditional and accurate small statement about this big idea of faith and put it in a box and then filed it away and we are far too comfortable with it and I want to discomfit us. Um I I I Not blind yet. I want to discomfit us for the purpose of igniting us to pursue God with greater purpose. Now, I want everybody to stay in their seat for a second that's getting upset that I might be crossing some theological or dogmatic boundary. Look look at the middle of the first page. It's the third square bullet Somebody read me what that third square bullet says. Yep. Okay. Ma sorry. Sorry. How is it continuous? No just monergism of faith. That's all I need right now. What does the word monergism mean? It's the opposite of a favorite business word that I kind of hate. We use a word in business all the time and we're going to talk about how we work with other people. You know what the word is? Synergism. Synergism. We're synergistic or synergistically. I'm like, no. It's not synergism. It's monergism. What's the distinction? It's all of God. That's what monergism means. Monergism, the word itself, is is specifically intended to communicate that God did it all in salvation. It's true. Nothing needs to be shaken or disturbed with regard to that. And so we're going to get in there. I'm not refuting it in the section that follows. I'm actually supporting it in the section that follows it. I'm showing you the verses that say that all that we have in salvation and faith are monarchistic with a monergistic activity. monetistic activity of God. Okay? So keep your minds open. Don't just bring up all your defenses right away. Scott's off the edge. He's going to say something heretical. He's totally wrong. Well I may be, but I am not removing. the foundation of our faith in Christ, which is his monergistic work in justification, righteousness, imputed righteousness, and And whatever you wanna however you want to deal with that from the progressive sanctification perspective, final salvation, right? All of that is monogestimic. We are never passive in our sanctification. Yeah, I wouldn't call it a synergy at all. I would I would push back on that one. But I do appreciate where you're going with that one, right? You you are trying to Be faithful, I believe you're trying to be faithful to the scriptures where they talk about the monarchistic activity of Christ and salvation or God and salvation, and our obligation in that position that we gave to his monarchism. effort, right? And that that creates a tension. And that really is the point of this class today. I want you to see And hold the tension in the scriptures between the monarchistic work of God in all that He does for us in salvation and your absolutely necessary obligation The other one is I get really My opinion, you take it for what you think it's worth. The you totally threw me off there. I love it. No, I don't. I hate it. When people say, oh, I'm walking by faith, and I always go, which promise? Maybe we can eat. I said, you said you were walking by faith. I'm asking you what promise? Well it's faith. I'm like, I know. In the scriptures, faith means I am trusting a promise so that I can walk according to the Lord's will. There it's impossible to separate that flow of activities. And as a matter of fact, when we when if we ever get to my second bullet, which I'm not making good progress on, you'll understand the space is a bird When it says Abraham's faith, it's a verb, not a noun. There is a noun form of it, and in Hebrew, unlike in English We talk about faith, that's a noun. And when we want to convert it to a verb, we have to say something like believe, right? But believing reflects back on faith. In Hebrew, it's not like that. The verb came first. The verb form is the root of the noun, not the other way around. And in Genesis 15, we talk about the verb faith. And so I ask again or I say again, when you say you live by faith, you must be able to tell me what promise you are trying to So that you can walk according to the Lord's will. You see how that verb plays out? What promise are you trusting? Well I'm trusting that promise that says I'm gonna be saved. Yeah, that's great. Thank you very much What about Monday? I see a couple of hands. I'll get there. What about Monday, right? What about work? What about your parenting? What about your relationships? What about your church? What about your money? How do you walk according to the will of the Lord? Romans 12, verse 2 says, test, so that you may know what is the perfect will of God. But in any case, it's impossible for you to talk about faith without having trusting promises. And there's nothing vague about the promise that uh God made to Abraham. So if we want to hold up Abraham, which we always do, If we want to hold up Abraham as our example of how faith works, then we have got to come back to specific promise, real relationship with God. You and him really in real relationships. Not vague church stuff, not vague community stuff. Real. Hold on, I gotta get her first and then you. requirement an object. So can you just have faith in who God is through trusting all that says about who he is? Have faith in the sovereignty of who The answer is not no. It's not that binary, right? But in what way? Sovereign industry. How do you hot high tech engineering work as a business leader in this community? I'm facing a weird situation all the time I know that God is sovereign. That does not save my soul when a contract that I require gets champed or threatened or whatever else, right? I require the specific promises of God in various situations in my life. It it is helpful. I see you when I don't want to. Okay, I'll back off. You speak first. Go ahead. Okay, because this is where this is where I was headed. And I'm coming back around in mind because the first one, what is possible but uncertain is hope. There are good, good things that I hope for, that I pray for, but are not attached promises like health and monetary sufficiency, God-honoring relationships and and these in the church. There are things that are good that I think God wants to give me that are not attached promises. And so when I move forward In faithfulness, it must be in line with actual promises, otherwise my hope is shattered and my faith waste. I really am not disagreeing with you. There's so much I want to say about that. I'm like holding myself back or I've never Um no no don't be sorry. It was a good it was a good remark. It was a good test more than that. So I I really appreciate that aspect of it. The more specific that we can be about our Right? The concrete space in exactly what it's supposed to concrete it is, and that is well I'm going to go back to my notes. Let's go down to the next section, right? So those are some of the things that we mean about faith, but let's look at what uh the Bible says the space. So I just stuck with uh the kind of the the texts that we were using last week. They're they are the foundational texts for this topic. So I stuck with him, and if you go look up in Genesis fifteen six, then he believed that's actually one word in Hebrew, and it's that word I've listed there, right? And again, it it well, I mean you don't care. But in Hebrew it's very specific. Uh there are different forms of a word, specifically different forms of a verb Um and and this is uh this is one I have it listed for you there in that first red uh bullet. It's a HIFL form of the base verb and it means to support, confirm, uphold, or nourish. And I'll come back to that, try to flesh it out a little bit toward the end of this section. But just the kind of verb that it is says so much about the activity involved in the faith that Abraham had. It's translated as believe, right, because we need a verb. About forty-four times. Um and faithful about twenty times of the hundred and eight times that this verb occurs in the Old Testament. And the only other close translation occurrence is established. And I Threw that in there because I like that idea that faith fundamentally means being grounded in the truth and then building on that with your activity. Building on that, not with your mindset, which is required, but also your activity. That is my foundation, so I can, or I will, or I must Scott. Yes, sir. And I'm thinking of uh Colossians as an application. Exactly what you're talking about. Yeah, I was just looking because I included a Colossians verse in here someplace. So I was wondering if it was going to be the same one that you just listed. Uh it's not. It looks like three, one through seventeen. But one nine is a good one. Yep. Go ahead and read it for us. Well it's a section for for this reason also, because we the truth had a large for the bread and I think so. Since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge which is what you're talking about. Talking about promise of his will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so that you will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord to please him all respect, bearing fruit and every good require. And increasingly knowledge. It's kind of wraps up everything. It it does. And I could have sworn that was in my notes, but I must have pulled it out for reasons that are not at all clear to me. Uh second Peter chapter one does almost the same thing and there's several other uh uh passages in the scriptures that almost identical grammar. That idea of knowing God first, that m his movement first, his nature first But in growing in that knowledge of him, we grow in our ability to obey him, call that bear good fruit. Um and so for his will we could really obey Hundred percent. Great passage, Gary. Where are we? Uh he he's off script, but it was good, so we just went there. We are at the top of the page under the way the Bible uses faith. Um I've done the first two red carrot bullet thingies. I'm on the third one. Please don't miss that while we most often speak of having faith Right, that's a noun. I have a noun. Wherein we use faith as a noun. This is a verb. We generally would use a change such as faith noun becomes believe verb. And that's why in English we translate that passage believed. In Hebrew, there is a different noun form, and I mentioned this to you already, right? Meaning firmness, or fidelity or trust, and you can see Exodus 1712, it's used there. But it's derived from this verbal root, not vice versa. That uh this this Hebrew word for believe or faith is translated um in the Septuagint as uh pisteo. And you can track that through the whole the purpose there is to track it into the New Testament, right? It also is a verb form of pistis, which many of you know is uh faith or trust Um it's used forty-eight times in forty-seven verses in the Septuagint and that in the Old Testament, right? And then two hundred and forty-one times um in two hundred and seventeen verses in the majority Greek New Testament. Um and I just rate the root for that one is pistus, the noun form, because in in Greek then the noun form is the root. Um the important sense of Amon or Haman or Haman is conviction based on reliability of what is believed. Right. New International Encyclopedia of Bible words. Just say that again. Conviction is based on the reliability of what is believed. So again, we when we talk about faith very generally, and then sprinkle on a couple of decent verses that talk about God's activity. Um that's fine. Um that's interesting. That's a good beginning. Um but it's not an end at all This very important concept in biblical doctrine gives clear evidence of the biblical meaning of faith. Extinction to the many popular concepts of the turns. At the heart of the meaning of the root is the idea of certainty. And this is borne out in the New Testament definition of faith in Hebrews 111. That's from the theological word book of the Old Testament. Kind of the standard tome, if you will, for um what the Hebrew words mean. There are better references, there are worse references, but that's that's a solid one that most people will point to. To believe, also to be persuaded of, and hence to place confidence in, to trust, signifies in this sense of the word Reliance upon, not mere credence. Alright, that's Vine's expository dictionary. Do you understand the dis diff the distinction there? Reliance upon, not mere credence? What's the distinction there? What distinction is trying to be made? It's a charitable question. That is perfect. I couldn't have asked for a better response than that one. Right? One thing says something is true. It points at it and recognizes it's true. The other thing invests in it. Another way to say this say this is that Abraham's believing is more than mental assent It's an action of entrusting. God went to Abraham and said, get up and go. And to say, Lord, I understand that that's what you want me to do, and I have an obligation to it, and not get up and go. would you cannot call that face. And as a matter of fact, when Abraham uh was afraid as a matter of fact It's very interesting. Genesis fifteen six is actually on the heels of Abraham doing one of those stunts where he's like, hey, uh that that's not my wife, right? That's that's my sister. And getting himself into trouble that way. And the passages right before it, God comes to him and he says, You need to stop being afraid. In other words, you need to stop not having faith And then he gives them the promise in Genesis 15, 6. But that's the context for that promise. You need to stop being afraid. I am the one that told you to leave your family and go. I am the one that is going to be providing for you as as you go. And then he comes back later and gives them the the promise about uh an heir, right? And even tells them, It's not gonna be from one of your handmaid I told you it's gonna be from Sarah. What was all the nonsense with the handmaidens and the other people and all the other stuff, right? That was a lack of faith. That was a lack of faith. And it's really interesting how it played out, how deceitfully it played out in his life. We do this. Well, God made me a promise, and I believe that it was a true promise, so I'm going to help it along I'm gonna help it along. I it's not working the way I thought it was. It took longer than I anticipated. This is an un expected approach Why do I have to go to Mount Sinai through the Red Sea? Can't I go this other way? As a matter of fact, they were going the other way when the Lord called them back into the harder way. Don't go that way. Turn around and come back this way. What do you mean turn around Faith. Faith is always walking in God's will as a result of His truth. His promise. And that is what is demonstrated by Abraham all through the scriptures. We say, What about, what about, what about I'm not sure, but for a moment, put away all your what about and just receive the scripture. And all I'm doing here today is I'm taking all of the passages that There's hundreds more. I'm trying to take the key passages that say what is true about God is that his monergistic, not synergistic in any way, shape, size, or form, his monergistic activity is what saves me, keeps me, and will finally rescue me. Return me to Eden with him. It is all of him. The scripture says that. And it also says we are obligated. to obey him. We must obey him. Failure to obey him will we will not see his kingdom. We will not see what he calls in the scriptures Final salvation? Oh you're you're you're stealing my confidence. No, I'm not. There's plenty of scripture that talks about your confidence. And you know what it says? Put away your sinful lust. Bear much fruit. And in so doing, your confidence is amplified. You have to stop trying to stick to a statement of doctrine. I know that unsettles some of us. But statements of doctrine, unless they're the verses themselves, come from men. And they do their best in the situation in which they give those words to honor the Lord But they are not the Lord. And so anything you think you know about faith and grace and all the rest of it, make sure that you put down what the The scriptures are actually saying why it happened. I talked about this. There's a tension in the scriptures between pervenient grace, how Augustine phrased it And I'm just using that to let you know, I'm not trying to make it all up. I did my homework, right? Councils of Dor, right? The early reformers and the obligation of faith. And we get so nervous that we're going to try a works-based faith. Right? That we're going to open a door to a works-based faith. What somebody will do wrongly with my words is not at the end of the day my responsibility. What is my responsibility is to do the best that I can do to communicate honorably and truthfully to you. And I would like you to respond to my words in accordance with my efforts, not the potential risks to the way those words can be used. But we do that here. Monogism refers to God's soul and efficacious action in regeneration and salvation. Contrasting with synergism, God and man cooperating in the decisive act. Even an asymmetric Cooperation. Those words are not words that I would use. I'm not maligning your intention. I I feel like I know your heart at least enough to to know where you were headed there. But any statement about our salvation, our justification, our applied righteousness, and I'm thinking kind of sanctification there, and our final salvation Any part of that that tries to bring in any piece of man is counter to the scriptures. Monergism applied to faith would mean this. Did I get it? Yes. It I did. It's funky punctuation, but the next statement is what I'm trying to say. God's monergistic act provides both the object of faith, right? And the faculty of faith. So I wanted you to get that. It's the object of our faith, but also the ability or the faculty of faith as well. And I just use verses that now say that. And you see that in Ezekiel 36. That was uh referenced for us last week by Bob Uh I've excerpted it here just to give you some sense. Therefore uh say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God. And I y there's a refrain in Ezekiel 36 which throws me off a little bit. And I'll tell you what was helpful was going back. to my sequence of God's love, uh God's covenant, uh God's Hasid, uh God's grace, um, and then the the um Christ, effectively, right, that finally fulfills the covenant. But it's weird here in Ezekiel 36, because he keeps saying, not for your sake, not for your sake, not for your sake. Thus says the Lord God, it is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And look what he is going to do I will give you a new heart and a new spirit. I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh And I will put my spirit within you, that's a busted verse reference, in case you were tracking, and I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes. and be careful to obey my rules. All God's activity there. All of it. No merit whatsoever on the part of a man Ephesians two, eight and nine. For by grace you have been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works. So that no one may boast. By the way, uh more for some of you academic people, there is an interesting distinction in the New Testament. There are only a few passages that say not because of works. Most of the passages actually say not by works of the law. There's an interesting distinction there, isn't there? Many, many, many of the passages that we like to cite, and it's like, oh not by works, not by works, you're cheating. It says not by the works of the law The entire context of the argument is not by the works of the law. And it was mostly to Jews or to Gentiles trying to act like Jews, where he said, stop trying to get into salvation by physically being a part of the covenant. Circumcision will not get you there. Being adopted into the family of Abraham will not get you there. Becoming a Jew will not get you there. But there is a distinction between works of the law in that sense and works the way the rest of it says it, like here. By the way, it's both So I'm not I'm not trying to change what works means. It's both. I just want you to be faithful to the scriptures and how you look at those passages. But here, it's just works, right? This is not your own doing. It is a gift of God, not a result of works. Period, so that no one may boast. And you see from that Ezekiel passage, and you know from other passages in the New Testament, God actually redeems us while we are shaking our fists While you were still enough, God saved you. You were doing the opposite of anything that would contribute to your salvation. You say, I know all this, Scott, I know, but I can't push on you a minute later if I don't absolutely concrete you in the truth of your faith Your salvation through the monergistic activity of God. I cannot, I will not, you must not diminish that truth in any way as a result of this class. even while I want you to be discontented with your small definition of faith. Not only is is the object of my faith All God's working, even the ability to believe at all is a gift of God Even to believe in God is a gift. And that's the faculty of faith. To even have the ability to do this, God must change me Often represented in the scriptures as must make me alive. And we get that, right? A dead guy can't do anything Um Philippians 1 29, for it has been granted to you for the sake of Christ that you should not only believe in him But also suffer for his sake. Little side note there, right? We we like the granted to believe one. We hate the granted also to suffer one. But clearly, he gives us the ability to believe. John 6, 44, and 65, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And he said in 65, and he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father, right? So Christ John 1. 13, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, right? The will of man. But of God, not of the will of man in any way. There is no synergy in our salvation only monarchy. It's really interesting that John is the one that makes or it John records actually, right, such a dramatic statement of the Lord, not of the will of man Because he's the one that uses the verb to believe the most. 99 times, almost a third of the entire New Testament. But in the Gospels, he blows the other uh um gospel authors away. Ten, ten, and nine is the count for the other three Gospels, respectively, right? Matthew, Mark, and Luke. John 99 times uses the verb to believe. And when he does that with healing, he said you believe it. You walk in belief. You act out belief. And even there, right? John had no problem saying God is monergistic in his activity to bring men to himself in salvation. And ninety-nine times he says, you are obligated to walk in obedience. And then he didn't equivocate. He didn't He didn't go, well, this is uh true most of the time, or this is true like this, and I'm I'm not actually picking on you, so please don't feel that way. I actually love what you said, it's super helpful, right? There's an asymmetric contribution here. We give a little We give a little after he saves us. We don't we don't we don't give anything to it. I I refuse to use language that's not biblical language. Biblical language is it is all of God. Biblical language is You are a hundred percent obligated to walk in obedience. That is the biblical language. To move away from that, we risk something that's not worth risking. We gain nothing except for a new formulation I don't need new formulations. I just need the scriptures to actually breathe life into my life in work out. I saw a hand sorry. Certainly I feel like you could drum up a few scriptures like that. Um Again, I want to stick with the biblical formulations. Um I'm really just not willing to make that statement Um it's not that you're wrong, it's just that it's extra words trying to resolve attention in the scriptures that the scriptures don't try to resolve. We need the Holy Spirit in us who will help us to pray according to God's will. That is 100% true. And yet the Lord rebukes. I'm almost done with tire I apologize up front, but I'm almost done my diary. But the Lord rebukes us for not bringing our own desires to him. You have and you ask not. You want But then you fight and deceive each other because you're not getting it. That's the biblical language. I'm not trying to change the scriptures. I'm trying to actually get us back to them. So absolutely. Go ahead. You look nervous. Don't look nervous. I'm a nice guy. I don't sound like one, I may not look like one, but I'm a nice guy. Yes, I agree with you, our salvation is of God. But if we're not if we're not walking by faith, we're not demonstrating that salvation. Right? We struggle with that so I mean I'm I'm I'm agreeing with you. I'm not saying it's intelligence. I'm agreeing with you, right? We struggle. Hold on, Bob You have a right to speak because I've been thinking about you all day, but give me a second. Um we struggle with the Paul, the James thing, we talk about Paul versus James and most of us you know like pursue well, I remember my grandfather one time He was I think he was quoted Mart Martin Luther. I was too young to know it at the time and he thought he was being cute, but later I discovered and I was like, that's cheaty. He's like, oh it's a gospel of you know sh Wood and straw, straw and hay, whatever it was Martin Luther said about James, right? It was his quote about that one. You know what? When you approach the scriptures without without trying to resolve this sent did you answer and I missed it. What did you say? What did you say? Shaw. Oh okay, okay. I'm sorry, Becky. I'm gonna hear about that one on Thursday. Um I I have enjoyed this study because I feel the tension between Paul and James. But this study has been great. I don't have to resolve it I just have to say yes to both. All of God. And I'm a hundred percent obligated to walk in obedience. And if I don't, God promises terrible things. Terrible things How does that work? Not sure. Not sure. Well first. I like what you said about embracing both folders of tension. There's a lot of tension in the scripture full of. But I'll I'll say one thing on Some of the young articles are gossip all is just makes the case of monitors. He makes it thing that don't use term monitors or images that creators. Precisely sanctification. the way God was thinking. You you are by my own admission, you are hundred percent correct in that uh that r rebuke. Uh I was just gonna say something Maybe isn't this almost more of a cat category distinction? Uh J says if you love me, you will keep my uh whoever has my commandments can keep them keep it is he who loves me. So isn't it more in the case of people who do keep this command love God are the ones who don't fall away. They're the ones who God secured. Oh I see what you're doing. They're the the seeds on rocky soil are the or the sidewalk Yep, so that pops up a lot in uh in my study. Alright, how can it not pop up a lot in my study? So it it it related to this. So it certainly did. But even there, we add a lot of our own words to that transaction. Right? If if you disobey and fall away, then you're never in in the first place. And yet the scriptures actually talk about people and and I I'm This isn't the topic of my lesson, so don't drag me down this trail, but just to honor your comments. Question The scriptures talk about people coming in and rejoicing within the context of the church, hearing the gospel, growing for a short time, doing things like there is some aspect of involvement in Christ, right? I'm not qualifying what that means right now. That's a whole nother month worth of lessons. But there's some aspect of that. But there's a seed that gets snatched away when the troubles and cares of the world come, right? So is there a category distinction between the people? Clearly. Is the category distinction quite as plastic as we make it when we try to wrap our words around what the scriptures actually say in those areas? No, I'll tell you what I, my opinion, I think we should just recognize that there's a kind of person that exists within the context of the church It enjoys Christ for uh a week, a month, ten years, but with the cares and troubles of the world, when the enticements of other things come, when the pain of hardships Come into their lives, they are unrooted from Christ. That is not true of God's children. If synergism were were true, then the people who do enjoy Christ they would have some actual faith. We can see that they're they don't, because it's monarchistic. God just who will have faith. I tell you what, I'm going to follow up with you on that one afterwards because I'm not sure I'm fully tracking the comment. Um but I'm running out of time. So um I will forget, particularly in my fatigue state, so please remind me so that I can I can follow up with you. Believe as a gift. We did John 6. 44, John 1. 13. We did that one. Acts 16, 14. One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, and I love this one. The Lord opened her heart. to pay attention to what was said by Paul. Even the ability to receive that kind of instruction and to have it be in any way useful at all. Was given to her by God. Mark 924. I like this one too. I believe. Help my unbelief. Right? Here's a guy that says, I believe, Lord. And and if you guys remember the story, right? Like Somebody said, my family member is sick, dying. I I believe help my unbelief. It's so important to this guy. Who even asks somebody this question, right? He's Walking according to the truth. But he also says, I don't have enough, and I'm not able to manufacture it myself. but for Christ's sake alone, nor by imputing faith itself the act of believing or any other evangelical obedience to them as their righteousness, but by imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them. They receiving and resting on him and in his righteousness by faith, which faith they have not of themselves is the gift of God. So there you go, you have the reformed uh statement about faith. That's actually in a section on election, if I am not mistaken. I believe uh 111 is on election. That was a statement of the biblical truth about the monergism. I'm sorry, Bob. Hold on a second, but the monergism of faith. Go ahead, Bob. So the next paragraph is what take faith. Chapter eleven, paragraph two, said faith thus receiving and resting on Christ and his righteousness, is he alone tremendous justification? Yes, it is not alone. Yep. I am running super skinny on time, so I'm gonna speed read some of this next one right there. Just versus uh just verses. I can't believe I just said that. Sorry, Harlan. I know you're gonna get me for that after class. I I'm just gonna tell you I'm sorry right now, okay? I screwed up. Um Faith is the operation of God. And if you know anything about John Owen and his book on uh or his books on faith, man, he is all about faith or gr uh salvation only by Christ, all of Christ, nothing of us. I mean he just hammers it until it's flatter than could be But even he says faith is the operation of God wrought in us by exceeding greatness of his power. Yet it is our duty to believe works of John Owen. Just a man, but I I thought it was an interesting way to start off this section. Now let's get to what the scriptures say as authoritative. Mark 115 The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Who said that? Jesus did, right? So it must be true. He didn't say sit there and receive it It's not because receiving it would have been a wrong way to frame what the Bible says about faith, but he says you repent and you believe. Those are imperative Let not your John 14. 1, let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. Right? There's a tension, I think I call it out here someplace, right? The Bible uses indicatives, a thing that is just true, and it uses imperatives, which means go do it. It has to be done. You need to think it. You need to change it. You need to be it. You need to do it And the Bible uses both the indicatives and the imperatives constantly to describe our relationship with God. And he does it here. This is an imperative. Let not your hearts be troubled Believe in God. Go do it. It's a verb. Believe also in me. Of course, Christ. Acts 16, 30 through 31. Sirs What must I do to be saved? A very fundamental question in this transformative passage or book of the Bible, right? The transitioning book, if you will, between the Old and the New Testament. What must I do to be saved? It asked the quintessential question, and they said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. Oh my word, did it undo all those passages about monarchism? No. No. The harmony of scriptures are maintained. Both statements may be made and may be true. Actually, must be true. Hebrews 11 6. And without without this is this is an amazing passage And without faith it is impossible to please him. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him, which by the way would have been a passage I would have quoted you earlier when you talked about whole things. But a good good thing is the word. Psalm eighty four eleven and Hebrews eleven six. Those are promises for you. And I know them because I have to I'll say claim them, but be careful where you go with that phrase. Right. Um I I have to do it too. Bob, I forgot about you. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Did I just say it? No, no. Oh okay. Okay. But there's an error and PLOP and that that has a radical separation inherited And it's the believers only have the indicatives, non-believers inheritance. And that is uh that is thrown around in the church. Fundamentally, reform and dispensationalists have Not in this classroom. Hebrews ten, thirty-five through thirty-nine, therefore do not throw away your confidence. Notice how this is all about, like what you should do. Therefore do not throw away your confidence. I love that one. For you have need uh you notice I always love the scripture. I I love all these verses. They're they're all great. See, Harold, give me a little grace because I I love 'em all. Um Do not throw away your confidence, for you uh uh you have need of endurance. Well why do you have need of endurance if the Lord is just going to gift it all to you? You have need of endurance so that when you have done the will of God, there's that obedience part that we talked about several times in several ways. Through different passages today, you may receive what is promised. Wow, what? You need endurance to do the will of God so that you may receive the promise Uh don't argue with me. Take it up with Hebrews. Yet a little while, and the coming one will come. In other words, the final time will come. That final judgment is almost here. But my righteous one shall live by faith. That's an indicative, by the way. And if he shrinks back My soul has no pleasure in him. So that first part where it said, you need endurance to do the will of God so that you can receive what is promised is an imperative. But that indicative part is what's the next part? And it says, Mine don't shrink back, and they're not destroyed. But by faith, they preserve their souls. Notice that, they preserve their souls through the endurance in walking in the will of God. You say, oh my word, you're undoing the monarchistic activity of God for final salvation. No, I'm not. All I'm doing is putting one verse after another. And they are both true. And they are both in the treasure of God's word. Oh Scott, you're being ridiculous. You're just making contradictory statements from the Bible. I hope that you don't think that But if you think that, you go home and you do what I've done. Write them all down. These are all the verses that say I have nothing to do with it. It's all God. And then you write down these are all the verses that say I am obligated to walk in obedience. Frankly because of the monarchistic activity of God. Romans 10, 9, because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. you will be saved. That's a favorite Romans road passage and there it is. If you do these things. Well, it's all of God. Absolutely. But the way we experience it, we verb believe. We verb confess him as Lord. Through 20, but you, beloved, build yourselves up. Kind of crazy heretical line. Oh wait, shoot. It's in the Bible. Build yourselves up in your most holy faith. Wow. Keep yourselves. in the love of God. By the way, lots of passages where he says he keeps us, right? So don't go nuts. James 2, 14 through 26. We're not going to do it all, but you read it, right? And it makes a specific reference to Genesis 22, how Abraham's obedience in sacrificing Isaac. You gotta read it. It's a crazy passage. Because, look what God says, he made the covenant with him in Genesis 15, and then he gets to Genesis 22. He says, Because you obeyed me and sacrificed your sons, I will make this oath to you And he remakes according to his own name. He says it all in himself. He preserves his monarchistic activity. But God said, because you obeyed me, you will receive the promise. And he's even more explicit about what The Bible doesn't shy away from the indicative and the imperative. And there's some references there, but I'm out of time. And I want to get to that last section. Crisis of Faith, speed read Do not be like those who knew the truth, but did not believe in the way that the scriptures describe it. Isaiah 29, you should look these passages up when you get home. They presume on ritual while disobeying. Their lives are not lives that are consistent with love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and love your brother as yourself. That's all I need. That's so exhaustive I don't need to list the other six however hundred many laws there are. I don't need them. I've got those two and they'll cover everything But you think church attendance and Bible reading and listen to this whack job Scott on Sunday mornings is actually going to edify you in some way, you are not walking in the obedience of God's word. Jeremiah 7, 4 through 11, covenant security, divorce from covenant obedience. I'm safe in Christ because of his monarchistic activity. But you lack all sense of the obligation of your faith. Psalm fifty, sixteen through twenty-three, professing God's word without submitting to it. But God said, and we're really good at this when it's somebody else's sin, and we stink at it when it's our own. You say, Well, I don't really struggle with that sin. If you cannot honestly say that you are constantly abounding in rejoicing because of the promises of God that are playing themselves out in your life, then you are sitting You absolutely are, in a way that disgraces God. Amos 6. 1. Security and identity without obedience. I am in Abraham. I am in Paul. I am in Cephas. I am in Christ. Identity without obedience If you are in Christ, if you love me, keep my commandments. Grace offered us uh an allusion to that earlier today. Grace, the woman, not Grace the now. Luke picks this same theme up repeatedly, and you see a list of those passages. Over and over again in Christ's teaching, he says You are my disciples, if and then he he gives a characteristic of disciples, and and most of the time, the vast majority of the crowd he's speaking to ends up going away, not disciples. Romans 12, 1 and 2. I just love this. This is really the root of my definition that I'm going to offer you in this last section of faith. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable worship, uh, excuse me, spiritual worship. I read that out of the ESV. I like it better in uh the KJV. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind that by testing you may discern the will of God By testing you may discern the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Revelations 2 and 3, to whom To he, it should be, sorry, who overcomes. To he that's a refrain that keeps being said over and over again to the churches. To he who overcomes. But it's a present active participle Because it it doesn't mean once, like, oh, you overcame and you won the victory and now you're good to go. It's continually overcoming. The author of Revelation knew that we were going to continually be challenged in Christ, and he says, you've got to keep overcoming You gotta keep walking according to your faith. You've got to keep walking in obedience. Luke 21, 19. By your endurance. There it is again. You shall gain your lives. And this that statement is made again in the context of the last days. So here's the proposed definition of faith for you. Mind Um been teaching this for twenty years. Faith means living a transformed life. As a result of the certain promises of God for both today and tomorrow. Three key aspects of that are the transformation of your life, the continual transformation of your life based on the certain visible apparent promises of God. That part is important? And that those promises are for both this very moment in your life and every day following it until the final promise when you are returned to God in Eden. As the metaphor goes. If you don't like that one, living in the reality of God that affects every step of every day for the glory of God through your peace, confidence, and joy.