There are not there are new notes this morning. I know that's unusual after the last several weeks. But make sure you get a copy of them. Don't know how long uh this next section is gonna take me. Um I deliberately limited the length of my notes today in hopes to get through them Let's pray and we'll get started I have decided that I dislike generally having a representative of the pastoral staff in a class talking about apologetics. I feel extremely constrained to say what I know I should be saying as a result of the many, many years I've spent studying systematics and um and apologetics And uh if I have grieved to the heart, I only have one in the room right now. I think, but I noticed that I've had two variously over the course. So I must really be on the edge here Um but uh um if I uh again if I offend somebody's sensibilities It it's difficult. Language is difficult and I gotta squeeze a lot into a short time. So I do want your forgiveness. I want you I want you concreted in Christ, not separated from him in any way, not afraid, not challenged, not uh lost, not confused. I just want you to know him in the way that the Bible describes. Um and I want that to be transformative. Um In ways that get at the essence of the word redeemed. We do to that word what we do with most theological words. Bow down at it, faith, trust, grace, redemption, election, sovereignty. We bow down at it. We treat it as though it were a huge word And then we immediately forget what it means. Forget to actually treasure it. Um and as I talked about last week, we forget that it becomes the invaluable currency of our lives to be redeemed. We could spend weeks on that. And the problem of pain presents similar solutions. We have captured a series of words that describe our relationship with Christ. We bow down at those words. We call that worship often, but I'll call it idol making, as I do in uh in the beginning of the subtitle here We worship those words, and in our hearts we create some definition of those words that harmonizes our experiences with those truths. And while there's a degree of harmonization that needs to happen, we are not studying abstract truths. We show up here, I hope, every week, to learn about a God that is real and useful on Monday morning. In real life, in family, in school, in relationship, in politics, and economics, at the at the shopping market At the auto mall, I don't even think we use that phrase anymore, but you get the idea. Um useful in every regard. And yet we create definitions for the things we know about God that synthesize what our experience is that ultimately are just not true. They're too small. They're too tangible. They're too easily crafted by your own mind, which is incapable Of grasping the extent of who God is and how great the redemption we have in Him is, and how significant His immanence with us, His presence, His investment through the Holy Spirit is Most of us couldn't actually tell you why we should be excited about Christ. He would say something lame. And it would sound very Christian and it would accord with all of our orthodoxical statements, but I would be able to tell, and you would know I could tell from the sound of the voice and the look of your eye and the speed of your heart Then it meant no more to you than, well, it's better to have work than not to have work. It's better to not be divorced than to be divorced. It's better to have a healthy child than to have a sick one. It would parallel all those other statements, and yet to know Christ, to have Christ, is so exceedingly more valuable than any of those other things. That it should be difficult for us to respond to that question because of the grip of the reality that it has on our lives All of that was off script, which is why I never finished my notes. We're going to discuss the problem of evil. It is a significant um argument in apologetics Geisler had a whole appendix on it which effectively took the form of a Christian talking to an atheist. And it is a response that we need to be able to make to an atheist, but we first, as has been my theme since the beginning of the class, we first need to wrestle with it ourselves. I've called it a nuclear powered idol factory, and perhaps I was uh unconsciously making a pitch for a potential class that will be taught maybe this summer. I mean I don't exactly know, but it might be. That is uh based on a book by a woman called Nancy Pearcy. I've mentioned her before. It's called Finding Truth, and she basically takes Romans 8 and uses it as a basis for Um uh in brief, finding I finding, identifying, and dismantling the idols in our lives. But I am aware that overexposure to me can cause mental anguish and physical results Much akin to PTSD. So I have conscripted at least two other men from the SLP class. leadership class that I am excited about working on that with. So perhaps idle factories were heavy in my mind. That's my point there. But as I was working on the beginning here, I I'm not sure this is a stretch at all. I first came upon the phrase idol factory some 20 years ago while teaching a apologetics class to high school students. It's in Calvin's Institute, an idol factory. So I use this phrase idol factory because any view we hold of God that is not in accord with his revealed word Or any response we make, it should be to that view, not of that view, any response we make to that view of God is synonymous with building and bowing to an idol. It's worth making sure you caught that. I've called the problem of of evil a nuclear-powered idol factory. Because an idol factory is what we do anytime we hold a view of God that is not completely in accord with his revealed word. Or any response we make of that view of God that is not the response he requires. Many of us would have a uh, if we wrote down, you know, this this is what God said, many of us would get very close to correct words. But our response to it would not be in accord with the testimony of the scriptures. Even as it it rarely was, as you read through the scriptures. Every time God spoke through prophets, through his own word, through his son, through circumstances, he was drawing people back. from the idle factory of their heart and saying, that is not what I said, or I did say that, but you have twisted it To mean these other things. I gave you this law and you started serving the law instead of me. But I gave you the law to teach you how to serve me, not serve the law. I gave you grace because there was no way to bridge the gap between you and I. And so I sent my son I poured out grace, all consistent with the totality of my character, and you now use grace as a cheap excuse to do your own will and feel okay about it. Read the epistles. Remarking about the early references to idols in the biblical record. John Calvin famously comments, from this we may gather that man's nature, so to speak, is a perpetual factory of idols. In other words, he's he's characterizing the testimony of the scriptures. He's like and and he goes on at length in Calvin's Institutes or Institutes of the Christian Religion, um, which is where I stole this from. He's commenting, starting in Genesis and kind of working through the high points, but he's working through and he's like, look, this is a book about men. Being idle factories. We love to make them. If you think about Mount Sinai for just a moment, it is crazy. But before you point a finger at them, how could they do it? No, how could we do it? How can we be like this? He said, what's God? God was on the mountain. visibly shaking the earth, storming the heavens, making, speaking with a voice that they could hear, so that there was fear in their hearts They were told not to approach the mountain. Turns out that wasn't a problem. None of them wanted to. But it says they were playing in the valley while creating a golden pad so that God would lead them through the wilderness because they were concerned about that I don't know if it was three days or three weeks or three months, but could you not remember the Red Sea? What about the planes? What about, what about, what about? I'd be like, oh I'd like to say I would I would do anything for a visible expression of God in my own life like that to give me the confidence that I need to just handle the regular problems that I have at work. But that's an arrogance. I built an idol. If God did this, if he acted the way I want him to Then I would be able to respond in the way that I should. That's an idol factory. I'm saying that my relationship with the Lord would be a thing if God did this other thing the way I want him to be. If he if he Conform to the molding of my mind in my hands, it would be okay. Well, it wasn't for them, or for any generation that followed. And guess what? It's not for Asside. Me, the Lord, to constantly We need to have that Christian mind. And it needs to be a constant and perpetual pursuit of our lives. And I'll tell you what, for all of you that love counseling and love to come alongside others and love to serve others and do all these other things, you want to know the loneliest person in the world The loneliest person in the world is a person that is hurting from some evil or pain in their own life that is sitting with a Christian brother or sister who is battling with them, some incoherent theory of how God works around the problem of pain. They are the loneliest person in the world. Because there is no redemption in the things that you have to do with them. And so they're not only left with a brother or sister that they expected to to to find comfort in, they're not only left with with the absence of that expectation there in the brother or sister. But as the person attempts to share God with them, then it doesn't mean that this is a lost pursuit. The whole point of the lesson is this isn't a lost pursuit. for some of you that might be getting upset as well. But then when you try to share God with them, how much worse? I expected comfort, redemption from my brother or sister. And I got this And I expected redemption from the truth that this brother or sister knows about God. And that's the best you've got. Wow, I've covered one point with a sub point. I'm I'm famously going here Um from this we may gather that man's nature, so to speak, is a perpetual factory of idols. The original work was published in Latin in this phrase, factory of idols. I'm I'm reading to try to get through faster, just so you know. It's not that I don't remember what I wrote. This phrase, factory of idols, has a stronger sense as man's nature loving to express in his work the sort of God he has inwardly conceived. That that red or orange, it's actually supposed to be orange, but it came out red. That red part there is an extension of uh just a couple sentences down from his comment about the idol factory In Latin, we translated it kind of limply, but in Latin it has this much better phrase, the idea that our nature desires to manufacture, to create, to shape Two, two. Imagine and then produce by our own efforts. The sort of God we most desire inwardly Calvin identifies the essential character or characteristic of this nature of man by saying the example of the Israelites shows the origin of idolatry to be that men do not believe God is with them unless he shows himself physically present Makes us gods who may go before us is what or make us gods who may go before us is what he's referencing there. And this is all his quote. But that's out of that Exodus thirty-two passage talking about the experience. At Mount Sinai. Make us gods who may go before us. What are you talking about? He's right there. But again, the evil one, the deceiver, whispers in our ears, yeah, what what nut jobs? Good thing we're not like that. Really? Just as a just as an aside because you know I'm doomed. Um can you read in the scriptures about the tremendous privilege of Christian community? Right, this this idea that to be in Christian community is like this privilege of strength and fellowship, a sharing of the light of Christ. Uh I mean it's just it's just all of it is fullness. All of it is abundance. All of it is enablement. All of it is a little taste of the redemption that we will see in Christ. That is how the fellowship of believers is described. Have you been feeling that here? Is that your motivation to come to church on Sunday mornings? I I think my point to that is is because we have created these goofy little idols of God in our lives We are not imaging the glory of God in how we live and how we move and how we interact and how we talk about the circumstances of our lives And what we really have done is set up little dashboard idols. We've set up those little dashboard idols, and I don't know about you, but every time I drive by a car and I see one of those dashboard idols, I'm like, that is so He bought that piece of plastic. It it wasn't even handcrafted, it was injection mold. Squirted plastic into a mold. It took no art at all. And and you're depending on him to get you to the next place you're going? Or it? I don't even know if some of them were his or hers or I don't know what the hell. But I snigger at those people. Yes, I'm a bad person. I've already admitted that. But you get the point, don't you? We drive by each other in church and we look over and that's a funny idol. It's important to remember that Calvin is not condemning the heathen who do not know God. He specifically addresses this point. He is not condemning the heathen who do not know God, but the church and those that espouse a claim to know him and to worship him. And it's significant that in history he's writing these things around the time of the Reformation. Except we stopped reforming for some reason. We believe we're reformed and it's done with. No, it's not. The only reason I whispered it is because I'm afraid I'll scream it. Every day is an opportunity to see the grace of God come up in the sun that he hung in the sky, and to know him better. to be reformed into his image a little greater, or to be conformed, if I want to use the biblical language, right? conformed into his image a little better. From glory to glory, expressing that image of Christ a little better every day. It's nuclear powered because there is nothing that focuses the mind on the here and the now like pain. The wickedness of man is an abundant, limitless power source for the idle factory of man's hearts, meaning the circumstances of our lives create stress and pain and fear and doubt. We experience evil and if you panic of having to address the here and the now, we synthesize for ourselves a rationale about God, and it is most often not consistent with his nature and his character and his revealed word. It is an idol. It may be our best effort at trying to honor him, but it is still an idol and it is still an offense to God. See first several of the Ten Commandments. It's big on his list. And the wickedness of man is an abundant, limitless power supply for that idol factory because it is everywhere. Even in Genesis 6, 5, we begin it. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every every intention Don't miss those big words, even when they only, you know, four or five letters long. Every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only. So those those are your two big words, right? Every and only. Evil continually. Continually. That's the wickedness of man, but then there's the problem of nature itself. Nature itself mourns and is in travail under the condemnation of the sin of man. Jeremiah gives us some interesting passages. How long will the land mourn and the grass of every field be withered Because of the evil of its residence. That would be us, by the way, although it does go on to describe creatures as well. They have made it a desolation, desolate before me. It mourns. All the land is laid waste. Meaning the world we live in is a testimony to evil. The world we live in is a testimony to the catastrophe of the wickedness of man That's that's hard. That's hard. There's more to be said here, but I'll limit myself to what's in Romans 8 20, which is interesting because that book on idols, as I mentioned, is really picking up on a lot of the passages in Romans that we will be touching on either today or in future weeks. For creation was subjected to futility, actions that result in desperate nothingness. For creation was subjected to futility, that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And I like that verse. It will fit in with an extended passage that I will read you. from one of our books that I think set the stage well for the study that we're doing. But the long and short is it's described as feudal, mourning, decaying, bondage and the travail of childbirth, which anybody that's either experienced it or seen it, that's tough. It's the one place that universally men do not try to outdo women with their toughness. They just give it up and go, you're right. You're the man. I didn't do it. I can't do it. I wouldn't want to if I could. You win. So that's why we've called it and I want you to remember it's so important we've called it or I've called it subtitled this This wrestling with the question of the problem of evil, a nuclear-powered idol factory perpetually fueled by all that is around us And feeding the very nature of our hearts to produce a God of our own reasoning, a God who we can shape to our own ends. And whether we do that innocently or well-intentioned, or whether we do it wickedly and ill-intentioned, the idol is no less offensive to the Lord and no less hurtful to you. You need God, not the idol of Him that is in your mind and your heart The problem evil is formally defined as a trilemma. Three things that intersect at a point. It is first attributed to an ancient Greek philosopher named I don't know how you say this actually. Okay, so we got three votes on pretty much the same pronunciation pretty pronunciation. Woo You know what? Let me just get a tip of this real quick and we'll get rolling. Some say epicurus, some say epicurus. Um it it seems to range pretty widely, but you guys have all heard about Epicureanism, right? Uh usually associated with abundant excess of pleasurable things in a person's Saying that. Turns out well I don't much appreciate the guy and don't feel a need to defend him. Uh i his Philosophy was actually a little better than that, and we'll read about it here in a second. He also has no writing that we have about the trilemma of the problem of evil. uh that we know of. It is it is attributed to him pretty much universally, but um we don't have any writing specifically from him about it. So I just lay that out there as an interesting historical oddity Epicurus asserted the that philosophy's purpose is to attain, as well as to help others attain Happy, tranquil lives characterized by peace and freedom from fear and the absence of pain. That doesn't sound so bad. Philosophy's purpose is to help people live tranquil lives characterized by peace and freedom from fear. and the absence of pain. So his his whole premise, right, fits well with this the problem of pain. My goal is to help Come up with a theory of all that is in order to help people live lives without fear, lives in peace, lives without pain. But there's this problem, I see, and the problem is pain is everywhere Evil is everywhere. And so he famously, if if not actually, um, which I don't know, comes up with this uh proof, if you will. Actually, that's not fair. He comes up with this trilemma called the problem of evil. It was later turned into the atheistic proof against Christianity. As a matter of fact, really the only proof Against the existence of God. Now, I'll come back to why I'm landing on those words the way I am. There are lots of arguments against Christianity, against God Few of them even attempt to rise to the level of a logical proof. This one does. Uniquely, this one does. Which is why we're studying it, right? It is a significant proof, purported proof Against the existence of God, or at least the existence of a God as he defines himself in his word and the historical testimony of himself everywhere. The trilemma is briefly summarized by the notorious. In our circles, he would be notorious. In others he would be famous. Uh the notorious David Hume in his Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion. Epicurus's old questions are yet unanswered. Is he willing to prevent Speaking of God. Is he willing to prevent evil but not able? Then he is impotent. Is he able but not willing? Then he is malevolent. Is he both able and willing? When then he's evil. Meaning, why do we have it? If he's able, has the power And willing, why do we have evil? So something's gotta give in that equation. And you see the trilemma there, right? From an apologetic standpoint, the problem of evil is most significant because it is the apparent proof of atheism. There is only one argument that can even claim, or that even claims, to prove there is no God. Which is pretty much what I said a second ago. A well-known philosopher, the author William Kaufman, who lost family in the Holocaust. is attributed with saying that the reality of evil was a complete refutation of popular theism. Right? He understood that this was a significant Proof against the existence of God. And so he said the reality of evil, he didn't even talk about the proof, he just said that evil exists is a complete refutation of popular theism. Obviously Hume agreed with him and many others, often citing Hume's arguments. In their refutation of the existence of God and the foolishness of religion And then they've followed suit in the same way those men, creating additional philosophies in their life based on the fact that God's not there. Undoubtedly, the greatest intellectual obstacle to belief in God is the so-called problem of evil. The intellectual problem of evil concerns how to give a rational explanation of the coexistence of God and evil. And you'll see that that actually came out of this philosophical foundations for a Christian worldview. Book about YASIC and you know, it's definitely a a weapon of self defense. Or murder, one or the other, I'm not sure which, but um it it's a tome. Um And so just to give you the intellectual argument real quick from a logical perspective, it's based on these two, and this is how it was originally formulated formulated. Premise one is if an omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent God, you guys understand omnibenevolent. What's that mean? Just to make sure. Uh good, but a little amplified. Yeah, yeah. All in the way that he's all knowing and all powerful, he's all good, right? And every there's no aspect of God That omnipart, instead of thinking about it as hovering everything, I would challenge you to turn that around and thinking about it as you witnessing it from any perspective. There is no perspective of God that is not potent There is no perspective on God that is not knowing. There is no perspective on God that is not good. That was for illustrative purposes. I wasn't trying to change the meaning of the word, by the way. God doesn't care whether our perspectives accord with that, he just is those things. So he's talking about what he is outward For illustration purposes, I wanted you to understand the ramifications of what he is, and that is that there is no perspective on God that is not those things. Words are important. So that's premise one. That's the God we talk about? No, right? That's that's the God we affirm from the scriptures. So we would all write that on the board and be like, yes, that's the statement of truth But there is evil in the world, and that's premise two. And now we have a problem, an apparent problem. And the conclusion of many, and to be honest, many of us Right? Calvin was talking to us. It doesn't matter whether Calvin was talking to us, but I just wanted to frame that correctly. The Israelites were God's chosen people. The epistles were written to the church. Christ came and ministered to his own, and he specifically threw the doors wide open to Us. And I can say us because whether you're a Jew or a Gentile or anything in the spectrum between them, he was talking to us. And whenever his own interacted with him, they showed the inability that they had to comprehend the omniscience Omnipot sorry, mind-blank, omniscience, omnipotence, and omnibenevolence of God Small group on Thursday, the Samari uh uh Samarian village that didn't open their doors to Christ for whatever reason and the apostles are like, Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down and consume them? Did you get the omnibenevolence of God? No. Say well that's is that really an idol? Yeah, it is. Thinking like that has an effect on how we see God, how we approach God, how we respond to God, and how we share God with the rest of the world. Those things are undeniable. You cannot think wrongly and then testify rightly It's the problem with testimony in the courtroom. Ask any four people a question, and because they're busy thinking about the problem differently, their testimonies are wildly different. But you're calm to truth to walk in it, to read it, to study it, to breathe it To be encouraged and refreshed by it, to be redeemed by it, to be excited by it to a level that the world asks you to give a hope for the reason that is in you. That's what we're doing in this class But there's no point in teaching you how to respond to the world until you understand what it means to enamor it. by your good God, to put away your idol, your small God, made in an image that accords with your experiences and your intellect If you feel settled in your knowledge of God, oh, brother or sister, repent. It is a great sin. Perhaps the greatest. I'd have to think through that, don't quote me on that one. But Job tells us that real crisis, that the real crisis of the problem of evil is how it directs us to think about God. This is right from the Bible, right? I mean I'm ad limit a lot, but this is right from the scriptures. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you. Therefore I despise myself and repunt repent in dust and ashes. Job bugs me. I don't fully understand Job. I have many books on it, and I have made multiple passes through it in study. Concerted study. Individual for classes. I am always going back to Job And one of the few things I feel like I can say about Job is that he is he is unusual. I don't understand why God selected Job. Like this. I don't understand why it's it's one of the potentially earliest works in the scriptures. I I don't understand this this thing with Job. It's unusual in the scriptures, even its format, its tenor, its narrative You hear about Moses, he's a big player, but it's it's Moses and God and other people and it's the narrative it's all this other narrative and story, but when you get to Job, it's just like woof, Job Let me talk about Job. And and all of reality is like on Job is on stage. What goes on in heaven? Job. What goes on on earth? Job. What goes on in creation? Job. And I I I think notice how wishy-washy that is. I don't want Pastor Jarvis to excommunicate me tomorrow. I think It's because he's really talking about just God and man. A man who attempted to serve and honor God But when confronted with this problem of pain, when confronted with the realities of a fallen world, struggle. And because he's alone in on the stage there, it's like a monologue. I know the three friends are there, but they're almost like comic relief or something. I mean not cool, right? I I I'm not trying to be disrespectful about the scriptures, but it it's all on him. And I think we're invited to step into that place and say What would it be like if I got to have those kinds of direct experiences with the Lord? And I think that's what the I think that's I keep saying I think because I want to be careful here, right? I I I don't know But it's one thing that makes the book of Job make sense to me. Again, all that was opinion. Don't get carried away. If I've offended somebody, I'm sorry The emotional problem of evil. So we talked about the intellectual problem of evil. The intellectual problem is that proof. Premise one, premise two, conclusion. Conclusion, therefore, an omnipotent Omnibenevolent and omniscient God does not exist, and then we seek to find ways to get God off the hook. The emotional problem of evil concerns how to comfort those who are suffering and how to dissolve the em the emotional dislike people have of a God who would permit such Evil. And for those of you that are like, oh emotional, let's get back to intellectual, come on. God truth. Revealed through Christ, the Word, and the Spirit in our intellect, changes our hearts and then secures our will. God, intellect, emotion, volition. That is the testimony of how men work in the scriptures. And that from a person with a stinted emotional palate. I still feel no qualms about saying that is the way that we work. Changed hearts. And when our heart is like the heart of Job, what do we do? We question. We start off trying well, we begin to question, and the questioning actually turns to statements about God which are untrue. And that's what Job says about them in verse chapter 42, 3 and 5. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? He's calling himself the fool. I was the fool when I created my own little idol to respond to my pain Therefore, I have uttered what I did not understand. I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear. I had some sense of you, some tangible sense of you. But now my eyes tease you. No idol, no little thing, no modest scope, no nothing that sits within the time founds of your mind If it fits in your mind, it's not God. Don't nuts so on me. There's some untruth about that statement, but I think you get the idea Therefore I despise myself and I repent in dust and ashes. Make that your morning prayer. Or your evening prayer, maybe, for the words that you spoke during the day, for the thoughts that you had, for the heart that you took into those conflicts. Those challenges, those experiences, whether you had something to do with them or whether you were truly victimized by them. They all happen, all that stuff happens And it's really hurtful, it's truly hurtful, it's desperately hurtful for confusion, for grinding Make this your prayer. Lord, I do not want to be content with the idol that I know that I'm making because I'm trying to rationalize what I know to be true from what's hurtful in life Make this your prayer. And by the way, don't don't be content. Take what's in your heart before the Lord. Heaven's sakes people, read the Psalms. I love the honesty of David. God, I'm angry. I'm weeping. I'm desperate. I'm sick. I'm undone by a sick heart. I know these things to be true, but they are worthless to me at this particular time. I see no joy or encouragement. There's no value in the things that I know about you because of the experiences that I'm having right now. And those experiences are all over the place. People are saying bad things about me. Really? You're the king. Suck it up, Paco. Words. David talks about words a lot being the thing that like drive him to his knees. And I always like, what a wimp. Then I go to work and somebody says something to me and I'm like Yeah. Yeah, picture of the Lord up there going, I got some for you. I'm gonna read you an extended quotation. It's a bit odd, but I cannot help the fact I just feel like it really sets the stage for the reality of what we're talking about here. And so this book is called A Dare to Live Fully, right where you are, 1,000 gifts. It's by a woman named Anne Boskamp. It's one of my wife's books. I picked it up because it was laying around the house. Opened the first page and I was like, I'm using that. Chapter one, I'm only going to read you a little bit, but it is extended, so stay with me. It's called an emptier fuller light. The chapter opens with a quote from a guy named Simon or Simone Wyatt. Every sin is an attempt to fly from emptiness. A glowing sun orb fills an August sky the day this story begins. The day I am born, the day I begin to live. And I feel my mother's tearing ring of fire with my body emerging. Virgin lungs searing with air of this earth, and I enter the world like every person born enters the world with clenched fists. From the diameter of her fullness I empty her out, and she bleeds. Vernix creased and squalling, I am held to the light, then they need me. Could a name be any shorter? Three letters without you in the flourish of an E. And A N N. A trio of curves and lines. It means full of grace I haven't been I haven't been. What does it mean not full of grace. Sorry, I haven't been. that. What does it mean to live full of grace, to live fully alive? They wash my fasty skin and I breathe and I flail. I flail. For decades. a life I continue to flail and strive and come up so seemingly empty. I haven't lived up to my christening Maybe in those first few years my life slowly opened, curled like cupped hands, a receptacle open to the gifts God gives. But of those years I have no memories They say memory jolts awake with trauma's electricity. That would be the year I turned four. The year when blood pooled And my sister died. And I, all of us, snapped shut to grace. And the book goes on to describe a family destroyed By Greece, we then established idols because those idols allowed them some comfort in the face of a God that couldn't reconcile the truth of which with their experiences. It's a good story, a story of redemption as far as I've read. I had to stop to get back to my studies, but I did peruse much of the rest of the book. I think I could recommend it, although I haven't finished it, so maybe you should ask Angela. I think she's further in it than I am. I picked that because I have specific knowledge of the hurt and evil in some of your lives. And if I just poll statistically, or the statistics, I can guess at the evil and hurt in much in much of the rest of your lives. Big things. Loss of a child. Infelity. Loss of a friend. Shattered family. Shattered brother or sister relationships. The cumulative summary of your life given you by somebody you cared about that effectively indicated that you were a failure. Your own heart screaming into your brain, your own failure. And on and on and on. Sin that repeatedly shatters your life A sense of your identity that is so far from what you think the Lord would have for your life You could not value your own identity less. Or there's the quiet scream of each day because people around you seem to value your identity so little. But it would be inappropriate for us to, in this forum, spend time to have that out. So I I read a book instead that used some interesting language. To try to talk about the significance of the problem of pain. Those are real hurts. And they impact your life in real ways. And your ability Both logically, but also I'll say relationally, and I'll tell you why I say that in a minute Response to the problem of pain in your life is so critical that I might suggest it is the second most important thing you will ever do in your life. The first is to know Christ is your Savior. Because the second effort of responding to the problem of pain is not possible without Christ. And so he must come first. That statement is always safe. But responding to this question will affect the nuclear power Sorry, ever since Bush I have to always think about nuclear. Everybody kept saying nuclear and I'm like, oh no, did I say it wrong? The nuclear-powered idle factory, it is your heart Nuclear powered because all of life is pouring fuel into you into you about the question. And an idle factor because it is the nature of man since the fall Let me give you some examples of how that plays out. You say, well, some of these people aren't Christian. Yeah, that's true. But man, they they were trying awful hard. Conservative Rabbi Harold Kushner's three-year-old son suffered of an of and ultimately succumbed at the age of fourteen to a rare genetic disease called, I think Progaria? But if I said that wrong, forgive me. Causing advanced I didn't even know this was a thing, by the way. Causing advanced accelerated aging. Can you imagine just the watching the decay of your child? For any of you that have experienced that, I mean age, and all the pain that comes with it To watch my child go through that would threaten to undo me. And I say all that to say that I I I want to be very careful how I make some of these next statements and the the resulting idols these men built. I actually just feel sorry. I I wish he's dead so there's nothing that can be done about it now. Uh the son is obviously dead, but Harold died as well. I can't remember when. But you look at a picture of him and you think, that looks like a nice guy. Not one of these nut job, severe looking philosophers busy shaking his fist at the Lord, but a conservative Jewish rabbi. And in wrestling with the loss of his son, he wrote a book called When Bad Things Happen to Good People, and it has sold millions. Of copies over the fifty years since its publication. It is still selling books There is no problem getting a copy of this book. And you would be amazed once you read it how often you hear paraphrases or quotes of it in modern media, modern philosophy. Rabbi Kushner's book exemplifies the very danger we must be most concerned with regarding the problem of evil. In trying to reconcile his experience with his belief or the truths that he held close, he concluded that God is indeed good And therefore cannot really be in control of this world or what happens in people's lives. Let me tell you how that plays out generally in our modern conservative churches. We call it eschatology God is basically not paying attention to you right now, but it'll be okay. One day he's gonna come and he's gonna pay attention and he will set all things right, and you are left with grim resignation during this waste limit of your life until he comes again. And although you would never say it, what you mean by that sentence is that he's not paying attention to me right now He's not maintaining his goodness on this earth right now. He is not specifically exercising his sovereignty over my life and all the things that occur into it And therefore I am left to do the best that I can and get all the emotional support that I can from the Scriptures. You've created an idol, which is entirely inconsistent with the Scriptures. You have put God in a box and you set a clock on it, and you hope one day to open that box and see the good God that's in it. But for now, you carry the box A plastic injection molded box that sits on your dash that brings you no comfort. and leave you tired and desperate. You can't fix the problems that you're called to mend in your lives. Problems of purity and problems of servanthood and problems of leadership and problems of relationship, you can't fix them because you believe that God's in the box And you see no method by which your strength and your ability, your determination, your discipline, the small dose of grace that you've been granted is able to address That marriage that is barely making it, that wife that refuses to just change in accordance with what you think you need in order to make the marriage evidence, Christ in the church. Which it does. One example. How many more? I cannot be happy because I cannot live like this any longer because If we're a world getting better through technology, why does the suicide rate keep going up? Now the success of suicide I think is pretty static. But the number of people that play with it, I'll call it, and I I'm not making a serious problem less serious, but I'm not convinced they want to die I'm convinced they want help. And they are truly desperate for how to ask for it. And the people like us That should be excluding a redemptive God. Walk up to him with a box and go, let me tell you about my God. I don't want that to go too far. Let me tell you about my God. And they look at you and they go, It's a box, you nut job. Might look good under your dash, but I think you're kind of pathetic. That book is sold sold and sold and sold and sold. And people have consoled themselves with the idea that God truly is good But we have to give him an out. And so he's not truly in control. He's like, is it really that prevalent? Do you know that the most disruptive theological controversy, I think I'll call it, in the last 200 years. Is is a thing called openness theology. I have a bunch of statements on it here. It's right here below it. Open theism or openness theology, first defined in 1994. It's new. New It's actually not, it came out of process theology, and before that there was a long history of philosophy that said very similar things. This problem of pain and us making God into an idol But getting him off the hook, because we can't figure out how he can be omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent, is really old. But you know, in our arrogance, you know, our modern man's just coming up with all this stuff 1994 has been offered as one of the most disruptive theologies of the last two centuries. Its principal proponent said as much, almost verbatim. Here are some of its principal claims. I'm not going to read them all, I don't have the time, but the the red, the things highlighted in red, these are literally like one, through three, four tenants of openness theology. Decisions not yet made By either God or man do not exist anywhere to be known even by God. You haven't made the decision. God doesn't know what's going to happen yet. It's available to you And that may bring somebody comfort in some way, but for the rest of us, it leaves you all possibly like you get to make decisions that affect me. To be very honest, that brings me no comfort at all. I don't trust any of you. I got a I got a full chuckle out of Bill. God's greatest attribute is love. Is that she wasn't you? Oh sorry. It might hurt her, but she laughs at me every day. Bill, that's not new. You laughing, that's different. I live with her. She uh you know I know my place in the world. Um God's greatest attribute is love. I am so tired of hearing that. What do you mean greatest? God's great attribute, God's essential attribute, God's amazing attribute God's indefinable I think but anyway is love but it's not his greatest doesn't compete with his omniscience his omnipotence his righteousness And what do you even mean by love? Love is love. Notice that again what does that mean? Somebody tell me what that means! I hate that thing. It makes me so angry. I'm like, if you would take that off, I could be more loath. But with that phrase on there, I just want to strangle you. I'm a bad person. I'm a bad person, Pastor Jarvis. You should really reconsider who you stand these classrooms. You think it's not my fault. Next time, no. Not his fault. Man has liber libertarian, and the the that means something to them that they define, and I don't have the time for it, but man has libertarian free will. In other words, I get to choose God wants me to choose. It honors him if I choose and choose and choose and choose. And if you take away the potential for evil in the midst of the choice that I'm not actually choosing I I don't even know how to interact with that idol. There is nobody that I know of in this church, unless you're just completely off the raft, fourth uh from an uh Orthodoxy perspective that is more into the responsibilities of man. For years and years and years I have heard Sunday school teachers in this church talk about the law, and I don't agree with them. I want the law. Not as a means to be right with God, but as a means to know how to walk with God. He gave it as a means for approaching him, to say, this is what's good and right This this is what I want you to do. I love the law. And I I hold myself responsible to care. with this one. Right? To doing what I know the Lord wants me to do. I am responsible all the way to an effort unto death. To please the Lord with my actions. But there is no part of that that brings me comfort. It is entirely inconsistent with the scriptures. Man has libertarian free will. God does not have exhaustive knowledge of the future. Well then he's an idiot. And he's not worth being called God. I'm sorry, there is no way off that hook. And yet, I cannot tell you how many people ascribe to this openness theology thing. I ran into it when I was doing a bunch of Bible studies, I don't even know how many years ago now It must have been right around the early 2000s, so not long after it picked up. And I started seeing these these men that I knew that usually wrote really good stuff and they would get to this place and they would kind of like chink right. And I would go, whoa, what what just happened? It's like I was with you, I was with you, I was with you, and then all of a sudden I felt like you just dropped me over an edge. And then I started seeing response papers and journal articles and books that popped up As as conservative people responded to this openness theology thing, it is a big deal. And it has seeped into the teaching of the church I don't think ours, by the way, but the church in a pervasive way This is not just out there little idol-making people with you know stuff on their dash. This this is the church. God takes risks. He has to. He doesn't know everything. He's waiting on your decision. So he's going to use all of his skill and ability, which is considerable, it's better than ours, right? And he's going to take risks He's going to orchestrate things in certain ways, not clear exactly how the end is going to come, but he's going to take a risk. And because he's so good and so knowledgeable and so powerful and so experienced and so so in the length He he he's generally gonna get it right. Except for my three year old son that's dying of an advanced aging disease. Except for the child that didn't make it into the world. Except for that marriage that man, he was asleep when we got married And yet the scriptures are super clear on this. I was actually a little surprised by how clear they are on it. God does marriage. God appoints marriage. God brings two people together in marriage. Well what about I I don't know I don't know. You're you're gonna be able to come up with an example that's gonna stump stump me, but I I have a nuclear-powered idol factory in me too, so I'm busy struggling against mine. Don't ask me to carry yours. I got enough radiation. God learns. Oh my word. I don't need a reactive God. I want a sovereign God. I don't understand it, and I know that I always want it my own way, but I want to be able to take the hurt of my life and hold it before the Lord and say Yes, I know that you infinitely controlled this. You knew my sin and you knew the needs of me and my wife and my kids and the world and my community and my testimony. You knew all of this. And you did this. You did this. This sin that was perpetrated on my body or my mind or my heart, you did this. God makes mistakes, God can change his mind. Those are the last two. For those of you that think this is a bit too much, again consider Job In Job thirty-eight through forty-one, we see that the problem of evil and pain is partly, if not mostly if not uh lost my place a demand that God justify himself to us. We experience these things, the pain, the evil, and we demand that God justify himself to us. And when we don't feel that we get a satisfying response, we create an idol. We make an excuse. Excuse, we come up with openness theology or process theology or one of these other things. Even Geisler succumbs to the idol factory In the back of his book he's responding to the atheist and he says, That's because God can bring eternal good only to those who will accept it. I'm sorry, what? My salvation is the most eternal good that I can think of for me. And if it were left to me, I would have shaken my fist in his face and said, no. I'm busy. I got an idol, and it's me. And I'd like to keep it that way. I will not share the throne of my life with you. There's barely enough room here for my ego. God cannot force them to freely choose to play the game the right way. Ultimate good only comes to those who choose it. Geisler is wrong Go compare that to Romans 8. 29. That is not what Romans 8. 29 says. It says God is sovereign in every part of the walk of our lives. We demand a rational explanation for why God allows the suffering, and in so doing Play out the history of Job all over again. We demand a rational explanation for why God allows suffering, and we mostly mean in our lives, by the way We talk about, you know, earthquakes and traumas and tsunamis and you you feel bad about it, but uh I I've seen the way we talk about that. When we really get piqued is when the pain comes home. And in so doing, in demanding that rational explanation from God, and and and all that follows, and again I want to be careful about this, you should pursue God with all of your mind and all of your heart. But we do it like Job did it, and we play out the history of Job all over again, like so many others. Um our time is short. Do me a favor. Somebody grab Proverbs twenty five two, quickly. Just raise your hand and you can turn there in a second. Come on, come on, come on. Job 11, 4 through 9. 11, 4 through 9. Job 30, oh no, we've got those chapters. Um do do Romans 11, 33 through 36, please, Morton. One more. Romans 8, 29. It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, but the glory of kings is to search out of matter It's the glory of God to conceal a matter. His ways are up there, right? What am I interacting with you when we demand a rational explanation from God? Fit it in a box for me, God. Make me get it all. Make the pain go away. Make it go away in a way that I want it to go away But it is the glory of God to keep secret some of his providential will for this time. Maybe we should add. Job 11, 4 through 9 For you have said my teaching is clear and I am innocent in your eyes. But if only God would speak and open his lips against you and show you the secrets of Wisdom. For sound wisdom has two sides. Know then that God forgets part of your guilt. Can you discover the depths of God? Can you discover the limits of the Almighty? They are as high as the heavens. What can you do? Deeper than Sheu, uh Sheu, what can you know? Its measurement is longer than the earth and broader than the sea. Right? What was he saying? You you cannot understand the enormity of my omniscience, my omnipotence. and my omnibenevolence. But he did deign to explain some things to Job in a way that allowed Job to be comforted. This is not about not meeting his people where they need to be met. It's about us not making an idol factory, letting God reveal himself in his time, in his way. to us as the ultimate God, the true God, consistent and unified in his character, not cheapened and dismissed by our explanations of him. Oh the depths of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments. And how inscrutable his ways, for who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid, for from him And through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. Amen. Romans 829. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn of one. Yeah, I I I just wanted God's word to be the last word on what we've said so far today. And I want to challenge you to consider those verses this week in light of your particular experiences. Now I'm going to speed read my last comment here because I want to set a frame for our study, and then we're dismissed. Okay? So I will take those scriptures and use those as our closing prayer that we already read. So I'm just going to speed read this and then you're going to run out of here. Okay? Primary intentions of these lessons, these are my words. Responses to the problem of pain help us think rightly about God and thus give us an opportunity for rescue, redemption, and refuge. They do not make the pain or its consequences unreal, ungodly, or true. I hope never to diminish or disrespect your suffering while we have these discussions. I hope only to help you think about them in a way that encourages you in God and help you think about God correctly to destroy idols and actually possess the reality of your God. A right response to the problem of pain or evil is a radical engagement with God, not a running away or dismissing or excusing. It's a radical engagement with God, a wrestling with him that says, I will not let you go unless you bless me. Jacob, right? While also obediently and trustingly opening our hands to God and saying, everything comes from you. And though my strongest desire This is you still talking, you know, me by example, and though my strongest desire is that you would take this cup from me, Christ I know that not my will, but yours is the only way to my deepest desire. Total redemption. And there's so much richness in the scriptures that calls us to do more than just hear those words and say, that's super cool that Christ said that. He's twice. There's so much in the scriptures where God says, I actually saved you. And it used Christ so that you know exactly how your life is supposed to look. It's not a model. It is the the print of the life of a Christian. And so as we go through here, I'm not looking for guilt or any of those other things. I am looking to encourage you in a radical engagement with God. It helps you find, realize, cherish, and be refreshed and redeemed like a real God. Have a great one.