This class, uh Feast of Israel, it's appointed times. Really, it's uh uh Mel Sergine we'll we'll blame it on Mel. Mel is the one who said that uh we need to do the Feast of Israel We need to do the uh uh these covenant feasts. And the problem with uh uh something like this is it's uh Well we never get to the depth of any Bible study we do. If it's a book, we go through a book, uh or anything. But topical can be so broad, and that's always the the the trial I start off with not enough information and then I keep expanding it and expanding it, you know, from different sources and teachers that have taught me uh through books and and lectures and Um, then you have to narrow it back down and and decide what you're gonna pro uh provide. But the format of this class, especially with with um I feel like I'm preaching to the choir a lot of times at Hope Bible Church. is I uh when we get back in person uh particularly I I I'm hoping for interaction, I'm hoping for your feedback, for your um interjection into what we're doing Um having said that, um obviously we we uh we need to because of time we need to uh keep our uh uh interactions uh based on the Bible. It's easy to get uh far astray from uh uh the biblical truth that we study The other thing I'd like to do is is uh before we get into this is is to consider um Uh what I call kind of uh well the the plan of God and uh really God's revelation uh how it's progressive. Uh if you've been in any classes I've taught before, you you know I I tend to go over this, but God did give w we need to be When we look back at these Old Testament um uh promises, we have we're looking back 2,000 years beyond the cross, all that theology, uh the the scriptures are complete and we have two thousand years of theology, people impact for us, the Trinity, all that. We take that for granted, but men wrestled with this. We have to go way beyond that and look at try to look at it from Israel's eyes as they were uh uh honoring these feasts and and uh those that did it with the right heart, but what were they seeing? So and it's difficult to do, but to put your eyes, uh, put the hat on and look from their point of view Back when they first got this message. And so w that's one of the things we need to try and wrestle with. The other thing is, again, the big topic is that revelation was progressive. Think about um I I'm going to read you some quotes of uh one from John MacArthur. I think one of the things John MacArthur does best of all, if you if you do any of his studies or go through any of his books His overview of books is uh I think that's his his gift, his genius, if you will. Um, he does a tremendous job of of giving the big picture Um but again, think about the the revelation that that uh they had to Abraham and and then to the nation uh to the Jews The time frame, they're you they're looking at you know what a thousand years worth of revelation of say it stopped at four hundred BC You think of our revelation, the complete revelation, uh, the New Testament, what'd it take, uh thirty, um, sixty years, right? Say just round numbers, thirty eight uh AD to s to ninety AD. Um we have a complete revelation, the ex explanation of that Uh it's just think of the time frame. They they had theirs over generations and it was fragmented. So having said that, I want to read a just a couple of uh things that um MacArthur wrote, and and I think he sums this up well. He goes, To Noah was revealed the quarter of the world from which the Messiah would come. We we have the the sons of of Noah and and we know that the Semites, right, c came from Shem Uh so this is gonna be the uh uh the nation Israel, to Abraham, the nation uh of Messiah, right? Abraham is going to be blessed. Every all his uh descendants of of him, his seed, would be blessed. He would be a blessing to the nations Uh to Jacob, the tribal Messiah, right? Uh the scepter shall not depart from Judah. Uh, right, from David David, the we have the family of Judah, right? He keeps you see how it keeps narrowing down? And then remember the time frame that uh we're talking between these revelations This is over a huge period of time. Micah, the town where the Messiah would be born. Daniel. Daniel chapter nine, uh the seventy weeks, if you uh Uh believe in that interpretation, which we do. Daniel, the time of the Messiah is alive. Malachi, the forerunner who who was to come before him, Jonah, his resurrection was typified. Right? Three days in the belly of the whale. That Jesus uh quoted that. He he said uh he the Son of Man would be in a tomb Uh but in Jesus Christ everything was whole and total. That's the beginning of Hebrews, right? The uh the prophets of old spoke in many portions in many ways, and Christ has come and revealed the complete revelation. It's in Christ. So I just wanted to say that because uh this is uh what what we're grappling with when when we deal with these things and and i I think it helps us uh on several levels. Uh number one to to get an idea what they were uh uh what revelation was coming to them and what wasn't, uh also uh an appreciation for what we have. Uh like me, it's so easy to take for granted. Uh w we spell it off, you know, Jesus Christ was crucified, uh, you know, he died, he was buried, three days, he rose from the air. We say it almost rumbly and yet uh that revelation uh it was not if the if they saw it at all it was through the spirit I gave him an inkling, but certainly not in the personal work of Christ with the expo uh detail that we have. So um Keep that in mind. And it's a difficult task to do because again we've been so trained in this that we know it. One last thing Uh this is uh uh how he summed it up. But the Old Testament gave in precept of Christ, the New Testament gives in perfection What the Old Testament presented of Christ in shadows, the New Testament presents in substance What the Old Testament presents of Christ in ritual, the New Testament presents of reality. What the Old Testament presents of Christ in picture, the New Testament presents Presents of Christ in person. The foretold is fulfilled. Prophecy becomes history. Pre-incarnation becomes incarnation. The New Testament presentation of Christ declares the meaning of the Old Testament. And and what a blessing we have. That's one of the things that we need to consider. So I I put the notes, they're on hopeful in general moving forward. Um I I given you the essence of it, uh, and areas to to take in notes. Um so uh going forward we'll probably try and have some printed out. I apologize. It was my goal to be there early this morning. The other thing though is if you can print them right off a hope book, if you sign up to the class, you have access to this. So with that, I'm going to run through this real quick for those of you who don't have the notes in front of you. So we just did the introduction and a bit of a background. So uh the first topic is the Sabbath, right? We're gonna l look at this. Um uh Genesis, Leviticus. The Sabbath is about relationships. The other topic I have, the Sabbath is a sanctifying sign. The Sabbath is an eternal sign, and the Sabbath is found in Messiah, Jesus Christ alone. So these are topics uh what I did for a lot of this, um I I relied, I thought, you know I want to get a Jewish pers perspective. I am not Jewish. I'm not authority on Judaism or you know the the customs, etc. Uh so uh a lot of the work that I've done it was on um uh two messianic Jews who wrote books on the feast Uh one was a man named uh uh Nadler, Naila, I'm not sure how you pronounce it's him, Naila, the feast of Israel And um the other was by um I can't think of their names offhand, but anyway, uh they're also from the uh any of you familiar with the the uh Friends of Israel. If you remember El Wood McQuaid, he had a radio program years ago and he's written a lot. He had a big ministry on uh he was a messianic Jew and and several uh scholars worked with him and for him. So uh these are the perspectives. So uh as we go through this I'll try and get the the Jewish perspective uh Now particularly from uh uh those that are still looking for the Messiah. So let's start with uh the Sabbath. Um I hope you have your Bibles. Um I like a hard Bible. I know a lot of you do electronics. Um I still think uh uh The old written word in a book is is superior, but uh that's an argument for another day. So the Sabbath, Genesis 2-2. By the seventh day, God completed his work Which he had um which he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work, which he had done. So Leviticus is what we're basing our feasts on. Now some people uh I don't know that we're gonna get to Hot Up, Churum, and some of those that that are not uh uh in scripture. Uh I doubt it. I mean the the uh we have seven topics we'll go through Sounds sounds like uh we could do this easily, but thirteen weeks goes by quick. That's only that's less than two weeks of topic. Um So anyway, Leviticus 23, 1 through 3. The Lord spoke again to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them The Lord's appointed time, which you shall proclaim as holy convocations, my appointed times are these, for six days work may be done. But on the seventh day there is a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy congregation. Ye shall not do any work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwellings. So Not most would not start with the Feast of Israel's with with the Sabbath. But this this is and if you uh we're not going to go through uh read through Leviticus 23 today. You can do that on your own and y you'll see the different uh feast and sabbath times. Different feasts are called a Sabbath, right? It's a rest. Um And I'll start with that. Um one of the things if you look up Sabbath, uh uh uh range of meaning, um Sabbath really just means rest to cease from work. It's i you pick up his theological uh implications uh of a day or anything else by the context of which it's used. In general it just means work to cease to work Uh you you can see it in all its forms. Uh I uh had a slide that w but but it it's it's just what it means. It means just to rest Um the Greek word the Septuagint translates uh for this um uh rested here. Okay, and he rested. It just means the same thing. Uh uh what we'll see in um H Hebrews. There are a couple of different forms of it. But it's the same, same basic root word, and both of them just mean the rest, to cease, to decease from. So having said all that Uh what we need to do is really kind of so if we're going to talk about the Sabbath, if we're going to explain it, we have to understand uh how it's used and and what it means So I'm gonna skip that section. So if God's goal is to restore the Sabbath rest, right, which is what he he's Let me go back. We we have to consider what happened in the fall, right? Genesis 2. 2 God had the day of rest. He completed his work. He rested in it. It doesn't mean he obviously took a break. He just ceased from his creative work All creation, all the all the elements. From a scientific point of view, uh some of you uh uh know this. Uh certainly much better than I, but the building blocks for all of creation, right? The atoms, uh everything was complete. Now he can form and organize. Uh man has has been created. Again, when uh man's reproduced, uh uh God formed us in the womb, he doesn't create us, the the elements, the DNA code, everything is already there. He rested in this It means he he he's satisfied with it. He's he's um he's completed his work. He's enjoying it And the part of that enjoyment, we're going to move to that, it's relationship. But man fell, right? And so really what God is doing Let me read you Ross's quote. Alan Ross wrote this, he wrote a commentary on uh uh Genesis. This is from the Bible knowledge commentary. Uh uh God blessed the seventh day because of the uh excuse me, because it commemorated the completion or cessation of created work. God's Sabbath rest is a major theme throughout scripture. Before the fall, it represented the perfect creation, sanctified and at rest. After the fall, the rest became the goal of all creation. Israel was set out on a theocratic rest in the promised land. But that goal depended on faith and obedience to the Lord God. So God knew from the beginning, right, that this was going to fall. That he created this rest. And this was the model. He also created man to rule and reign, right? Genesis uh what 126-27, right? We're we're the reign of the fish and sea, birds of the air, sky, birds of the sky. Um we are to roll and reign. That was short-lived. If you look at the end of uh revel uh uh God's revelation in the book of Revelation, you'll you'll notice when really when the uh narrative stops Uh it in chapter twenty-two it says they will reign with him, with God forever. We will reign There's this great b restoration or redemption uh all through this program. God knew man was gonna fall. Obviously The point of looking at progressive revelation and seeing how he acts differently is remember, this is God's plan. We don't understand, we can't say, oh yeah, I got his plan, I know exactly what he's going to do. But he is revealing his plan, right? This is the way things happen. We have different errors throughout history We live in the new covenant. This was a brand new thing. This is why we have so much explanation. This is why the Jews were so uh befuddled. They they they did not they were blinded to it. So the seventh day God completed his work and rested. And so if God's goal is to restore the Sabbath rest, we've got to understand what Scripture means by this rest. Right? Some think it's uh uh the Sabbath is is now uh maybe Sunday. Uh it's a Sabbath day is Sunday day Some things that um uh we do just by reserving a time. So uh it's kind of a tradition. It's it's something we follow. I'm old enough to remember um um W the the laws in Maryland, I remember when they were changed, uh stores, everything else, right? Everything had to be shut. There was and they were gonna Excuse me, open grocery stores on Sunday. And believe me, I was not saved at this time. I was uh probably still in my twenties or thirties I twenties. And um I was thinking, uh, this is not a good idea, they're gonna turn it into a regular work day. And sure enough, here we are. But uh yeah, I remember w you know But were people resting in God because we all took Sunday off? A lot more people went to church, percentage-wise, I think, than they do now. But does that mean you were resting in God? I I don't think so So Shabbat pictures and Shabbat is the Hebrew pronunciation of it. It's uh I don't know why we transliter uh literally Shabbat into the Sabbath But we knew. So Shemai pictures uh God's goal by his creation, then we would dw dwell with him and relate to him, right? Do I have Exodus? Here we are. So Shabbat is about relationship So let's start with this. Exodus 20, verse 10. But the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it sh you shall not do any work, you or your sons or your daughters, your male servants, or your female servants, or your livestock, or the sojourn Skeething. Who is within who is within your gates. Now I want you to see I use the ESB in this Good thing to look at different translations. These little words I have underlined there too. I think New American Standard has four This is where all languages, uh Hebrew and Greek get tricky because you don't we don't they don't have different words for their prepositions. They use one Uh and and that preposition can have several different meanings. Um I like to. It's to, towards, it's direction But the seventh day is a Sabbath to towards uh American standard has unto which which are like to the Lord It's not think about the direction. It's to them. It's not to us. It's to when I say them, I guess talking about the Trinity. It's to God. So God tried to meet with man after the fall, right? And he's restoring them. They're trying to restore. He's restoring a a a remnant, but um that's the program that's in now. It's relationship. Israel was commanded not to work But it was also a date to the Lord for God's people to relate to him. There are two ways that we can relate to God through Shabbat. Sabbath is about relationship. First we relate to God as his creation. Um That's what Genesis 2 was. He was talking about God having rested in his creation. It's t it's w it's for us to sit back and to contemplate, yes, God created everything And and we say that. Uh but then oftentimes if if you're like me, uh I get into my own world and and and it's from my point of view, it's not from God's point of view I'm not part of his creation. I'm thinking what creation can do for me or um how am I gonna be blessed Uh it's a perspective. I'm not resting in God, I'm resting in me and I'm trying to figure out how God can allow me to rest Uh it's so easy to turn the focus around, the engine around, if you will. Um But perhaps you all are san uh totally sanctified and you don't have to deal with that. So it's about relationship So God's creation. Secondly, we relate to him as his redeemed. Do I have that? Deuteronomy You shall remember that you are a slave in the land of Egypt and the Lord your God brought you out of there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore the Lord your God commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. Excuse me Do you see that you see where this is going? You observe the Sabbath day, but what came prior to it? What describes it? You were a slave God God brought us out. God and think of the of Israel. This is where we need to put on our our Jewish hat, our Hebrew hat This is so ingrained in them and and this and um especially with the Passover. The Passover is such a big uh uh one of the big fees for them that apparently it's more universally observed by Jews than than the others. But They identify with the slavery. That was their four, four, four, you know, great, great, great, whatever, forefathers. But it was personal to them. They were slaves. They were they were down there And but they were redeemed. Our redemption is is from slavery too. But our redemption is is broad. It's it's broad in that it's foundational, it it covers all aspects of life. We're redeemed what? From sin. We were slaves to sin. Romans 6 But it it's redemption. So again, therefore the Lord your God commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. Why? Well so what's is it just the day that that makes us No, it's it's to remember, it's to meditate on what God has done for you, which you couldn't do for yourself So these two aspects of Sabbath are creation then Really? Creation? And creation was was for uh uh relationship. God didn't create just to create Uh God created for the universe to glorify him. And to glorify him in in itself, in its base, it involves a relationship A non-relationship does not, as we can see, does not glorify God. So the work of redemption was completed on the cross, right, by the sacrificial death of Messiah? Jesus said on the cross, right. What do you say in John? It is finished The other thing is uh let's see I'm at Dr. Tone pretty good Shabbat is a sanctified song. I have down here Exodus thirty-one thirteen. But as for you, speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Ye shall surely observe my Sabbath, for this is a sign between me and you Throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you Before I move on, I know this is difficult, but at the same time I feel like I'm just doing a download of information That's why I l I uh uh really miss being with you there in person because I I'd like to to have interaction, to see w you know, are you tracking with me? Do you have any questions, any thoughts? Um uh any thoughts, any uh Raymond, if you if I can't hear you, Raymond will will uh uh be a go between. Any thoughts, any uh ideas, an anything come to your mind that you want to express during this time about uh the first part of uh Shabbat Oh Sabbath. Um the last passage here is it's it's um Deuteronomy five fifteen Raymond, could you repeat that for me? Yeah, so Deuteronomy 5. 15, the last passage. Do you have a question about that? Yeah, it wasn't it wasn't Deuteronomy 20, it was Deuteronomy 5. 15 Deuteronomy. Yeah, it wasn't it wasn't the reference was She said the reference was off it was uh Deuteronomy five fifteen Instead of twenty? Oh. Really? Yeah. Oh bad I'll have to correct that. Yeah. All right. All right. Any other comments? Um Alright then, moving along. Shabbat is a sanctifying sign, right? Exodus 31, 13 But as for you, speak to the sons of Israel, saying, You shall surely observe my Sabbath, for this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations. That you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you. So This is a sign, ye shall observe my Sabbath. Why? Well, this is a sign between me and you That the Lord is going to sanctify. Now to sanctify I assume preachers require here or talk you know this word. It's uh is to be uh set apart, to be made holy. Uh same real word is uh saints Right? We're set apart once. We've been by his spirit, by his grace, his imputed righteousness, we're declared holy. So to be sanctified, set apart for the Lord is again a relational choice. To get to know someone, it's going to take a time and a commitment Right? Surely when you observe my Sabbath, my rest, when you stop, stop from working, stop from s uh striving The Sabbath observance was for Israelites to cease and work and striving to rest and meditate to know the Lord who sanctifies to make one holy. It is he who creates and provides, right? We create he created all. He he created us. If he's if we're going to be changed We need a Sabbath rest to do that with. We need to spend time with the one who can change us. We need to to to know him So we are saints by calling, holy ones. We are in this position because of redemption by the Lord. The light excuse me in light of our position in relation to Jesus, we are setting apart Sabbath time to relate and meditate on Him, to have a deeper awareness of who He is And so when we talk about that, do you have a Sabbath time? And uh I think sometimes we w we have taken the Sabbath and and and made it too much of it's kinda like church Uh um oftentimes I'll use assembly or ecclesia to remind people that that it's it's God's assembly Sometimes we look at Sabbath, Sabbath, we think of immediately day, uh uh maybe Sunday. Today's our Sabbath. Um uh we do this But again, i it it's a time. It's it's a time to uh again desist from striving. Do you take time to fill yourself to get uh in a relationship w w with Christ, with God. What it what are your means by doing that? Does anybody have a any means that they share or uh practices that they do that um uh discipline that that they they work with to uh get closer to God You gotta yell, I'm deaf as it is. Alright, here we go. Um, I don't I try not to check my email from Saturday night to Sunday afternoon because email is always work and I've It it always required me to respond with school stuff or work stuff and so I try not to check my email from that time so I'm not distracted Okay, and then what do you do with that time? Well, we um spend usually Saturday night having dinner together with a family. And reading books and playing a game, no TV. And then Sunday morning I did church the entire time and then Okay. Thank you. Any others want to share anything that they do? Daily quiet time, prayer time. Yeah. Um do you have a particular um time or place and is it that you do it or um yeah, looking at the morning sun. Um for me personally, I mean I love to just kind of read through whatever I'm gonna uh the Bible, whatever I'm reading through, and it it it it's not I do plenty of studying and I try to not do it as a study because I may read a s uh for me a a It may be a longer section, it may I may be a little paragraph, it may be a verse that I that catches me and I I just meditate. Something strikes me uh and I'm going, that's I you know, I didn't see that before. Wow, look at that. And um my uh th that's just my way of doing it. It it and that kind of leads to my prayer and to Uh everything else just seems to s to stem from that. I I I've tried praying first. I I some people are have just have a gift of of prayer. I d I don't really have that, but I find that when I'm in the Word My prayer comes from that. Uh my my praise uh uh uh that's just w what works for me Any others? I find out memorizing scripture scripture to be helpful. Go ahead. Uh I was saying I find memorizing scripture to be helpful. Uh like when I'm out for a run or things like that, just reviewing uh the verses like The men's uh breakfast verses I found to be very helpful and clergy. Yeah. There there is no set method as as much as um uh well we're God makes us differently. Um what works for you, the point is is that you know when you spend time with God. That's my point. Um uh when God speaks to me in his word or or some other thing or a thought comes to me and I'm thinking that's really profound, I know it came from God. Right? Well, we're just ca I'm just a conduit. I'm just you know, I I'm his instrument. Um everything comes from him. Uh Whatever gifts I have or don't have, uh it's what the Lord provided. It's what he uh But that's that's that's Sabbath that's resting that's my rest on God. And I and many of you I I probably do it and not even thinking about it. But when you're um in that uh Whatever time you're doing, uh be a prayer, reading the Bible, I don't know how you do it, uh uh just meditating, thinking about God as you're driving down the road, that is a Sabbath Uh that's unrest. And again, it's not we need to take it back and move it so much from the day He had to carve out a day 'cause he knows the the the heart of man. We work every day and be all busy about our lives So that's the sanctifying. The Sabbath also points It's an eternal sign. So this is Exodus 31, 16, and 17. Heaven and earth Well I don't assume I got all this. The problem when I uh copy some of this Let's go to the source. Exodus thirty one sixteen and seventeen Here we are. So the sons of Israel shall observe the Sabbath to celebrate the Sabbath throughout their generation as a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between me and the sons of Israel forever. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, but on the seventh day he ceased from labor and was refreshed. I hope you uh looked at that um uh apparently I botched up the uh uh quote here. I hope you looked at that in your work because really in it he has the essence of of a lot of this Did you did you notice the end of it? He ceased from labor and was refreshed. God refreshed, rejoiced. Um fellowship, uh relationship with his creation. Um but the essence I'm putting out here it's eternal, right? Because it's a forever covenant, a perpetual covenant. It's signed between me and the sons of Israel forever. Verse 17 Now when we think about that, okay, it's we know God is is eternal, so w you're thinking about this. So God's eternal, what does this mean it's forever What does that mean to us? We know we're not forever. Man uh knows he's he's not forever I think what it points to is that if if you meditate on it, if you think about it, this points to life after, if it's a forever covenant There's a rest in there. Uh again, you see how how opaque Some of the Old Testament scriptures are, uh how much explanation we have in the in the New Testament, the New Covenant How uh the writers, the epistles have explained even uh Jesus' uh uh uh appearing in his time on earth and uh his ministry You really have to stop and think, what does this uh eternal covenant mean? Well, uh he he's talking to man. Uh it it has to it has to involve us at some level. This is an eternal sign. This points to uh and we'll see this in a minute. Um a lot of the uh again uh With this the Sabbath, uh this Sam Nadler, Nadler, uh again, I don't know how he pronounces his name Um a lot of this is based on his work and his view, uh, especially as a again uh uh messianic Jew, a saved Jew. Um But from a Jewish perspective. And this is what the people look forward to. And when I read you some of the quotes as I move into the next section, The Israelites understood this. As a matter of fact Let me read you what he wrote. Uh these are uh one of them is uh Baresheet uh Rabbah. Um I don't know where that's from, obviously some rabbi Uh this is what he says about covenant. What is a foretaste of the world to come? The Sabbath So obviously he got it. The world is like the eve of the Sabbath, and the next world is like the Sabbath. If one does not prepare, of what will one partake? This is Ruth Rabba. The messianic age is also called Yam Shekula Shabbat. For the day when all is Sabbath, for the day, i. e. the world to come, will be all Sabbath and rest. for the everlasting life. That's from Mishnah Kameen. The Kameen is the morning and evening burnt offering. So this maybe this was a prayer or something. And if I read this, I don't know if if you heard that, but if I read this, um Really, it kinda it makes me emotional because it's kind of it's sad that somebody they can you we can get people can get so close right next to the truth. you know, but but not go all but not go the whole way of salvation, not believe in it. Then they would know that the the the next life is the s is the Shabbat, the Sabbath And and uh what the one says, if one does not prepare, right, what did he say? Um if one does not prepare, of what will he partake Uh and and yet I don't know if that was from a believer or not, to be honest with you. But in the Mishnah, I guarantee it was not from a believer because this was some of the ancient text that explained uh uh the the actual Torah, the law, this is their added text So the Jews recognized there would be a time when their Messiah would reign on earth, and the scriptures attest to that. And I'm I'm just thinking of uh Uh Isaiah came to my mind because I I don't know how uh I'm sure there was certainly was not. Uh the latter part of Isaiah was probably not something that was ingrained in their mind, certainly not like the law, the the first five books of the of the Bible. Um but nonetheless th there was revelation throughout Uh Isaiah 65, 17 through 20, just a section of the uh prophecy of Isaiah, for behold I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind, but be glad and rejoice forever in what in that which I create For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and our people to be gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and crying, or of distress. No more shall there be in an infant who does not live a few days, but an old man who does not fill out his days. For the young man shall die at a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years shall uh old shall be a curse. So obviously they knew this had to be a uh uh this was a kingdom that they were looking for. This was a messiah. Uh I don't know if uh the people during Ju uh Jesus' time w would have had something like this on their mind, but they were certainly looking for a Messiah to come and rule to set the world right, uh t so that they would go back to the glory, the the the their glory days. But you can see in the heart of man, uh in the heart of these Jews, even as they written, there was a life after. And they were looking for that Sabbath rest. They understood that it really was not uh totally here and now. So under the reign of Messiah Israel and the Gentiles will find Sabbath rest and peace. Right? We have peace with God, right? Uh Romans 5. 1 So we've been striving, we're striving for that rest, but we're unable to obtain it. We see what the world is doing. things I've imbibed in myself. I mean, we rely on um uh wealth, we rely on uh our works. Uh we we work hard so that we don't have to work. Um There's just a myriad of of ways the world does it, but there's no peace, right? Well one of the great uh sayings in in uh Israel is is uh Shabbat Shalom Uh they're looking for peace. Um but it's not just peace from man, is it? Um you know my a a lot of you know my salvation story. Um I didn't come to fate till late, uh forty, forty-one. Um the one thing I I certainly uh recognized more than anything else was I I had a peace I never had before. Um the spirit just just Uh let me rest in him. Uh we all know uh from our walk that th th there certainly there's all kinds of trials. Uh We we get COVID. Uh I will say for a for a day or so, um man, feel uh the fever or everything, the cough. Laura's going through it right now Um she's coughing and your whole body aches. Um but but the rest is it's in Even though I have COVID is or or something much worse than the trial. We have peace, don't we? That's the rest. We have peace because we know where we're going We know like like the Jews who were hoping for it uh that that that rest is is uh It's not here. It's uh heavens are our home, right? Our citizenship is in heaven. Philippians. Um so Let me I was gonna touch on a little bit because you know there is somewhat of a There's a lot I'd like to say about the rest. I don't know if I could uh finish it all. One of the things I was thinking about was um Matthew 11 I mean Jesus uh some of you uh I think many of you in the class may have gone through this uh What was it called? Gently and lowly or anyway, uh Matthew eleven, uh take my yoke upon you, rest in me. And the rest comes from Christ. And uh He told us about that rest I don't know if I have time because I c but uh uh let's see. Turn to Matthew chapter eleven. We're gonna st kind of pace through this I only have a difficulty because we can I I we take verses and and verses are certainly powerful in and and in themselves. They have a lot of information. Owen The context is our best commentary on any verse. She just about the the Lord basically tends to explain his Bible, his word, to what preceded and what follows. Certainly we can go out into other books and can compare and sometimes you have to do that with with uh uh certain doctrines that are they they're difficult. They need to be explained from the whole Bible. But a lot of the times just right in the context Especially in um the gospels, 'cause the gospels are narrative. Uh I can't help but always kind of put on my hermeneutical Teaching at remember what genre you're at. Um the letters tend to be didactic, which is just a Greek word for teaching. Uh uh you can almost outline them. They're they're they're progressive, they're uh uh they they tend to be moving at a at a uh pace and uh explaining topics and moving from topic to topic. So narrative uh i is topical too somewhat because of the way that the authors uh organize it, the way the Holy Spirit uh inspired them to organize it. Uh but but narrative uh particularly uh you need more context than than just the verses. So if you're at Matthew 11. Let me see if we can kind of page through this. Because really this whole topic goes from at least 11. 1 over to chapter 12. So let's look at 11. 1. So Jesus is talking, writes. I'm just going to paraphrase. You can kind of be looking at the text yourself So some of uh now when John was in prison, uh right, he sends some of his people that to uh seek out and he says to them, uh are you the expected one? Uh and you probably think, well, John has said and he saw the spirit to say, you know, you you think back, but uh John's done as he's in prison and he doesn't really see uh the the Messiah taking over uh the world here. So and that's my speculation, but yeah you can think of the context of it Why would he say, Are you the expected one? So Jesus tells him, look, tell John what's going on. Verse 5, the blind receive sight, lame walk, lepers cleanse, the deaf hear. The dead are raised up. The poor have the gospel preached to them. Blessed is he who does not take offense at me. Again, he's saying Look, you got the evidence. You saw it. Here's more evidence. People not only have you seen it, l uh hundreds of people, maybe thousands of people have seen this. These testify of me. Um So then uh Jesus then turns the uh the corner and says he gives tribute to John and he goes, why did you guys go out to him? He kind of turns it on the people. He says, What were you looking to see out there, right? He goes, uh what kind of prophet? Why'd you go out to the wilderness to John? As many of his followers had. Verse 10, he quotes, This is the one about whom it is written. Quotes Malachi 3. 1. Behold, I send my messenger ahead who will prepare the way before you. And he says, truly, John was the greatest of any uh one born of a woman Uh, he also says, but um uh the let me read it. From the days of John the Baptist until the kingdom of heaven suffers violence of uh uh violence of men who take it by force And John, and John, if you are willing to accept it, John himself is Elijah, the one who is to come. So that's a Malachi 4-5. He was the messenger. But you notice he says, if you are willing to accept it. And then he says, he who has ears to hear Let him hear. Uh uh again, you you can see all Israel is obviously not going to come to salvation here. He knows that if you have ears to hear He knows he's talking to a remnant here that are that are gonna hear and believe. Um uh so then he goes on in in the next section and he starts to uh talk about uh the unrepenting cities, right? And all the miracles that they had seen. In verse twenty, right, he began to denounce these cities, right? Uh Khorazin and B Betheda, uh and he said a Tyre and Sidon had a witness what you saw. They they would have repented and and walk around sackcl sackcloth and ashes. He goes, he goes never he goes, but they're not going to be judged as great as those who saw this great light So he's convicting, he's exhorting these people. You need to believe. Here's the Messiah, okay? I'm standing in front of you. Verse 25, he turns a corner. At that time Jesus said, I praise you, Father, Lord, in heaven and earth, that you have hid these things from the wise, the intelligent And revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for in this way was well pleasing in your sight. All things that have been handed over to me by the Father, and no one knew his son except uh the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and anyone whom the Son wills to reveal him Verse 28. Come to me. And here's God. This is God all throughout Scripture. You'll see this in Revelation. These people revolt, revolt, revolt. And he still gives the gospel all the way until judgment. Incredible. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Rest for your souls. He's talking about an a level Take my the gospel invitation. Again, we have it even clearer uh uh uh but this was what was delivered to the people. Uh most of these people were not obviously didn't come to faith. Uh a remnant king of faith. But God gives rest Jesus said, I will give you rest. He's not talking about a day, a time, a place. Right? It's a relationship. My wife is uh having COVID effects, poor thing. Verse twelve So the the s the and it says look at this at that time Jesus so we're talking in a sequence here uh Uh i it the the narrative continues. He's giving you a time marker there. Okay, so they're walking through the grain fields, the Pharisees that have a rule for the Sabbath, who were trying to regulate the Sabbath, who were trying to work the Sabbath, who are trying to document the Sabbath Okay, they're they're they're complaining because his his disciples are eating green and Jesus gives them a couple answers and uh examples. David took the bread and in the temple, which he wasn't allowed to do He says, Look, even the priests break the Sabbath on the Sabbath. How do they do that? Because the work that they do was beyond the guidelines of of uh allowable work on the Sabbath. They uh if you look at some of some of the uh explanations in the the Mishnah and the uh They they describe how many sticks you can pick up without it being worked. Uh it goes into elaborate detail. It's incredible Then he turns the corner and he goes, and he says love. Having I read in the law that the Sabbath and the priests and temples, they break the Sabbath and are innocent. But I say to you, something greater than the temple is here. Verse 6. But if you had known what this means, I desire compassion and not a sacrifice, you would not have condemned the innocent. For the Son of Man is the Lord of Sabbath. You call him right by. I'm the Sabbath You need to rest the that's what he said. You need to rest in me. David You you see this over and over again, and I'll finish with this. David said Psalm 51, right? You know, right, he's repentant Nathaniel has cut through his heart with his his uh little s little parable about the uh uh ruler that took his little lamb, uh his pride uh uh owner's prized land, took it for himself and and David got all upset and said, Well, we should get that guy. And Nathan tells him, ah, it's you who did that and he knew immediately what he had done He had killed uh Uriah, uh took his wife. But he said in there, you don't desire bowls and blood and goats and offerings and that's not what you desire. You desire a broken and a contrite heart And that's what Jesus was was uh reprimanding these people on. He goes, when they went out to John, if you read it in the Gospels They they repented, they were confessing their sins. That's huge We know that. That's the beginning of the gospel. You want to give somebody the gospel, that's the first thing you have to do. They have to know that they got a problem, that they're sinners. Right? They the you don't necessarily just have to say you're a sinner, you just need to get them to recognize they have a problem that they can't deal with. Um The realization comes that they are sinners when they recognize their power. These people did uh some repented and went out to John and they were confessing their sins. And we if you look early in the gospels, the Pharisees were looking on and they probably go, What in the world? These are Jews. What are the J the proselytes are supposed to get baptized? Well what if they're confessing their sins? Um That's rest, that's Sabbath. The Son of Man is the Lord of Sabbath. If he is the Lord of it, he is the Sabbath. I'll finish there. Any uh uh questions, thoughts, comments I I've got a question if you're gonna hear me, Carrie. Yes. Yeah, thank you for um for that explanation and Maybe your answer to this question will be just simply download the notes. But can you offer a brief outline of what is coming over the next few weeks weeks in terms our topical outline. Well, um Yeah, we're gonna do uh uh we're gonna go if you look at Leviticus twenty-three, you you've got the outline right there. Okay, we're gonna go through the feast, we're gonna go through Passover, uh right. We're going to go through each of them. I'll probably spend some of them are going to get more time than others. I think Passover is uh And that's the problem when you do something like this is how broad it is and then w what I have to narrow down and cut out But they're all right there in Leviticus twenty-three. We're gonna do the the the feast, the appointed times, right It except for Hanukkah and Turium, all of the things are the same. Um Right? He goes through the whole the fifteenth day, the the holy convocation convocation. Um we're gonna do uh Day of Atonement Yeah, that answers my question. I I admit that maybe I wasn't here for the first minute of class And he if w really these if here is Let me read the first part of Leviticus twenty-three. The Lord spoke again to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, the Lord's appointed time which ye shall proclaim as holy convocations convocations, excuse me. My appointed times are these. Now I started with the Sabbath because as you can see It's kind of foundational to everything. Um the some of the covenants are are are uh like uh the day of atonement can be called a sap. It's a rest. It's a it's a it's a time uh uh to cease and to uh remember. So again, uh this will not be uh I don't think maybe if there's time at the end we could uh do a you know, Hanukkah and Piram and things like this. But these are the ones that are recognized uh by God and and commanded to observe Carrie, on that topic, will you be discussing the Jubilee or not? Like the the seven years. No, probably not. Okay, thank you. Uh and see again, this is um when you you know w and this is the difficulty when when you do a topical thing like that like this, um uh This is even regardless of what it I it's an introduction, uh, really. We'll never get down to all the levels of uh even uh the Sabbath. We haven't even we'll never unpack all that. Uh Passover, the same thing. What we're gonna try and do is show the relevance a and to see how it was fulfilled in Christ. I mean the s you saw today, the Sabbath is fulfilled in Christ. It it always was. Uh again, uh remember our gospel is um m complete be beyond way beyond measure for what they had, but it salvation always comes. Just remember uh Genesis 15, 6 Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. You're going to see it right, Romans 4, James quotes it, it's faith. It's faith and the revelation o of what God gave them at uh at that time. You're resting in God Just because they didn't have uh the complete revelation that we had, they have revelation from God. Abraham believed God was able to do what he said he would do And and again, the Spirit is the one uh before we go and take credit for whoa, our belief, everything comes from God, right? Even our faith Uh i it's the same in in all those. So what we're going to see though is that through through all these uh feasts that Jesus Christ is going to fulfill them all Any other questions