But last week we looked at the heart uh and we saw if you can just imagine in your eye in your mind's eye or if you have the the notes in front of you, you saw the heart which inside of the heart We looked at the three different functions of the heart. The cognitive function, that's our thinking, our reasoning, our remembering aspect. uh what we typically call our mind. That is a function of the heart. There's the affection part of the heart, that is our our values, our priorities, our uh desires and out of those come our emotions and and how we respond emotionally to the the things of life. And then there's the volitional aspect of the heart, that is our commitments and our choices. Uh and all of these things come together, they they're not really distinct, they're all really embedded with one another, each one kind of working together with the others to produce the things of life. This is why Proverbs chapter 4 verse 23 says, guard your heart, protect your heart, because it's out of the heart that the the springs of life flow and we we looked at that last week in uh pretty good amount of detail Uh another w where we c we kinda ended last week was understanding that um as we all know we're able if we want to portray and and bring things out of our hearts that are not an accurate reflection of what's actually there. And what I mean by that is We can be hypocrites, right? We can pretend to be emotionally affected by things, or we can make choices that are in conflict with what we really desire. and what we believe to be true. Uh w we can say and talk about things that um that we don't really believe, but we can just claim to believe them So we can have these conflicting things going on in our lives. And so we we identified this idea of the controlling heart. And by that we just mean the the thoughts, the the beliefs, the affections, the desires and values, as well as the commitments and choices that um that uh are actually influencing the rest. Uh and so one of the things we didn't talk about, which is very closely related to this idea of the controlling heart is the subconscious. You know, the world has uh this this thought of the subconscious which is basically this mysterious part of you that you're totally oblivious to and that you have no control over, but which actually does affect you and and produces things that it in some ways it It results in your own actions. Uh and so you can do things that you don't understand because of what's going on in the subconscious or you can have emotions or or struggles with things that are related to the subconscious. Well, how do we think about that biblically? Uh first of all, we need to acknowledge and just admit that from the world's perspective uh th that concept is a purely theoretical construct. There is no way from a worldly perspective to demonstrate, to prove that, because they don't believe in the immaterial part of man uh in in any meaningful way. Um they have no way to to prove, you know, apart from the physiological elements of mankind, they don't have a way to explain or prove uh what's going on in the mind. So it's a theoretical construct. But it's based off of an experience of reality that we as humans experience. That is, we we make choices, we do things that we don't always understand why do we do those things. So how do we understand that from Scripture? Well, simply put, and just for the sake of time, uh Instead of thinking about our subconscious, that that is those things that we're not conscious of, we can take this diagram of the cognition, affection, and volition uh that part of our heart. And just recognize that there are thoughts and beliefs and commitments that we're very well aware of and there are thoughts, beliefs, and commitments that we're actually not all that aware of, that they're in there. uh there are convictions and beliefs that we have but we don't actively think about them. Uh or we have commitments that uh that we have but It's not like we just woke up one day and decided, I'm going to be committed to this, and therefore we're aware of it. No, it's just more of a passive uh commitment that we have. And so it's better to think in terms of thoughts, beliefs, and commitments that we're more aware of and thoughts Commitments, desires, uh maybe not desires, but values and commitments that we're less aware of. And that's what we're talking about with regard to the controlling heart. And so what we're going to be looking at today, as I mentioned last week, is the outside of the heart, that is, the dynamic heart in context, if you will. What does the heart respond to? How is How is our heart being influenced? And how is our heart responding to the things outside of us? And so the four parts, as you recall from the diagram, is first and foremost, our hearts respond to God. And as we'll talk about, that is the most significant um factor of of our hearts. What we believe about God. how we think about God, how we relate to God. That is the most significant factor of our heart that really determines all the others But also we we are influenced by and we respond to other people, not only those that we're in personal relationship with, but just our culture, our family. uh our upbringing, we'll we'll look at that in detail. Uh I should have put the other one first in terms of self. We operate out of our own self-identity, our own self-perception, our own roles. And then lastly we our heart responds to circumstances. So w that's what we're going to look at today in a nut in a nutshell. And so there's there's a lot to say about all of these things and what what were Presenting here is just a real brief summary. So there's a lot more that we could say, but I hope that it's helpful in thinking about uh how the scripture really presents uh our hearts and and the things that influence us uh in in a real uh full-orbed way So that when we're struggling, we can examine these different areas and understand maybe why we're struggling the way we are And therefore learn how we can grow in those things. So let's dive into that first section, the heart responds to God. A. W. Tozer said, and you've probably heard this before, what comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. I want you to just think about that for a second. What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. That that is really true. Uh sometimes I ask people, you know, in counseling conversations, uh they're describing their issues, their struggles and problems. And I'll ask, well, where is God in this? You know, wha wha what is God up to? What do you think this reflects about God's character? What thoughts do you have about God? Uh and it's always interesting and very telling what they the answer is. But it's true. I'm gonna say it again. What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing. about us. Now why is this true? Why why is it that we can make this kind of statement and not just have it sound good, but actually have it be a reflection of the truth? Well, uh Jeremy Pierre, who wrote the book uh The Dynamic Heart in Daily Life, um yeah, that's what it's called. Uh he and it's from him that that I got this diagram here. He says this, the heart was custom made for worshiping God. And the closer it comes to that design, the better it works. In fact, when the heart responds rightly to God, it will respond rightly to everything else. So we've looked before, I think, in previous weeks, about how we were made to worship God. We've identified the reality that Our heart is is designed by God to relate with Him in a in a submissive, worshipful, reflective way where we are His creatures and we are to worship and glorify him in all that we do. And so as a result of that, when we follow that design, Jeremy Pierre says, It it works. It works better than when we we don't. The further we get from God, the the less our heart works. In fact, let me put it this way. So just to state the converse of what Jamie Pierre said, um the farther we are from our design to worship God, the worse our heart works. When the heart doesn't respond rightly to God It will not respond well to everything else. Okay, let me say that again. When the heart doesn't respond rightly to God, it will not respond well to everything else. So we we can say, I think with with great clarity and simplicity, when we are really struggling in life, when we're struggling to respond to our circumstances well When we're struggling with personal sin uh or habits that are destructive or in our relationships Fundamentally, we are not responding rightly to God in that situation. Now let me show you this from scripture. We all know the Greek greatest commandment, right? Jesus said, of course you can find it multiple places, but I'll use Luke chapter 10, verse 27. Jesus said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. So he he brings the two together in one statement in there in Luke chapter ten verse twenty-seven. Well why is it that this is the greatest commandment? Why didn't he just pick some other random uh it certainly wouldn't be random, but some other commandment. Well he explains why, and that is because he says the the law and the prophets, in other words, the the moral law of God as he has laid it down in his word, as well as all of the revelation that he has revealed through his prophets All of them depend on and flow out of these two commands, to love God and to love your neighbor. In other words, where there is a violation of God's law in the heart of man, it's not just that a particular command has been transgressed Like for example, uh you know, if you and I were to violate our our society's law in some way, whether it's you know not following their mandates with regard to the social distancing or stealing or you know committing some other violation of the law where we would say, yeah, they violated that law, and we really wouldn't go any further than that. But the truth is, sin itself, which of course is a violation of God's law, sin in general, and in its particular manifestations. Is a failure to fully and completely love God the way that we were designed to do Right? So again, it's not just that we, oh, I violated this law or oh I violated that law. It's the reason that I violated that law is because I failed to love God And love my neighbor the way that God has designed me to do. And so, uh, you know, we might we might sin in some way and think in our minds, well, it wasn't personal. And to God, all sins are personal because they're all against Him and they're all a failure to love Him. So that's then leads us to say that if what whatever sin struggles we have, and and I'm particularly focusing on sin struggles, I'm not talking about you know grieving over the loss of a loved one or something like that where it's not a matter of sin. So in in what I'm saying right now, I'm talking about sin issues. Wherever there is sin, uh it is a reflection of the fact that we are not loving God, which means that The worst thing that we could possibly do is taking place. We are not loving God fully and completely. Now let's take this a step further. What does it mean to love God? What does it mean to love God? I think we could say this with great confidence: to love God is to know Him truly and to imitate Him. To know Him truly and to imitate Him. Um w you know, the the the law itself, God's law, is a reflection of his character. And so when we obey the law, we are showing that yes, God is is righteous and good, and we want to Imitate him. Of course, as believers, we know that we're not bound to a legal code, as it were, like the Old Testament legal code, but we are bound to the law of Christ. And what that means is Our imitation is not following a list of commands, it's following a person. It's imitating Christ. And so if we're going to love Christ, we're going to imitate him. And if we're not imitating him, we are failing to love him in whatever way that we're not imitating him. But we can't just say imitation by itself is loving God, like okay, I'm just gonna parrot what you do and I'm just gonna say what you say and whatnot. Uh our love has to be grounded and and our imitation has to be grounded in a true knowledge of God that we know him in all the ways that he has revealed himself. Not just by inventing in our own minds the kind of God that we want to imitate, but by knowing him as he has revealed himself. And so I I would put it this way, knowing and imitating God is how we worship Him. Which is what we are created to do. We are created to know him and to be like him. In fact, Jesus said in John chapter 17, verse 3, this is eternal life. That they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So when Jesus talks about what what how do you define eternal life? What does that look like? He doesn't say, well, uh it's uh a period of time. It's it's a length of life. No, eternal life is not a length of life, it's a quality of life, if you will. And that the quality of life that that is eternal life is a life that knows God and Christ. So If we're going to say we have eternal life, that we're worshiping God, we're loving God, then what we're saying is that we know God, we know Christ, we know Him truly and fully as He has revealed Himself. God created us to imitate him. And we know this going all the way back to Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 to 27. All right, when God is creating man at the very beginning, he says, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Now, as we think about what does it mean that we're made in the image of God, we first have to acknowledge that There's a variety of ways in which we are not like God at all. And he did not intend to make us like him to reflect certain things. And we call these his incommunicable attributes. Incommunicable. I know that's kind of a tricky word, but the idea of incommunicable is that he did not communicate these things to us. He did not pass these attributes on to us. And so these would be attributes like omniscience, the fact that God knows all things, actual and possible. past, present, future, perfectly. He never forgets anything. He knows absolutely everything that there is to know in all of history and un in the sorry in the universe. His omnipresent The fact that he is able to be at all places, uh fully present there at the same time. Uh now it interestingly Scripture doesn't present that truth in that way as some kind of uh ethereal truth. It presents it By saying that God is always personally present with me wherever I go, I can never get away from God's presence So that's a wonderful truth that is presented in a very personal way in Scripture, but we obviously don't share that attribute of God. His omnipotence. That God is all powerful, meaning that He can do anything that is consistent with His will and character So God cannot be thwarted in any of his plans or purposes. If God wants to do something, he's going to do it. He has the ability to do it. Another incommunicable attribute is his eternality, the fact that God has no beginning and no end. You know, when we talk about eternal life, obviously we we get that phrase from Scripture, but uh a more technical technically accurate phrase would be that we have everlasting life. Everlasting life. Because we have a beginning, but we have no end. God will sustain us. uh throughout all of eternity future. So because we have a beginning and an eternal future we we can call that an everlasting life. Whereas God is eternal in its fullest sense, meaning he has no beginning You know, another incommunicable attribute of his is immutability. That is to say that God is not influenced or changed in his essential nature by anything outside of himself. uh uh complete and he never changes. Uh he is the same yesterday, t today and tomorrow. And so these are all what we call again incommunicable attributes, ways in which we are not like God at all. He is transcendent. Above his creation. He is perfectly holy in the sense that he is utterly unlike his creation. And he maintains those attributes. And w we ought to be thankful that he maintains though those attributes, because otherwise He would not be the God of the Bible as he presents himself in a God who is trustworthy. But having said that, we are created in his image according to his likeness, and that means we are created in in significant ways to be like him. And so we call these communicable attributes. These are attributes that God has communicated, that he has passed on to us. And and these are attributes like the fact that we're relational beings, that we are rational beings. We were able to think, we're able to relate with other people, establish a variety of kinds of relationships and have all kinds of thoughts. We're inventive. In the sense that we don't create out of nothing like God creates, but we are able to take the stuff in creation that He has made and form it and shape it and make new things and use it in a variety of ways We're moral beings. We have an understanding of right and wrong, and we can make decisions that either please God or displease God. These are all ways that God has made us like Him. The problem is that the fall of Adam and Eve marred that image by making us self-oriented rather than God-oriented. We have turned in on ourselves as a result of sin rather than living our lives and reflecting God's glory back to Him. And when whenever that happens, when a when a person goes in on themselves, that creates distortions. I don't remember what the context was that I said this, if it was this class or some other uh set setting. But the reality is that isolation uh breeds um I don't know exactly that's not quite how I've said it in the past, but uh when we isolate ourselves from from others, we begin to uh to have distorted thinking. We tend to uh not have the right perspective. Uh and so because we were cut off from the life of God, as it says in the New Testament, Uh we now have distorted perspective. We are darkened in our understanding. This is often called the noetic effects of sin. That is the effect effects of sin on the mind. That now we've lost, as a result of the fall, the true knowledge of God and we've become hostile to him in our minds, and that then has worked itself out in our lives. And we we've seen uh this and phrases fr from Romans one, like they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. Uh their hearts were darkened. Multiple scriptures talk about how we live in our per for our personal passions and pleasures and priorities. And so the fall has taken the things that God has made us to the capacities that God has given us and distorted them in a very self-oriented, really demented way. But the beauty of salvation is that when God makes, when God saves someone, he makes them spiritually alive. He restores those capacities in a new way. Ephesians 4. 24, which we looked at a couple weeks ago, we are created, our new self is created in righteousness and holiness Now, because we've been made alive, rather than being hostile to God, we now have the capacity again to love Him by knowing Him truly and imitating Him. So when when we think about the struggles of life and the necessity of change, it is salvation which God has accomplished that gives us the capacity and the capability to know God truly and imitate him and work toward becoming more like him Apart from new life in Christ, those things don't exist. That's why I'm so committed to biblical counseling because it's with With the truth of the gospel and with the truth of Scripture, as God has revealed it, that someone had the ability to overcome any struggle in their life. But if a person does not have God, and if a counselor or a psychologist does not know God or does not accept the revelation of God, then they're missing the essential components, just the core realities that that enable a person to overcome their struggles the way that God would have us overcome them and know him and imitate him. So uh so if we wanna if we wanna grow in uh our lives, if we want to overcome our struggles, if we want to be victorious in our struggles with sin or uh endure the sufferings of life, the solution is to know him truly and to imitate him. Uh because that's the most important thing of our lives. That's what we were designed to do. Again The problem is that we even though we're regenerated as believers, we still have the flesh, right? We we still have the old man hanging on for dear life, as it were, and uh and so we are often pulled in the opposite direction. So uh whatever your struggle might be, if if you have a struggle in your life right now, uh or if you know someone uh who has a struggle, which that should encapsulate all of us right there. Uh these these are the kinds of things that we should be recognizing that when there's a struggle, there's a a lack of full Now, uh we could we could spend weeks talking just on this in this area alone. But uh just to kind of bring this to uh uh s somewhat of an an end I want to walk through a couple passages really briefly to explain what are some key truths about God that if we were to know them and imitate them uh and then live them out, that they would make a significant difference in our lives. Um so uh this week I I read the whole Bible from Genesis to Revelation. No, just kidding, I didn't Uh the these passages, I'm not going to claim that they're the best and the most essential, but these are some key truths that I think r really relate to just about anything in life. And so if we were to embrace these these truths, they would make a significant difference. So one passage. You can write it down the reference. Isaiah chapter forty five verses six and seven. Isaiah chapter forty five verses six and seven. Here's what the Lord says. This is the Lord speaking. That men may know from the rising to the setting of the sun that there is no one besides me. I am the Lord, and there is no other. The one forming light and creating darkness, causing well-being and creating calamity. I am the Lord who does all these. Wow. God here takes full responsibility for everything that happens in this world. He takes responsibility for all of the good things that happened, and he takes responsibility for all of the bad things that that happened. God does not try to get himself off the hook saying, Well, I I'm sovereign, but you guys are you guys are responsible, you guys are free, so don't blame me for your problems. No, God takes full responsibility. I create calamity. I create darkness, he says. And so one of the things this teaches us is that no matter what situation wherein no matter how bad uh our trials are God is at the head of those issues God is in sovereign control over those things. I know this raises some legitimate questions that I think Scripture answers, but if we just kind of rest in that knowledge, we And and and combine it with the fact that, like Psalm 119 says, you are good and you do good, that even when God creates calamity, he's actually, you know, working together for good, as we'll see later on. But God is in control. God is never, ever out of control. God takes responsibility for everything that happens. Now another passage, just one chapter later, Isaiah chapter 46, verses 9 to 11. The Lord says, Remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is no one like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established, and I will accomplish all my good pleasure. Calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my purpose from a far country. Truly I have spoken, truly I will bring it to pass, I have planned it, surely I will do it. Now here he's saying something very similar to Isaiah 45, but this goes even a step further. Not only does God take responsibility for everything that happens, But he says here that he has a purpose for everything, and that purpose extends to the future. He knows the very end of all things, and he is working everything out in order to move toward that end. So again, when we think about the difficulties in our lives and we say, okay, God's taking responsibility even for my hardships, for my trials, whatever they are. In terms of my circumstances, God is in sovereign control over all those things. I can know based on Isaiah 46, 9 to 11, that God is working out his purposes. Now we see this in the big picture things like, you know, this passage in particular, he's referring to the destruction of Jerusalem and how He's calling the uh enemies to to come, and uh that's what he refers to, the man of my purpose from a far country, bird of prey. uh to to come and destroy and and and and in a sense punish Israel for their sin. We see this in the death of Christ in Acts chapter four When the believers uh uh worship God for the fact that everything that took place that resulted in the death and resurrection of Christ was according to God's plan and purpose It's easy for us to acknowledge that God is in control of all of those things and that He's using those significant events for the outworking of His will. But this is also true of the little things in life. However little or significant they might be to us. God is not just in control, but He has a plan that He is working out in our lives. That that is huge. That is a massive understanding that uh we need to remember in times of difficulty. Now one one more passage. Exodus chapter 34, verses 6 and 7. Another familiar passage. This is more on the imitation side of things. The first two were really things that we ought to be knowing about God truly. This one helps us to know, okay, what are we to imitate? So Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7 is one of the passages where God reveals to us his own personal character. He says, this is who I am Not only in those previous two passages, but here he says, the Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in loving-kindness and truth, who keeps loving-kindness for thousands who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin, yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. And it goes on from there. But Those are the key attributes that God declares of Himself. Now, all of these attributes, compassionate, gracious, slow to anger, Loving kindness, truth, forgiveness. Seven. We are called throughout the rest of Scripture Except for the last one. I forgot to mention the last one. He won't leave the guilty unpunished. Except for that last one, all of the rest we are called to imitate. in our lives. We're called to be compassionate. We're called to be gracious, slow to anger, abound in loving kindness and truth. And forgiving So God reveals himself here, and not only does he reveal himself by saying, This is who I am, but he demonstrates that character throughout the scripture. And then he says, look at what I've done, look at who I am now, be like that. Be compassionate, be gracious, be forgiving. Now the end result, and again these are just sample passages of how we are to know God and how we are to imitate Him. But the end result is as we live our lives, as our hearts are rightly knowing and imitating and thus worshiping God, the result of that Is what we could call the fruit of the Spirit, you know, from Galatians chapter 5. Let me just mention these real quick. I won't mention all of them because we're getting low on time here, but uh when we're rightly related to God, the fruit of the spirit result, love, right? That's the first one mentioned in Galatians 5. First John 4, 11 and 12 says, Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has seen God in any time. If we love one another, God abides in us. His love is perfected in us. So if we're rightly relating to God. John says, we're going to be loving one another. Love, joy. That's the second fruit of the Spirit. Isaiah 26. 3 says, the steadfast of mind. Sorry. Oh, I messed. I messed up my references here. It's Jeremiah chapter 15 verses 16, 15 to 16. Jeremiah 15, verses 15 to 16. It says, You know, you who know the Lord, remember me, take notice of me, and take vengeance of me uh for me on my persecutors. Do not, in view of your patience, take me away. Know that for your sake I endure reproach. Your words were found, and I ate them. And your word became for me a joy and the delight of my heart, for I have been called by your name, O Lord of hosts. So Jeremiah is speaking about the difficulty that he's experienced as the prophet of God, who's really preaching uh about God's um judgment coming upon Israel. And he says, even in light of his difficulties of being a reproach, and if you know anything about what he endured, he endured much hatred on the part of the Jews. But he says, your words became for me a joy and the delight of my heart. So when we're rightly relating to God, we can have joy. Peace. This is Isaiah 26, 3. Peace, the steadfast of mind, you will keep in perfect peace because he trusts in you. Again, when we are relating rightly to God, When we're trusting in him, we get peace. And we could go down the rest of the fruit of the Spirit, but I'll leave it there for now. So, what comes to our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us because we are designed to worship God, to know Him, and imitate Him. When we see struggle, when we experience struggles in our lives, That's an indication to us that we are not fully loving, knowing, and imitating God. And so we can then Do some self-examination and see how can I grow? What do I need to grow in my knowledge of the Lord Uh in terms of fully embracing and believing, what am I not believing correctly? What false ideas about God am I believing? And how can I correct that? And then also how can I learn to imitate God? So the heart responds to God. And we spent the most time there. The others will go quicker, but we spent the most time there because that's the most significant. Let me just pause there and uh ask if there's any particular comments or questions. Pastor Gable, I have a question. It's Karen. Hi Karen. Hey Hillary, yes. Do you think you earlier in the um teaching you talked about your why you love biblical counseling so much because it's really the uh barometer of of everything and it's truth. Do you think that biblical counseling would work with an unbeliever. Do you have to be believers for it to be effective? So uh I mean the the answer is uh i yes in the sense that When you're counseling an unbeliever from a biblical perspective, what you're trying to help them identify is the reality that they're the greatest problem in their life is that they are far from God. And so it works in the sense of identifying their true problem. Um I mean Granted, you know, secular psychologists and whatnot, they they can help s improve someone's life. They can help someone maybe feel better, uh, maybe uh preserve a marriage, you know, things like that. Obviously those things happen. Uh but what w from a biblical perspective we're talking about is not just live a better life, is we need to relate to God better. We need to learn to imitate God. So from the perspective of uh does it work with unbelievers is if and of course it's God has to work in the heart, but But it works to present them with their actual true problem, their most significant problem, and then prayerfully the Lord will save that individual, and then we can also work on the additional problems that they have and show them how they can now that they've come to Christ and had their greatest problem solved, how we can now work on their other problems. So, um, yeah, that that's what I would say about that. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you. Okay, well I'll I'll keep going then to the next section, the heart responds to self. So when we talk about ourselves, uh I want to just uh kind of define this concept of our well what we'll call our constructed identity, that is the identity that we create for ourselves. And then there's our given identity, that identity that God has given us. uh we really live and operate out of our self-perception, our self-identity. You might say our self-image. What we think about ourselves. Our self-image or identity is a mix of what we know to be true about ourselves. Like I'm a father, I know that's true, and so that's part of my identity. Um it's also a mix of what we want to be true about ourselves. You know, maybe maybe we have aspirations to be a an athlete or a musician or you know particular uh level of success in in some other area and so we think, yes, this is what I am. You know, I'm I'm a musician. You know, I I could say I'm a guitar player even though I have very limited skills in that area. But we can sometimes incorporate those things into our identity because we just we want it to be true about ourselves, so we just think it's true about ourselves. Or, or not or, but uh and uh our self-image is also made up of what we have become convinced is true about us based on what other people say. It may have no relationship to reality, but if people speak into our lives enough, we can sometimes incorporate that into our identity. And this can be really uh tragic. You know, uh parents who uh tell their child uh over and over and over again, you're good for nothing, you're never going to amount to anything, you're gonna f fail in life, you know, that kind of abusive speech over the course of a child's life. It it has no bearing on reality, but a child can incorp will often incorporate that into their self-understanding. Uh and so we're we're a mix of these things. And we frankly don't always recognize uh w what we truly believe about ourselves. You know, we don't usually have that self-perception uh enough to really think, okay, this is these are all the things that I believe are true about ourselves. We don't tend to think in those terms. And so what happens is without realizing it, over time, as we live life, as we uh experience relationships and and uh stages of life, we construct our identity uh out of all of these from all these sources and then we we live and respond out of that constructed Identity. We'll get more specifics here in a little bit. So that's constructed identity. The other one, remember, is given identity, and that is that God assigns to us What identity we ought to have. He tells us about ourselves. He tells us what is actually true about ourselves. And he calls us then to live and respond to the things of life out of what he says is true about us, regardless of what we think about it. And regardless of what other people think about it, and regardless of our of our own experience in our stage of life So we're often, especially again, when we think about the struggles of life, we're often in this battle between our constructed identity, what we kind of assume to be true about us. And our given identity, what God says is true about us. So what I want to do is walk through several different kind of categories of of what this kind of looks like just to show how scripture uh emphasizes the importance. And I'll just give you the categories up front. There's just our identity, I'll use that term, a category of our identity. um self-perception, which is kind of like what we think about ourselves, which is a little different than our identity. Our roles in life, how that affects us, our personal commitments. So we'll just walk through this fairly quickly. So one passage uh that uh uh we can see how exhortations and how God calls us to live and how we're kind of exhorted for our wrong living based on our identity is chapter or 1 Corinthians chapter 6 1 Corinthians chapter 6 verses 1 to 11 I don't think I'll read the whole passage, but you're familiar with m with most of it, so I'll just highlight a couple things. It starts out this way. Does any one of you When he has a case his neighbor, dare to go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints? So you know the situation. Two believers are going to the law courts and Uh Paul is saying, What is going on here? Why are you taking each other to court? And his next question, a rhetorical question, brings out this idea of identity. Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? Okay, so he says, not only are you a Christian, not only are you a neighbor to your fellow believer, but you are a saint. And as a saint, you will judge the world. He says, he goes on to say, if the world is judged by you, are you not competent to constitute the smallest courts? Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more matters of this life? And he goes on from there. But what he's doing here is he's saying, listen, the reason that believers should not take each other to court Is because our identity as saints, as children of God, as citizens of God's kingdom As God's special creation, not only will we judge the world, but we will judge angels as well. And so we need to understand what is true about us to recognize That uh it is ridiculous for us to take each other to court when unbelievers have no real authority in uh in a certain respect uh over us. And we're not talking here about criminal uh court. We're talking more about personal disputes. So he says, you're a saint and you're gonna judge the world. That's your identity. That's who you are. Therefore don't take each other to court. Now what's interesting is, you know, if you combine this with verses 9 to 11, which we know of and don't normally combine them together, right, where he says Uh do ye uh see or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God, do not be deceived, neither fornicators, adult uh idolaters, adulterers, effeminate, homosexual thieves, covetous drunkards and revilers, swindlers will inherit the kingdom of Kingdom of God. And then he says, Such were some of you, but you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. So that passage which we hear so often is connected to this principle of don't take other believers to court. And what he's saying is, again, bringing in our identity as those who've been washed, sanctified, that is made saints, set apart from sin for God. We've been justified, declared righteous, before God and therefore out of our out of who we are in Christ we ought not to take people uh fellow believers to court. To settle disputes that could should well be within the purview of the bod of the body of Christ. So that's his one passage where he really harps hard on this reality that our identity should factor into how we deal with certain situations. Or consider Ephesians chapter 5, verses 3 to 8. Ephesians 5, 3 to 8. Paul writes, but immorality Or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints, and there must be no filthiness or silly talk or coarse jesting which are not fitting, but rather Giving thanks. Now, why is it not fitting for believers to be engaged in those behaviors? Well, for one thing, he says next that, you know, evil those evil people, those who are immoral and impure, they won't enter into the kingdom. But more significantly, the reason it's not fitting for believers to be engaged in those behaviors is because he says in verses 7 and 8, therefore do not be partakers with them, for you were formerly darkness. But now you are light in the Lord, walk as children of light. The reason we shouldn't engage in immorality and purity and all the rest is because we have a new identity. We are children We are light in the Lord. We have a new nature. Therefore, it it's not fitting for us to engage in the behaviors of darkness. One last passage, Colossians chapter three, verse twelve. Paul says, So as those who have been chosen of God, excuse me, holy and beloved. Put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another and forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. So he he gives out this string of commands of what we should do, how we should live, but he bases it on the fact that we have been chosen by God, that we are Holy, that is sanctified, and that we are loved by God. Our identity as those who have been chosen, set apart, and loved by God should result in us living in these ways. So that's those are just passages that highlight the fact that as believers, our identity as believers in Christ and what God has accomplished in us and who we are in Christ should impact our lives. Now think about self-perception. So there's probably overlap here, but I'm just making this distinction. Uh Romans chapter eight uh helps us to think about uh this in terms of perception of uh of of our life. Paul says uh ver in verse nine, however, you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you But if anyone does not have the Spirit of God, he does not belong to him. If Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the Spirit is alive because of righteousness. Now here's the key part. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brethren, we are under obligation not to the flesh to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the flesh, uh the deeds of the body, you will live What is Paul saying here? He is talking to people, believers just like you and I, who it when when we think about ourselves wrongly That is to say, we're not factoring into our self-perception the fact that we are saved, and that because we are saved, what that means is we have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. Our tendency will be to be tempted toward sinful behavior. We'll feel some kind of obligation to the flesh, right? We have those those passions and desires that rise up within us And that we kind of feel like, well, if this is how I'm feeling, this is how I'm thinking, so I guess this is how I'm supposed to live. But Paul is saying, no, recognize that if you are a true believer, the Spirit of God dwells in you, therefore you are obligated to live according to the Spirit. So practically how does this work? Well, think about a situation. I don't know if you've experienced this in your life, but when a person is struggling with their uh salvation with their assurance of salvation uh and they're just like not sure if they're really saved that can either be the result of living in sin Or it can result in living in sin. Well, I don't know if I'm saved, so maybe I should just kind of live how I how I want to and you know succumb to these temptations because I don't even know if I'm saved. Paul says here, no, if you are in Christ, if you have put your faith in Christ, you are obligated to live according to the Spirit. And so that should motivate us, knowing that we are empowered. To live according to the Spirit, like he says there, that we he will give life to our mortal bodies. Or consider 2 Peter 1, verses 5 to 9. Again, thinking about someone who might be struggling in their uh in their uh relationship with God, whether or not they're they're truly saved. Peter writes, 2 Peter 1, 5 through 9. Now for this very reason also, applying all diligence in your faith, supply moral excellence, in your moral excellence knowledge, and in your knowledge self-control, and in your self-control, perseverance, and in your perseverance, godliness. And in your godliness, brotherly kindness, and in your brotherly kindness love. And then he says, For these qualities are yours And if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then he says, for if sorry, for he who lacks these qualities is blind or short sighted. having forgotten his purification from his former sins. In other words, if we don't perceive ourselves rightly, if if we forget our forgiveness that we have been granted by God. Paul or Peter is saying that we're short-sighted and therefore we're not going to be uh cultivating these qualities in our life. So when when we do lack these qualities, I mean just if you look at this list and you think about your life and I think about my life, Wherever there is a lack of these qualities, take God at His Word. You and I are blind and short-sighted, having forgotten from our per purification from our former sins. The more we understand our forgiveness that we have in Christ, the more we will be motivated and desiring to cultivate these attributes in our lives. Let me just mention one passage with regard to roles. How do our roles impact our lives, our hearts? How do they influence us or reveal our hearts? Uh let me let me just mention one, Second Timothy chapter two, verses twenty to twenty-one. Uh Paul writes Now in a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also vessels of wood and of earthenware, and some to honor and some to dishonor Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor useful, sorry, sanctified, useful to the master, prepared for every good work. Our role in the family, whether you're husband, wife, mother, father, child Our role in the workplace, whatever that is, if you're a boss, if you're you know an entry-level employee or you know whatever level you have, your role in the church how you serve your your perceived role in in the church, and then in society at large, all of your different roles will affect how you view situations and respond to disappointments. You know, if you're a mother and you have a rebellious daughter, you might struggle with uh that r that role thinking, well I've failed, you know, what what have I done when maybe it has nothing to do with you. Or the man who loses his job and because he has perceived himself in s in a certain way based on that role, he is now in despair and he loses his sense of identity because it was all bound up in that job. There are so many ways that uh just our roles in life, how we perceive our roles in life, affect how we respond to the situations of life. And what Paul is saying there in 2 Timothy 2, 20 and 21, is the the more that we cleanse our ourselves from the sinful ways of thinking and living, the more we will have a role of usefulness to the Lord. Whatever our particular roles are, the most important role is that we are a vessel of honor, sanctified, and useful to the Master. So whatever we whatever roles we have or don't have want or don't want, we need to recognize our our true role as a vessel for the Lord. Um for the sake of time I'm just going to skip over the personal commitments and values, but But you can see how our relationships with uh ourself, with our self-perception, our self-identity, how how they have a significant influence uh in in our hearts, how they can how they both reveal and uh and shape us. Now moving on to a heart response to others. This I think can be somewhat obvious, but uh obvious in principle, not always obvious in reality. There's a saying that we are the average of the five people with whom we spend the most time. Now, I don't think that's true. I think it's pure conjecture and there's no way to quantify or or validate such an idea. But it does point to the reality that that is true, and that is that we are highly influenced by those Around us. We we all know that. You know, you spend enough time in the south, you're probably going to pick up a southern accent Uh y you you know when you go to college you and it's your first time uh living away from home in your normal environment. uh you will tend to observe others and and in the effort to fit in and start and mold and shape yourself. Obviously we're influenced by our family, our our upbringing, positively or negatively. Now scripture is very clear that this happens. You know, 1 Corinthians 15 verse 33 says, Don't be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. Or Proverbs chapter 13, verse 20 says, He who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. It matters who you spend time with and who you spend the most time with. We're affected and influenced by our culture at large, whether it's your neighborhood in and locality or broadly your your nation. Uh we're influenced by our family of origin, how we were raised in the home, our family culture. We're influenced by especially uh we're we're seeing this a lot these days are ethnic or c or class associations. You know, whether we associate ourselves with with people of similar skin color or socioeconomic status or other groups uh of like kind where we start to to adopt the the ways of thinking on the basis of those associations Uh we're influenced by our present family, you know, your current spouse, our children, your nuclear family, or your extended family. uh as those relationships have developed over time. Of course we're influenced by our social circles, uh school, work, extracurricular activities. uh were significantly influenced by the media, you know, TV and movies and news and talk shows, uh social media. Uh we're just constantly being bombarded by by messages through media that that influence and shape our thinking. Uh and then of course we're also influenced by the church That is our relationships in the church, the teaching of the church, the discipleship that we receive in the context of the church So these are all just the social and interpersonal relationships and associations that uh influence how we think. We hear people say things and because of our relationship, our relative relationships with with people, we will either accept and receive and incorporate those things into our thinking, or we will reject those things. We will be hardened or perhaps better entrenched in our thinking of values and commitments based on our relationship and how we perceive someone to be, you know. Speaking on our behalf for our good. And this is not a bad thing. It's good. In fact, scripture calls us to imitate those who are godly to be influenced. It tells us to receive the influence of godly influences. 3 John verse 11 It says, beloved, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. The one who does good is of God. The one who does evil is not of God. So when he says what is evil, uh imit do not imitate what is evil but what is good, he's not just talking about ideas. He's saying do not imitate evil people But imitate good people, that is, those who are of God. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1, Paul says, Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. In fact, he even says in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 14. I'm skipping a couple passages. 1 Thessalonians 2. 14, he says, For you, brethren, became imitators, not just of individuals, you became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you also suffered the same sufferings, you sorry, you also endured the same sufferings at the hands of your own countrymen, even as they did from the Jews. So this Gentile church imitated the Jewish church in how they endured suffering. So it's good and right for us to imitate godly influences and to reject the influences that take us away from the Lord. So we need to think about, as as we think about the struggles of our life, what are the the social influences that are in my life? In what way Are people pointing me to Christ? And in what way are people pointing me away from Christ? And remember there's no neutral ground there. There's no like, well, they're not telling me to hate God, so I guess it's okay. No, they're either pointing you to greater conformity to Christ or they are pointing you o away from Christ. And so in our struggles, you know, maybe it's struggles with personal sin, you need to think about the relationships in your life is are are there Is your struggle related to a personal relationship or some other outside influence that uh that is making that more significant? And how how do you need to change that? Alright, lastly, the heart response to circumstances. Circumstances obviously involve people, but here we're thinking about uh Uh situations broadly, uh not necessarily in terms of personal relationships. Uh circumstances influence us and they can shape us in a variety of ways, but the f First thing the circumstances do is they reveal us. They they show what's in our heart before they influence us and shape us subsequent to that. How we respond immediately to circumstances generally reveals what's really in our heart. That is what's what we really believe about God, what we really value, and what we're really committed to. I recently read a book called a really good book, Therefore I Have Hope. Twelve Truths that comfort, sustain, and redeem in tragedy. Um the most of the illustration because of the author's story has to do with loss of of a child But uh Any Tragedy, excellent book, Therefore I Have Hope by Cameron Cole. Uh the author, Cameron Cole, his son, I think it was about six years old, died inexplicably in his sleep while the while he was away on a camping trip. So when his wife called and told him the news, you know, to say, you know, you gotta come back immediately. The first words out of his mouth were Jesus Christ rose from the dead. And that means that God is good. And this doesn't change that fact Now, grief came to him and it came quickly and in a big way, and he talks about all that. But that gut level instinct. To say those things, to affirm trust in the goodness of God in the face of hearing that your child uh has died, that revealed what was in his heart. And of course we could think of our own lives. How do we instinctively respond to situations? And we need to recognize that actually Whatever our responses are, whether they're good or whether they're evil, they're they are revealing and shaping our hearts. Where We're shaped and and our hearts are revealed by what you could call shaping events, like traumatic experiences. Whether it's war or prolonged and severe suffering or an accident or you know, a significant personal injury at the hands of another person, there's shaping influence or shaping events in our life that just uh uh they not only reveal what we already believe, but they they come in and and provide information that that we have never considered before, never experienced before, and so that shapes and molds us. uh we're shaped by our general routines and just how we live life. We we we think about life in a particular way based on our daily habits, everything uh from the simple things of hygiene uh our our wardrobe, our clothing choices. And we don't realize how much we're shaped by these really simple uh things. until we encounter those who live differently and we're like, well, wait a minute, that's weird, that's different. Uh but these those do shape our life. We're shaped by our opportunities in life, our advantages and disadvantages. We're shaped by our responsibilities. That is uh ha as we grow older the things that are placed upon us. You know, there's children uh in s places around the world who are forced as, you know, eight nine, ten year olds to go out and work to help provide for their family. Well that's going to shape them differently than a child in America who has no thought about work at that age. So we're shaped by circumstances, by the things of life. And the question is, are we going to respond to our circumstances? With a Godward perspective that reflects his view of reality, or are we going to respond with a man-centered or self-centered perspective that Really seeks to promote ourselves or preserve our lives. All circumstances, all situations, all trials All temptations are opportunities for us to decide, okay, how am I going to respond? Am I going to respond by pleasing God, looking at this from his perspective, or by pleasing myself or responding in some other man-centered ways. God designed us as believers He calls us to view all of life in such a way that we are interpreting things as his good purpose in our life to conform us to the image of God. That's where Romans eight, twenty eight, and twenty-nine come in. That everything and that passage of uh is in the context of suffering Everything is intended by God, all situations, all circumstances to mold us and shape us and conform us into the image of God. There's there's a lot more that I wish we could say. Uh so we we flew by that uh because of time. But I I hope you can see that through these these various contexts of life, that is our relationship with God, our self-identity. our relationships with others and our circumstances, uh, even though we've flown through it and maybe not explain things in as much detail as as I would have hoped, uh we are Our heart is being revealed, what we truly believe, what we truly value, what we're truly committed to, and our heart is being shaped and influenced. And so as as we think about struggles, whether your own or those of someone you're you're you're loving and and ministering to, Uh it's helpful, and and I think Mike is going to talk about this in the next couple weeks, uh, to examine those different areas to see where is there a need for growth? Where where is Is beliefs or values or priorities or commitments, where are they off? And how can we address those areas in order to grow and become more like Christ? Alright, well uh it's ten eighteen, so I know some of you need to to go and and uh Get ready for church. Uh some of you are you know gonna be watching from church, uh church from home like like we are. But uh For those who are able to stay, any particular comments or or questions, I know I flew by all of that Okay, well, uh let me pray. And again, Mike will be uh teaching next week, Lord Willie. Their class will be in person. As well as online. So we'll see you then and let me pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for your word And I pray, Lord, that uh your spirit would take these crews and just help us to think well and carefully uh through these issues. uh increase our understanding beyond what I was able to explain. And uh Lord may our lives be for your glory. That uh you would be lifted high, your name would be proclaimed through all the earth, and that you would use us as your vessels to do that in Christ's name. Amen.