Alright, let's start with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day uh full of snow and we thank you for uh the wonder of your creation and the beauty that we see all around us all the time. We thank you for your sovereignty over your creation and your sovereignty over history Uh that you are in control from the very beginning to the very end and we thank you so much that your love encompasses us and that your love includes your plan of redemption across all of history. Uh your your plan to redeem fallen mankind from the effects of sin and from your wrath. We thank you for s sending Jesus uh to be born as a baby all those years ago to live a sinless life and to die The death that that I should have died, to die that death on the cross, to pay for the sins of All of your redeemed. We thank you, Lord, that you were pleased to raise him from the dead and that he sits at your right hand interceding on our behalf. We thank you for your word, and we thank you for especially This book of Revelation that we're studying now so that we can get a glimpse of what it will be like in the end times. And Lord, let it be a motivation for us. To spread the gospel to those that are lost and are headed for these disasters that we read about our friends and family members and neighbors and co-workers who are not yet saved. Let it be a motivation for us today, Lord, and every day. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we are, part twenty-one of our study of the book of Revelation, the revelation of Jesus Christ. And so today is we're gonna call uh this lesson When God Breaks His Silence. Uh we're gonna study Revelation chapter ten today. And this is sometimes referred to as the interlude So uh chapter ten and chapter eleven are between the sixth trumpet and the seventh trumpet. So today's lesson and next week's lesson uh fall between two of these trumpets. we'll get to the seventh trumpet. So today we'll talk about God breaking his silence. We'll see an unusual angel. We'll see an unusual act. We'll see an unusual answer. We'll see an unusual announcement. And we'll see an unusual assignment. And you'll see, for example, this. John eating a little scroll. We'll see that today. Okay, so that's today, but let's uh first take a look at what we did last week. Take a little review Um of the sixth trumpet. So we were in the second part of chapter nine last time, and that was the sounding, the sixth angel sounding the sixth trumpet, which led to some satanic Slaughter. So the sixth angel sounds the trumpet, and John hears a voice. So it's not the angel, it's a separate voice. It's coming from the altar. And the voice commands the sixth angel to do something. And the sixth angel releases four other angels, the four angels that are bound at the river Euphrates. Uh and that so that's a specific group. And this this the four angels is a specific group. And these angels are bound. And so we talked about last time the fact that holy angels are never bound. And so These are uh descriptions of demons, leaders of demon armies which we're about to see. Um and the demon armies, the the these leaders of the demon armies, uh the what the demon armies do is kill a third of mankind. And there's a bunch of them uh this this demon horde 200 million to be precise um and then there's a description in this that passage of scripture we studied last week of what the riders look like and what the horses look like. So there's a first a description of the riders that's uh color of fire and brimstone. Uh it looks like kind of Fire and brimstone riding on these strange horse like things. Uh the horses have head likes heads like lions. Um and they have uh their their purpose the purpose for which they were bound for all that time and then released at the right time was to kill a third of mankind with fire and smoke and Brimstone. Um and so John uh is made aware that the power of these horses, this demon horde is in their mouths and in their tails, and it's a lion's head and the serpent's tail. We talked about it. So there There's a a little artist rendition that we showed last time. Uh who knows what they really looked like. This is John seeing something in a vision that's essentially indescribable. He's using uh his b the best he can. He's describing it the best he can in the language that uh helps us to understand this uh s kind of supernatural vision he's seeing And so this demon horde comes up and it kills a third of uh mankind, two billion people, something like that. And so um it's the the biggest catastrophe since the flood. The flood killed everybody but eight. Uh this is gonna kill a third of the people that are left after all the other disasters that we've seen. Um the first the the six seals and the f the first five trumpets, and now the sixth trumpet kills w a third of what's left. Um and then we get this sad th uh phrase at the end that um those who were not killed did not repent. So there's not a mass revival after uh this judgment. There there's just not. Uh they continue in their sin and and John lists five particular sins that they continue in idolatry, murder, sort Immorality and theft. So things continue to be bad. People continue to behave badly. Uh even after these judgments that God brings on the earth uh the progressive judgments that keep getting worse and worse and worse, um that are God's final opportunity for people to repent. And the sad fact is that most people won't. Vast majority of people will not repent, even in spite of these judgments. And so any questions about what we did last time? Any remaining questions. Alright, let's dive into Revelation chapter ten. So if you open your Bibles or your devices to Revelation chapter ten. We're going to dive into the scripture here. So Revelation chapter 10. We're going to do the whole chapter. It's only 11 verses. Revelation chapter 10, verses 1 to 11. This is the first part of the interlude. This is the word of the Lord. I saw another strong angel coming down out of heaven. Clothed with a cloud, and the rainbow was upon his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet like pillars of fire. And he had in his hand a little book which was open. He placed his right foot on the sea and his left on the land, and he cried out with a loud voice When the seven peals of thunder had spoken I was about to write, and I heard a voice from heaven saying, Seal up the things which the seven peals of thunder have spoken, and do not write them. Then the angel, whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land, lifted up his right hand to heaven and swore by him who lives forever and ever who created heaven and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it, that there will be delay no longer But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, as he preached to his servants the prophets. Then the voice which I heard from heaven. I heard again speaking with me, and saying, Go, take the book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the land. So I went to the angel, telling him to give me the little book. And he said to me, Take it and eat it. It will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey I took the little book out of the angel's hand and ate it, and in my mouth it was sweet as honey. And when I had eaten it, my stomach was made bitter. And they said to me, You must promise. Prophesy again concerning many peoples and nations and tongues and kings. So this is the word of the Lord that we wanted to look at today, Revelation chapter ten. So uh keep your Bibles open and uh we'll go through uh first I'll give you a little introduction from MacArthur as usual. So this is MacArthur's introduction to this section of scripture and his commentary. He says a question that has troubled God's people throughout history is why God has allowed evil in the world. The wicked often appear to prosper. Sin seemingly runs wild and unchecked Why, people ask, does God not stop all the carnage, corruption, and chaos in the world? Why does he allow his children to suffer? When will divine justice prevail, and the righteous be delivered from the wicked? And the wicked punished. In the midst of his trials, Job complained that the tents of the destroyers prosper, and those who provoke God are secure. Why do the wicked still live, continue on, also become very powerful? Powerful Job twelve and Job twenty one. The Psalmists frequently ask why God tolerates evil men All the pain, sorrow, suffering, and evil in the world cause the godly to long for God to intervene. A day is coming when he will break his silence. A day when all the purposes of God concerning men in the world will be consummated. At that time the Lord Jesus Christ will return and establish his earthly kingdom. He will rule righteously with a rod of iron, Psalm 2, and the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Isaiah eleven. All the atheists, agnostics, and scoffers who mocked the thought that Christ would return, second Peter three, would be silenced. The millennia of sin, lies, murders, thefts, wars, and the persecution and martyrdom of God's people will be silent. Be over. But before the seventh trumpet sounds, there will be an interlude, which stretches from chapter 10, verse 1, to chapter 11, verse 14, allowing John and present-day readers to pause and assemble. The startling truths that have just been revealed to him. The interlude between the sixth and seventh trumpets parallels such interludes in the seal and bold judgments. Between the sixth and the seventh seal Seals came the interlude of chapter seven. Between the sixth and seventh bowls comes the interlude of chapter sixteen, verse fifteen. These interludes encouraged people's God's people in the midst of the fury and honor and horror, the fury and horror of divine judgment, and remind them that God is still in sovereign control of all events During the interludes, God comforts his people with the knowledge that he has not forgotten them and that they will ultimately be victorious. That is especially true in the longest, in terms of the amount of material devoted to it, of the three interludes. This one between the sixth and seventh trumpets, all of chapter ten and eleven. Believers alive during that time will endure the unimaginable horrors of a demon-assaulted sin-mad world Like the believers of Malachi's day and Malachi III, they will fear being swept away by the divine judgments that are ravaging the earth. God will comfort and reassure them that He has not forgotten them and that He still controls events and protects His own. Chapter 10 describes the opening events of this interlude preparing for the final trumpet blast. So that's MacArthur's intro to this section. And so let's take a look verse by verse. So starting in verse 1, and the beginning of verse 2, we see that John sees, I saw Another angel, strong angel, coming down out of heaven. So we've seen lots of angels. We've had a whole series of angels. Just last chapter we had uh the angel of the sixth trumpet And then there were four other Jay Angels that were actually uh fallen angels. Now we see another strong angel, another angel he sees Another strong angel coming down out of heaven, clothed with a cloud, and the rainbow was upon his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet like pillars of fire, and he had in his hand a little book which was open So once again, John's having a vision. So and throughout Revelation we see it uh there's this uh uh same Greek word Aedon. It's in the beginning of chapter 4, chapter 7, chapter 15, chapter 18, chapter 19. And here we see it again, and it marks the beginning of a new vision. So when when we see this Greek word and translated in English I saw, it's a transition to a new vision. So this is a new vision, a strong angel. Um and he's seen, of course, the first six trumpets through Throughout chapter eight and chapter nine, uh he saw a vision of someone he has not seen yet. So it's a new angel. Uh this strong angel is distinct from the seven angels who sound the seven trumpets. Uh some Over the years have identified this angel as Jesus Christ, but there are several factors here against that identification. And I just want to go through some of those because we get these clues in Scripture. We have to put them together, especially in a book like Revelation, to be able to get a a firm understanding of what's going on here. So uh for example, uh we have the use once again, I've mentioned this before, of the word the Greek word alas. It means another of the same kind. And there's a different Greek word, eteros, which means another of a different kind. They're both another. But this the word that's used here is another of the same kind. And so he's just been talking about angels. And here's another of the same kind of angels that he's been talking about. Uh this said the so it identifies the angel as one like the previous mentioned trumpet angel. If Christ were being referred to here, we would expect the word another of a different kind, because Christ is not of the same kind as angels. Christ is essentially different from angels. could but not be described as the same as other angels, since they are created and he's uncreated an eternal God. Second, whenever Christ appears in Revelation John gives him a special title, an unmistakable title. And I'll just go through a few of these. There are more. In chapter one he calls him the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead and the ruler of the kings of the earth also the Son of Man, also the first and the last, also the living one, in chapter two the Son of God. In chapter three, he who is holy and who is true. Uh also the Amen and the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. In chapter five, the lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, and many of the chapters, the Lamb. And so when we see Christ, we get a special title for him. And that's absent here. So we would think if it was going to be another vision of Christ that we would get one of these messianic titles that John tends to use everywhere else in Revelation whenever it's uh distinctly uh Christ that's being uh that he sees in the vision. Uh third, it is inconceivable that Christ, the second person of the Trinity could make the oath that the angel makes in verses five and six. We see that the angel uh swore by him who lives forever and ever. Since Christ is God, he would swear by himself. Hebrew chapter six, God swears by himself, not another And so if it was Christ, he would swear by himself, not another. Um and finally the angel comes down out of heaven to the earth. And if he was Christ, this would be another return of Christ. It's not mentioned anywhere else in Scripture. So and it's not like the descriptions of the s uh the second coming of Christ that we have in Matthew twenty four and twenty. twenty five and second Thessalonians one. So so for all those reasons, even though some have identified this angel as Christ, it doesn't appear that the scripture supports that. So it's an angel. It's a powerful angel, uh John says, but it's not the living risen Christ. So having introduced this powerful angel John describes his attire. Uh he was clothed with a cloud, wearing the drapery of the sky over his shoulders, and clouds are often associated in Scripture with God's coming judgment. We see that in Revelation in a couple of places, in Matthew twenty four, and Mark thirteen and fourteen. And Luke 21, clouds associated with God's judgment. Now the rainbow is very interesting. The rainbow Um brilliant colors around the the head, the same word used in chapter four to describe the rainbow that encircled the throne of God. So we have clouds And we have a rainbow. Um the cloud symbolizes judgment, but the rainbow represents God's covenant mercy in the midst of judgment. Where did the rainbow first come from? The flood and Noah and why? Why was the rainbow there? Promised. Promise that he wouldn't destroy the the earth with the with the flood again. So it was a symbol of God's mercy and his covenant not to destroy his people. And so here we have that rainbow here again. So we have clouds symbolizing judgment, but we have also a rainbow with this angel symbolizing God's covenant protection of his people, his promise not to destroy his people. Uh in the flood of course it was not to destroy Desp destroy with water. But here we have this angel who's coming to announce judgment, but he also comes with a rainbow. So God's judgment and God's mercy both together, and we often see that. His judgment and his mercy coming together. Even in the midst of judgment, we see God's mercy. Any questions so far? Questions, comments so far? Okay. After the flood, God gave the rainbow as a sign of his promise never to again destroy So this is the interlude before the final crescendo. We're going to get the seventh trumpet, which includes this seven bowls, and with it God's wrath, the final measure of God's wrath is poured out. But in this interlude, before that happens We get this angel and one of the things that the angel is closed with is the rainbow. And so we have God's mercy in the midst of even the worst of the pouring out of the the maximum wrath that's gonna be poured out when we get to the seventh trumpet in the bowl. the rainbow is there to remind uh of God's mercy, even in the midst of the massive wrath to come. So then he moves on to describe the angels' appearance. Uh he says his face is like the sun, his feet and his legs. Um they're like firm, stable, immovable pillars of fire. Uh remember this is a vision once again, so John's using He's doing the best he can to describe something indescribable, this mighty angel. Um some argue that the use of uh the Greek word uh Biblaridon Dion. Bib Biblar bib Bibla Biblaridon. I can't pronounce it. There's a there's a different form of the Greek word here uh to describe this this book, which is why we put the English word little there. It's a diminutive form of the ordinary word for book Biblion. Um and so some have argued that the therefore it's a different book. Um but that overlooks the fact that this Greek word is just the diminutive form of the same Biblion. Um and that subsequently um the the that the word Biblion was used to refer to the little little book um uh s subsequently in um ten eight. So uh I think the um the most likely thing is that this book is the same book from chapter five. Um the diminutive form merely adds a kind of a further description in this particular vision of the same book that he's seen before. The book needs to be smaller uh in the vision for the sake of symbolism, because John's gotta eat it. Um so it's gotta be it's gotta be small enough in this particular vision for John to actually eat it within the vision Within the vision. Remember this is all within the vision. Um the in this phrasing, uh there's the uh the use of the per the Greek tense, the perfect participle, and it's translated which was open, uh but the emphasis here is that the scroll being open, having been opened, it will remain open That's the perfect participle Greek tense. It's open, it's going to stay open. It's been open, it's now open, it's going to continue to be open. Um because why? Because the Lamb opened the seals. And all the seals are open now. And when the Lamb opens the seals, they stay open. And so that's the perfect participle tense that's used here for the description of which was open. Um and that further identifies it with the now fully unruled scroll That we saw in in chapter five. So the little book lying open in this unusual angel's hand unveils all the terrors of divine judgment yet to come. So uh the seventh seal contained the seven trumpets. And we've seen the first six of those trumpets. Now we're going to see the seventh trumpet, and the seventh trumpet contains the seven sea bowls. And so it's all open. And now we're going to get the last of it to be to be revealed. Then continuing with the rest of verse 2 and into verse 3. John continually describes the vision says he placed his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land. So a massive, massive angel to be able to stand with one foot on the ocean and one foot on the land. And he cried out with a loud voice as when a lion roars And when he had cried out, the seven peals of thunder uttered their voices. So the fact that he has one foot in the sea and one foot in the land means in the in this vision, John is visioning envisioning a huge angel. This thing is massive to be able to stand with a foot in the ocean and a foot on the land. So there's no there's no limitation Given on describing the sea and the land, this action of the angel demonstrates God's sovereign authority to judge the entire earth, all of the sea, all of the land. And we've seen, of course, the description of God's sovereignty is throughout the entire Bible. But this is another picture of it in a vision by John. This is a picture of God's sovereignty through uh exercising his authority through this angel over the land and over the sea. We've seen it uh before this in Revelation, we see it in in Exodus when God has control over all the plagues in Egypt. Uh we see it in Psalm 69. Uh Paul wrote about it in 1 Corinthians, 1 Corinthians chapter 10, the earth is the Lord's and all it contains. So we have that's a common theme of Scripture is God's sovereignty. And this is just another picture. The Angels Act also symbolically anticipates the coming judgments of the seventh trumpet and the seven bowls. So he's got this scroll that the Lamb has already unsealed all the seals. Um and in that um scroll is the final judgments for the seventh trumpet and the bowls. In keeping with his huge size, the angel cries out in a huge voice So it's a huge angel with a huge voice, and he cries out with a loud voice, as when a lion roars. So he's using uh descriptive language once again So uh he hears this massive, mighty voice, and he says, what can I compare that to? Well, I'll compare it to a lion's roar. So this loud cry reflects the power, majesty, and authority of God through this angel. The Old Testament prophets also connect loud, lion-like, roaring voice with judgment. We see that in Jeremiah chapter 25, Hosea 11, Joel 3, Amos 1, Amos 3. That's a common way that the prophets of the Old Testament described um God's judgment. And so um John, although not quoting from the Old Testament here, is using once again Old Testament images, imagery, descriptions, um i that's uh another common thing in the book of revelation, not directly according Old Testament passages, but using imagery that would have been familiar to anyone that was familiar with Old Testament scriptures like John was. Any questions about any of that so far? Questions? Comments? Okay. We're moving along fast. Angel cried out, an amazing thing happens. There's these seven peals of thunder uttered their voices. So there's seven voices that sound like peals of thunder to John Um once the as soon as the angel cries out, this huge angel cries out in a huge voice, and then after the angel the seven peals of thunder, voices that sound like thunder, uh cry uh cr under their cry. Uh and in in the Bible, of course, seven is the number of completeness And why is seven the number of completeness? Because of creation creation. So seven days God created the entire universe. Uh so the whole thing was done in seven days and so uh then in the Bible seven becomes a number that's associated with completeness. So seven speaks of completeness, finality, perfection. Everything was very good when God finished creating. Thunder is often a harbinger of judgment in scripture. We see that in other places in Revelation, chapter eight. Chapter eleven, chapter sixteen. We also see it in first Samuel chapter two and second Samuel chapter twenty two, Psalm eighteen, John twelve, thunder a harbinger of judgment in Scripture. 1 Samuel chapter 7, for example, the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day against the Philistines and confused them so that they were routed before Israel. Uh so thunder, God's judgment on the Philistines. Uh he directly intervened in a battle And it's described as thundering. God thundered with a great thunder against the Philistines. So this is an image in scripture that goes back to the Old Testament that John is using because he's trying to describe these things. And he often uses this kind of imagery from the Old Testament to try to describe what he's seeing in the vision. So this thunder. So the thunder was separate from the angel's voice. So it was the angel's voice and then these thunders Um and may have represented the voice of God because God was in the thunder. Here in the in the Old Testament we see that. The text does not say what the thunder said Uh but hearing it certainly would have added to the terror of the scene of judgment here for John in this vision. And then we get this curious little uh set of scriptures right here. Uh starting in verse four. Verse four, so John's going along, he's been told to write down all this stuff he sees, and when the seven peals of thunder had spoken, I was about to write. So just like all all the other times I see a vision. And I write it down. I was about to write, and I heard a voice from heaven saying, Seal up the things which the seven peals of thunder have spoken, and do not write them So he's told not to write what these say. So the seven peels of thunder did not merely make a loud noise. They were communicating information to John that he was about to write down So they were they said something. Those thunders said something. In obedience to God's commands, John had already written What he was seeing in visions in chapter one, um I was in the spirit in the Lord's Day, and I heard a behind me a loud voice like the Sound of a trumpet saying, write in a book what you see. So this is what he's been told. Write, write, write, write. Write in a book what you see. Later in chapter one, write the things which you have seen. The things which are, and the things which will s take place after these. And then in for each of the seven churches, he was told to write down this letter to the seven churches in chapter two and chapter three. And then later in Revelation. He's once again will be commanded to write what he sees. In chapter 14, chapter 19, chapter 21, over and over again, he's told to write what you see, write what you see. He's specifically commanded to write what he sees, and now he's told Do not write what the seven thunders have said. He hears this voice from heaven, so another voice from heaven Saying, do not write. So it's not the angel, it's not the seven thunders, it's another voice that says, Do not write them down. Whether the voice was that of the Father, of Jesus Christ, or another angel is not revealed. It's just another voice. That's the Only description we get it of it in Scripture. The command, however, clearly originates from God. uh the the one who commanded John to write uh in the first place and then t tells him to write throughout. Um this is a a command that has to originate from God whether it's were relayed by an angel or not. That he's not to write down specifically what these seven thunders have said. The reason John was forbidden to record the message of the seven peals of thunder is not revealed. We don't know. May be that the judgment they uttered is simply too terrifying to be revealed. Or God just doesn't want us to know. Any speculation as to the specific content of their message is pointless. Had God wanted it to be known He would have not forbidden John to write it. So he uh g God obviously doesn't want us to know. He wanted John to know, so he actually s had it said so that John could hear it But he didn't want anybody else to know. And so he told John not to write it down. So John got to hear, nobody else gets to hear. Yes. Yes it did. As a matter of fact, we're gonna get to that here in a minute. It's happened a couple of other times, not just Daniel, it has it's happened more than one time in scripture. So very good. So that's good to make this connection. Uh really good to make this connection. That this in fact has b God's done this before. He did it to Paul as well. Um So um God has revealed to certain of his servants things which he has specifically told them not to tell anybody else. Um and then revealed in Scripture that he's done that So that we would know that he did that, but not know what he said to that particular prophet. Very interesting. That we should that he should make sure that we know that there's these other things that he's uh that he's revealed and that also that he's not going to tell us. Uh and so as we just heard Daniel also was forbidden to record certain elements of his visions. Daniel eight twenty six, he was commanded the vision of the evenings and mornings which has been told is true But keep the vision secret, for it pertains to many days in the future. So he was told he was there's a lot of stuff about the future that he did write down, but something, Daniel was told something That he was told not to write down. Keep it secret, he was told. The Apostle Paul was caught up in the paradise and heard inexpressible words which a man is not permitted to speak. 2 Corinthians 12. So there were things that he saw that he was told not to not to write down, not to describe, not to not to talk about. Um about heaven So there are some truths that God has chosen not to reveal, although He did reveal them to certain people. throughout history, and then told them not to not to say anything. And as Roman just said, Deuteronomy 29, 29, the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things revealed belong to us and to our sons forever that we may observe all the words of this law. And so there's a an acknowledgement, an understanding that there are certain things that God um does not reveal to us uh for his own purposes, for h his own um in his own wisdom, his will is that these things not be revealed to us. Um and and he has Um quite curiously, um made sure we know that, but there there are things that he's not telling us. Uh why do you think that is? That he's m that he not only does he not tell us everything, but he tells us that he's not going to tell us everything. There you go. I think that really is the key that um this is an opportunity that God is giving us to exercise faith in him, trust in him, uh that he really does know what he's he's doing, and that we know that there's things he knows that we don't know, and we just need to trust that he knows best and his ways are best and that uh that his will and plan are perfect and better than ours and better the he that he can use that information better than we can. So the words of the peals of seven peels of thunder fall into this category of secret things God has chosen not to reveal. They are the only words in the book of Revelation that are sealed Everything else John's told to write. These whatever these seven thunders said are sealed and told he's told not to write. Everything else told to write. Uh so continuing, verse five. Uh so so we've got this Seven peals of thunder, whatever they said, we don't get to know. Then, in verse five, then the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land Lifted up his right hand to heaven and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven. and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it. So he swears by God Almighty. Uh Solomac, the angel whom John saw standing on the land and the sea, lifted up his right hand, the little book must have been his left hand. He's lifted up his right hand where God dwells, the standard gesture for making a solemn vow. We see that in Deuteronomy 32, in Daniel chapter 12, raising the right hand to make a solemn vow. To take such a vow is to affirm before God that one is going to speak the truth. That vow indicated that what the angel was about to say was of the utmost importance and truthfulness. The angel took his vow. vow in the name of him who lives forever and ever, who created the heavens and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it. That designation for God stresses his eternity and his sovereign power in and over every single thing in his creation. Um so that's a uh a long-winded description of God to make sure we know who we're talking about It's the Almighty Creator of heavens and earth, sovereign over all his creation and everything in it. Whether it's the heavens, it's the land, it's the sea, all of it. God is sovereign over all of that And that's who the angel is making his vow to that it what he's about to say is going to be true. Okay. Then he continues, uh and this is what he's going to say, that there will be There will be delay no longer. So there's not going to be any more delay. But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound Then the mystery of God is finished as he preached to his servants, the prophets. And so what this angel is saying is We're about to have the final um unleashing of God's wrath, and then it's going to be finished. There will be no more delay. This is going to be it. So the specific content of the angel's oath was that there will be delay no longer. And that answers the question that we got in chapter 6. How long? Well, here it is. No more delay. That's the answer to that question that we got way back in chapter six, how long? And the prayers of the saints in chapter eight, how long? Um this is it. The delay's done. Uh God has finished his uh delay his mercy in delaying the final judgment, that's done. Uh there's no more delay. Uh 'cause now the seventh angel, seven trumpets about to sound, that's seven The trumpet includes the seven bowls and that's all. That's the final wrath poured out by God. Uh the phrase, but the days of the voice of the seventh angel when he's about to sound indicates the judgment of the seventh trumpet is about to come, and that it's not a single event. Notice days plural. Not the day of the seventh trumpet, but the days of the voice of the seventh trumpet. So it's not a single event. It covers days. uh indicating a s period of time. We've talked about this before that the tribulation is seven years. The Great Tribulation is the look back in three and a half years. And so these things are taking some time And they will continue to take some time. And we get that that comes out in the fact that it's days of the seventh trumpet, not the day of the seventh trumpet. Uh this period includes the seven bold judgments, which we'll get to in uh uh chapter sixteen, uh which would appear to require some weeks or months to unfold. We'll get there. When we get to these seven bowls, the things that happen in those seven bowls are not an instantaneous thing. They take some time Uh and so we'll see that. So the sounding of the seventh trumpet brings the final judgment depicted in the bowls of fury poured out on the earth. Final wrath of God poured out on the earth. We're gonna see that. And the a this angel is announcing That there won't be any more delay. This is about to happen. So the time of God's patience is seen as having ended. The time for the final acts of judgment are at hand Uh he's been merciful on sinful mankind, waiting for the time of all of his elect to come in. But what he's saying now is That time is now past. It it's done. This is the last of the the the last of the wrath, the last of the last chance uh to come to a saving knowledge of Christ and then the final judgment. We're gonna get to Great white throne judgment coming up after that. So uh the time the time anticipated in the disciples' questions in Matthew twenty-four and acts one has come Well so when uh when uh what's the hour? What's the day and the hour? When is it coming? Well here it is. Uh we finally get that question answered too. Uh the prayers of all the saints, of all the ages, for the consummation of God's kingdom are about to be answered. Uh when the seventh angel sounds, the kingdom of the world will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever. Amen. Anybody recognize where that comes from? What the what song uses that scripture? Messiah. The Handel's Messiah. So that's a that's from Handel's Messiah. But Hanel's Messiah is quite remarkable. It's it's singing scripture is what it really is. Uh it's it's pla it's putting music and s putting in a song of scripture both from the Old Testament and the New Testament. Uh but when we get to the end to the Hallelujah chorus it's quoting here from Revelation chapter eleven. And we're about to get there. We're about to have that happen. And the angels announcing that that's about to happen. At that time the mystery of God will have been finished as he preached to his servants, the prophets, of the mystery of God. Mystery in scripture refers to truths God has hidden and will reveal in his perfect time. It's the consummation of God's plan and bringing his glorious kingdom in Christ to fulfillment. It involves the salvation of the elect and their place in his glorious kingdom and all that goes with that, and it includes the judgment of men and demons. And so this mystery the consummation of this mystery, the mystery of the ages, is about to be finally revealed, the final act of this play. The mystery previously hidden refers to all the unknown details That are revealed from this point to the end of Revelation. So the mystery uh that this angel is talking about, uh, when the new heavens and the earth new earth are created. So all these things that are about to be revealed um are the the final consummation of God's plan that he put into um effect at the foundation of the world Um those things are about to come to their consummation. Those mystery the final mysteries about to be revealed is what the angel is saying here. And very interestingly, God had preached that mystery. is what the scripture tells us, without all the details that are revealed in the New Testament, to his servants the prophets in the Old Testament And we of course have seen that. Men like Daniel and Ezekiel and Isaiah and Jeremiah and Jewel and Amos and Zechariah, they had all been given little pieces of this mystery, yes. Uh but the the point that the angel's making here is there have been these mysteries throughout all of uh all of the whole scope of history and those mysteries Have been kind of uh revealed through a gr glass darkly uh to prophets in the Old Testament and to um uh writers of the New Testament scriptures as well, and here in Revelation up to this point. And now this mystery of God is finished with the angels saying i it it's this is the end of it all that that the final revelation is happening here in these events that are being described in the book of Revelation. Um this is the final revealing of the mystery. There's no more. And this is another indication that there's no more scripture after the book of Revelation. So it's just another uh little piece of information to know for certain that when people come along with additional scriptures, no. No. 'Cause this is the the end of it. This is the the mis the mystery of God is finished with these things that are about to be revealed in the rest of Revelation. There's no more. Yes. Yep, that's right. And so and God there were there have been mysteries, hidden things of God all along. So just think about Genesis chapter 3 Uh and and so God tells Ad Adam and Eve and Satan's there too, that it'll be a seed of the woman that will strike the head of Satan What in the world is that about? And then and then the whole the whole rest of the Old Testament is um it's a very um you know the all the genealogies are just men uh you know, re Genesis chapter five, it's only the male descendants that are in there. But at the very beginning, in the very first revelation there in in in Genesis chapter three about God's plan, revelation of his plan of salvation, he says the seed of the woman Well, that's a really big mystery that we don't get to understand until we see that Jesus, the Messiah, doesn't have a human father. He's the seed of a woman. And God revealed that all the way back in Genesis chapter 3, but nobody understood that. really, uh, until the the mystery was revealed when Jesus was born of a virgin Um but when we look back we can say, Oh yeah, that's what he was talking about, all the way back there in Genesis three. And so that kind of pattern repeats itself in scripture where God has revealed something, something that's true, but something that's a mystery. It it's kind of a mystery of what what does God really mean by seed of a woman? That makes no sense. To these uh these patriarchal cultures and societies that continued to write down Scripture, but God made sure that it was in Scripture that it was the seed of a woman Which would have made no sense to the people that originally wrote that down, and the people that continued to study scriptures for thousands of years after that would have been mystified by that. It was a mystery. Until we get a virgin birth. Um yeah, and so the same thing I think continues all the way through here. We've got mysteries that are revealed to Daniel, for example, um about the you know, the seventieth week. Now th there's there's I I don't think there's any way Daniel really fully understand his seventieth week to b and all these events that John's writing about here in the in the tribulation. But if we look back, we can see, oh yeah, if we after we've read the descriptions of this uh tribulation period we can go back and see, oh yeah, Daniel's seventieth week was talking about this tribulation period. Uh but it it was a mystery, a God's mystery until he's gradually revealing these things. Um And what he's saying here is the mystery of God is finished. So this is all of it. This is the end of his this kind of revealing of his mysteries. Now, does that mean that he's revealed everything? No. Obviously he continues to have things that are the secrets of God. Things like the Seven Thunders right here in in this chapter of Revelation. So he's not revealed everything But what this is saying is is now h with this and this this talent of revelation that the angels are saying is about to happen He will have revealed everything he's going to reveal is is what this is saying. The mystery of God is finished. He's done revealing everything he's going to reveal with these things that are about to happen with the seventh trumpet. Um uh which includes the seven bowls and then um the millennial kingdom and the and the great white throne judgment. Yes. So that mystery remains. You know, when exactly this is this gonna happen and so we've seen speculation about the that throughout history. Um and we've seen spectacularly wrong speculation about it throughout history. Uh we we from time to time we get these people that say The second coming is, you know, April fourteenth of you know, twelve ninety two or y you know, some things like that have been happening throughout all of history and they've been wrong every time. Yes. Yeah. So there's been speculation like that and That speculation has always been wrong, and so we've told that nobody knows the day and the hour, and so when somebody comes up with a day and an hour They're wrong. Um now eventually of course he is gonna come again. Um but yes so so foolish speculations aren't are just that, they're foolish speculation. So much of the detail is hidden, not revealed. the old until the New Testament, so we get some s some de some uh descriptions of things uh end times in the Old Testament, but we get much more detail, of course, in the New Testament, uh with Jesus Olivet discourse in Matthew twenty four, uh second those Chapter 1, and then of course m mostly here in the book of Revelation, we get additional details about what the end times will be like. Uh to believers living at that time in a world overrun by demons and murder and sexual immorality and natural disaster. The realize the realization that God's plan is on schedule and the promised kingdom is near will bring great comfort and hope in the midst of judgment. The fact that God has revealed that his plan is um i there's no stopping God's plan. So i you know, God is sovereign over Every second of history, every molecule of the universe, and so there's no stopping his plan. And his plan is good, and so that's a comfort to believers. So then the Voice which I had heard from heaven, I heard again speaking with me and saying, Go take the book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and the land. So I went to the angel telling him to give me the book. So the voice told him, Go get the book. He goes to the angel saying, Hey, give me the book. Um it's he had so he first he had been forbidden by this voice to write was in the thunders, then he's told, go get that book out of the angel's hand Really weird. So John becomes an active participant in the vision. So uh most of the time he's just seeing and writing down, but there have been times, other times, where John becomes an active participant in his own vision. Think about that. He's told this is a vision he's seeing, but he's told to go take this scroll out of the hand in the vision and eat it. Very weird. Uh so he takes the l so i the the voice tells Take the book. It's the third time it's uh emphasizing this sea in the land. It's a huge angel and unusual authority on the earth. So he's immediately obedient. He's told what to do and he goes and does it. Uh John does that throughout Revelation. He doesn't say no w he doesn't ask why, for example. Uh why w you know, why should I eat that? No. He he goes and gets the book and he eats it like he's told. Uh Um he was said to take it and eat it, and he's told uh very interestingly that it will make your stomach bitter But in your mouth it will be sweet as honey. So he takes the book and he eats it, and lo and behold it's Sweet in his mouth and it makes his stomach bitter. Um so he's obedient, like Ezekiel before him. Uh John in the vision symbolically took the little book out of the angel's hand and ate it, and as the angel had predicted It was sweet as honey, and then when it got to his stomach it made him bitter. So uh what is this talking about here? Uh so the act of eating the scroll symbolizes absorbing and assimilating God's word So he's eating God's word. Um we've seen that uh metaphor before in Psalm nineteen, Jeremiah 15, Ezekiel 3, of eating God's Word, feeding on God's word. Um and when he takes the divine word in In concerning the remaining judgments. So this scroll is talking about the remaining judgments, what's coming in the seventh trumpet and the seven seals, uh seven bowls. That's what he's eating, that's what he's taking in. Um he finds the book both Sweet is honey and also bitter. And why is that? Sweet, because John wanted the Lord to act in righteous judgment. He's right there with the martyrs saying, How long? When is the when is your righteous judgment coming? But the realization of the terrible doom awaiting unbelievers turned his initial sweet taste to bitterness. He he realizes what this what the implications are uh for people. Um when these uh seven bowls are poured out, seventh trumpet and seven bowls. Um and so it's bittersweet, uh is what the the what r that's the kind of the symbol that we're seeing there. Then verse eleven, the last verse. Um and they said to me, They said to me, So who's they? Uh so it's he's got an angel there, he's got a voice there, so there's two of 'em. And they both tell him, You must prophesy again concerning many peoples and nations and tongues and kings. So y it's not done. You're not done, John. This is not your final vision of this thing, um, you've got a you've got more prophecy to do. You're gonna see more visions and have to write down more things. Um and so it's a bittersweet experience that he's just had with eating the the Word of God and And finding out that the judgment is coming, the final judgment is coming, but it's going to be uh very costly for all these people, these unbelievers. So he said, You have to prophesy again concerning many peoples and nations and tongues and kings Uh again indicates John was being commissioned a second time. So he was told he was commissioned in chapter one to write these things down. The things that are, the things that will be, things that are yet to come. He's been commissioned to do that And he's been told been being told here again that your commission still goes on. Um to write the rest of the prophecies which God was going to give him. Uh so you must prophesy again. He's been Prophesying, you've got to prophesy again. What he was about to learn would be more devastating than anything yet revealed. and more glorious. So he was to be faithful to his duty to record all the truth he had seen and would soon see. The prophecies John would receive would relate to everyone. summed up in the four people groups in five nine and seven nine, every tribe and tongue and language and nation. So once again it's gonna be about many peoples and nations and tongues and kings. You're gonna be prophesying about everyone, the whole world. What's ha gonna happen to the whole world? And so that emphasis is been throughout Revelation, and we get it again here that he's going to prophesy about the end times, the final events of the whole world. So John is to warn of all the bitter judgments coming in the seventh trumpet and the seven bowls. That's really what he's being told here at the very end of chapter ten in verse eleven here. As he so he's remember he's in a vision here, but where is he physically located. He's on Patmos, he's in exile. So he had no opportunity to preach to all the nations. But he was to write the prophecies and distribute them And so we did that. Uh we don't there's no description in in the book itself about how it got off Patmos, but he got off Patmos. Somebody probably came to visit him. Uh it seems like even exiles, prisoners, whatnot, when Paul's in Rome, he's allowed all kinds of visitors. Um so most likely John was allowed visitors. He wasn't allowed to leave himself. but he was a lot of visitors. And so that's how the Book of Revelation gets off the island of Patmos. But so he himself was not going to get to do things like Paul did and move around and preach to people. He was going to prophesy, and his prophecies were were going to be distributed to people. Uh to warn all people of the bitterness of judgment to come and of death and of hell. And so those things that he wrote about up to now and the rest of the uh revelation that he's gonna get for the rest of the book have been distributed all over the world. The the the Bible has been distributed everywhere and every copy of the Bible has a book of revelation in it. And so he has prophesied concerning all these people and it's been distributed all around the world. Uh sinners everywhere may know because John recorded these prophecies that while judgment is presently restrained A future day is coming when the seventh angel will sound his trumpet and sin's dominion will be broken. So this hasn't happened yet, remember. This is Prophecy about what's coming in the future. But it's a solemn warning. Solemn warning to people now That this is coming. The freedom of Satan and his demons will come to an end. God has given them uh some slack. He's given he's they're controlled. They're not allowed to do anything outside of the bounds of his will But he's given them freedom uh to wreak havoc. Uh and we get descriptions of more freedom that they get, like r releasing those four demon and a horde of demon armies to go kill a third. So he's given them some freedom. uh to Satan and his demons. Um but that's going to come to an end. Uh we get a description of that here coming up in the rest of the book of Revelation how Uh Satan is is bound in chains uh for a thousand years. And then when he's let out he's gonna be tossed into the lake of fire. Yeah, so um it's interesting that in the previous Um the fifth trumpet, it's particularly they're only allowed to torment those who don't have the the mark of God on their forehead. So in the fifth trumpet we know for certain that he's they're only going to be tormenting unbelievers. Uh it doesn't very specifically say that in the sixth trumpet, um, so we don't know for certain uh who exactly they're gonna kill, but my my guess is that it's the same. Um yeah, that it's the same. Yeah, they're definitely sealed for the protected for the whole time, so they're they're not gonna be killed by anything, those hundred and forty-four thousand. Yeah. Um so th this freedom of saying is gonna come to an end. Godless men will be judged and believers will be glorified. This chapter presents an interlude of hope tinged with bitterness that reminds all Christians of the evangelical evangelistic responsibilities to warn the world of that day. And so once again, this is a should this should act as a motivation to us that that we know this is coming Uh there's a there's a world out there that's uh that's just blindly blundering their way to a a cliff. They're they're about to walk off a cliff. They don't know it, and we know it, and so we need to warn them. Um and so we need to uh have this provide us with fresh motivation. Um we should already have mo motivation enough from God's command uh to preach the gospel. But this is this is a another reason. for us to be motivated to do that. Alright, any questions? About any of those things? So so yeah, so two things are facts that we need to keep in mind. Um I I don't know how long I have Uh this could be my last day. And I don't know how long my unbelieving friend has. It could be his last day. Um and so right, we're we're not promised uh any additional time and so um the time is precious. You know, w we don't know you don't know how much of it you have, and you don't know how much of it the other your unbelieving family member has either. Um and so we need to s seize the opportunities that that the Lord provides to share the gospel. And you don't have to be perfect um that Where's the power? The power is in the gospel itself, the the the word of God. The power is in the word of God. Um the gospel is the power of salvation unto life. Um not my words, not the way I salvation. say it, but the the scripture itself, the the the actual truths of the scripture and the gospel are the things that are powerful. Um n not us. So it's not and and it's the Holy Spirit that that that regenerates and not me either and so um so it's not like it's my responsibility to save someone, but it is my responsibility to open my mouth and and speak to them. Alright, let me close this with prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for uh this revelation that you've made about the end times. Uh we thank you for the opportunities that you give us. to interact with people, uh friends and co-workers and neighbors and family members that so desperately need to hear the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ because this uh that we read about is coming Um and it will be um uh a bitter thing uh to live through these days as an unbeliever And so Lord, we ask that you would give us motivation through your Holy Spirit to uh to preach the gospel to those around us. We thank you so much for the love that you've shown in um in coming up with this great plan of redemption, and we thank you for your mercy in delaying uh that you've delayed uh up to this point your final judgment and you continue to delay to allow people the opportunity to come to a saving knowledge of Christ. That's a that's a wonderful mercy, Lord, and and we uh we we appreciate that and we thank you for it. Uh we thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have on this Lord's Day for uh the things that we're about to uh uh to do in in corporate worship and we pray that that corporate worship would be acceptable in your sight and pleasing to you and glorifying to your name and we pray these things in Jesus' name amen