So in the May 1987 edition of National Geographic, there was an article that featured the Arctic Wolf. The author, uh L. David Mech, he described how a seven-member pack of wolves had targeted several musk oxen calves. who were guarded by eleven adult musk oxen. And as the wolves approached their quarry The musk oxen bunched in an impenetrable semicircle, and their deadly rear hooves were facing out, and the calves remained safe during a long standoff with the enemy But then, and just then, one of the oxes broke rank, and the herd scattered into nervous little groups It was a bit of a skirmish that a that it ensued and the adults finally fled in panic, leaving the calves to defend themselves. And they were at the mercy of the predators, and you already know there is no mercy when it comes to predators. And so not a single sat, not a single calf survived. And if that breaks your heart, loved ones, just as in the case of these adult musk oxen and their calves, We the church face predators that seek to show no mercy They threaten us, and the moment that we allow anything to break our circle of unity, we too will be subjected to attack So what do we do? How do we, as the people of God, the adopted sons and daughters of God, how do we as the church preserve our joy? How do we protect our peace? And how do we ensure that the unity that we already have in Christ maintains? Well, I believe, moreover, I am confident that the Apostle Paul is just the man for the assignment for today's assignment. And so please continue to open up your copy of God's authoritative word as we will examine closely the book of Philippians, chapter four, specifically verses one through nine Philippians chapter 4, verses 1 through 9. And the scripture reads as follows. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown Stand firm, thus in the Lord, my beloved. I entreat you And I entreat Sintiki to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored Side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Praise God for his all-sufficient word. Praise the Lord. And so, loved ones, in Philippians chapter 4, verses 1 through 9, I believe that the Apostle Paul has given us six instructions. Six instructions. So you know we're going to be here for a while. Praise the Lord. Hopefully that degree earned me 15 more minutes. Alright, but anyway, six instructions on how to preserve our joy How to protect our peace and how to empower our unit our unity regardless of our circumstances. Number one We need to be in a right relationship. We need to be in a right relationship. And this is in verses 1 through 3. Instruction number 2. We need to be rejoicing in the Lord. And that's verse 4. Instruction number three: we need to be reasonable. Instruction number four, we need to be praying rightly. We need to be praying rightly, and that's in verses six through seven. Instruction number five, we need to be thinking rightly. And that's in verse 8. And lastly. But not least, we need to be living rightly. And that's in verse 9. Amen. And I'll continue to remind you of these points as we go through the text. Alright. And so again, as we're kind of just launching and parachuting into this text, let's do a quick background check to ensure that we are on the same page with this beautiful epistle. First, you recall from Acts sixteen that the Apostle Paul personally planted this church in Philippi during his second missionary journey when he was accompanied by Silas and Timothy. The first members included The Godfarer, the woman, the seller of purple fabrics, Lydia herself, and the Philippian jailer, the one who was responsible for putting Paul's feet in stocks, and yet When the Lord calls that jailhouse rock, this man, oh some of you got that, praise God. All right. This man was confronted, was confronted with Knowing that he was lacking something in his life, and he fell down before Paul and Silas and said, What must I do to be saved? And Paul and Silas said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you and your house. And you and your whole household shall be saved. That man, that man was converted that evening, in that same Those same hands that put Paul and Silas's feet in stocks were now washing the wounds of Paul and Silas's backs from the stripes that they received for the gospel and presenting them meals And rejoicing with them, because salvation, salvation came to their household. What a start to this church And so this letter, as you heard Pastor Gage mention it earlier, this is known as one of the prison epistles, along with Ephesians, Colossians, and Philemon, and Paul wrote it during his first imprisonment in Rome. Some scholars estimated that he wrote it exactly around circa AD sixty one. And the purpose of this letter was to thank the Philippian church for their monetary gift which was sent by their very own member Epaphroditus. And to give them an update on his situation while he remained in this Roman prison. And while Epaphroditus had gone through such a long journey to bring this gift to the Apostle Paul, he fell very ill. And so he was able to spend a little bit more time with the Apostle Paul, as it was recorded in, excuse me, earlier in the letter in Philippians chapter 2, verses 25 through 30. And so while he was recovering, he was probably giving a little bit of a report to the Apostle Paul about what was happening in this church whom he loves so dearly. Threats of persecution, false teachers, pride, and material needs were just a few of the challenges that the Philippians faced And so what does a what does a loving shepherd do when he hears of trouble in the flock of Christ? He pours out his heart. That's what he did. He literally wrenched out his heart in ink. In this epistle. And so, as you are praying for me, let us continue in the text. Philippians chapter 4, verse 1. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown. Stand firm, thus in the Lord, my beloved. This is the first point of our outline. Be in the right relationships. Be in the right relationships. Now, before the Apostle Paul launches into his exhortations, he begins with assuring the Philippian church of his relationship capital. He refers to them As my brothers and sisters, Adelphoi. And this is so personal. This is personal ownership and association. They are not just some believers he he met along the way They were his brothers and sisters in Christ. And then he pulls them, he pulls them in closer to his chest, so that they could literally hear every heartbeat, and that it's for them. He refers to them as his dearly beloved, his dearly beloved. Paul had such a deep and abiding affection for the Philippian church, and he was not, he was not in the least sense ashamed to admit it. You remember you heard it earlier in the letter in Philippians chapter 1, verse 8, he told them, For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. This was his relationship with and to the Philippians, and he wanted them to know that. In case they doubted that, he wanted them to know that he loved them so much. So much. That he calls them his joy. And remember, loved ones, this is all the while he's sitting in a Roman imprison Wondering what his fate is, but trusting the Lord in spite of the circumstances that he's in. And so that's how you know that this is authentic. This is not dependent upon his circumstances. Paul is not on some beach somewhere, you know, sipping on a pina colada and saying, yeah Yeah, Philippians, how y'all doing? I love y'all. I miss you. Yeah. I'll see you when I get back. No, no, no. This man is suffering Suffering for the name of Christ, namely because he is not able to go out and be free to do the ministry that he once was able to do. But if you know anything about the Apostle Paul, even the chains that he was in. That couldn't stop him. And he's preaching the gospel even while in prison. So much so that even Nero's household had gotten wind of it. The Imperial Guard, they all came up against this man. And tasted of the salt of Christ. And saw the light of Christ in that dark prison. Hmm. Praise God. The Apostle Paul He, he loved ones, he may have suffered greatly, as even the Lord Jesus Christ told him that he would suffer greatly for his name. But because Jesus Was Paul's joy. He was able to have joy regardless of being in prison. And he's letting them know that this Philippian church My beloved, my joy and my crown. Day two. Day two are able to see that love for them because he because they are in Christ. And Christ was with him and so this Philippian church, they too are with him. Hmm. They were so much his joy that he expressed to them earlier in the letter that that was even how he prayed for them. In chapter 1, verse 4, you heard it always in every prayer of mine for you Making my prayer with joy. Loved ones, how do you pray? How do you pray? Do you pray with joy? Or is something else robbing you of that joy in which you should be praying for? It's so easy. It's so easy to become distracted with our circumstances. Paul could have very easily been focusing more on the chains. But he didn't. He saw past his chains and because he knows that Christ Has set him free. And whom the Son hath set free is free indeed. Amen. And so Paul, he had such exceeding joy because his joy Was in a person, namely the second person of the Triune Godhead, Jesus Christ, and his joy was in this Philippian church because they too are in Christ. And so he prayed. He prayed for them. And you recall, Paul prayed for all of the churches that the Lord allowed him to be actively involved in either planting or either shepherding. But it was a little bit different how he prayed for those Corinthians, right? Them Corinthians were off the hook and Paul reminded them. You know, he was just like, ooh, man, I pray for y'all. I'm praying for y'all. You know? But it was different. It was a different flavor with the Philippians. It's for joy he's praying for them. And so This man, he not only called them his joy, but he also called them his crown. He called them his crown. The word for crown in Greek is Stephanos, and it means that which serves as an adornment, or source of pride. It's Paul. He took great pride in his church. Watching them grow, seeing what God had done to to to sustain them. Oh, that That was better to him than all these Olympian athletes who who got their Laurel Reese that got their crown. Paul said you could keep that. I got my crown right here. That's the Philippians. You're my crown. You're my crown. That was his prize. Amazing, amazing love. How sweet to sound. And has an excellent wife. As an excellent wife is the crown of her husband. As Solomon reminds us in Proverbs 12, verse 4. And grandchildren are the crown of the aged in Proverbs 17:6. So were the Philippians a crown to the Apostle Paul. Now, Paul will begin his exhortations, and what does he encourage them to do? He tells them firstly, stand firm in the Lord. Philippian church, stand firm in the Lord. And he's redirecting their attention. This is now of greater importance. This is their relationship with the Lord. And as an apostle, he had the right to just issue and bark commands to this church on how to live, but that's not what he does. Instead, like a loving shepherd, he comes alongside them as a gentle leader. He exhorts them to stand firm in the Lord. And like a soldier was commanded to stand firm at his post This is the same standing firm that these Corinthians were to do. And he had referenced this earlier in chapter 1, verse 27, when he said, Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you, or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind Striving side by side for the faith of the gospel. Oh loved ones, we have to be militant when it comes to that Because there are so many things that there's so many things that want to threaten our unity. Wanna threaten our our being one mind But we have to see these traps and these snares for what they are. We have to be discerning about this day and age in which we are in And the only way that we can do that is not to be standing in the sinking sand of anything else in this life, but to be standing firm upon the rock. To be standing upon the one who is the chief cornerstone, Jesus Christ, our Lord and our God. And that's the only way that we can stand firm. That's the only way. Christ is our foundation. The gospel is our foundation. And we cannot be tossed to and fro by the things that are happening in this world. There's nothing new under the sun. We have the word to teach us. This is what happens in the beginning. This is what's going to happen in the end. We know how this is going to play out And so we cannot be tossed to and fro by every window, every doctrine that's coming. You know? You got all these people nowadays that want to Deceive us into thinking who Christ is. No, loved ones, if it's not from the very word, the very breath of God, we need to reject that We need to stand firm in what the Lord has made known to us. He has revealed himself The one who is unfathomable. The one who is transcendent. The one who is self-existent and self-sustaining. The one who is eternal and invisible. He's made himself known in his written word. And it's for the purpose that we would know him. That we would know him infinitely. Stand on him. Stand on his truth. Stand in faith. And that's what Philip that's what Paul is reminding the Philippians. Don't give up, Philippians. He's telling them, keep steadfast in the Lord. Remember, right before, right before he gives them these instructions in chapter 3, verse 20 to 21, he informed them. Your passport? Okay. Yeah, you're you're from the city, this great city of Philippi, right? Macedonia? Wonderful. But you know where your passport really is from? You know where your passport is really stamped? In heaven That's where your citizenship is. And loved ones, because of that, that's how we can stand firm in the Lord in this world. That's the only way. We have to remember this world is not our home. We're pilgrims. We're passing through. While we are here though, while the Lord tarries, whether either to return or whether to rapture us up home, We got some work to do. And the only way that we can get it done is standing firm in the Lord, remembering where our home, our true destination is. It is In the heavens with the Lord Himself, being able to worship Him, being able to glorify Him. No more sin. No more threats, no more persecution, no more sickness, no more sadness, no more pain Just the Lord Jesus Christ, worshiping him, glorifying him as we were made to do. Oh loved ones, this can only be accomplished if we're living in a right relationship with the Lord. For you cannot stand firm in what you do not know. And you cannot stern you cannot stand firm in what is not firm. You may think you're standing firm, but if it's not on the Lord, Loved ones, you're sinking. And it's only a matter of time before you will meet your destruction. And I don't want to see that happen to you. The Lord Himself doesn't want to see that to happen to you. He does not delight in the death of the wicked. He does not delight in the death of the wicked, but that all will come to the knowledge of the truth. God has revealed Himself through His perfect Son Jesus Christ, so that we can look upon truth. So we could look upon God and not be consumed. What an amazing God He is. And he does that so that we would stand firm in Him Hmm. And so loved ones. Ooh, that clock is moving. Who moved that clock up, boy? Uh set it back. Set it back. All right. So the Apostle Paul, he's going to segue from his right relationship with them to their right relationship with the Lord. And now he's going to focus on their right relationship with one another. So you see how this is this is the cross, right? Because if we're not standing vertically in our right relationship with the Lord, what does it matter what we have horizontally? But both are needed. We need to be standing in a right relationship with the Lord vertically so that we can stand in a right relationship with one another horizontally. And loved ones, that's when that's when this lost and fallen world, this rotten world was seen and smelled And no, there's something different about these people. There's something different about them. Though they look like me, though they may dress like me, though they may live in the same area that I live in, what is it that's different about them? Bring them back to the cross. Bring them back to the cross. That is central. God has left that as a witness for us so that we would go and proclaim the cross. People may call it foolishness, but that's alright. We know that that's the infinite wisdom of God. For Christ Himself is the very treasure of God. And so the Apostle Paul he wants to This whole letter, it's like almost a culmination. He's he was giving clues all throughout. Standing firm in one mind, standing firm in one spirit, striving one another, striving side by side. And now he was patient and now he's gonna get into the hard stuff. Here's the hard stuff. What does he say? Verse 2. I entreat Eodia and I entreat Syntheci to agree in the Lord. Eodia, her name means a prosperous journey. And Cynthia, her name means a pr a pleasant acquaintance. You would think with the way these two were fighting with one another, there was nothing prosperous about that journey, and there was nothing pleasant about that acquaintance. Hmm. And though the Apostle Paul doesn't give us information about who these two women are, they're not mentioned in any other letter. And we don't know the details of what is it that caused this beef between them. But as far as the Apostle Paul was concerned, it was cooking for far too long. This beef needed to be taken off the stove already. This is enough is enough. He had gotten word from Epaphroditus and he he said, No. Mm-mm. I can't have this. I can't have this. And so he implores Eodia and Syntheche. And notice that he doesn't just say it once. He's saying it to them directly. I entreat you, Eodiah. I beseech you, Eodiah. I urge you, Synthecia, I beseech you to agree in the Lord. To agree in the Lord. The late John MacArthur he says in his commentaries first They were church members, not troublemakers from outside the congregation. Second, their dispute was evidently not over a doctrinal issue. If it had been, Paul would have resolved it by siding with the one who was correct and rebuking the one who was in error. Third, they were prominent women, well respected by the Philippian congregation. And though they were well respected, And though they were very important to the Apostle Paul, more important to him. Was the unity of his brothers and sisters in Christ in the church? Because the gospel is at stake. And Paul cannot afford that. And so he puts these women on the front page of the Philippian post in this letter, in this epistle, because their division was starting to it was starting to spill over into the congregation like gangrene. It started to spread. Like weeds, it was starting to choke out that life of that beautiful flower and that beautiful array that beautiful aroma. And Paul, he could not have that happening He didn't want to take sides. He didn't want to add to the division. No, no, no. He wanted them to know that he got word of it and it needs to end immediately. And so Paul After having poured out his heart, he's reminding them. I appeal to you, Eodia, I appeal to you, Syntheci. The two of you, please. Agree in the Lord. Agree in the Lord. To be in the same way, to be in the same mind, to be in harmony with one another Because if we're not in harmony with one another, loved ones, then we are out of step with the Lord. It all is all interrelated. Alright? You can't come into prayer and say, Lord, I'm gonna pray for my brothers and sisters in Christ. I hate them. You think the Lord's gonna hear that prayer? He's gonna be like, oh Seems like you still got some stuff in your heart. I know a good trial that will that will set that free. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, we don't want to be taken to the tool shed by by Father God, right? But we need it. We need it. To humble us, right? And to remind us, the Lord, He's the one that brought us all together Oh, I love it so much. I love it so much. When you come to church, loved ones, you're not coming to church. You are the church. You this is a family reunion every Sunday. And we're gonna taste this now, but it's gonna taste so much sweeter. So much sweeter. We are finally home. But while we are, while we were here on this earth, loved ones, we gotta agree in the Lord. We have to agree in the Lord. And don't get me wrong, let's not get this twisted. There is a time for war. Right? Ecclesiastes reminds us there's a time for embracing, but there's a time not to embrace. Alright? Whenever there's a potential threat to compromise or to water down or misrepresent the gospel, mm-mm, time for war. Time for war. We we we we gotta work, we gotta fight this out We have to work this out. Remember in Galatians chapter 2, verse 11 through 14 when Peter, this is the apostle Peter, the one who walked on water, right? The rock even he even he was susceptible to his own selfish heart and even he had to be reminded And the Apostle Paul, I'm so grateful. I'm so grateful that the Holy Spirit had not only given in the boldness to correct his brother in Christ, but I'm so grateful that the Holy Spirit recorded it in his word. So that we would remember, I don't care how powerful you are in the church, so to speak. I don't care if you're considered a pillar. If you're out of step with the gospel, you gotta be corrected. You gotta be corrected. And here the Apostle Paul, Galatians 2, verse 11, he said, But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face Because he stood condemned. For before certain men came from James he was eating with the Gentiles. But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically, along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, mm mm here come the horns Here comes the warning signal. I said to Cephas before them all, if you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? Oh, I'm so grateful. So grateful that the Lord recorded this in his word. Because Audia and Synthiki, whatever your problem was. Whatever your whatever your attention, whatever the beef was, mm-mm. You have to be corrected. This is too important. The gospel is at stake. The gospel is at stake. Because people are watching us, loved ones They're watching us and they're like, wait a second, why are you trying to compel me to be where you are? And y'all can't even get it right No, sir. I'm good right with my own social club. At least we get together. At least we love each other. But it's a false love Because it's not grounded in the truth. It's not grounded in love. It's not grounded in the love of God. And so it's not true love. But we who have been shaped by this gospel Who have been made new by this gospel. We cannot keep acting like the old man. Remember, Paul Peter got three visions from the Lord, and he still fell short. Right? But praise God. Paul confronted him with that correction and he received it. And so we can never we can never think we get too big for our bridges. No, we all need to be corrected now and then, loved ones But that's what love does. That's what love does. And so he commands them to agree in the Lord. And here he's going to he's going to invite others to get in on this as well It had gotten so out of hand that Paul recruited help. Verse three he says, Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel, together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose name are in the book of life. And so here Paul enlists the help of one of the Philippian church leaders, or some commentators believe it may have been a reference to multiple people at the church. Some even suggest that this word in Greek is actually the name of the person. Suzygos. That's a messed up name, man. That's a hard name, brother. You know? But if that actually wasn't his name, it doesn't matter, right? It it it actually translates to companion Um it actually means even comrade. That you you hear that kind of military sense that that this is your comrade, right? And this was used by even Julius Caesar and the emperors as a term used of gladiators, right? Paul is trying to remind this church, hey guys, we can't allow this to happen. We need to fight together to make sure that Eodia and Syntechy that they agree in the Lord And it also means Yoke Fellow. Now, for those of you who ever watch these National Geographic, you know, I love to watch these documentaries and you ever see two oxen together? You notice that when they have that yoke on, they're the same size. They're of the same strength. Why? So that they could plow together. Right? You can't have one big you know, one big yoke uh on the uh on one ox and the other one is little Baby tiny yer oxen, no sir, that's not gonna get the work done. That's not to get it gets the job done. But we stand on equal ground at the cross And so therefore that yoke that we are able to take together, we do it, and we plow together, we work together for the sake of the gospel. And so Paul, he's enlisting their help, and he's commanding Really, he's commanding the whole church and he's commanding us today that we we cannot allow this to happen. We need to make sure that whenever we see conflict, whenever we see tension in the body of Christ, And I know, right? Like none of us we don't want to get into the con we don't want to get into the conflict. You know? In our world today, people see conflict, they're like, ooh I I'll film it so that I can profit off of it. You know what I'm saying? Right? But am I gonna step in and help? Oh no. No, no. I don't want to get my hands dirty. You know what I'm saying? That's the world We're not to just walk by and be passer-byers when we see our brothers and sisters in Christ fighting. No. No. We need to make sure that they agree in the Lord That we come alongside and be that help and that aid. And I know we all fall short. We're scared. Sometimes we don't want, you know, to catch astray ourselves. Right? But love, just as the Apostle Paul told them earlier, we have to look unto Christ. Who did not consider it I mean he did not consider the thing to be grass, that though he is equal with God, he lowered himself to that of a bondservant, to that of a slave. To come and rescue undeserving creatures like us. And so if Christ does that, the one who came to serve and not be served, who are we? Who are we? And so we have to have the right perspective. And Paul is He's reminding them, guys, this tension has gotten so much of your attention and and so much of the church that you forgot. You strove together with me in the gospel. You were right by my side. You're one of my you're you're both my fellow workers And if you can't even remember that, remember that your name is written in the book of life. Don't forget that. Remember Jesus when he had given his disciples. The power to cast out demons and to do all these great things in his name. In Luke chapter 10, verse 20. Remember they came back? Lord, even the demons are bowing down to us, you know. They were feeling pretty good And the Lord was like, mm-hmm, you like that? R rejoice more in the fact that your name is written in heaven. That's what you should be rejoicing in. Because you all know you don't deserve to go to heaven. I don't deserve to go to heaven. There's not one of us. There is not one of us that can raise our hand and say, Lord, all these other jokers may need your salvation. But me, I got here on my own effort No! No, we boast in Christ. We boast in his goodness. We boast in the gospel. Because it was his death It was the Father's wrath that he received in full on that cross in our place. He was the Lamb that was slain. Put your hand down, Dorina. I need more time. I need more time. Come on. It was him that was slain, in order that we might taste of this goodness, that we might taste of this grace. Oh, loved ones. Yodia and Syntachi, they needed to be reminded that their names were written in the book of life. And so whatever it is that they were fighting over, put it aside, ladies. Put it aside, my sisters. Agree in the Lord. Alright. You know, since Dory's not here, Dorina, she she steps in and she's she's basically doing backflips back there, telling me your time is coming up. All right Alright, let's keep moving. Alright, love ones. So, so, quick question though, right? Because we may all agree on this right now. But let me tell you something. That whatever it is that's around the corner in our world. I don't know what I don't know what it is. I don't know what it is. I don't know what political bent it may have. I don't know what racial tension it may be. I don Know what it is But is that more important than our agreement, our unity in Christ? Whatever it is Is it? No. No, you better understand you have to fix that in your heart. You gotta resolve that in your heart from now. Because those threats. The Philippian church, they were not only dealing with external threat, uh, external threats, they had internal threats as well. And so Paul was reminding them: mm-mm, no, sir, that's why you're lacking joy. Because you're looking at your circumstances. But remember, our joy is in Christ. And our joy is in one another. And so we need to str we need to preserve that. This is too precious. Don't let anything of the world threaten that. Our love is beyond this world. It transcends this world. And so whatever it is, the Apostle Paul reminds us, there's neither Jew nor Greek. I don't care what your background is, I don't care what your your your ethnicity. There's neither slave nor free. I don't care what your position is I don't care what your title or what your job may be. There is neither male nor female. Notice only two genders. Okay. Right? I don't care what it is For you are all one in Christ Jesus. We are made one in Christ Jesus. There's nothing more important than that Hmm. But I tell you, it's important that we get to our next point of our outline. Lord help me. Alright. So this is the second point Be rejoicing in the Lord. I'm so glad you're rejoicing already with me. Rejoice in the Lord, always loved ones. Again, I will say rejoice. And this is our instructions. We need to be rejoicing in the Lord. Paul reminds them nine times throughout this letter alone, right? And you can see why this is called the Book of Joy The late R. C. Spro, he said regarding this verse, the command to rejoice can always be obeyed, even in the midst of conflict, adversity, and deprivation Because joy rests not on favorable circumstances, but in the Lord. Oh praise God. Loved ones, is the joy of the Lord your strength today Is your joy anchored in Christ? Because if it's not, yeah, then you're wondering why you're depressed. And you're wondering why you're so easily discouraged. It happens to me as well, right? Trials come and sometimes those whispers get louder than the truth and we have to Bring that into captivity to the obedience of Christ. What is the truth? The truth is we serve an unchanging God. And he has given us an unchanging word. And these are promises that we must, we must stand firm in loved ones. We must, because that's the only way that we're going to find joy when difficulties come. That's the only way. And so we have to press on. The third point of our outline is to be reasonable. The Apostle Paul verse 6 says, Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Another way of saying this is: let all men see your forbearing spirit. Right? This word reasonableness in Greek it means not insisting on every right or letter of the law or of custom It's yielding. It's a gentle, kind, courteous, even tolerant. The gentle person does not insist on their rights And that's hard, because we're Americans. We got rights. You take anything from me, I'm gonna storm wherever you are, and I'm gonna take it back Mm-hmm. And I'll even have a flag that says, yes, Jesus is uh, yeah, he's my king. Mm-hmm. And I'm gonna fight for my rights. Is that what the early church did with Nero in power? When he considered it a sport to put meat on them and to throw them in the arena? When he would douse them in wax and light them as candles in his yard? Did Paul say, Hey Philippians, don't let that happen to you. You better go tell Nero who's the boss? No. It's by them standing firm on the rock, standing firm on Christ. That's what that's what toppled the Roman Empire They saw that they could not quench that power. They could not snuff out that flame. Because that light of the world was the light of the world, Jesus Christ. And so this is what the Apostle Paul he's reminding them: be reasonable. Everyone else could be unreasonable. That's the world. But as for you, loved ones, let your gentleness be known to all men. All men. And so the Apostle Paul he not only commands them to be reasonable and gentle and considerate to all men, he wants to also remind them that their motivating reason for doing this. What does the rest of the text say? The Lord is at hand. The Lord is at hand. That's right, loved ones. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Alright? And so the Lord, we want to make sure that when if it's if it so shall be that the Lord shall return, we don't want to shrink away. No. We want to be like Maranatha, yes, Lord Jesus, come quickly. We want to be able to make sure that we receive and embrace the Lord's return. And because he is at hand and we don't know when he will actually return, just like in the parable that the Lord Jesus gave in Matthew 24, right? Remember there were two p there were two servants. One was working hard and the other one he was kicking up his feet He was one to waste his time. No no no. He was the one that was beating other servants and being gluttonous and drunkenness and not knowing when the master would return, but the master returned at a time when he didn't respect that that he didn't expect And he received judgment. No, we don't want to be foolish like them. No, we want to be found busy doing the Lord's work until he returns. Amen. And so now, hmm. What a perfect verse to jump into right now, verse 6, especially as I'm being anxious about that clock. Verse 6, the Lord He says to his apostle, do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus And so, loved ones, this is the fourth point of our outline. Be praying rightly. Be praying rightly. So here, Paul commands the Philippians to stop being anxious about the difficulties that they were facing, both internally and externally. And he wanted to remind them that though their anxieties of dealing with false teachers and and division within their church, Epaphroditus' health, even Paul's imprisonment, all of these things, they were concerned about even about Timothy coming to their church. It was starting to burden them. But Paul said, Don't be anxious about these things, loved ones. Don't be anxious about these things. And this is a man who didn't even know if he was going to face death in his first imprisonment. And so he is speaking from from a place Where he's leading by example. He's not anxious about his situation. And so he's the right person to command them also to stop being anxious. And this is just like our Lord Jesus Christ in the greatest sermon that was ever preached in Matthew 6. 26 through 33. Remember the Lord Jesus Christ instructed us not to worry. To stop worrying, why? Because God is sovereign. And as long as God is not walking around wringing his hands, worrying about tomorrow We can stand confident in knowing that our God sits on the throne. He established his throne in the heavens. We don't have to be worried about tomorrow. And so here. Loved ones, Warren Wersby reminds us that worry is the greatest thief of joy. It is not enough for us to tell ourselves to quit worrying, because that will never capture the thief. Worry is an inside job, and it takes more than good intentions to get to victory. End quote. If we have enough energy to worry, and that takes a lot of energy. Right? Worrying is kind of like sitting in a rocking chair. You're moving, but you're not going anywhere. Right? So all that energy, unless you're at the wailing wall, you gotta stop doing that. Right? Redirect that energy You need to be praying. I need to be praying. None of us should raise our hand if we were to ask, if we were to do a poll right now, how many of you are content with your prayer life? None of us should raise our hand. Because just when you think that you've prayed enough, you need to pray some more. You need to pray some more. I was so grateful that you guys were lifting up the missionaries who were about to go out before this world. And whether it's helping out with a VBS or whatever the assignment may be, they need prayer. They need prayer. And so keep praying for them Keep praying for your church. Keep praying for our world. Though it may seem like things have gone astray and that there is nothing but chaos around us. Oh, we can stand confidently. We can stand confidently because we know that we serve a God who hears our prayers. He delights in hearing the cries of his children And he moves in and through our prayers. Because he's the one who put them in our hearts in the first place. That's the only reason why the children of Israel weren't wiped out when they gave themselves over into all types of immorality and all types of debauchery. It was Moses that interceded on their behalf. He knew that they were a stiff-necked people and he deserved the wrath of God. But he cried out on their behalf. And the Lord relented. We're talking about the unchanging God. Well, that's more theology for another time, but but but here, here loved ones, whatever you're Whatever's causing your anxiety. Don't be so quick to run to the medicine cabinet. Don't be so quick to run to CVS and get something over the counter that will muffle. It's only gonna temporarily deal with that anxiety. No. No, the antidote is prayer. The antidote is prayer. And what a formidable weapon that God has given us. What an absolute privilege that we get to commune with the Most High God, the everlasting God And when we let the anxieties and the burdens of this world bully our minds and bully our bodies, no, we've lost sight. We've focused on the situation and we've taken our eyes off the Most High God. And we need to We need to fix our eyes upon him. We need to run to him in prayer. Oh, I hope somebody's praying for me right now. Amen. And does it help? Of course it helps. Of course it helps. The prayers of the righteous avails much. We could cause a drought to last for three years and six months like Elijah. And at the moment that we bend our knees and cry out to the Lord High God, the Lord Most High, He'll send that cloud as small as our fist And it'll cause a torrential downpour. That's the God we serve. That's the God we serve. So stop. Stop worrying. Stop being anxious. Whatever the situation may be Notice that Paul doesn't tell us what things are worthy of being anxious. Because there isn't anything. We need prayer. We need to be focused on prayer. And so. Pray, loved ones. Pray. Pray with adoration. Pray with confession. Pray with thanksgiving. Pray with supplication. And don't forget to pray with joy We can do this joyfully like the Apostle Paul did. Why? Because as we cast all our anxieties on Christ, He cares for us. He cares for us. Alright. So Paul not only commands the Philippians to pray, but he also highlights the benefits of their praying rightly. Verse 7, and the peace of God. which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. No Jesus and O. Jesus. No peace But if we know Jesus, KNO, Oida, Greek, if we know Jesus, if we know him intimately, then we know peace. You hear what I'm saying, loved ones? We are not only given peace of God, we are given the God of peace. And so we cannot forsake prayer. We cannot forsake it Isaiah the prophet reminds us in Isaiah chapter 26, verse 3, you keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you. Why? Because he trusts in you And so this is the tranquility to our souls that we need. This surpasses all comprehension. We can't even understand this. That this military term It's like a guarding over. God is prayer. Going to the Lord. Going to his throne of grace He's keeping watch over us with his peace. And it's his peace that guards us from anxiety, from doubt, from fear and distress. And we need it, loved ones. God will either calm the storm outside of us or he will calm the storm within us. But either way, we need the God of peace. We need him What an amazing God we serve. And finally, brothers, and finally, sisters, verse 8. Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise Think about these things. This is the fifth point of our outline. Be thinking rightly. We need to be thinking rightly Now you heard me allude to it earlier, 2 Corinthians 10, verse 5, the Apostle Paul. He says, We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and we take every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. Loved ones, I know that we are in a world that wants to just entertain us to death. It wants to just amuse us to death. I get so concerned. I get so concerned when I just see people just, what do you call it, doom scrolling, my kids say. You're doom scrolling. Think about that term. See, could we we come up with some terms? Doom scrolling? Yes. Yes, that's exactly what you're doing. You're scrolling yourself to death Being tickled and entertained by the vanity of fear. That's what the enemy would love us to do, right? Just like in the Pilgrim's Progress, he wants us to go to the vanity fair and just get lost in all the lust of the eyes, and all the lust of the flesh, and in all the pride of life. We can't have it happen to us. We cannot. And I know you think, oh, there's nothing wrong with a little Indulging in violence. It's just a documentary. I'm not actually being violent. If we are finding entertainment in the things that the Lord Jesus had to die for We gotta examine our hearts. We gotta check our hearts. Where's our love and affection? Where is our joy? What's going on? Our moral compass is way off. I'm finding joy in the things that my Lord and my God, God incarnate and innocent man Had to die in order to re free me from and then here I go putting the shackles right back on myself. Come on. Enough of this foolishness. We need to put those things to death Christ said, if you want to be one of my disciples, you have to pick up your cross daily. We need to do it momentarily. We need to do it. Because there are so many things that are vying for our affection. And we cannot be distracted. We cannot be losing sight. We have to feast on Christ. Feast on the pure riches of his word, not this junk food. You know? You buy we buy this fast food and it sits in the back of our minivan for weeks and months, even years on and it has it it hasn't changed. That's not good. That's not good, you know? But we eat it. It's a dollar menu, baby. We gotta get it. No, man, I need I need the pure the pure God's word. Oh Loved ones, when we start thinking rightly, when we start taking inventory of what we're meditating on, you know what that's going to produce? It's going to produce our living rightly. It's a natural it it this is God's economy. We will reap what we sow. If we sow to the flesh, what do you think you're gonna get? Death, destruction. But when we sow to the Spirit, oh we get the Spirit. We get more of Him. And I don't know about you, but I need to be continually filled with Him. Because I know what my heart normally wants to run to and I don't want that. I need Christ and I need more of Christ. And the only way that I get more of Christ is when I think more about Christ. And when I think more about him, then I want to live more for him. And you and I both need that. Paul can say with confidence, what you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. And the God of peace will be with you The Apostle Paul was such an example that he could tell the Philippians, follow me as I follow Christ's loved ones. How many of us can say that We want to aspire to say that. No, but we need to be living like that. Because there is somebody who's watching us. We're the only Bible that they may ever come across. Let them see Christ. Let them see Christ. And that can only happen when you are living rightly for Him. And so loved ones, my fellow Hopians. Praise God. If you find yourself struggling to preserve your joy, if you find yourself struggling to protect your peace If you find that your unity is a little weak and you need to be empowered, remember. We stand stronger than those mucks musk oxen did in protecting their calves versus the wolves. We stand stronger even though we are sheep. We stand strong as we strengt so long as we stand together in Christ. So long as we agree in the Lord. So long as we are standing on the rock who Himself is Christ. The gospel is of first importance, loved ones. And if you find yourself at disagreement with your brother or your sister, go back to the cross. Go back to the cross and remember that there's nothing more powerful than that. And that's why the enemy threatens it so, because he knows that we, when we stand together as one, Oh, nothing can stand against us. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. We don't need to fear anything. When we can live like that Or we can turn this world right side up as even those twelve unlearned, untrained apostles did. Fishermen. We can change this world for the Lord's glory. Amen? Amen. Let's pray, loved ones. Father in heaven. Thank you. Thank you so much, first and foremost, that you are one. Thank you so much. That you sent Jesus Christ so that we might be one with you. Lord, what a precious gift, and we did nothing to deserve it And Lord, we thank you for the joy that we have. And it's because of Christ. And it's because your very Holy Spirit indwells us. Thank you so much for the peace that surpasses all understanding. We can't even comprehend it. But we thank you because you have given us Christ. And Lord, thank you so much for that unity that we have. We are one because you have made us one. And so Lord, I just thank you so much for whole Bible Church. I thank you so much for this precious church. Thank you. For the blessing that they've been to me and to my family. Thank you for their love and for their support and for their prayers. So many prayers. Oh God, would you richly, continually bless this church? Continue to use them as a mighty instrument. In this area for such a time as this. Because there are so many people out there who don't have joy. There are so many people out there who don't have peace. And it's because they do not know the God of peace. And so God continue to empower this church, to be the salt in the light that you call them to be, to go out and to proclaim That glorious gospel so that more we're here, the more believe And more will stand together with us on that day when you call us to be with you. God, we love you And we thank you. And we ask this all by faith in the name that is only able to save Christ Jesus the Lord. Amen. Amen. And amen. Thank you, loved ones