Uh let's start out with a word of prayer. Please bow with me. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day, this wonderful day that you've made, and we thank you for uh this Lord's Day and the fact that uh We get to we get the great privilege of gathering together as the body of Christ to worship you. We thank you, Lord, for who you are and what you've done, uh for your glorious majesty, for your grace and your mercy. We thank you for the love that you showed for each and every one of us in sending your one and only Son, Christ, Jesus Christ, to die on the cross for our sins. We thank you, Lord, for your word and the opportunity. that we have today to study it. We pray for your Holy Spirit to be poured out on each and every one of us as we Consider your word, that your spirit would teach us what you want us to learn from your word. We pray also today, Lord, for the peace of Jerusalem. We pray for the people of Israel. that have been subject to terrorist attacks recently. We pray, Lord, that you would restore peace. uh among your people in Israel. We pray, Lord, especially for our brothers and sisters there, both Jewish and Arab followers of Christ there who uh experience uh an additional to everything else also uh persecution from all sides. Uh we pray, Lord, that those uh those followers of Christ would be faithful witnesses there in the land of Israel. Uh we thank you, Lord. for uh this opportunity we have today uh to glorify your name and we pray that everything that we do would bring glory to your wonderful name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. All right, come on in everybody. Grab a seat. Uh we're getting ready to start part thirty three. three of this thirty-nine part series on the revelation of Jesus Christ. So, um this this is good this lesson today is gonna be called Heavenly Hallelujah. We're gonna do the first half of chapter nineteen. Uh do the second half of chapter nineteen next week, which is the actual return of the king. So today we're going to talk about these heavenly hallelujahs. We're going to talk about the reason for them because of the false The full salvation has come because justice is meted out, because rebellion is ended, because God is in control, and because the marriage of the Lamb is complete. But first let's take a look back at what we did last week. So last week we went through chapter 18, um the the story of the fall of Babylon. Really chapter 17 and chapter 18 are about the fall of uh the Antichrist world. uh kingdom. Uh chapter seventeen is about the fall of the world religious system and chapter 18 is about the fall of the Antichrist worldwide economic system. That's what we did last time And so John sees an angel, another one. He had seen one at the beginning of chapter 17. He sees another angel here at the beginning of chapter 18 who has great authority, comes down from heaven and s and proclaims that Babylon is fallen. And so the reasons for her fall, for the the fact that God judged her, the the reasons are good given, uh several reasons. She's become the dwelling place of demons and a prison for uncomfortable. clean spirits and um all the nations have drunk the wine of the passions of her immorality. Um and then we get this the the fact that the merchants of the earth have become rich and uh all these reasons for God's judgment. Judgment on the Antichrist kingdom. And then we there was a little interlude where uh believers are warned not to partake in the sins of this uh anti Christ system, uh because um uh d God's people are to flee so that they do not receive the plagues uh that come upon Babylon. Um the fact that the sins are piled up as another reason for this judgment that we saw last week, uh and that God has remembered her iniquities. And then the angel cries out that what the judgment just judgment is is, pay her back, uh even as she is paid, uh give her double according to her deeds. In other words, the the punishment fits the cry, uh a constant biblical theme for judgment. Um And then we have this series of laments, uh the unredeemed laments over the fall of the kingdom, the the judgment God's judgment of the kingdom, we have the leaders, uh, we have the merchants lamenting, uh, we have those who uh who are um involved in commerce on the sea, they lament uh the fact that this uh great city has fallen. Um and so we have this great sadness for all these people that have that are so invested in anti Christ system that have gone wholehearted, hold in on the Antichrist in his system. Now God's judgment has come and it's devastating for them. And then you have the opposite reaction. In heaven there's rejoicing at God's righteous judgment. God's judged um uh th this this wicked antichrist in his um his system, uh the religious system and now the economic system, and there's rejoicing at in heaven over that. So any questions about what we saw last time in chapter eighteen. So Chapter seventeen, chapter eighteen, the f the details about the fall of Babylon. Um and now we have Uh, kind of the crescendo of the rejoicing in heaven over what has just happened and what's just about to happen here in chapter 19. So if you will, open your Bibles or your apps or your documents. Advice to uh Revelation chapter nineteen. So Revelation chapter nineteen, we're gonna re we're gonna go through the first ten verses. After these things I heard something like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven. saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and power belong to our God, because his judgments are true and righteous. For he has judged the great harlot who was corrupting the earth with her immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his bondservants on her. And a second time they said, Hallelujah! Her smoke rises up forever and ever. And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who sits on the throne, saying, Amen. Hallelujah. And a voice came from the throne saying, Give praise to our God, all you his bondservants, you who fear him, the small and the great. Then I heard something like the voice of a great multitude, and like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of a mighty peal of thunder, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. It was given to her to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and clean, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. Then he said to me Write, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are true words of God Then I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me, Do not do that I am a fellow servant of yours and your brethren who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of prophecy. This is the word of the Lord that we're going to take a look at today. And as usual, I'll give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur. From John's introdu introduction to this section of scripture in his commentary, he says, the Bible lists many reasons for giving thanks to God. He is to be praised first of all for all the perfections of his glorious being. to be praised not only for his attributes, but also for his mighty works. The many rich blessings God bestows on his people also call forth praise, chief of which is the gift of his son. That of all the things God is to be praised for, perhaps the least expected is for his destruction of the wicked Yet that too is an important theme in Scripture. Deuteronomy 32, 43 reads, Rejoice, O nations, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of his servants. And will render vengeance on his adversaries. Psalm 48, 11 adds, Let Mount Zion be glad, let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments. While Psalm 58, 10 and 11 notes that the righteous will rejoice when he sees The vengeance. He will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked, and men will say, Surely there is a reward for the righteous. Surely there is a God who judges on earth. As man's day draws to a close and the true king prepares to return to earth, heaven will rejoice. Heavenly hallelujahs ring out in chapter nineteen over the final destruction of the day. Of the evil world system and the glorious victory of the returning Messiah. As that long awaited time approaches, the scene in Revelation shifts from earth, where it has been since chapter six, to heaven. The intervening chapters have detailed God's Cataclysmic explosion of judgmental fury on the sinful world. The particular target of God's wrath was Antichrist's worldwide religious, political, and economic empire symbolized by its capital city of Babylon. Babylon's destruction was described in detail in chapters 17 and 18. That destruction which caused dismay and mourning on earth now brings joy in heaven. With the devastation of its capital city, Antichrist's empire was dealt a fatal blow. The final destruction of the world's forces will take place shortly at Armageddon in chapter nineteen, verses eleven to twenty. one some might think heaven's rejoicing over Babylon's destruction to be insensitive and uncaring. But that short sighted view ignores the reality that those sinners will have had the greatest opportunity to repent of any people who have They will have experienced the unprecedented disasters of the tribulation, which they will acknowledge to be God's judgments. They will also have heard the most powerful preaching of the gospel in history from the hundred and forty-four thousand Jewish evangelists. the two witnesses, the host of the redeemed saved during the tribulation, and even a powerful angel. Yet despite all that, they will remain unrepentant to the very end, hardened into irreversible unbelief and defiant hatred of God. The praise seen in heaven throughout Revelation in chapter four, chapter five, chapter seven, chapter eleven, chapter fifteen, chapter sixteen reaches a crescendo in this text. Thus John MacArthur about this section of scripture we're about to study. So, uh let's take a look verse by verse at this uh this passage. So let's start with verse one. After these things I heard something like a loud voice, so not a loud voice, but something like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and power. belong to our God. And so this is a similar phrase we've seen over and over again in Revelation, this after these things in chapter 4 and Chapter 7 and Chapter 15 and Chapter 18. And it marks the beginning So something new is happening here. We've we've seen the destruction of Babylon. Now we get a uh the beginning of a new vision here. Uh and it takes place after we've seen this destruction of Babylon detailed in 17 and 18 and right before the triumphant return in Christ that we'll see in the second half of chapter nineteen next week, uh when he comes to establish the millennial kingdom. Um and so after Babylon's destruction these loud hallelujahs ring out in heaven and and they're we'll s as we see as we walk through this, they're both looking back at the judgment that's just happened and looking forward to uh the the physical return of Christ. That's about to happen. So in his vision, John hears something like a loud voice of a great multitude. The text does not identify whose voices these are, whose voices make up this loud voice. voice that John heard, uh, but they're likely to be angels. Um the great multitude does not appear to include the redeemed saints because as we'll see in verse five through eight, the the redeemed saints are added in later on. So this is most likely angels. So millions of holy angels making an awe-inspiring choir. So this angelic chorus then opens with the word Hallelujah, an exclamation of praise to God. And so the Greek word hallelujah is a transliteration of a Hebrew phrase. Halal to praise. The other form of that is hal halel Hallelu, hallelu, uhellelu, and then ya. Haleluya is the Hebrew phrase. And so the Greek transliteration of that is allelujah. uh in Greek, using Greek word Greek letters to say a Hebrew phrase. That's what really what this is. It appears in the New Testament only here in this chapter. Uh the Hebrew phrase first appears in uh the Old Testament in Psalm one hundred four, let sinners be consumed from the earth and let the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord O my soul. Praise the Lord. Halel Uya. Uh in Hebrew there. In Psalm 104. Notice that in Psalm 104, it's praising the Lord for what? For consuming sinners on the earth and letting the wicked be no more. So it's about judgment in the Old Testament. It's about judgment here in the New Testament as well. Um so in this first Old Testament appearance, as in this appearance in the New Testament, it uh expresses praise for God's judgment on the wicked oppressors of his people. Uh Um and so the Hebrew phrase is associated with God's deliverance of his people uh from Egypt in particular in a in a section of the Psalms from Psalm one thirteen to Psalm one eighteen is known as the Egyptian Halel. praise for God's deliverance from Egypt in that section of the Psalms. So heaven rejoices here because salvation has come for God's people. And with it the glory and power that belongs to God have been put on display. And so that's cause for rejoicing in heaven. The fact that God's glory has been put on display in the in the fact of salvation of his people, uh, and also for judgment. Um and so the word salvation here uh does not focus so when we talk about salvation, uh we talk about th so three aspects of salvation justification, sanctification, glorification, so uh justification is uh at the time of Christ's finished work on on the cross, he said it is finished, the telescope paid in full, uh believers are justified before a holy God because Christ has paid the penalty on the the cross. That's justification. That happens uh one time. Uh you're you're justified when you when you come to Christ, when you come to saving faith in Christ, then you're uh you're you'll never be more justified or less justified than you were on the day that you were saved. And then there's comes sanctification. That's uh a progressive work of the Holy Spirit in the life of believers, that the believer becomes progressively conformed to the likeness of Christ. And then there's glorification. And glorification is is what is in view here, as we'll see from the rest of that. Uh and that's uh our final um coming into the presence of the Lord for all eternity and in the new heavens and the new earth there's no more sin, there's no more death. There's no more pain, there's no more suffering, uh that is glorification. And that's really what this text is pointing to when it says salvation, uh, because we have the imminent return of Christ and it prompts this kind of uh praise. Uh Any questions about that? Any comments before we go to verse two? Alright, on to verse two. Verse two says, Because his judgments are true and righteous For he has judged the great harlot who was corrupting the earth with her immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his bondservants on her. So heaven rejoices also because God's judgments are true and righteous. They're always true and righteous. And the evidence of that in this particular case is the destruction of wicked deserving Babylon. So his judgments are always true and righteous, and then we're pointed to a particular example that has just occurred, his righteousness. Judgment of wicked Babylon. Um so the joy there's joy over the imminent triumph of God's justice is something that all who pray and work for righteousness can relate to. So uh we saw this in chapter six with the saints saying, you know, how long praying for the the the coming of God's final judgment and all believers really uh throughout history should look forward to this time. Uh God's people have been disturbed by injustice and unrighteousness in the world and have longed for God's justice to come. Um all the way uh from the from the very beginning um God's people have been um dealt with with unrighteousness, injustice and persecution. Um and the final accounting, the final reckoning for that is here and that prompts uh rejoicing in heaven. Um and also we have of course we have at this particular point the stage set for the establishing of his kingdom. Uh he's judged hi the great harlot and taken out of the way the final obstacle to the coming of Christ in his kingdom. Um so Satan and Antichrist system that seduced the unbelieving world has been swept away. And that's the final preparation for the coming of the king. Uh that s that system was guilty of corrupting the earth with its immorality, and we've seen the earth corrupted all the way from uh Genesis chapter three. Uh with the fall, the earth has been corrupted, the earth groans um because of the unrighteousness in it and and the final um the final outpouring, if you will, of that unrighteousness and that uh corrupting of the earth is the Antichrist kingdom, and when that's swept away, then the final preparations are made for the king. Um and so we have a r uh the the final reason of course for Babylon's judgment, which we saw all Also in chapter eighteen is he has avenged the blood of his bond servants on her. So a part of the wickedness of Antichrist's kingdom is the physical persecution of followers of Christ. And so that's uh the uh an additional reason and a big reason for God's judgment of Babylon. And then verse three. And a second time they said Hallelujah! Her smoke rises up forever and ever, and the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worship God. who sits on the throne saying, Amen. Hallelujah. So there was a first outbreak of rejoicing and then we get a second outbreak um of the heavenly chorus to say Hallelujah. Um And so this is the climax of the judgment of Babylon. We saw at the end of chapter 18. She was burned up with fire. Uh, and sinners mourned as they watched the smoke rise into the sky. We saw that in chapter 18. And here in chapter 19, we we get this phrase, the smoke rises up forever and ever, and that indicates that the judgment is final. and permanent and irreversible. Um the physical flames and smoke obviously will eventually die out. Um especially since the whole that whole world is gonna be done away with. But the judgment is eternal. Eternal on the souls of the sinners who are destroyed. So uh so with then we have uh this new group joining in in agreement with the angelic uh chorus. We have hallelujahs from other heavenly residents we have the twenty four elders who we've met previously uh in Revelation here. Uh and We've seen them as representatives of the church and we have the four living creatures uh who are identified as cherubim, uh especially if we look at the description of the four living creatures from the Old Testament prophecies. They're uh explicitly identified as cherubim. of them in the Old Testament as special kind of angels. And then we have a voice came from the throne saying, give praise to our God. all you his bondservants, you who fear him, small and great. So the text doesn't specifically identify who this voice is, who's the owner of this voice. It came from the throne. But it's likely an angel Uh because it refers to God as our God. And God doesn't refer to Himself that way. And neither does Jesus. Jesus refers to God the Father as my God not our God. And so this is most likely angels because of the way this is phrased and um and the Greek word actually really indicates coming from the direction of the throne. Um so coming from the direction of the throne is this voice, um and since it phrases it this way, our God, most likely an angel. Um but it doesn't specifically identify in the text. Uh but the the voice calls another group to join in the anthem of praise. So we had the Angelic chorus, we had the twenty-four elders, the four living creatures, and now we get this call to another group to give praise. Give praise to all you his bondservants, you who fear him, the small, and the great. Throughout scripture, redeemed believers are described as bondservants. And so this word in the Greek of course is doulos or um uh do los Lawn for m uh uh plural. Um a do los means slave. Um it's often translated in many English uh translations as servant or bondservant because uh we have a real squeamishness about the word slave. Um because to be a slave to another human being is an awful thing. However, to be a slave to our own Creator, who loves us better than we could ever be loved by anyone or anything is not a bad thing. It's a good thing to be a slave to God. And so that word dulos, that's translated here bondservant, really means slave And believers are described that way throughout Scripture. We see it in several places in Revelation, chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 7, Chapter 11, Chapter 15. We'll see it again in chapter 22. We see it in Luke, in Acts, in Romans, in Galatians. in Philippians and Colossians and second, you get the picture throughout scripture. Christians are you are described by this Greek word doulos, which means Slaves. Slaves to God. And also throughout Scripture, the second part of that phrase is those who fear him. And we see that going back to the Old Testament, Deuteronomy chapter 6, and Chapter 8, and Chapter 10, and Chapter 13, Joshua. 24, 1 Samuel 12, and on and on and on and on, and including into the New Testament in Luke chapter 1, uh described as those who fear him, uh the redeemed. And then we also get this phrase. the small and the great, uh transcending all human categories and distinctions. So we tend to make categories and make distinctions among ourselves as human beings, and this Phrase um is explicitly saying those categories are not applicable here. When we're when we're bond servants or slaves to God, there are no categories of of bondservants or slaves to God. The great and the small doesn't matter. We're all um servants, bondservants, those who fear him, and it includes everybody, the small and the great Uh all the redeemed are called then to praise God. So what's the point of this whole thing is all those who are bondservants of God and who fear Him, no matter who you are are called now to praise God. Right. Any uh questions, comments? Wow, very quiet today. Very subdued room. Okay. The good things are say There you go. Yep. Now we've got to the good part. Okay. All right, uh verse six. Um then I heard something like like the voice of a great multitude, and like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. So, uh when I when I read this I think of the Hallelujah chorus and um I I just it keeps running through my mind here that th this is quoted in the Hallelujah chorus, um um uh in Handel's Messiah. Uh so when the redeemed obeyed the command from the heavenly voice and added their voices to the heavenly chorus, uh so we now we've got the multitude of angels, we've got the twenty-four elders, we've got the four living creatures, and now we've got all these uh multitude of believers. And so John describes this sound now as uh in three three ways. It's um uh sound of the voice of a great multitude, it's sound like many waters, it sounds like the peals of thunder. Um this this thing is really building This crescendo of praise for God, this uh chorus of hallelujahs is really building. And actually I think Handel does a good job of describing this Uh the hallelujah chorus is talking about this. Um now the how the the whole handles messiah of course is is quoted from scripture. Uh if if you if you you can go online and look at And uh all the scriptures that are quoted in in the entire piece, the Hamlet's Messiah. But when you get to the Hallelujah chorus, it's talking about this. And he he builds it up to a to a great crescendo and so that's kind of what I imagine when I when I think about this. Uh so the apostles comparing this loud uh this loud chorus of praises that he hears to uh some things that his hearers, the the people that he's writing to, might be able to understand. The rushing of many waters, the loud sound if you're close to Niagara Falls. Uh how many here have been to Niagara Falls? How loud is it when you get into that made of the mist and you get up there close I mean it's really loud. Um Uh and then peals of thunder. Uh we've all experienced how loud it can be. W when when thunder breaks close to your house and the whole house rattles, how how loud that is So he's trying to use some imagery here to to once again he's seeing and hearing things that are uh essentially indescribable, and he's describing them the best way he can. Uh rushing waters and the sound of mighty peals. of thunder is what he he he compares this mighty sound of praise that he hears. And so the the end of the crescendo of this anthem of praise is hallelujah. For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns. So the evil world system has been swept away, completely destroyed, and God's kingdom is coming in its fullness. Um and so the the the use of hallelujah here uh we get uh the the Hebrew phrase repeated many times, especially in the Psalms, uh, but especially in the last five. So the last five Psalms, Psalm 146 to 150, are Psalms of praise like this, and use this phrase, the Hebrew phrase uh for hallelujah uh repeatedly um in praise of god's sovereign rule and eternal fellowship with the redeemed uh and then uh verse seven so uh Um this is the so most of that was looking back, both looking back and looking forward. Uh but now we're really going to look forward for the rest of uh this the passage that we're gonna look at today. We're gonna look at something called The marriage of the Lamb. So verse 7 says, Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory to him. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. This is an important passage of Scripture, this verse of Scripture. So the heavenly praise continues with a call for gladness. and rejoicing and and giving God glory and we have a new reason for that. We we've we've rejoiced and been glad about his salvation and about uh his his judgment and sweeping away of the the the evil system that was corrupting the earth. But now there's something new here, this marriage of the Lamb. What is that about? So we see this imagery of marriage often in Scripture. Uh we we get that uh imagery in the Old Testament, we get in the New Testament. Um wedding preparations and celebrations in ancient times were uh much much more elaborate uh than today and involved uh and lasted longer. Um and there were actually three distinct phases of marriage in ancient days. Uh first was the betrothal or the engagement, which was much different than what we think of as engagement. Um we know, we think of the man going down to one knee and asking for marriage and um and it's a you know, it's it's gotta be in a romantic setting with the right lighting and um but that's not what this is. That's not what engagement was in the ancient world. Um it was an arrangement by s by families, parents, really whole families, that contracted the marriage of their children. It was legally binding and could only be broken by a divorce. We see that in Matthew chapter one. Uh so the engagement itself was a legally binding contract. The betrothal contract was often signed long before the children reached marriageable age. The children were would be young way before they were old enough to marry, the parents had decided and made this marriage contract. So it wasn't the man on one knee, it was the mother and father, um, discussing and arranging and and making a contract. Um and there were years of preparation for the time of marriage as the boy prepared for his bride. So I think we need to fix that in our mind. minds about this imagery. So the imagery that John's using here about marriage and that the Bible uses throughout marriage is based on marriage as it was then not as it is now. I think that's important to get the full uh full meaning of the text, the full power of this imagery, we need to have that in mind, I think. So first was the uh engagement, um, which was a contract between the families. The second stage of a wedding was the presentation a time of festivities before the actual ceremony. So we have engagement, we have presentation. Those festivities could last up to a week or more depending on the economic and social status of the bride and groom. So we have a week of the presentation ceremony before the actual wedding ceremony So, engagement, presentation, and then the third and most important, of course, is the actual ceremony, the wedding feast, during which the vows were exchanged. At the end of the presentation festivities, so we We had the the week long presentation, at the end of that the groom and his attendants would go to the bride's house and take her her and her bridesmaids to the ceremony. So we got this whole big presentation lasting a week and then the bride and and his friends go to the bride's Uh uh the bridegroom and his friends go to the bride's house and take her to the actual wedding ceremony. So the bride was not there for this week of celebration and feasting? So um the s the week of celebration and feasting Evidently, as far as I can tell, involved many, many different things, and the the at the end of that was when the bridegroom went and got the bride. But the bride I evidently not. Um so after the ceremony Week uh came a final meal followed by the consummation of the marriage. So uh so this is the this a holding long very complicated process that that took years from the engagement contract to the end of the wedding ceremony. And the and the big uh big celebrations and festivities were weeks long, including the presentation and then the wedding ceremony itself. And so Scripture uses the imagery of wedding to picture the Lord's relationship with his church. 2 Corinthians 11, Paul mentions the betrothal of The church to Christ. Paul writes, For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, for I betrothed you to one husband, so that to Christ I might present you as a pure virgin. He's talking about the church and Christ. The Church's betrothal contract was signed in the eternity past, when the Father promised the Son a redeemed people, and wrote their names in the book of life from the foundation of the world. So that's the uh if you if you f wanna f put it into this the the entire context of uh a marriage, you had this betrothal contract, the engagement contract that God wrote before the foundation of the earth. Um and then uh the Apostle Paul further describes uh the church's presentation in Ephesians 5, Husbands love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church, gave himself up for her so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her. by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory. That's the presentation, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless. So that presentation will take place At the rapture, if you want to follow this timeline and this image of marriage, you've got a engagement contract at the very beginning of the foundation of the earth. You have the presentation at the rapture, and the Then you have um this millennial kingdom is the wedding celebration, if you will, for a thousand years. In the imagery of the ancient wedding, the rapture marks the time when the bridegroom, the Lord of Christ, takes his bride to his father's house. So the end of the the this millennium the the the festivities of celebration, the actual presentation is when he goes and gets her. Um and and that's the rapture. He goes and gets her. Goes and gets the bride of Christ. Um takes his bride to his father's house. So this Imagery fits, but it only fits if you recognize what marriage was in in ancient days. So during the tribulation, the raptured church will be presented in heaven. Uh but at the end of those seven years of joyous fellowship and wonderful celebration, the time will come for the women. Wedding ceremony, the marriage of the lamb. And that's what we get here in 19 saying it's time for now it's time for the the wedding ceremony. We've had the engagement, we've had the presentation Now it's time for the wedding ceremony, the marriage of the Lamb, uh the yu the final union of the bridegroom and the bride to be marked by a great supper. And so the ha the entire heavenly chorus is celebrating this. Verse one, uh the angels, verse four, the twenty-four elders and the four creatures and all the redeemed host hosts verse high verse five exhorted to rejoice and be glad and give the glory to him because The preparation is complete and the marriage of the Lamb has come. We've had the engagement contract, we've had the presentation, now it's time for the wedding feast. And that's a cause for rejoicing in heaven. And so the whole scope. The scope of this is betrothed in eternity past, presented in the Father's house since the rapture, the church is now ready for the wedding ceremony to begin. And that's a reason for rejoicing. So the wedding ceremony will cons coincide with the establishment of the millennial kingdom. So that's what's about to happen. So uh we're we're talking in these these ten verses, we're setting up the the the coming of the king, the bridegroom, and the the wedding ceremony about to uh about to take place in the millennial kingdom. Um so and and so the then the wedding ceremony itself now is gonna be a thousand years long Uh so the engagement was several thousand years, right? Engagement was several thousand years from the beginning of time all the way up to the rapture. Uh the the presentation phase was seven years, and the wedding s celebration's gonna be A thousand years long. Um culminating in the new heavens and the new earth. So really it's gonna go on forever after that. Uh the wo the marriage itself, of course. Um so the idea of a thousand year long ceremony. ceremony may seem far fetched, uh yet it's no more difficult than a several thousand year betrothal. So if we think of it in uh in Times like that, uh several thousand years of betrothal, a thousand-year wedding ceremony is not really that long. So that's the picture. That's the picture that John's drawing here. Um that's the picture that the Holy Spirit is painting in this section of Revelation. revelation. Um that you have we've we've had this imagery of marriage that's been um that the Holy Spirit has disclosed throughout Scripture, Old Testament, New Testament. Uh Israel is the is God's bride. Many times in Old Testament scripture. And so this is all pointing forward to This. Um that's that's really the uh the culmination of all that imagery of marriage in the Bible is pointing forward to this, uh the marriage ceremony of the Lamb here. In the New Heavens and the New Earth, the bride concept will be expanded to include not only the church, but also the redeemed of all ages As the New Testament becomes the bridal city, it should be noted that in the Old Testament, God is the bridegroom of Israel. We see that in Isaiah in a couple different places in Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Hosea. So th there's others that have to be f uh we have to account for others here. Um so the the Bri so but we didn't use Let's talk about a couple more things about verse 7 before we get to verse 8. So the bride has made herself ready. So what does that mean? The bride has made herself ready. That was not, of course, by her own works but rather by God's gracious working. And so we see that in Paul's teaching. Um b uh Paul talks about this when he says, So then my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. But then what does it say next? For it is God who work who is at work in you, both to will and to work for your good pleasure. So who is it that's actually working in us? It's God who's working in the world. working in us. When we work out our salvation, when when Paul says something like work out your salvation, he very explicitly explains that that means God working in us, not us in our own power working out our own salvation. Um it's very clear in Scripture. So it's the same thing here, as bright as made herself ready. Who is it that has really made herself ready? It's God working. in the bride. Paul talks about himself this way too in Colossians chapter one. I labor, striving according to his power. Which mightily works in me. So Paul, when he talks about himself, is this it's the same way. He says, I labor, but really It's God's power and God working in me. So it's very clear throughout Scripture when Paul's talking about himself and ta Paul's talking about working out your salvation, it's God who is at work in us. So the bride has made herself ready by the power of God, by the grace of God, through the work of the Spirit of God. Purged from all sin and impurity, as we saw in in First Corinthians chapter three, she is a flawless, blameless, unblemished virgin, virgin ready to be presented. Now um it was given to her to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and clean, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. So having been presented, glorified, purified, spotless before God's throne, it was given to the church to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and clean. So the church has been raptured Presented pure and clean, and now she can be clothed in fine linen, bright and clean. Fine linen was expensive and beautiful cloth, uh like that worn by Joseph in Genesis chapter. 41, David in 1 Chronicles 15, and Mordecai in Esther chapter 8, fine linen. The two Greek words here are used to describe it Uh lampras bright means glistening, shining, radiant. Katharos, clean, um is also translated pure, the same Greek word translated pure pure uh in Revelation chapter 21 in two different places. So uh this kind of dazzling garments uh were worn earlier in the book of Revelation in chapter fifteen by angels, and will be the clothing of the armies of heaven that we'll see in the second half of chapter nineteen, made up of both angels and redeemed saints that accompany Christ in his return, uh, that we'll see. Here next week. So fine linen in which the bride is clothed in the vision represents the righteous acts of the saints. That's what the scripture tells us. It represents the righteous acts of the saints. And so if we think back to this uh the South. Salvation and the aspects of salvation at the time of salvation, at justification, believers were clothed with the righteousness of Christ imputed to us. So at salvation um we were uh justified by Christ and not only that not only were our sins paid for but also our Our unrighteousness was taken away, and Christ's righteousness was imputed to us. That was at our justification. Now we see that in Romans chapter three and chapter four, chapter five, first Corinthians one, second Corinthians five. In Philippians chapter 3, Paul talks about the imputed righteousness of Christ. But now we've come to the phase of salvation that's glorification. When we're glorified, believers are then intrinsically righteous like the holy angels. So in the new heavens and the new earth, there will be no more sin Right? No full stop. There's no presence of sin. And so what does that mean for believers who are glorified? then uh we have intrinsic righteousness. Now all of that of course has been a work of God. Um his justification um by grace through faith. Um but now when we're glorified at the the end of the process of salvation, now we're f we're free from uh the presence of sin. So justification, we're free from the penalty of sin. And now we're going to be free from even the presence of sin at this time of glorification. And so that's what this is talking about here. Alright, now we get to the others. Verse in verse 9. Then he said to me, Write, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are true words of God. So we have the the bride, but now we have those who are invited. So the angel tells John, write this down, right, blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. This is the fourth of seven Beatitudes in Revelation. So Beatitudes are blessed are Blank. Um and so Jesus gave Beatitudes in the Sermon of the Mount. There are four there are seven beatitudes in the book of Revelation. We saw one in Revelation Chapter 1, a second one in Chapter 14, a third one in Chapter 16. This is no Number four here in chapter 19, and then we'll see a fifth one in chapter 20, and then a sixth and a seventh in chapter 22. And all are introduced by the word makarias Blessed, which means happy, joyous, satisfied, and fulfilled. So happy, joyous, satisfied, and fulfilled are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. So the recipients of this particular blessing are those who are invited. That they are invited guests marks them as a distinct group from the church, since a bride would hardly be invited to her own wedding. So the bride doesn't need a separate invitation to the wedding. So these are invited guests. So these guests will most likely represent the Old Testament believers Matthew chapter 8, Luke chapter 13 both refer to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as being in the kingdom. And Luke chapter 13 also mentions the prophets. The heroes of faith mentioned in Hebrew 11 will be among the invited guests. So here we have all these Old Testament believers, invited guests to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Not the bride, but they invited guests. Also the tribulation saints still alive on earth and entering the millennial kingdom will be guests So the bride is the Raptured Church. The invited guests are Old Testament saints and the millennial saints, the ones that live through the uh uh the millennial king uh lived through to the millennial king and live through the tribulation to the millennial king. So, yes. In the same relationship with God. Yes. So in the new heavens and the new earth there there's no distinction. Um yes. Um make a distinction between Jews coming and Gentiles coming to Jerusalem. There seems to be a dis a a clear distinction and even in Isaiah, everybody going up on the Sabbath to worship There seems to the church and the Jews, I've heard that said, we're all the same, but that distinction seems to be very clear uh during the millennium. Yeah, so there are some distinctions during the millennium Uh and so the millennium is, remember, by this by this um analogy is the actual wedding feast, the wedding ceremony. And then you have the new kingdom uh the new kingdom and the new earth, the new heavens and the new earth. And so I think there there do exist some distinctions, and we see those distinctions. distinctions here because we have a bride and then we have invited guests during this millennial period period. And then in the New Heavens and the New Earth, I don't I think those distinctions are done away with in the New Heavens and the New Earth. But there's no scriptural So um y y so y y uh I'm trying to think. Um uh we we have scripture for distinctions during the millennium. But there are no scriptures for distinctions and that's that's an argument from absence, uh which is not a particularly strong argument. Um but we don't ha we don't see the distinctions persisting. uh I think is is how I would put it. Uh once we get to the new heavens and the new earth. Okay. Yes, stay in. I think in this analogy, yes. Yes, that I think that's what it's pointing to. Because we have these separate invited guests, so who are they? Um and so it seems that we have other scriptures that say that, you know, they're in the kingdom So the Old Testament saints and the prophets and and those that survived the tribulation, yeah, those are those are different groups. And so how how how do they figure in this analogy of the wedding ceremony of the lamb? It It seems to be that they're invited guests. I would be a guest and not the part of the church. Yeah, so you're part of the church. But it's a rapture. The Old Testament The Dead and Christ rise first. The the dead in Christ rise first. Yeah. So all the Old Testament prophets and all the raptured too. Um well so they're dead in So there's of course not everybody agrees. Not everybody agrees, of course, on uh the fact of a rapture, when the rapture is So this is another issue for for which people disagree. Um but the the rapture of the church Is traditionally seen as the church. And the church didn't start until the first century. Um and so if we're talking about the church in particular, and so if you look at the passages in in Second Thessalonians he's talking about the church in particular. Uh uses the word church there. And so that's the passage that describes the the rapture. And so it's talking about the church and so The Old Testament saints are not part of the church. Yeah. Um so the guest includes that the the believers who live through the tribulation maybe My question is what about those who are turned story in the simulation? Are they part of the church? So uh yeah, so they're not part of the rapture. church, right? So they died after the rapture. Um they are seen in various places in Revelation, um, like under the altar saying how long until we're gonna be avenged. Um the redeemed saints that includes those rapture saints appear to be coming back to the millennial kingdom. Um and so there seem to be Other invited guests. And those invited guests include these saints that were killed during the tribulation, including and also those who survived the tribulation. Yes. Yes. And as I mentioned, um, you know, I I I think that the uh the s the system of belief that includes this the rapture fits all the the scriptures the the best. Not everybody agrees. I think it's important to understand that there are good and godly people who are my brothers in Christ, who will be with me in eternity, praising the Lord forever, who disagree with the interpretation of Scripture, of Revelation in particular, and all the how the prophecies fit together from the Old Testament into the New Testament of Revelation. I I think it's important to acknowledge that Um that that um I I I I have studied the scriptures and I really believe that this is the correct way of interpreting the scriptures. Um but there are others who disagree. So well no, the old w ra what do you mean raised first? That died safe. So so all of those will be with us in in heaven and the new heavens and the new earth. Absolutely. Uh all of them will be. Yeah. So I mean what happens to us when we die is another good question. Where where do we reside? Well Well we're we're waiting for all this to happen. Um and of course there's there's quite a bit of uncertainty about that. W where exactly is it? Um um I don't know. I don't know where they where they They are uh in the meantime. Uh any others quite I mean these are great things to wrestle with. Uh yes. I was just thinking that we want to be careful not to take the marriage analogy approval too far. It isn't And what is it's uh it's a description of what kind of relationship the church, believers have with God. Uh it's interesting that in Revelation 20, verse 21, verse 2, when the Holy City does come down, it's described as the bride coming down ready and adorned for her husband. So I understand what you're saying in terms of you know the church is the bride that begins the marriage. Supper of the Lamb, but ultimately Old Testament saints who are redeemed all come together as the bride of of Christ. Yeah, that's right. And so um I I as I was trying to say when Richard brought up his analogy there are there the uh the imagery of marriage is used in in many different places in scriptures in different ways actually so in chapter twenty one I think you're talking about the there's a different bride the bride's more inclined I think that's right. And as with any analogy, it's it's never perfect. Where we say something is like something else, what we really mean is that there's some aspect of of thing A that's like some a aspect of thing B. And always if you try to make the uh uh uh push the analogy too far you'll find a breakdown somewhere It won't be a perfect analogy. So yeah, so analogies are for the purpose of illustrating a point a truth. Um and I think the the one for marriage is used over and over and over again because it's something that's familiar. Uh it would be would have been familiar to all the people that originally read it. The only thing I was trying to point point out I think is that we need to when we're thinking about a illustration that's in the Bible that was written at a certain time, we need to remember what marriage was at that time in order to get the understand the analogy. But you're right. We d we can't you can't never push an analogy too far. It always breaks down at the edges, uh, if you push it too far. Yeah. And this particular analogy is used over and over in scripture for different purposes to illustrate different Different things. And we've got to keep that in mind as well. Yes. Human merit on this earth is really trying to be a picture of the religious That's right. Yeah. So this is the the the the faded fuzzy image of something that's clear. Yeah. Um but even with that, there are multiple purposes for marriage. In addition to the purpose of uh illustrating this uh Bride of Christ imagery, it's also for the purpose of human flourishing. And for the family unit to be the um uh kind of the bedrock of society, for example. So God often does that. He does things for more than one purpose. And so I think marriage, he invented marriage in in Genesis chapter 2 for more than one purpose. One of the main purposes was to show uh this imagery, be able to have this imagery of the of Christ in the church, but he also created it for human flourishing in the media. And so also think about uh what John is hearing. So the Apostle John is hearing this as well. So it's great for us uh it's it's this message is for all people of all times. But it also went directly to this man John two thousand years ago. And and think about his situation. He's a old man, he's exiled on a harsh and barren island. Um he he he's he see he must have been amazed that that the this God's kingdom, this vision he sees of God's kingdom triumphant. Because think about how what the state of the church was in John's day. It was uh there was persecution from outside, there was heresies from within that he had addressed in his his letters first, second and third John. Um it it seemed to be crumbling. Think about what he had just seen in the letters, the letters to the seven churches. It was a abysmal. Uh at least six of the seven churches were in horrible shape. Um but now John gets to see this glorious vision of the of the church in uh being presented to the Lamb And and the coming of this uh uh wedding supper of the lamb. What a great thing for John to see in his situation Um and just to see that God's plan of redemption can't be thwarted and um it must have brought comfort and relief to John, uh just like it brings comfort and relief to us. Uh continuing uh verse ten, uh then John John fell at his feet to worship him, the angel. But the angel said to him, Don't do that. I'm a fellow servant of yours and your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus, worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. So John is astonished by what he sees, and he thoughtlessly falls to his feet to worship the angel. And the angel rebukes him. Do not do that. So like John, the angel was a servant. uh sent to minister to John and his brethren. Uh so angels serve believers. We see that in Hebrews chapter one, uh particularly those who are preaching the gospel. And the angel reminds God John, something that we need to be reminded of. Worship God, God only. Um worship is the theme of redemptive history. It's the purpose for which believers are redeemed, we see in John chapter four. And it will be our occupation throughout Eternity. Worshiping God is the occupation in in heaven. So the angel has a final reminder, the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. So the central theme of Old Testament prophecy And New Testament preaching is the Lord Jesus Christ. Until the coming of his kingdom, all who proclaim the gospel must be faithful to the testimony of Jesus, the saving gospel message. And so the The glorious reality that God will judge the wicked and usher believers into his kingdom is cause for rejoicing. Uh in Second Thessalonians chapter one, Paul said, For after all it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to give relief to you who are afflicted, and to us as well, when the Lord Jesus will be revealed. Revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord. Jesus. That was the Apostle Paul in the Second Thessalonians chapter one. Any questions about anything from the first half of chapter 19? All right, let's close with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity that we have to work through these passages of Scripture, some of which are difficult for us to understand. And we pray, Lord, that through your Holy Spirit you would give us wisdom and understanding. And we pray, Lord, that you would keep us humble, uh, that uh that we should understand that we don't know everything, um, and that we need to learn, that we need to be teachable uh before your word and under your word. and under your Holy Spirit. I thank you, Lord, for what you've revealed of yourself and of your plan of redemption and your word, and uh especially as we study these scriptures, what you've revealed about uh what's going to happen at the end times. We thank you, Lord, that one thing that we know for certain is that you are sovereign over all things and that Christ will return as Lord and King. We thank you, Lord, that we have that great promise and that we know that in the end you are victorious. You are victorious over all, and that at the end there will be no more sin. And no more death, and no more pain, and no more suffering, and no more tears in heaven. We thank you for these great promises that we can hold on to, Lord, and we pray, Lord, that these things that we see here in Revelation would motivate us to reach out to our unbelieving family members and neighbors and and co workers uh and friends that so desperately need to hear the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that are living in in hopelessness and living in darkness. We pray, Lord, that we would be motivated to reach out with the gospel, the good news, the light that we have seen and we have and they so desperately need. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that we have here in a few minutes to worship you in corporate worship as the body of Christ, and we pray that the worship that we offer would be acceptable in your sight and bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. This name, Amen