So let's begin with prayer. Our Father, eternal Father, glorious Father, we come as your people before you. And we thank you that you have chosen us for yourself. You have redeemed us for yourself by the precious blood of Jesus Christ, who loved us. And who rescued us from the d d from the dominion of darkness, that we will have access to the thr very throne of God, and so we come. And we pray and we bring our supplications, we bring our praises and our thanksgivings to you alone to to you alone be the glory. And so Father help us during this time that we will hear your word, that we will understand it. That we will know you are good. You will know that your promises are sure and steadfast and that this will change us and that we will be exhorted to become more like Jesus Christ for one day We shall see him as he is. And Father, it's to your glory that we give you thanks. Amen. Well, welcome on this Sunday morning. Now we've been progressing through the book of Revelation and we are um in chapter seven in this interlude between the sixth Seal and the seventh seal judgments. So I want to talk about just what is an interlude And I also want to talk about something else as a way of introduction, just to remind us why we are here, just to remind us why we are interpreting Revelation the way we do. Because that that's that goes to here for for for for for a little bit. Why do we interpret Revelation the way we do when some others Don't. Let's go back in time five hundred years to Europe. And we would be in the midst of the beginnings of the Protestant Reformation. And the reformers called themselves reformers because what they wanted to do was they wanted to reform the one church. Um and they were not interested in starting a new church, um, but they were forced out. And so that's what they did. But now why did they do this? Well they had a rattling cry. It is to it was the word of God alone, is the basis of our faith and practice. It's not tradition. It's not church councils, even though in some ways they do have their place, but it was scripture alone that would guide faith and practice. And it was by By faith it was by grace alone we are saved, through faith alone, through Christ alone, and to all to the glory of God, those were the the roboting cries of the Reformation. Eschatology was not there. They thought almost nothing about eschatology. So what they did was they as they came out of the That Catholic Church they brought a lot of things with them from the Catholic Church, including their eschatology, because at that time The church was basically what you might call all millennial, which means that whatever the Bible speaks about, a kingdom It's a spiritual kingdom. Um in the scriptures that deal with that kingdom are to be allegorized. They represent something else. They represent something symbolic, something is peace, peace, peace or show. But it was not actually gonna happen physically on earth. It was not till later that theologians began to look at this book of Revelation and and interpret it in the way that we do, and that is we have a literal, grammatical, historical, hermeneutic. And that's basically what they did throughout all of Scripture except for prophecy, except for the end times. except for eschatology. It was literal in that we seek the author's intent. That's the meaning of any passage, what the author intended it to mean. It is dramatical in that we interpret the words in light of the genre, in light of the syntax, in light of the context. Words mean something. Phrases mean something. The grammar means something. And also we interpret it historically in that we interpret it in light of the historical setting. That is. is the author wrote in a certain period of time to a certain audience and the historical background of that setting does impact the interpretation. We interpret it the way The author intended it to be interpreted before we begin to apply it to us today. Now, this literal grammatical, historical, humanitarian humanitic does not lend itself to spiritualizing or allegorizing the text, except if that's what the author intended. Um so those who interpreted revelation different from from from us, what they have to do is they have to use the literal grammatical historical interpretation on most of what the Bible says, but when it comes to prophecy, they change their methods. Um but we will we are interpreting Revelation just like we would interpret any other passage. Now of course it is prophecy. It's i it is this genre, so we have to take that in in into account. But but whatever the genre is This is what we how this is how we intend to interpret. Now, the revelation that John receives in this book is essentially chronological. Um but there are some sections, some chapters that are what we call interludes. Um these sections will look back in the past um to to give us some background material that we need to know, or it it gives us what's happening elsewhere. Because if we just looked at the judgments We we we would think that's all there is, judgment. But there's a whole lot more going on than judgments, because God is saving people, and though there is great judgment there's great salvation. And so even though we're given reasons for why there are judgments We know God is still at work. He's a saving God. And that's what he's going to continue to do. Okay. So let's go back to our the purpose of today. We are in chapter seven and we are looking at the Tribulation Saints. So we want to um learn how they're described their where the where they are, what they are doing, what how they associate with the other saints that have gone before them, namely us, how they originate, what their function is, how God protects them and provides for them. So let's go on to the Revelation chapter 7, beginning with verse Verse nine. And John writes this after these things I looked, behold, a great multitude which no one could count from every nation and all the tribes in the peoples in the tongues standing before the throne and beh Before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palm branches were given into their hands. And they cry out with a loud voice saying, Salvation to our God who sets on the throne and to the Lamb, and all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders And the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne, and they worshiped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power. And one of the elders answered saying to me, These who are clothed in the white robes Who are they? And from where have they come? And I said to him, My Lord, you know, and he said to me, These are the ones who come out. of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. And for this reason they are before the throne of God and they serve him day and night. In his temple. And he who sets on the throne shall spread his tabernacle over them. And they shall hunger no more neither thirst any more, neither shall the sun beat down upon them, nor any heat. For the lamb in the center of the throne shall be their shepherd And shall guide them to springs of the water of life, and God shall wipe away tears from their eyes. So this is the word of the Lord. Now there's been many revivals in the course of church history. I mean I mean going back to the time of of the apostles. That was a revival. Um and even as the church was being persecuted, there was still a revival back in those days. Um and then You can think of the Reformation as a revival. And there's been several others, mainly local ones, such as the Great Awakening in America. Um in which um there's a s in which there seemed to be a special outpouring of God's grace upon those who heard the preaching of the word, and many made confession of their faith. But the greatest revival will still be yet future, um, in which Even during this great tribulation, this time of great judgment, when God's wrath will be poured out upon the inhabitants of the earth, many will be. will come to Christ. We saw last week that God would seal 144,000 of these Jews from the various tribes. And these who are sealed would be the beginnings of this preaching of God's word in such a way that Many will come to Christ, even though there is great persecution, many of them will become will be martyred. Many of them would die for their faith, but the gospel will go forth. And this is actually prophesized in the Old Testament. Testament. For ex for for example in Isaiah chapter 49, verse 6, God promised the servant, who is the Lord Jesus Christ, that people would come from the nations and be added to his flock, saying, It is too s is it too small of a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Israel? And to restore the preserved ones of Israel, I will make you a light to the nation, so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. And so this passage in Revelation will speak of the vast multitude of people from every nation's who will be saved during the coming time of tribulation. And this includes both Jews and Gentiles. Again, it's from every nation. So let's go back to verse nine. And after these things I looked and behold a great multitude which no one could count, from every nation and all the tribes, and the peoples and tongues standing. before the throne and before the lamb, clothed with white robes and palm branches were in their hands. And again, notice this phrase, after these things. It's a very common phrase in the in the book of Revelation, it just it means d John is going to see something else. There's something next. This is the this represents a new portion of the revelation. And then is this is actually um preceded by the verb by by by the word behold an explanation point. This is something surprising. This is something significant. This is something to pay attention to. Um I mean John has seen Gentiles come to Christ. Yes he did. Uh But this time he's going to send a vast multitude, even more than he could count. So this must be really surprising to the apostle John. Because back in his days, churches were all Usually pretty small. Um and they had their issues. Um they were sometimes weak Um always threatened by persecution by and by patterns of sin. But now he's going to see a vast multitude singing the praises to God was profoundly thrilling. experience for John. And so this group is distinct from that one hundred and forty four thousand. Um in it's in it's e evidence from several considerations here. Note again after these things, so John's going to then pick up another portion of the of of the revelation, something else. And he's going to see a great multitude which no one could count. Now no specific number is mentioned here Because as John sees this great crowd, even then more are continually being added to it. And so this group came comes from every nation. And all the peoples and all the tongues. Every people group is going to be represented. No one's left out. Well I should say, um no people group is left out. Obviously not everyone in every people group will be saved. Um but they will but that gospel will reach all peoples, no matter what what the language, no matter where the RG graphically, no matter how well how would they relate to everything else that's going on. And um this group that John sees are going to be standing before the throne and before the Lamb. That is, they've already have passed away. Either though through martyrdom or just um just by natural causes. Um And so they have reached so so this group is actually now weeks beyond the the um which of any of the persecutors the that th that that that that that have plagued them. Okay. And these We deemed were clothed in white robes, in white, represents something dazzling, something bright, um shining. And also Um they are redeemed. Now in ancient ancient times such clothing was worn for festivals and celebrations. celebrations. Rose is from the word stole, which depicts a long, full-length rope. And these are the same that are worn by the martyrs back in chapter 6. And now this fact suggests that the group in this view is in the passage is not part of that earlier group of martyred believers. As the tribulation wears on, the number of martyrs will increase as with a number of believers who died naturally or violently, eventually accumulating into the vast, uncountable multitude depicted in heaven in this passage. Because back in chapter four and five, we saw this worship service this throne room. Now we saw the the we saw the multitudes of angels, millions and millions, millions of them. They come in and they have their praise, their songs of praise. that they um how they worship God. And then added to that millions of angels um mu w marches in all the saints um that have that have passed away up to that time um or have been raptured depending upon how you know you know what's the chronology there. So so the saints they come in, they have their own songs of praise. Okay. Now there's going to be a third group marching in. These saints that have come out of the great tribulation. And they'll have their songs of praise. So this is a glorious time now. That are now joining what we saw in Revelation four and five. Um and um so s so s so so the roads. The white robes picture their exaltation, their victory, and their rejoicing. And these robes are symbolic of the of holiness. They were symbolic of those who are reserved for Christ. They've been purchased yes, okay. So the saints have palm branches in their hands and that's felt that's represented uh Uh celebration, deliverance, and joy. We we c we we we call you know Palm Sunday when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on that donkey. He was presenting himself as the king. And many of the people kind of gathered in and praised and they s um they had their palm branches. It was a celebration. Um well this is gonna be a celebration. Um but this is is gonna be a real celebration. Um the people who are waving these palm branches, you know, they know what's happening. Um and um so some s somehow these these these got out of s out out of sequence. Um John saw this vast victorious saint standing before the throne of God. Um they were in the presence of a lamb, which John saw in his earlier vision That is in chapters four and five. And the hell of the palm branches. Again, a just a moment, a time of celebration and joy. And of course we do. Recall the crowd raving palm branches on Palm Sunday when Jesus rode into Jerusalem. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel That's what they said. So again, it's very fitting that they would celebrate because now they are rescued, redeemed from the world. From Satan inner Christ, from the sin and death and the hell provided for them. And it's all because of the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ For the glory of God. Um so this is our f this is the ultimate conclusion of our salvation. Yes, we've been justified Uh we've been made declared not guilty. Um we've been dwelt by the Spirit of God We are his. We've been rescued by from the purity of sin. And today, as we are, um, we're going through this process of sanctification. We're being saved not just from the purity of sin. sin but from the power of sin. But one day we'll be glorified. We'll be saved not only from the purity of sin and the power of sin, we'll even be saved by the very from Hallelujah. Yes. Hallelujah for this. And they cry out with a loud voice and joyous, exuberant worship. This is a wonderful worship service. Um and their prayers of intercession have ceased, and they are glorifying and praising God. The one responsible for the t triumph. And salvation is a theme of their worship as it is throughout Revelation. And so in John in um I'm not sure why why that's twelve. But John heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the The salvation, the power, and the kingdom of God, and authority of his Christ have come. Um In nineteen chapter one, chapter nineteen, verse one, John wrote, After these things I heard Something like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and power belong to our God Again, the these um doxologies are sh are just shouting from all places of this book. You know, God is being glorified. Um, his kingdom is coming. And these innumerable believers before God's throne were not alone in the allowed worship. Um they were the they'll the first group that we saw were all the angels who were standing around the throne. Millions and millions of them. Thousands upon thousands. So they're joining in the place. And now comes this third group. Um and the now of course the angels, they are millionth and millionths and thousands upon thousands and thousands. of them. Um and again in fact in that that's reminiscent of Daniel chapter seven, when Daniel saw in this great vision thousands upon thousands attending him and millions upon millions standing before him. That's a fulfillment of prophecy. Again Prophecy is meant to remind us that what God has said will come to pass exactly as God said it. He may not give us all the details. There may be some some some things that we don't understand. But we can trust that God will fulfill every part of his promise. And again the right writer of Hebrews also saw myriads of angels. And so these angels were joined Join the spirits of the heavenly saints and praising God is not surprising since they were created for the purpose of worshiping and serving Him. Again, angels they they have a purpose Um, I mean it's not exactly like our purpose, um, but they do have a purpose, and one of the purposes they are there to serve God and to praise Him. into um yeah so again it's it's it's fitting that they all join in this worship. To the angels who are winging God's glorious magnificent throne, are also surrounded by two other groups involved in worship Um, the elders and the four living creatures. They say all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures or beings. I should sake. And they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen, blessing in glory and wisdom. And thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. And so the tw I Again the twenty four elders are best viewed as representatives of the Raptured Church. And so in chapter five verse eight to ten They sang a the song of redemption, while here they are seen praising the God of redemption. And the four living beings are the Sherubin Which is an exalted order of angels. They're the ones to seem to be um residing very near the throne of God. Um and um and So um these um two groups, the living beings, these four living beings and uh angels, they are seen all frequently they're they're frequently seen together and overwhelmed by God's majesty, his glory. His splendor surrounding the throne, all present, they fell on their faces before the throne and they worshiped God. Now, so it's an appropriate reaction for all creatures to prostrate themselves in humble adoration. before the glorious and majestic presence of the holy one of God. Um and we see that see that throughout um the Bible. Um for example in Philippians chapter Chapter two, verses nine to ten. Um God is gonna highly exalt Exceedingly exalt his son and give him the name above every name, that at the name of Jesus of Jesus, every knee will bow, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. That's exalted name, Lord. And and that includes every living being, every living creature. every person actually. Now for us we can do so in joy. But it but that also includes those who are judged. Um they'll They'll bow down um not in joy, but in defeat. Knowing that confessing God was right and they are wrong. Um but still Going to give God praise. Okay. So again, this praise, um they're recognizing God's sovereignty, his supremacy His holiness and majesty, the worship was in John's vision, utter a benediction, blackened in front and back, but a solemn affirmation which Amen, which means so let it be. May it be so. Yeah. And so this prayer is requesting that blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might. be attributed to our God forever and ever. And basically what all that means is we recognize God has all the glory. Um we are who we are because of God. Yes. Yeah. So so all three groups they bring in their own songs of of a praise and and join. And again worship is a constant occupation of those in heaven and will never cease. And then John becomes an active dismant now. He says, then one of the elders answered and saying to him, these these two of clo are clothed in the white robes. Who are they? And where do they come from? And I said to him, My Lord, you know. So so John is seeing this in a vision, and yet he's actually kind of in the vision Um here. And one of these elders comes up to him and asks this question. These who have cloth are clothed in the white robes and Is who are they? And from where do they come? Um now the elder is not asking for information. The older nose, right? Uh um but this is for us. Um God is gonna give us insight um as to who these people are. Um and so so Dr. Thomas represents um he's basically the we now New Testament scholar at Master's Seminary. Um he's he's he's gonna say this exemplifies the dialogue format used from time to time to convey an explanation of a vision. This tool shows that visions are not just given for the purpose of display. You know, wow, look at all of this. As if you're you know in a 3D movie or something. Um this tool shows that visions were not given for the purpose of spectacular displays, but to convey revelation, the details of which were not to be missed. And the elders' question specifies and emphasizes the truth that people will be saved during this time of tribulation. And so John is bewithered um by his by this question and his reply is um emphatic, my Lord, you know And it is that b it's both a confession of ignorance, meaning I don't know, and a request for further revelation. Um and again, John calls him Lord um That's you know, in your English trans translation that would be would be a small L. Um this is not this is uh designation just just um um um to address this being, this elder, um in a manner of respect. Um just like you would say, sir or Madam. Um and again John knows that you show these angels, these angelic beings These creatures, you show them great respect. And um now John had been taught by the Lord that few would be saved. Back in Matthew chap chapter seven. Um you know, you know, for for for example when when Christ said, you know, wide is the road that leads to d destruction and many are are on that path. But the narrow road that leads to life, there's few. Um but now John sees us a great multitude. So he you know so so his must be must be quite shocked. Um and so this crowd is just incomprehensible to him. And he and then the angel said These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation. And they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. For this reason they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sets on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. So the elder replies that the gentee of these are the ones who come out of the Great Tribulation, of course, by the sixth um seal, um we're in that second half of um of the tr tribulation. We typically divide um the tribulation into into two parts. Um um bas um b bas me based mainly upon the the um um the um it uh discourse where the Christ would say that this person card that we call the Antichrist, he's gonna make this covenant and he's gonna break it in the middle of the week. Um and that week of course is seven years. So the so that's the middle. Um and then af after that breaking of of the covenant, this is what we call the great tribulation. Um in which the permission in which the persecution becomes intense. Much more intense than the early years when you just had the birth pangs and uh And you got the um uh initial piece that was taken away and you know things began to to get hard, but now in the second half they are really, really hard. These Judgments are taking its toll upon the people. And God also says, unless these days are shortened No one will live. So these saints, these tribulation saints, they've lived in this period, the redeemed during it, and they'll come out through it through death, by violence, natural causes, or martyrdom. Um and the phrase the ones who have come out translates the present durative Prince particle of the verb um and I can't pronounce this word, but um it depicts a prolonged process. This group will keep growing. Y yes, even though John sees this great multitude There's more come come in through the door all the time. Um so this so this group is expanding throughout this time. Um So and again, it's not the rapture of of the church that we're talking about. The rapture is past hence by by by this time. Um and these are beliefs. Evils who have been saved, who have been redeemed in this period of great judgments. So in so in some sense they They are like us in that, you know, we're people, we'll um but they also differ differ from us because they come out of this seven-year period. And so that's so so so that's why we say there's three groups and not just two. So the term Great Tribulation refers to a specific time in the future that is unique in all of human history. It's still future as of this moment. Um this is that seventh seventieth week of Daniel prophesies back in Dan Daniel your chapter nine. Um it refers to a future day of divine judgment immediately before Christ returns to establish his earthly kingdom. What's that? He has returned for his people, the church, and we meet him in the air, not on not physically on this earth. But later and he will come to the earth physically. And all of these judgments described during this time from the sixth seal Through the trumpet and the bold judgments have no peril in human history. And never has there been worldwide devastation like this has happened. So we've seen six seals being broken. Next week you'll see the seventh seal being broken. And there's a big surprise there. Um but um And so the Great Tribulation cannot describe the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70 or any other historical event. Um this phrase, great tribulation, was t was coined by Jesus himself and it w and it was limited to the segment seventh second half of Daniel's 30th week. And its limit will be forty-two months of or one thousand two hundred sixty days. Now um to be precise, these years of the of of the tr of the tribulation. They're actually counted in terms of the lunar calendar. So so so so so there's twelve months of thirty days each. Okay. Okay. Um so So so so that's why it's why when you look at this this um one thousand two hundred and sixty days, it's not quite what we call s um um um three and a half years because they're going by the lunar calendar, not our current solar calendar. So he said to me, these are the ones who come out of the great tribulation. They've washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. For this reason, they are before the throne of God and they serve him day and night in his temple. He who sets on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. So the elder further described the redeemed and heavenly tribulation believers as to how they gained the privilege of being in the presence of God and the holy angels. It's because they have clothed, they are clothed. in white robes, which they washed and made white in the blood of the Lamb. And this the reason these tribulation saints have allowed to stand before the throne of God is that they were purified and cleansed from their sins by the sacrifice of the Lamb of God on their behalf, just like us. And just think of this you know, back in the garden, mankind was separated. from God. Um and we could not approach the throne of God. We could not stand in his presence. Um but God has made a way. And that way is Christ who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. So it is through Christ that we are able to stand here. And thus they were fitted to serve God Day and night without ceasing. So the location of that service is in his temple. Um now there's currently a temple in heaven and there will be one on earth Of course, we're not yet to that millennial kingdom. Um, so this is this is a heavenly key temple. Um and then in the Eternal state, however, there will be no need for a temple, for the Lord God, the Almighty, and his Lamb are its temple. And the heavenly kingdom currently is a holy domain where God's presence dwells outside this physical universe. But that will be unnecessary in a new heavens and a new earth where sin has been done away with Forever. Um then there will no longer be a temple building because God will occupy all places and all believers everywhere throughout the eternal state will continue to worship and serve Him. Forever. Okay. Well let's go on because I have five minutes and I wanna get through this. So but we all gonna end up on a high note here. And a wonderful comforting picture of God described has he who sets on the throne, his promises to spread his tabernacle or tent of his Shekinah presence over those who have been persecuted. And And tabernacle is a word John likes to use that reflects the sheltering presence of the Lord. It corresponds to the Old Testament promises of God protecting his people and providing his Presence to them. And these believers will come through indescribable horrors as God's judgments were poured out on the on the world and they will suffer terrible persecution Um, but they were into God's presence, they'll come into that heavenly sanctuary, they'll add themselves to that wonderful service, worship service, and um They will receive shelter as God continues to unleash his judgments upon those on the earth. And they will hunger no more, nor thirst anymore, nor will the sun beat upon them. On them nor any heat. The Lamb is in the center of the throne, will be their shepherd, and will guide them to springs over the water of life And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. This comforting provision is drawn from the words of Isaiah forty forty nine, verse ten. Um ha and it has the has explained the hor horrors of tribulation they have endured hunger, thirst, and scorchy teeth as the sun beateth down upon them, a phenomena that will also occur late l later on in the tribulation. Um and so by all these permitting physical and spiritual elements of earthly life they will experience no longer, but rather they will enjoy eternal Satisfaction in Jesus. For the Lamb of God and center of the throne will be their shepherd will guide into springs of water of life, God will wipe away every tear. So the picture is of God of God has has a shepherd of his people and the great shepherd that one great shepherd that we have. He will guide his flock. He will continue to guide them to springs to the water of life. Um life in this life just keeps on going. Um it is abundant. It it just keeps on going. Uh he'll wipe away every tear from their eyes. What heaven there will be no more pain. sorrow or suffering. And in this age when Christianity is under siege on all sides, I mean John Solett We see it too, seemingly losing its grip on divine truth and apparently headed for defeat is coveting to be reassured of the ultimate triumph of God's saving grace In the midst of an even worse situation in the future before Christ's return, God will redeem his people. That thought should bring us great comfort and motivate all of us to praise God for the greatness of his redemptive plan. Um and Um and ultimately in the eternal state all of these promises throughout all of scripture, including all of prophecy, will come true. So we've learned in this e dilute that even though God is unleashing his judgments upon the earth, there's a revival. Souls are being saved. Um and though Satan is trying to do his best to thwart the plan of God, he's going after after God's people, both Jews and Gentiles, um, you know, he's not seceding. Um and God will ultimately bring victory And the Lord Jesus Jes Jesus Christ, his own son, will reign. Um and that's the um you know, that's the message that we believe that we preach that w that we know in our hearts and that we hope for hope for. Um and even though we go through our own trials of faith um we know that these trials are just momentary um but we have an eternal treasure of inheritance reserved for us. And when we get around this throne, um we'll w we'll see just how just what Christ has given to us. Amen. Amen. Well, let me pray. And um Father, we thank you for your amazing, abounding grace that's always sufficient for us and it gives us abundant life, life that just keeps on going. We thank you for your son, through whom we have blessings upon blessings, joy upon joy. And we thank you, Father, that that you so loved the world that you gave your only begotten son. And at this Christmas season we give you thanks. For the birth of Christ that you um gave us Jesus, who is God with us, that we might know you In an intimate manner. And so in the name of our precious Savior and your dear Son, we pray. Amen.