Well, the holidays can be a very cheery time. They're supposed to be anyways, and for many people they are. There are lots of parties to go to and socials and the company has a party and you have to you know make your appearance there and uh do all of that type stuff. There's a lot of scrumptious food and wonderful Christmas carols to sing Even some snow this year. We've got a little bit of snow around. That's nice. And of course, never leave this out as the giving and the receiving of wonderful, beautiful, dainty little packages with bows on top. And that goes with our season. I'm very glad that um we have a yearly calendar where at least a few times during the year there's something very special that goes on. It makes It makes the year uh special, and I don't think there's any more special time in the calendar than Christmas. We do know, though, that with all of the joy and with the hustle and bustle, that this time of the year can be very difficult for some people It can be a time actually where folks fall into depression. And maybe it is because throughout the year they're busy and they're doing A lot of different things and they're suppressing what they kind of know is true, and that is that they're not very happy with their lives, they're not very happy with the trajectory of their lives, with the way things are going in the family or the work or whatever it may be. And so there can be just deep feelings of depression and feelings of uh unfulfilled longings, things that have been longed for and hopes that have been dashed and then longed for again. more hopes that have been dashed, and uh it can lead people to such dismay and such hopelessness that they even uh not so much want to kill themselves as just end life. They just want to end life. They don't see the purpose of life anymore. We lose hope when what we hope for doesn't materialize. Or when it materializes, and we get exactly what we hope for, it's not what we hoped for. And we lose hope again. Like a person who finally lands the job he's coveted and worked so hard for for many years, and now realizes his job is more of a headache than it is accolades. Or whatever it may be that some of us hope for. The young gal who finally finds Mr. Wonderful, but now he ain't so wonderful. And the reality of the fact that when two people marry, there's always two sinners who marry. There are deep longings in the human heart. They're in mine, they're in yours. I'm going to ask you today, what is in your heart? What are the longings? in your heart. What's deep down in there? That moment where you're completely honest. Those are rare moments where you're completely honest with someone you trust, and you tell them what really is deep down in your heart. What is that that's down there? What are you longing for? Just to find one really good, true, loving friend, maybe that's what it is, or a spouse to live life with. Maybe it's something simpler. You just wish your family would be happy and peaceful at home. Or maybe it's something a little more spiritual. You've been praying and yearning for a lost spouse, a lost child and you want them to come to Christ. Maybe you're just bored and you're longing for some excitement in your life, any kind of thing that would happen to give you some adventure. Go see something new. Break up your routines, whatever it may be. All of these longings to one degree or another will disappoint you. They will disappoint you And by having the longing in your heart, you've already set yourself up for a measure of disappointment. There is, however, one longing. That if you have it in your heart and it's truly there, it's not just something you know is supposed to be there, but it truly is down in there This longing will never disappoint you. And that is what we're going to talk about today. As we turn again to Titus, if you'd open up the Titus II We'll read the same passage we've been in the last couple of Sundays, verses eleven through fourteen, and feast our minds today on the spirit of grace future. Spirit of grace future I read again. It says, For the grace of God has appeared, that's referring to Christ's first coming, bringing salvation to all men. instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope. and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus, who gave himself for us to redeem us from every lawless deed, and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds Zealous for good deeds. That's what he wants. We'll get into that in verse 14. On Christmas Sunday, next Lord's Day. Today we're going to focus on the spirit of grace future If you've been with us before, you know that the last couple of messages we looked at the past and then we looked at the present. What happened in the past, Christ came into the world, he was the grace that God gave to mankind. He is the gift. He is the Savior. He did the work to save us from our sins. He did all the work. In the present grace is operative now in your life as a believer also. It's constantly working on you, teaching you how to be a Christian, how to live godly, how to live righteously. Today we look to the future. We see that there's grace still coming. Grace in the past. great grace in the past, powerful grace in the present, but a f fabulous grace that is still yet to come. And our minds do need to lay hold of this if we are to live with joy in the present life and with victory as well. God's grace truly is versatile It can work in the past, work in the present, work in the future, and it is a bright future. You know, a lot of people have bleak forecasts for the future of this country It's a lot of folks that are kind of down on the country, the direction that it's going right now. Or bleak forecast of the way the world economy is going, or just the tensions that are there and the problems that man faces that he, knowing his heart, will not be able to solve But as you hear the words today, this is a bright future. And it's not just a pie in the sky kind of future. It is a certain future. This is declared to happen. This will happen And it will happen, and what you might be thinking in your mind right now is, yeah, yeah, yeah, this has been said for so long. But it may not be in that much of the distant future that this is realized. And so don't let your mind wander away. Listen And may God just bless you today, bless you personally, bless our church as His Spirit ministers to you about hope and what is true hope and how it blesses your life indeed. These are words of sober truth for our future. So focus on verse thirteen, the anticipation of saving grace. Verse thirteen, I'll read it again. Looking for the blessed hope. And the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Christ Jesus. Verse 13 says, we are looking for something. That's what we're doing. I don't know if you ever describe your Christian life that way, that your Christian life is looking forward to something. That is indeed part of what Christianity is. This verse is not speaking about the first coming of God's Son to earth. It's referring to the second coming of Jesus Christ. You think, well, the first coming brought a lot of grace. Yes, it did. But the second coming will bring even more grace. Listen to Peter's first letter in chapter 1, verse 13. He tells the believers there: fix your hope. completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revealing of Jesus Christ. Wow, what am I supposed to do with my hope? There's the answer from the Bible. Fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. There's still a flood of grace that is to come if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, right? You may find this lesson about grace the most joyous of all that we have studied. Let's look at it a little more closely. We are described here as people who are looking for something. Looking. The verb is pros decomai. It's a compound verb. Pros means toward or uh moving towards something. Deco Mai means to receive. You put those together and it's to welcome something toward oneself. When we're talking about people, we're talking about accepting them, receiving people. It has the idea then, and when you're welcoming them and receiving them, that you would be anticipating their arrival and you would be looking for them coming. Have you ever had a favorite guest? You're so glad they're coming over to your home. and you're excited about their arrival and they might be running a little late and you're at the window and you're looking out the front to see when their car comes. There's an anticipation there Or or maybe you've been at an airport and the idea is there's a long uh a friend you haven't seen in a long, long time, maybe twenty years, and they're going to arrive and you're going to embrace and you're anticipating that moment. It's that kind of welcoming, that kind of waiting for Do you know actually when Jesus came the first time there were men and women that were waiting for his arrival? They were looking for his arrival. We're told of a couple of them Joseph of Arimathea says in Mark 1543 that he was a prominent member of the Sanhedrin Council. He himself was, and here's the same verb used, waiting for the kingdom of God. He was waiting for, praying for, anticipating the arrival of the kingdom of God. That's Joseph of Arimathea. There was another man, his name was Simeon. He was in Jerusalem. It says this man was a righteous and devout man, and he was, and here it's translated looking, looking for the consolation of Israel. That's in Luke 2. 25 So these two are watching, keeping watch for the first arrival of the Christ. Well, we're well beyond that now, right? We're 2,000 years beyond the arrival of Jesus Christ. What are we looking for? We're looking for a second arrival. That's us. Just like they had to wait a long time, many lifetimes where people were waiting. Now we are in that time, in between the two comings of Christ And we are waiting for his arrival once again. We're watching. We're waiting. Now It says that we're looking for him, and that is a participle, and it goes back to verse twelve. If you want to see where that connects, look back to verse twelve It says in verse 12 that he is instructing, that grace is instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desire and to live To live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking. So we're living, looking. That's the connection. It goes back to the to the verb za'o, to live in verse 12. So if we're going to live in a godly way now, we have to be the kind of people who are looking towards the future. Living godly sometimes we forget why we're making the sacrifices we're doing, why we're swimming upstream against the rest of society. But then when we look to the future, it all becomes very clear, and our motivation returns to us, and that's why it's so important. In other words, our present lives and our present behavior should conform ourselves to what we know is going to happen in the future. If we all knew what was going to happen in the stock market a year from now and we were absolutely certain that it was going to happen, our present behavior would conform itself with investments that would lead to that. Yes We would say, hey, that's what's going to happen. I'm going to change my behavior. I'm going to fit in with that. Or if we knew America was going to be conquered or something like that, and we all had to fit into a new regime of some kind. We would all conform our present lives to the future. This world is going to be invaded. This world is going to be taken over by the King of Kings. We need to conform our behavior and our desires to him. This is not fairy tale, this is real. This is going to happen. That's how it affects our present life. Just like someone who might be getting ready to meet a king. You're gonna meet a king. How many days and weeks and months would you prepare to meet a king? Practicing all your etiquette and what you would wear, and I don't like this, I do like this, and fixing everything that you gotta fix, working on your language Working at how you would stand. The king of kings who brings salvation is coming back, and we're all gonna face him. We're all gonna meet him. So we're supposed to be preparing So look back in the chapter there, chapter 2. Remember all that instruction to the older men and the older women and the younger women and the younger men and then to the slaves. They were told, live sensibly, live righteously, right? They, by doing that, would adorn the doctrine of God. That means they would put on and wear the doctrines that they believe Why should we do that? Because we are taught by grace. And what are we taught by grace? We're taught by grace to long for Jesus Christ's Second coming. There's a similar idea to all of this in 1 John chapter 3 and verse 3. John talks about hope also, just as Paul does. And John says, everyone who has This hope, this is the Christian hope of Christ coming. Everyone who has this hope fixed on him According to his revelation, his arrival, purifies himself, purifies his presence. What's going on presently is that I can be sanctified. I can be more purified because I have fixed my hope on his coming. If you really do that, if that becomes your longing, it has a powerful purifying effect in your life. And then to finish that verse it says, purifies himself just as he is pure. We are going to be conformed to him. In fact, when we actually see him, we're going to be instantly transformed into his image. That's called the beatific vision, where we see Christ in all of his glory, and we're instantly translated and changed into him. So he's holy, we should be holy. He's pure, we should be pure as well. Little letter of Jude puts it this way. We should be waiting anxiously For the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. That's what we should be waiting for. There is something coming, and I'm all excited about that. Luke twelve, verse thirty-six, be like men who are waiting for their master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that they may immediately upon the door They're there, they're standing, they're ready for when he comes. That is how every Christian should be. We should be looking, not to a door, but we should be looking to the what? To the sky. We should literally be looking and waiting, looking up That Christ is coming back. And that's how we should be living our life. Now, some of you might be thinking, really, Pastor Leek? Come on! It's been 2,000 years since those promises were made in that old book. Give it up. Many sneer today, right? There are even some false teachers of the church who are telling Christians, you know what, they don't even talk about Christ's coming to the future. It's not on their radar. Live your best life now. Focus now, all your attention on now. Build up your life, build up your riches, get your best life now, solve your psychological problems now. It's all focused on you and on the present. Something wrong with that, don't you think? The Christian life is focused on him and the future, you see. He is our life, Colossians 3 says. And when he appears, our life will appear with him. Then we'll know who we really are. Your life now fulfilling your longings in the temporary world, that's not Christianity. That's something that calls itself Christianity. That's not Christianity. That's not the Christian faith. 2 Corinthians 4. 18 tells us what Christianity is. We look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are what? Not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. Temporal means it passes away, it doesn't last, it's going to be over with. It's not something to put your stock in. It's not something to long for. You will be disappointed in the temporal period. We look for the future. 1 John 2. 17. The world is passing away. Not will be one day passing away, is right now passing away. And also its lusts. How fulfilled were you in your lusts this past week? Did it satisfy you, fill you up, give you the dream that you were looking for? It was a waste of time, wasn't it? It didn't fulfill you. 1 Corinthians 7. 31 says, the form of this world is passing away. Plato got a few things right, even though he didn't know the truth. He understood the real reality is beyond this world. Christianity always looks to the future, not just your personal future. Don't make this all about you. Understand we're connected and we're connected in Christ. We're talking about the whole earth's future Hey guys, it's so much smarter to look to the future. Some of you don't like change, right? We were taking a poll, how many of you like change? You know, some of you say, No, I don't like change, but you know something, I've got to break some bad news to you. Change is all we get down here, it's all temporal. And you don't like change, it's too bad. Everything changes. The relationships change, families change, governments change, everything changes. You change, your body changes, everything changes. Nothing will be like it is now in a few years. It's going to change. Things are going to change. It's all temporary, it's all passing away. Your school, families, businesses, investments, sports, your bodies, it's all on the way out Did you know that the planet knows that there's change coming and that the planet itself in some mysterious way groans for that change and longs and has a hope for the future? Keep your finger in Titus. Let's go back to Romans. chapter 8. I want to show you this. That the entire planet is groaning for the future. This is uh Romans 8 verse 22 and follow me. And Paul writes about hope here. In fact, let's go back to verse 20. Oh, let's go all the way back to verse 19. For the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility. He's talking about the curse on the world from Adam and Eve. not willingly because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption. into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. It's not just that we are going to be changed and given resurrected bodies. The planet as well will be recreated and it is groaning for that time. We read on. For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. And not only this, but also we ourselves having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting eagerly for our adoption. As sons, the redemption of our body. That's the resurrection. For in hope we have been saved, but hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he already sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, with perseverance we wait eagerly for it. You get it? Now turn to Philippians chapter 3 and verse 20. He also talks about this there. Philippians 3 and verse 20. And Paul writes, therefore, our citizenship is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. That's by the way, why if you're saved and you're a Democrat or saved and a Republican, you've got to get together because our citizenship is actually in heaven. We're the same citizens here, okay? Our citizenship is in heaven from which also we eagerly what wait, wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of his glory by the exertion of the power that he has even to subject all things to himself. Boy is he going to let loose power at that time. Philippians 3 Well this is how we ought to live, constantly, eagerly waiting, like that faithful dog. Oh, the faithful dog waiting at home right by the window. for any sign, any sign at all that the master has returned home. And the tail starts a thumping. Or like the child sitting at the feet of the Christmas tree. It's all aglow with a pack of packages underneath it And he just can't wait until Christmas. Some have falsely claimed that the New Testament was written the New Testament writers in their latter books revealed a lessening anticipation of the second come of coming of Christ. That in the earlier books of the New Testament there's this strong anticipation that Jesus Christ is going to come back. But as he delayed, they kind of began to change their mind and they began to say that, well the second coming of Christ that might not happen. There's actually false teaching about that. You wonder if they have ever read the last book of the New Testament, which is called The Revelation of Jesus Christ, the last book written Past probably AD ninety, and some of the very last words are Amen come Lord Jesus. Mare enough, right You wonder if they've even read that. That is not true, and it could be nothing could be farther from the truth. Titus is one of the last epistles that the Apostle Paul himself wrote, and here he is anticipating the second coming And do you know something? He would die probably within a year or two after writing this letter. And still, even though he was near his personal death, he was looking for the second coming of Christ. It was an example to us There is a longing that ought to be in the Christian life. We should never get settled. We should never be happy with the way things are in this world. We should never be content. There should always be a longing We long to see ourselves and society, oh society, and this planet, fulfilled, completed, changed. But where is your hope placed today? I ask again, where is it right now? What are you hoping for right now? Is it too wrapped up in sports? Someone has told you that most of the sports teams end up losing in the end, right? You do understand that your team is most likely gonna lose. We Redskin fans can tell you all about that. And even if your team wins, they're gonna lose next year, right? What is your heart wrapped up in? Some people are worshipful of sports. Is your heart wrapped up in politics? Democrats, Republicans Please, I mean come on, have we not learned yet? Where is the hope to be in the next eloquent leader who comes along? Don't we learn the lessons of the past? People who have their hopes in the wrong places, I like to call them dreamers Their hope's not going to come to pass. It's a dream and it's going to disappoint them. Just like the dream that you have in the night and you wake up and you're like, oh bummer, it was only a dream. I really can't fly. Or whatever it may be Dreamers, D is for democracy, which always fails men because men will always fail, right? R is for religion because religion apart from Christ is nothing but false and disappointing. E is for education, the messiah of the modern American society. Education only makes sinners smarter. It doesn't make them non-sinners. A is for all truism. That is a pipe dream because man is corrupted. M is for morality, but God says the righteous deeds of unsaved man are like a filthy rag in his sight. E is for evolution and evolving and becoming greater and greater, but we've already proven by science that non-life can't produce life. So if the first step of evolution couldn't happen, why are we looking for more steps of it R is for reincarnation. I call that the hamster wheel. It gets you nowhere fast. And S is for self. They hope in self, and well, if you trust in self, you will disappoint you. These are dreams. You're a dreamer. Neither are we to look for hope in the environmental movement and saving some species on the planet. These are all far too short-sighted. They are ignorant of God's plan. Don't you see that the reason why your hopes become dashed is that you place your hopes in the wrong thing? You had your heart going after something that was destined to fail you Some things God makes sure disappoint you, so you learn not to long after them. But faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are promised, will never disappoint us. Listen to Romans 5. 5. It says hope does not disappoint. He's talking about a specific kind of hope because hope all the time disappoints, right? Hope, that is Christian hope, does not disappoint. Why not? Because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts. through the Holy Spirit who has given us. What does that mean? We already have the Holy Spirit living in our lives. He's a down payment, a guarantee of our future inheritance and what we will see. We have the Spirit. We know we have the Spirit because we share the love of the Spirit among each other. And from that we know the future is certain and true. Hebrews 6. 19 says, This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast. Listen, the apostle is not referring just to any hope, for that kind of a hope can disappoint. You know, for a hope not to disappoint, it has to be able to deliver what it promises. Christ can deliver what he promised. He was raised from the dead. He showed us that every promise that he has is true. The Christian hope does not disappoint. The Christian hope does not disappoint now because it gives us an abundant, joyful life when we're obedient right now. The Christian hope does not disappoint in the future because we know that what we have read in the Word of God we will see with our eyes one day. There's nothing about the Christian hope which disappoints. It ought to be the thing we all long for. It's the wisest thing for us to be longing for. It's the wisest way for us to direct our lives There is no wiser way. There is no better counsel about how to approach life than that. That's it. And now we get into what we are hoping for, the blessed one. Look back to Titus here, if you would, Titus 2. Looking for what are we looking for? We're looking for the blessed hope. Blessed Makarias just means Happy or even more, your life is full and rich and complete. It has that connotation that life is just great. So we're looking for the blessed hope. We're looking for the fulfillment of the one who will bless us and who is blessing us. He is indeed the blessed one himself. He is the blessed hope. He brings blessings to us. 2 Thessalonians 2. 16 says, God has loved us and given us eternal comfort and good hope by grace. We have that hope and it blesses us. Romans fifteen thirteen says, Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you will abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. This is what hope brings He brings the blessed one from the sky. It brings blessing to us as well. Do you know what the word hope means? It's in our name, Hope Bible Church. Do you know what it means? In Greek it's Elpis. When people usually use the word hope, they mean something like, well, I kind of wish it would happen, but they're not really sure, right? I kind of hope so. There's almost a doubt in that, isn't there? Maybe, but I'm giving it less than a 50-50, you know? I hope that's gonna happen. That is not what Elfus, what biblical hope, is all about It is not just a listless dream, a lifeless prayer. It is a confident anticipation. Something is coming and you know it. You can taste it. You can feel it. You're waiting for it with great anticipation. Do you know that 1 Timothy 1. 1 says that Christ Jesus Himself is our hope? We're waiting for Him. He's our hope. He's a blessed one. He's going to come and we're waiting for him. He's alive from the dead. He's seated in the heavenly places. He promised to come back. Two thousand years doesn't change anything with Christ, right? I mean look how long it took for Abraham's life, then down to David's life, then down to the birth of Christ. That was two thousand years, roughly, right? Twenty one hundred years. God fulfills his promises in the fullness of time. Christ came the first time in the fullness of time. Christ will come the second time, right? This hope is so important. We're told that we are supposed to have that hope burning in us so strongly that other people notice it And when they notice it, 1 Peter 3 verse 15 says, you better be ready always to give an account for the hope that is in you. Because people will look at you and they're going to say, you're different. You're weird. I haven't seen people like you before. You seem to have a steadiness about you. There's problems that happen, and your gaze seems to lift up above that, and you have this gaze, this look about you in life, and you look past all of the troubles of life And there's a little smile that just kind of quietly and eerily comes across you. And what is it about you that's just so strange? You have a hope. Hope in Jesus Christ. And you tell him, I have a hope that Jesus Christ is going to come and break through the heavens, and one day we're going to see him and he's going to put all of this right. And you explain to them why that is a good hope. You explain to them why that is a reasonable hope. You tell them about fulfilled prophecy and you tell them about the character of God that He never lies. You tell them about the uniqueness of this book, the Bible And you point their faith on a solid ground, a solid hope, right? This is what you do. People are around us And they're laughing and they're drinking and they're going to parties, and if you could get them to be honest and not so proud for a moment, they would tell you they don't have much of a hope. Tell them of your hope. Tell them there is a hope beyond this life. Some are hoping for marriage, some are hoping for school, some are hoping for a better job and better standard of living, they're hoping for relationships. And they're tired. And they're losing hope. And in some cases, they got exactly what they hoped for. And as we already said, it's not really what they expected. And now they want out. They want something different. Well, there are a lot of things that we can put our mind on and we can hope for in life My advice from reading this text of Scripture is don't hold on to those hopes too tightly. Hold on to them loosely. They're going to come and they're going to go. They're not going to be all that fulfilling. There's one hope that you can always trust in. And that is the appearing, look at it, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus The Blessed Hope and the Appearing. It sounds like it's two things we're hoping for there, the Blessed Hope and the Appearing, but one article governs them both, and so that means that it's all talking about the same thing. The Blessed Hope. is the appearing of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus. It's one appearing here That's what it's talking about. We've already seen a past appearing back in verse eleven, remember? This is the future appearing. As in 1 Timothy 6. 14 that talks of the future appearing too. Kitchen in his commentary writes Christ's first Epiphany Revealed God's grace. Verse 11. His second Epiphany will unveil God's glory. Verse 13. Oh, it's going to be glorious. It's going to be amazing. It's going to be fantastic. The glory of God. The glory of God will be seen. It is the glory of God, the glory with the article which will appear, the glory. Some felt that this refers to the rapture, which is the first part of the second coming of Christ, when believers are snatched up to meet the Lord Jesus Christ in the air, as 1 Thessalonians 4 talks about, or John 14:3. But it seems that Paul is speaking more generally of the second coming here because his glory will be revealed to all at the second coming For example, in Matthew 25, 31 it says, But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, Then he will sit on his glorious throne. We have no way to fathom this glory. If one angel appeared to us in his shining glory right now, all of us would freak out and we'd be afraid. One angel. And that's not Christ, he's a created thing. All the angels are coming with Christ, and they're just the side issue in terms of glory It's just, it's mind-boggling the glory and the splendor that will be there. To say the splendor would be unparalleled is an understatement. People love looking at beautiful scenes today, wouldn't you agree? You see people on there's something glorious like a waterfall and everyone's pulled their cars over and they get out of their minivans, they get their cameras and they're taking pictures. And stand in front of it. They love looking at beautiful and gorgeous scenes. And the Lord is a beautiful God. Look at the creation that He has given us. If we want a little bit of an understanding about how glorious He's going to be, think about Those pictures you've seen from the Hubble telescope or whatever of the of the galaxies beyond, and think of the scenes you've seen on Earth, and then think this is the one who made all of that. His glory is going to surpass all of that No, well that'll look dinky. We have some uh Christmas displays that are up this time of year. It's fun to go around and look at them, you know. Some people do it up big. I mean and it's beautiful. And they you know people stop and they slow down past their homes and it's really wonderful. But all of this stuff is just gonna be dinky compared to Christ. His beauty will be brilliant Do you remember that Jesus Christ prayed to the Father in John 17 and the High Priestly Prayer that his disciples one day would get to see his what? His glory. He knew what it was about. He knew that was exciting. Then we see his glory. It's going to be beyond anything that we can imagine. And it won't just be like, okay, I've seen that. What's next to see? It's not going to be like that It's going to be amazing. It's going to be overwhelming. And his glory is said, we don't have time to develop this, but when you look at the second coming passages. His glory does more than radiate out from him. It radiates out from him and then just gets flooded on every believer around him so that we, as we are gathered around him, will radiate with his glory the same way that the angels radiate with God's glory. This appearing of Christ's glory. When he breaks through the skies and he is glorious and the world has never seen anything remotely like this. This will vindicate Jesus Christ as being Son of God, as God's King, as the as the one man who has been given the right to judge all other men. He will be vindicated on that day, you see. This second coming, this glorious appearing must happen. Christ's second coming is not a myth It's not a quiet, inner, mystical experience. It will not be done in a corner. Men will shrink away from the reality of his second coming. His glory will blaze His glory will overwhelm them. It will be so great that all of creation presently groans to see it. John MacArthur says In his second appearing, he will be glory personified. He will be the blazing Shekinah glory that Peter, James, and John saw partially revealed at Jesus' transfiguration in Matthew 17. I want you to turn to Matthew 24. We have a little bit of time left. I want you to see some signs of the second coming and what it will look like. Everybody turn there. Matthew 24. This is the Olivet discourse when they were asking about the end times Paul 24 and 25. I want to just go to a verse 26 of chapter 24 in Matthew. Matthew 24, 26. That's the first book of the New Testament there. Christ is speaking to his disciples. And he says, So if they say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. Or behold, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe them. In other words, here are all the ways that people are going to say, oh the Messiah has finally come. Uh-uh. No, no, not like that at all. Well, how will he come? Then it goes on. For just as the lightning comes from the east and flashes even to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be. You see. That's how it's going to be. His coming is going to be sudden All of a sudden, just like you're in the night sky, a dark night sky, just imagine a blazing flash of lightning that happens in the darkest sky, and it just startles you. That's how his coming is going to be. Multi-pronged lightning all over the place. Imagine that and just times that by whatever. It's going to rip across the sky. There's going to be instant blazing display of light. That's how it's going to be. People shouldn't go around looking here and there for him. That's what how he's going to come And he also says it's going to be unexpected. That comes along with the idea of the lightning and the analogy of the lightning, but the proof that it will be unexpected is down in verse thirty nine And verse forty-four. It says down there that like in the days of Noah, the flood came upon them unexpectedly in one day. They were laughing and mocking. This old guy was building a giant boat that had never rained like that, and all of a sudden it came in one day and they drowned. That's how unexpected it'll be. And verse forty-four it says Jesus is coming in an hour you do not think. Just when they think he's not coming, he will come. That's the point People will be going about their normal things and then making fun of the Bible and then bam it will happen. They'll be totally caught off guard And Christ will come obviously and visibly. Look at verse twenty-eight. It says, wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. I think Jesus' point in that little analogy seems to be But just as a person knows where the carcass is by noting where the vultures are circling up above, when Christ comes, it will be very obvious from these signs that He has come Unlike a babe born in a manger, that was the sign that was given to the shepherds, right? This will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in claws and lying in a manger. This is the sign of a second coming. There'll be nothing subtle about Christ's second coming. And also we can say his coming will be post-tribulational. His second coming will be post-tribulational. Look at verse 29. But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the great tribulation that's developed in that context. The rapture rapture for the church will be earlier as John 14 teaches, that will take them to the Father's house The second coming has two parts. Remember, we meet the Lord in the air, but then the Lord He returns back to earth. At the rapture, the saints are caught up. At the second coming, Christ returns with the saints At the rapture believers are removed from the earth, leaving for a moment in time only unbelievers down on the earth. However, at the second coming With all of its accompanying judgments, all unbelievers will be removed from the earth, and only believers will be left to enter into the Messianic kingdom. This second coming will also be very, very dramatic. I guess that is that saying the least. Look at verse 29. The last part of it says, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. When Christ comes out of the realm of the invisible and into this dimension, he will break the sky open in some way we don't understand how that's possible. And there will be at that time worldwide and amazing and terrifying events. The sun, the one thing that mere molt mortals could never do is just to put The sun out and that is something that Christ will do. The moon will not give its light. The stars will fall fall from the sky That word stars in Greek, Aster, is not a technical team for the far uh term for the faraway stars, but for meteorites and anything that may fall from the sky. So there are going to be these terrible things that come down the planet Earth at that time. Terrific meteor showers of some kind streaking all across the sky. Then it says the powers of the heavens will be shaken. The whole universe will seem like it's coming to an end. The entire universe momentarily will go into disarray In Luke 21, it adds, people will literally faint with fear. Natural disasters will be beyond anything that they have ever known. Christ's coming will be astonishingly dramatic. And Christ, we have to say this, when he comes, we'll come, not in concept, not in spirit Jesus Christ will come back in his same body in which he walked upon upon this earth. He will come back bodily. Notice in verse thirty Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. They will see the sign of the Son of Man, and they will see the Son of Man himself coming on the clouds. Revelation chapter 1 says, every eye will see him. You see, he's coming in his body. Acts one says he's coming back in the same way that he left. Zechariah fourteen says his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives Christ's resurrection was a visible and bodily resurrection. His ascension into heaven was visible and bodily, and we are told his second coming will be visible and it will be bodily. And Christ will come in such amazing glory. It says, with power and great glory. We cannot imagine what that will be. You know, the first time Christ came to Israel, Israel was not ready for her Messiah. They missed the day of the missification. And the second time when Christ comes back, it says all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Will they be ready? His glory will be seen because he will come on clouds with power. Can you imagine that? That. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him. Revelation 1:7. Well, political correctness be thrown to the wind, I don't care. Jesus Christ will reign over all, he'll destroy all of his enemies. The very sky itself is going to be ripped open. Who's going to argue with someone who can do that? The brightest light of glory that has ever been seen. Can you imagine the fierce and holy countenance of the Lord Jesus Christ? With that sword that comes out of his mouth, with those diadems upon his head, with his eyes that are blazing fire. Can you imagine it? This will be a day of worship. A day of worship. A day of awe, a day of fear. Every cry of every saint and every age for Christ, please to return and come back and fix the world Every maranatha that was ever uttered will be splendidly answered on that day. We will all spontaneously cry out, hallelujah, the Lord God Almighty reigns. For this will be the glory, as Titus says, notice, of our great God And Savior, Jesus Christ. How did you read that? Did you read that as that will be the glory of God and Jesus That's not the way it should be read. This is the glory of our great God and Savior, Christ Jesus. The great God is the same one who is the Savior, is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is The great God, our great God, and our Savior. The Bible makes it so clear. By the way, the grammar doesn't allow it to be any other way there. There's only one definite article there, too, for both nouns It's actually called the Granville Sharp rule. One definite article holds together the two nouns. The great God is the Savior, Christ Jesus. There's no other way to read that. And the New Testament speaks of the deity of Jesus Christ all over the place. Colossians 2:9. All the fullness of deity dwells in Christ in bodily form. When he comes back and shows his glory, it will be the glory of God. I'm sorry, John 1:1. In the beginning was the Word, right? And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Not a God, God. John 15 8. For this reason the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Jesus because he was not only breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. Hebrews 1:8, but of the Son God says to the Son of God, so God the Father is talking to God the Son. Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. That's not the Son talking to the Father, that's the Father calling the Son Thaos, God. Isaiah 9, 6, a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called wonderful counselor. What? Mighty God, eternal Father, Prince of Peace. Jesus Christ is our God, and he is our Savior. Praise His name Praise his name. He's going to come with great glory and we're going to see it. It's going to be fantastic. I don't know what struggles that you have right now. I know some of them. I know that some of you are going through a hard time right now I can I can just the best advice from this text that I can give to you is really what God is saying is don't fix your hope. of anything else than the arrival of God in human flesh for a second time to this planet When he will deliver you and save you, he will raise your body from the dead if it has died. He will translate you. He will Including the rapture with that, he will translate you, he will heal you forever, he will give you an inheritance that lasts forever. You will populate his kingdom on earth forever. Do not take that lightly. You know, John 1. 18 says, no one has ever seen God at any time. Then it says this: the only begotten one who is in the bosom of the Father He, the Son, has explained him, the Father. The invisible God is explained to us by the visible God, Jesus Christ It is his glory. This is our blessed hope. This is the hope that's the anchor of our souls. This is the better hope. that Hebrews talks about. This is Jesus Christ who is our hope. Fix your hope there. Beloved, you will never be disappointed. Father, help our faith to grow and our hope to purify us. Humble us, Lord, before your Almighty glory. Help us to live present lives with that Anticipation in our hearts. Oh, how we long for you, Lord Jesus. Maranatha, come and come quickly. Amen.