The thought there is that even though I deserve the wrath of God for every sin of mine, God upheld justice by pouring out his wrath on Christ. And our attitude toward them gets worse and worse over time is because we view them primarily through the lens of their sin. It's like I know that's not true. And it just you know, it blurs your vision or it's it's blocks in some way and so you take your glasses off and you realize, oh, that's just like a little speck, right? He said, But you disowned the holy and righteous one and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, but put to death the prince of life. Uh don't feel like you have to be in counseling to use that book, to read that book. Let's go ahead and get started. Uh and if any would uh need to be convicted or have their hearts changed in light of this truth, Lord, would your spirit work that in them? Sure. and but deep down I know it's still hurting. I feel good. Forgiveness says four promises. Obviously doing the the notes that uh we missed from last week and that'll we'll just cut off one lesson from the end of the class which um And I pray, Lord, that uh you would use this truth, even in the lives of of those here today, uh, to uh how he was thinking, how he was uh r reacting to what was going on around him, what was happening to him, and drawing from those things lessons for our life. He approved of his death as the final atonement for sin, and he raised him up on the third day. He was worshiping God in obedience to him, uh, and and that he he was giving to God all of who he was and all of that all of what he had. There's no problem. If you're a true believer, why would you want to add to the judgment that he received on our behalf? And one of the reasons that we suffer struggle with sin is because we don't experience the consequences ourselves. But where we've been so offended that someone has done something that has uh uh crossed us in a way that you know our expectations have been unmet. Uh or they've just gotten in the way of us doing whatever you know whatever we want to do. But they've sinned. to the sins of others and we'll just kind of see uh keep uh uh having that unfold. uh all of the different memories that we have of of them. Oh, they passed me, now I pass them. is their sin. Right? And certainly what they meant, which is probably true for most of us, is when we were unbelievers, whether we were just little kids or whether, you know, we were into our adult age, most of us likely didn't wake up in the morning seething at God. Right? without that but but I don't think that's wrong to pray. That passage, can you elaborate a little bit? But but there is a legitimate warning here, similar to the warnings that we read in Hebrews, that if you if you live in sin long enough, that there comes a point of no return, and that's something that should cause us to fear. uh our the lack of forgiveness, the lack of salvation that we have received. the parable of the soils that uh the the sea fell on uh a soil of of uh uh shallow soil and so it sprang up real quick Uh but then all of a sudden he remembered, wait a minute, somebody owed me some money and uh and showed that there wasn't true depth uh to the soil of their heart. uh about this sin that you've committed against me. I don't bring it up, I don't remember it again, but the discipline is, hey, I'm gonna bring this up, I'm gonna not shock this because I think help with a most important, you know, safety and situations that people need to not uh from 2 Samuel chapter 12. And of course David gets angry at seeing the injustice in the parable. Bathsheba, because she didn't have a choice in the matter. to dishonor the Lord, but she didn't have a choice. For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lesson pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another Or finally, Colossians 3, 5-9, therefore consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. Because it helps you to see the real consequences of your sin, which you didn't see when your sin was kept secret. Were we alive for 200,000 lifetimes or a billion years? It means he chooses not to dwell on our sin, so that when he sees us, he doesn't see us as the sinner that we are. It's unfortunate, but it's all right. uh and and our our brains functioning so that we can uh take this life and use it to meditate right now on the gospel uh to make uh much more out of the sins of others uh than is right for us to make. Family, if there's brokenness in friendships, brokenness in your interaction with coworkers, but today's lesson is really helpful in how we think about relational brokenness with others. And we're peering at various elements in that painting to make observations of Christ, his responses. His justice and his righteousness. to his desire to avoid the cross, if at all possible. That vindication started as he rose from the dead and he showed himself to the apostles who, or the disciples who became apostles. The garden all the way to the cross, scripture presents his actions as an act of worship. And he could trust the Father with his life, even though he was experiencing incredible anguish and pain. trusted the Father. there won't be any consequences. We've been mistreated. someone getting c uh cutting you off. Doug, you were gonna say something? uh you know immediate family, whether it's a friend, whether it's someone in the church, someone you have a longstanding relationship with. Would you say that there's uh something else like, you know, uh as far as like what we're thinking, you know, to change somehow or what would be a solution to that Because it just really helps help you keep in mind that every person, especially every believer, is at the same time a saint for the counselor to not see someone as just the problem, you know, that they've come into counseling for, but to see them from these different perspectives. And so we we look at each other and we just assume I'm okay, you're okay. that takes place in every life. And they exert that uh sin out of them. And everybody's happy, right? Some more than others. The sin in my life is more significant than your sin against me. There's going to be a long shadow coming from me that he's going to see. Living in a sin-cursed world and we all have some uh measure of experience of sin, and some have experienced significant sin at the hands of others You're observing these crowds, not just the the Jewish leaders themselves, but the people who are complicit in the suffering and the death of Christ And as you're looking at these crowds, you can almost hear the their voices crying out, crucify him, crucify him. Now I don't know about you, but in my imagination when I hear when I try and hear voices like that, it sounds a whole lot like my own voice. We need to look at it time and time again. He's saying when when can I stop? uh Jesus has taught on how uh we should deal with sin in the church. is like a five point two billion when which I don't know I don't know your finances, but I'm guessing none of you are in this category where you have this in the bank And then the last six, address our relationships with our fellow man. They are confronted with the expectations that God places on them. and hostile in mind. Do you think it's wrong for us to when we pray for those unbelievers around us to pray that God will afflict them to the point that they actually bend the knee? Uh and so they're not a forgiving person and they live unrepentantly in unforgiveness. uh but eventually got choked out because it didn't have death. But still be wrestling in your heart. Given. Well, you wrecked my car. And if you if that would have been too little, I would have added to you many more things like these. Introduction of what God is saying is, David, look at everything that I've done for you. Right? But now you also put them all aside. And they in the in their expressions of anger, they have a habit of of cussing people out. It should, if we're if we love God genuinely, however imperfectly, it should cause us to hate our sin more and more. But God opened my eyes and helped me to see that even as a victim of my husband's sin, I could not claim innocence in my marriage, and certainly not before a holy God. to someone. Of God's forgiveness. Father, we thank you for this morning. uh the the truths that uh you would just be asking the spirit to work in your heart. for our life. We see the fullest display of God's glory. Then as we stand at the foot of the cross and we see our Savior dying, as the Father is pouring out his wrath on him so that we can receive mercy and grace and forgiveness. It's one of the paradoxes of the Christian life that the most horrific act in human history is where we see God's glory on display. That we see a picture of what our life needs to look like. He died to the injustice that was being perpetrated on him. is that life comes to those who die for God. And then lest we be tempted with the thought of, well what happens if I keep dying? for God. Again, another Christian paradox that in order to live, we have to die. But Jesus was okay to let that happen. And uh they learned that um even though Jesus had predicted his death and resurrection, uh uh they learned that his death was not the end, but he was he was risen from the dead But even today there are billions of people around the world who have wrong thoughts about Jesus. And every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord. They accuse us of things that aren't true. And and that is what we must do ourselves. wrongdoing. He knew that he could trust the Father, that if it was the Father's plan for all of these things to take place, that it was good, that it was necessary. Now, the the sinful part is that we want to be the executioners of that justice, but we can trust that no one will get away with their sin. That even if we forgive, we are not saying when we forgive you know, okay, there's no consequences We can trust that the Father will punish every sin. That helps us see through the lie that there are no consequences for my sin. this principle. including deocide, the murder of God. We've all been on the receiving end of wrongdoing at one time or another. Because maybe from your side you didn't see it as a sin but they've recently repented and in their mind they sinned against you and it may be something that you haven't even thought of, so You're right that the perspective is that I I feel like I've been sinned against. Someone cuts right in front of you and you know you get angry, you get frustrated, whatever level uh you you might struggle with. Right, right. And I got passed by two or three people with New York license plates and I start getting angry with anybody from New York. A holy person, righteous in Christ. Uh every marriage is fantastic because the couple's sitting together and they're not fighting during the worship service, right? Stay on this train. But do not notice the log that is in your own eye. Where you put that light is going to change your observation or uh where the shadows are, right? So how we see someone, the perspective that we have will determine our perception of their sin. So we're talking about perception here, a subjective view of our sin and the sins of others. I mean, in a group this large, even much smaller than this, I know that there are those of you who have been sinned against in heinous ways. been violated, if you've been abused, if you've been mistreated in horrible ways, that's not a big deal. And through that, then we can have a right perspective of the sins of others. I have committed what Charles Spurgeon called decide, the murder of God. The word for means because of. Peter is not saying or asking, Jesus, how many times can I forgive? Jesus launches into a story because he knows when you tell someone you can never stop forgiving. to communicate what happens to those who stop forgiving. But since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children and all that he had, and repayment to be made. That 100 dinari is somewhere in the neighborhood, I just, you know, minimum wage times three months of wages just to make it a little easier. This line would have to go eleven point five miles into the Earth. We know that the first four address our relationship with God, right? um manifestation of those sins. You are angry in your heart, you have done the equivalent in God's eyes of murdering that person So when you sin against Jesus, you're sinning against God. They're saying, I didn't hate God. And the reason they don't have that seething anger against God is because despite their constant rebellion against God, God more or less, from their perspective, leaves them alone, and so they have no reason to be angry at him. I was talking to someone recently who's trying to evangelize their unbelieving uh sibling, and that sibling, one of their arguments is I've lived a good life. Oh, well, I don't like that kind of God. 'Cause sometimes, yeah, someone needs to get to the end of their rope, as we might say, for them to see their desperate need for Christ. I don't know what that means. Um, but a person who doesn't they haven't uh embraced their forgiveness, they haven't um experienced the the fullness of God's forgiveness thing. And that is that if you live your life uh without uh forgiving others, you're continually hardening your heart. And the more you harden your heart, the the less um uh you will want uh to honor the Lord, to live for Christ. quickly. this person from my heart. Um you're not going to answer right now, but that's something I struggle with because I said forgive, forgive, forgive. We can still be hurting because of their sin. uh have to be you know good and lovely and you know, I love you. is um positional forgiveness and then transactional forgiveness. That unbelievers, you before you were a believer were hostile to God. Right? I also gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your care. So to disobey God's clear commands is to demonstrate contempt for him. You have struck down the Uriah the Hittite with a sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the sons of Ammon. And have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. And and what actually brings us joy and delight and blessing into our lives when we follow God's design, when we imitate God in our character, in our moral conduct. And every time we violate that and we say, no, I want to do what I want to do. But there was a clear violation in taking advantage of her. Milton Vincent says this, what the cross shows us is that if God came into the world and presented himself to us, we would kill God. We are murderers, murderers of God. You know, almost doesn't matter what I'm teaching, I come back to these. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging in the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. For th it is because of these things that the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience. So these are all scriptures that describe really the the the characterization of us as unbelievers, you and me. Maybe not in its outward expression, maybe more in the heart, but we all have different sins that we struggle with. He's completely cleansed us. It was very hard to look at my own contribution to the breakdown of my marriage. And when we do that, we'll be in a better place to forgive others. Again, let us rejoice in the forgiveness we have received. then is the lens through which we perceive the sins of others or should perceive the sins of others. of a couple where the husband had committed adultery and uh naturally and rightly the wife uh struggled uh few with that betrayal and she struggled to forgive The gospel gave me the power to forgive my husband. Being cleansed and forgiven. So again, this gospel of thought is I have committed infinite sins against God, including deicide, the murder of God. Savior, he died to himself. And if we ever get in that position where we say, I I I can't I can't give this up. Whether it's a physical suffering or financial suffering or relational suffering, we can trust the Father in our lives, no matter how bad life gets. And so that both comforts us in that we are not going to be the recipients of God's justice, but it also helps us in our battle with sin. An imbalanced perspective of that person's sin. Uh I think maybe you're talking more of the when you when you feel you've been sinned at and also at the same time maybe you actually really haven't been sinned at against you just feel you got slighted. Um, you know, Jesus used that illustration of the eye, the log, the spec. And so we have to remember that he is committed to executing justice perfectly. And that in turn will shape our attitude towards those who've sinned against us. Now obviously none of us does just one little sin in our life. the death and the meaning and significance of Christ's death. So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, have patience with me, and I will repay you everything. And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the debt. And he seized him and began to choke him, saying, Pay back what you owe. But he was unwilling, and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. Then summoning him, his Lord said to him, You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. You know, if you think about yourself traveling an inch or if you want to travel this instance you would have to walk from here to BWI. Or if you've lusted at another person, you've done the equivalent in God's eyes of committing adultery. Uh and again from uh God's perspective you're putting on display that you weren't saved to begin with You know, we cannot say, I'm not going to forgive this person, but I'm going to live the rest of my life for Christ um practice of forgiveness with our emotions. Um so to to come back to the point here, um th th think about this. So that's why when David prays his prayer of repentance in Psalm 51, he can say, Against you and you only have I sinned. The one whom God raised from the dead, a fact to which we are witnesses. Charles Vergin writes, Sin is a deicide. Now when a man is made to see that sin in its essence is the murderer, uh murderer of Emmanuel, God with us, his heart being renewed, he hates sin from that very moment. through Christ, every one of us. Through the revelation of this truth I was humbled and disarmed. that uh when we are falsely accused, when we are uh lied about, when we are misunderstood, if we die to ourselves, or I should say we can die to ourselves, knowing that one day the truth will be known. Ultimately by raising Christ from the dead. But when we remember and contemplate that every sin that we commit resulted in Christ receiving the full punishment that we deserve. You may have some people that come to you and say, Well can you forgive me for so and so? be wronged by multiple girlfriends or boyfriends and all of a sudden men are like this, right? so small. What he's saying is that our sins are worse subjectively relative to their sins, which is to say, from the standpoint of my life and my relationship with God Some of you have experienced trauma at the hands of others. To help us understand in a deeper way our own sin, which will magnify the extent of the forgiveness that we have received Every day of our lives we have failed to love God with all of our heart and soul and mind and strength. But if we were living in that time, that's exactly where we would be in one of those positions. Matthew eighteen is a passage that's familiar uh to us. How long do I have to keep going? Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you? All right. ten thousand dinari, the other slave or ten thousand talents, the other slave owed a hundred dinari. A den RI is about a day's labor. In our dollars today, roughly $6,000. We just don't. So they're living in constant hostility against God, and and it almost seems like God doesn't care. Because to me that's when I see maybe the turning point. That they have not been the actual recipients of God's grace. You are the man. Now, why have you despised the word of the Lord by doing evil in his sight? Meaning, I don't want a God. But as she began to realize uh these this reality of the the reality of our own sin and the ri the magnitude of forgiveness we have received Lord, I pray that you would be pleased with our thoughts, that you would uh deepen our understanding of uh the truth that you have revealed to us and how we are to think about life, think about sin. In the same way that Jesus was falsely accused, he was lied about, he was uh mistreated unjustly That that is not the end of life. The people there thought they were doing what was right. And and so that's that's just a distortion in our thinking. And so it's just helpful for us to remember these dynamics about all of us to to have a more balanced view. When we say, oh, that was that was just a little white lie. What we're doing is we're minimizing what Christ died for, and we're minimizing the significance of his death. W when when do I have to stop? Never can you stop forgiving. Somewhere about at an inch, based on the comparison I'm about to make, an inch alone, and the ten thousand talents Or let me say this. This is one of those passages that we have to wrestle with because you can't uh you can't just sweep it under the carpet and say, well, I believe in eternal security. on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you. I feel good. Nor should we think that if I'm still hurting and wrestling with my emotions that I've I've not forgiven them. But uh forgiveness is, and we're not going to talk about that in this class, but we will in the next class, biblical reconciliation next quarter. Yeah, there's there's so much to say about forgiveness and it's such an important thing to to think through. In this act, he says, sin overplayed its hand and showed itself for what it really is. They're they're experiencing the consequence of their sin because they confessed their sin, praise the Lord, to their spouse. Consider the consequences of your sin against Christ. That there is a God. A second thought that we've had is that Jesus' suffering and death paves the path for my life. A fourth thought that we've uh contemplated is that we can be confident that my suffering and death will be vindicated. By physical human standards, there was there was nothing, there was no reason to trust the Father. A seventh thought is that the Father can be trusted to uphold justice perfectly and eternally. When we are sinned against, one of the desires that rises in us because we are made in the image of God is the desire for justice, the desire for revenge, to see evildoers punished. Christ was punished for my sin. I would commend his his teaching to you on that on this. forgiving someone maybe it's it has to be a point where you actually feel that you've been sinned against because But for the sake of this gospel thought, it almost doesn't matter in a sense because what we're wanting to do is think about our sin relative Now you know, Jesus teaches us that all of us tend to have this imbalanced perspective. What he's saying there is not that our sin is always objectively worse than the sin that another person has committed against me. But it's we need to get the right perspective. So as we're walking through this, I want you to understand that my purpose is not to minimize the sins of others, as if to say that if you've In particular, I want you to think about in your mind the scenes where Jesus is standing before Pilate, and the crowds are around them. They're crying out for the blood of Christ. We're going to realize I have lived so much of my life as if I am the only king. We read these words in Isaiah 53, verse 5. But we never really place ourselves in the crowd. And if we have received the forgiveness of God, then we have infinite resource to be able to forgive others. Roughly 200,000 years of wages compared to three months. Now, okay, just those ten right there. You know, someone said to me one time, as they were reflecting, they were a believer now, but reflecting on their life as an unbeliever and thinking through, you know, the what scripture says about these things. And so whatever it it takes, God, if if you if they need whatever it takes to break their their will, uh to break through their hardened heart, Lord, let that let that happen. That we are not holding this sin against them in the sense that uh we no longer we've kind of erased that label that we've viewed them from, and now we see them as a person. In terms of how do you forgive when the person doesn't ask for forgiveness? We are despising God. Yes, he sinned against Bathsheba. as fellow recipients of the magnanimous grace and forgiveness of God. when we are on the receiving end of of sin and wrongdoing. In a room where the light stands, maybe not in this room because there's so many lights, so there's no shadows, but it if you're gonna put a light somewhere Five point two billion dollars that God has said done forgiven. Especially when it comes into the awareness of what God requires. Yeah, run. As believers, we know that the best way to, or our greatest desire regarding an enemy should see should be to see their salvation, to see their redemption. But I I think another uh way to think about it is that there's kind of a warning here. And so when Jesus says, So will my Father do to you, if each of you does not forgive his brother from your heart, is we're we're effectively putting on display A fifth thought that we've contemplated is that the Father is worthy of my worship in life or in death. Each one of us, to one degree or another, at one time or another, have been lied to. When we see that person in front of us, we don't see them as a person. I know because we all do this and I don't know that there's I don't have a solution to this, but we all come Like, it doesn't matter what they've done, you've done something much worse against them or have worse sin in your life. Some of you perhaps were abused as children. Alright. For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. You've heard some measure of comparison of what Jesus is saying here between the ten thousand talents and the hundred denarii. There is no comparison here. This last verse it's it's very deep in the sense that so how do you know when you're forgiven? That's what we do with our sin. But even more than that, as Doug rightly pointed out, it should cause us to relish and rejoice in the forgiveness that we have in Christ. We're doing what we call gospel thinking. Whatever abuser. Well um yeah so that's hard to answer without a lot more specifics in a particular situation. And then Pilate says, Shall I crucify your king? And your sins against me, if you have sinned against me, is not chunk chains, not you know, coins in your pocket, but it just doesn't compare. Um and I I'm just gonna ask if we can if I can kick the can down the road on on on those things. But even as believers, we still struggle with some of these things, don't we? We all sin in various ways and and struggle with it and we need to remember how serious our sin is. And sometimes because of the significance of the sin that we've received that we've experienced that has been perpetrated on us, there is a reluctance and maybe even a refusal to forgive. They've wronged me in some way, right? If I had been standing in the crowd on that day, apart from the grace of God, I would have been one of those who joined my voice to theirs. So we have put God to death. We killed God. The response to that is going to be some kind of resistance. They could care less about God as long as God minds his own business, but as soon as he gets into their business, then there's a problem. just get pretend and maybe abuse is happening or something like that. I mean Uri himself proved to be a honorable, righteous, devoted man. God sent his son into the world to speak the truth and to be the truth. Because we have been forgiven an infinite amount of debt that we owed to God, a debt that we could never pay. By understanding the magnitude, the significance of our sin, and then as a result, the the full reality of the forgiveness we have received, that The way that person's treated me, I would never do that. So friends, don't overestimate the sins that others have committed against you. And we should not underestimate our sin against God. And uh this just kind of helps get us uh back aligned again. And not just its magnitude in general, but especially relative to how it compares to the way that others have sinned against me. So I mean that that that would be uh part of the piece of the puzzle of have they actually sinned against me? Nobody else from New York offended me. Because even if you did commit some quote unquote little sin, and that was the only sin you'd ever committed, Christ would have had to die for you in light of that sin. Oh okay. So Jesus magnified the significance of these sins and the reality of them. Well what what I found, maybe you found this as well with unbelievers, is a lot of times they they don't have that hostility until Well it is heavy, right? instill in them the uh principle of humility as we uh live in this world where we are sinned against and we are so often tempted Each one of us have lived long enough to be on the receiving end of wrongdoing and sins of others. But again, what we do is when we're on the receiving end, when a person sins against us, we start to see them exclusively through the lens of that sin that they've committed against us. Again, this is thinking about comparison of minimum wage Think about how much you've been forgiven. I keep smiling. Forgiveness is really a transaction in how we are committing to relate to another person. And I I'm wondering about forgiveness for people that aren't repentant. We received even the power to to understand and comprehend the love of God more and more And even with his last breath, when he had nothing left to trust his Father with, he said, Into your hands I commit my spirit. Do I need to forgive this person? Here's Jesus' logic. If we were to measure this in terms of distance length, uh hundred denari would be Now, um, just to take another step in this train, when we typically think about the relationship of anger and murder So we'll talk a lot more about forgiveness in this class, but even more in the next class as well. Yeah, yeah, and we'll we'll even use one of those kinds of scenarios to talk about a little bit. We don't typically think about our sin, even as believers, as hostility against God, but that's what it is. Good morning everyone. I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but I would just encourage you in your own heart as you're listening, as we're walking through the principles. So let's uh just walk through the the thoughts that we've had up till now. This is uh just another point that um I learned from Milton Vincent. Well we saw last time when we talked about the consequences of our sin that were poured out on Christ, that God takes all sin extremely serious, far more seriously than we do. And Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but but up to seventy times seven. is if a person lives their life in unrepentant unforgiveness, they are demonstrating that they were never never saved to begin with. That's the kind of perspective we need to have, that when someone sins against us, and they will, and we should hope that others think about this when we sin against them, that we see each other, especially as fellow believers Yeah, it's kind of like the Christian version of the impregatory prayers. Uh no, we're we're just handing over to the father the responsibility to accomplish justice and punishment in that person's life. The eighth thought which flows from that is, well, what about my sin? Some have life-dominating sin that they're wrestling with. We can hear them saying as we're looking at that picture, away with him, away with him, crucify him. In short, if God has forgiven you, then you must forgive others. Doug. What are you gonna do to recompense for wrecking my car? fifteen minute drive. That's what Jesus is trying to get us to think about. And we as believers have received His forgiveness. And so then we come to our ninth gospel thought. And so now when we see each other on a Sunday morning or when we come home from work, we don't see them in all of the different facets of their personality. That is that is the nature of the unbeliever. God, how could you do this to me? And I'm not going to allow this sin to stand between us. David was not ignorant, nor was he apathetic. So this is helpful for us as believers that as we contemplate the significance and the magnitude of our sin, So let's let's try. We typically think about the relationship of anger and murder in our human relationships, right? That is an expression of hostility to God. And I was trying to help him see kind of what we talked about last time that this is good that you're experiencing this difficult pain. I know you know a lot more about each other, and there's a lot that you appreciate about each other, but because of the the skewed perspective, all I can see right now is your sin So Jesus says that's a T. You know, I have a good life. We've been unjustly singled out. But that's the person who cut me off. Now, if you've heard sermons on this, I mean I think Pastor Leek preached on this just a couple years ago. God has forgiven you. Well this is a a significant um lesson today. Yeah, uh I I guess I was just gonna add is when you described that traffic scene, I remember the time I was driving down ninety-five at Christmas time. I'm gonna I'm gonna dabble in this sin and let this sin kind of reinvent in my life because the rest of my life is okay. So how do you work towards that? I love the Hebrews. It's an irritation in his life that there is a God and a just God who will bring him into judgment. As Jesus was worshiping, he was also trusting. That's that's the idea that when we see our sin rightly, or when we see someone else's sin, it's a speck that that skews our vision of them. Compared to the ten dozen to talents, which would be about five it's I promise not to bring this sin up and use it against you. Now I can see you as a fellow saint and a fellow sinner, a fellow recipient of God's forgiveness, and I can forgive you. Any final thoughts or comments, questions? It's all right. The ninth gospel thought, as we stand at the foot of the cross, as we stand inside this gospel cyclorama, is I have committed infinite sins against God. My sin put Christ on the cross. Um also the maybe God leaves me alone, maybe there's also the unbelievers where bad things happen in the why these bad things happening in those groups, maybe the ones that are more the error. This is after uh David has committed his sin against Bathsheba, murdered Uriah, and uh Nathan the prophet comes to David, you know, tells him that little parable to try and bring conviction into his heart. And he says, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Everybody has a smile on their faces. So now let's come to this gospel cyclorama. We have no king but Caesar. So it'll take me a while. We need to think about this. Yeah, so let me answer it briefly. He was crushed because of our iniquities. But uh I don't want to think about it. Uh one book by the way that I would commend to you all is a book called Saints, Sufferers and Sinners by Mike Emlett. He he means he wishes there were none. Because I really don't want to do this. My Heavenly Father, Jesus concludes, will also do the same to you if each of you does not forgive his brother from your heart. So how do you know when you that say I were to die today. Thank you for your grace that allows us to be here, to be alive, to be breathing, to have a heart beating. We we can think about the cross rightly as Jesus died for my sin. You know, if you're going a long way and and they're kind of going a long way with you, as you're going, every time you see them you're thinking, that's the person who cut me off. That is the beginning of life. We must think of our dying to self as an act of worship. Yes, he sinned against Uriah. This is what she writes regarding how that impacted her. But what all unbelievers do is live in rebellion against him. David had contempt for God, and that's what we do. No one will ever get away with their sin. Like there's no world in which you could say, yeah, it's kind of close. You know, I'm not experiencing the judgment of God. And uh and so we we don't want to conflate and and and assume that our emotions have to match He was okay for people to think wrong thoughts about him, even to abuse him unjustly. So um they might be jumping to take him to the high moral ground and forgive them, but really they haven't even sinned against you Yeah. When can I stop forgiving? Never. Itaha Ish! Like that's that's all you know now in that case that's all you know about that person. At the very same time they're a sufferer. We don't take into account the reality that everyone struggles with sin at some level Now this is the starting point. I I I I don't know if it's my t coat's tight or or where I feel the heaviness in the room, but He died to uh what w was right in the sense of uh human justice that They thought they were serving God by crucifying a blasphemer, but they were incredibly wrong about that. You won't experience punishment for your sin because hey Christ paid it all. And I would say that in such cases, one of the barriers to forgiveness is having an imbalanced perspective of that person's sin. Ephesians two. Let me uh s start with a word of prayer and and we'll um start with some review and go from there. Good to see you. There is no other place in history that we can learn more about who our God is. Now I want you to turn to Matthew chapter eighteen. Let's let's meditate on this a little bit. But you know, I just I would love to forgive as much as possible. Elaborate on that? It's as if you never sinned. But even while Jesus was in the thickest part of his suffering, he still It doesn't matter. Well, and you know, I let's be real here. Who knows how long that would take walking? No, I wasn't angry with God as an unbeliever Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye? Right? That's kind of that same uh concept that yeah, you know, he left the the courtroom of the king having been forgiven with excitement He died to his his natural desire of self-preservation. Look at all these ways in which I've blessed you. Right? If you're married, I highly commend it. There are consequences. Indeed, infinitely more sins than anyone has committed against me. I mean I I see this in marriage counseling all the time that a couple will often come in and they don't know anything about each other except for their sin They are all of those three things at the same time. Or that was just, you know, I I just lost control of my anger. So when are you going to force me to to stop? They are hostile to God in their mind and in their thinking, whether or not they realize it. I'm not going to talk to myself about this sin. I like the ESV, which says, the author of life. What a great God we serve. It's about the heart, right? No, you have to think about it. God has forgiven me if we've put our faith in Christ. So we ha sorry that we had to cancel class last week, but we're just uh Anger, wrath, malice, slander, abusive speech from your mouth. But you know, last time we looked at our sin in terms of its consequences, the fact that our sin uh ha does have consequences which are poured out on Christ. The way that you and I have sinned against God is so infinitely greater than the way in which we sin against each other. Think about how much you've been forgiven. You've let my life you know become something that I didn't want. Now, you know, you think of the parables like he had actually been forgiven, but that's the using the monetary concept And if you're an unbeliever, you are hostile to God. No, no, no. We've been stolen from or assaulted or attacked. Others have just kind of the normal respectable sins uh that everybody has. They want to see blood. But he was pierced through for our transgressions. As soon as it seems like God is meddling in their life, all of a sudden I don't want anything to do with that kind of God We see his character on display, his goodness and compassion and mercy and grace and forgiveness. Gospel thinking. Not physically, obviously, but in the sense of the fact that Jesus, who is the perfect God man, the sinless That is the way in which we receive the power to live What does it mean to forgive this person? And so if we're gonna take that as uh let's just say minimum wage We also know that Jesus, when he taught, in especially in the Sermon on the Mount, he was saying it's not just about the physical The king is calling upon you. I'm not I think y uh some would go so far as to say that David raped her. My sin against God No gods besides me, no idols, don't take his name in vain, uh keep the Sabbath day holy. That's a little heavy because it he'll do the same thing to us if we don't forget it. How do you know when you have food? And in horrific ways. We could never repay our debt to God. Instead, we want to have an accurate view of our sins so that we can maximize the meaning and significance of Christ's death. Five point two billion dollars. It's not going to be a satisfying answer, but um for the sake of time. And but then there's the yes, I do forgive you. What's left for me? In the same way, it doesn't matter if we go to our grave and one person or a world of people think wrongly about us And he's not going to have a shadow because the light's just shining right on him. Now let's let's use another form of measurement. But just to kind of get us up to speed, let's start by just walking through the uh the gospel points. Everybody's kids are going to Sunday school and they're perfect because you know they have kids, they're in Sunday school, so they must be perfect, right? You know, whether you wear glasses or you've worn sunglasses, we all know what it's like to to get something on your glasses, right? So honor your father and mother, no stealing, no murder, no adultery, no lying, no coveting. Um there can be other consequences that complicate um our emotions and and exacerbate them We're we're thinking about a gospel cyclorama, a 360 painting of uh the sufferings, death, resurrection of Christ I can put my hand on a burner and someone say smile, just pretend it's good. Like for example, you're riding on the freeway. Yeah. Worth just another illustration. But we don't want to minimize our sin because we don't want to minimize It's not like she was wanting and looking for and you know a an equal party in that adultery. Right. You were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience I don't know where you're at today. And we looked at a variety of other ways in which Christ died to himself, and we see in that lessons for how we ought to die to ourselves. Because one day we will be risen from the dead. To have seen Jesus when he was on this earth was to see the Father. So we can say, even though I won't feel the consequences of my sin, I won't be punished for my sin. Or to look at it another way, one of the reasons bitterness grows in our heart when someone sins against us I mean in the in the impregatory prayers of of the Psalms, it's really like God get them, like punish them, judge them for what they're doing. So that mercy that he had received, though it was spoken to him, it was it was not actually embraced. Maybe that might happen, but that doesn't have to happen for forgiveness to have been And David says to uh excuse me, Nathan says to David in 2 Samuel 12, 7 to 10 We were more alike than different. The Father uh uh received the the sacrifice of Christ And Jesus is content with that for now, knowing that the day will come when he will return. Again, it's one of those things that we don't think about when we come together as a church, but we're all sinners. If if someone says, I'm I'm not hostile to God I gave you the house of Israel and Judah We're saying, God, I know better than you do. And so from that standing point of being washed by the blood of the cross I have a question too. Colossians 121 says that we were formally alienated from God Leave it at that. And the significance of your sin and what it caused Christ to endure. I wanted to just focus on his part and leave the blame there. Christ had died for both our sins, dying in our place and drinking the full cup of God's wrath we deserve for our sins. We've been lied about. And and it is possible, and this is not uncommon, where we actually haven't been sinned against Uh Peter comes to Jesus in verse twenty one and says, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Uh because what the what the master said there is, should you not also have had mercy So God lays out his design for life. I want to lust after this, I want to covet after that. Let's thank Him for that. We're going beyond just an articulation of the gospel, what a person needs to know to be saved, but we're meditating and thinking about the significance of the gospel. And like, okay. We shouldn't wait to forgive until we feel like it. He would br he would be rejoiced if he could learn for certain that there was no God. I'm not going to have any life left. And when you're on the receiving end of wrongdoing and you're a believer, one of the questions that comes up is the question of forgiveness. That's a demonstration that they weren't saved to begin with. In order to save our life, we have to lose it. Right. So let l let me let me draw this out for you. Mm-hmm. I'm not going to attack you and remind you of your sin for the sake of beating you beating you over the head with it. So why? Peter said the same thing as he was speaking to the crowds in Acts chapter 3. Whether you would do that or whether you would do something else, we're all sinners. I can't die anymore. And we learn from that that if if we follow Christ in dying to ourselves Okay? And if that wasn't enough, I would have done even more. He actually demonstrated hatred for God's word. Every sinner, if he could, would kill God. The first gospel thought is that as we look at the cross And I'll give you the thought, and we're just going to ride a train of thought throughout the rest of the class to just unfold We see them with the label of their sin etched across their body. Okay, I want you to imagine for a moment in your mind. We don't place ourselves as the religious leaders who handed Christ over. He said in Matthew 7, 3 to 4, why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye? I am complicit in the death of Christ. John Stott said, until you see the cross is that which is done by you, you will never appreciate that it was done for you. And Jesus' answer is not intended to give us a mathematical equation, right? I'm wondering about this intersectional church participant because the way you just described that is when I forgive Um but it's one of those passages that no matter how familiar you are with it, we When we look at the Ten Commandments, for example. The king wants to lay with you. And in them you also once walked, when you were living in them. This isn't a a comprehensive list of every sin one could possibly commit. It's uh uh just a powerful, powerful truth. They're uh they're uh they have the curse of sin in their life, they they've experienced the curse of sin around them, and they're also a sinner So the more we understand the significance of our sin, the more we will understand the forgiveness we have received. I'm not going to allow myself to constantly be uh just thinking or reminding myself and then harboring bitterness toward you because of this sin. The transaction is the actual will you forgive me Uh I think it's next the next uh next week. I'm not saying don't act like they aren't real or that they're not a big deal. Yeah. And so again it's written to counselors, so it helps That's the point of the parable he's about to read. So you can do all of those things Instead, we should cultivate a balanced perspective to see our sin and their sin the way we ought to see it. That's not jump change, right? That when when we think about, oh man, this person has sinned against me, I just I don't know if I can forgive them Right? Um there's ma there's two ways that I think we can legitimately and rightly interpret what Jesus is saying there. Because God says Right? And there he tells a story I I I don't want to forgive. Some some kind of well wait a minute. What will the Father do about my sin? So if we're having this distortion in our thinking and you're saying that forgiveness is one of the pieces But our purpose, again, is to get perspective. When his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved and came and reported to their lord all that had happened In order for this line to be relative to that line in this measurement And as soon as you say, no, I'm not, you are rejecting God's word, which is an act of hostility Thus says the Lord God of Israel, It is I who anointed you king over Israel, and it is I who delivered you from the hand of Saul. We overplayed our hand and exposed ourselves for what we really are So let's just think about Some of you have been violated in horrific ways in your life. That is not what I'm trying to communicate here. Father, we thank you I don't know where all of your relationships are at, where um if there's brokenness in your um First Peter 2 says that he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. So um When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. A few hours maybe. He says, I will not, I will not remember your sins anymore. If you love Christ No, he's not thinking that way, right? And before Peter can respond So his fellow slave fell to the ground and began to plead with him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you Just that's how Jesus taught it, and so that's how we think about it. So yeah, for a lot of unbelievers, you don't you don't feel it in this life. But even more than that, even more than the the difficulty you're having with your spouse now Today we want to consider our sin in terms of its magnitude. Um I know none of you have done this, but I've heard other people less holy than all of you. It's been said that when we minimize our sin, But those are some really good questions to think through. There there's a a real sense in which David um sexually violated So how do we in our lives manifest the same hostility against God? And so we can learn from that that even when we suffer, no matter what we're experiencing We don't that's not usually the disposition of unbelievers. I don't think that's wrong. I was just talking to somebody yesterday who's a professing believer. His secret wish is that there were no religion and no God, for he might then live as he pleased. We've been betrayed. Now let's let's think about this again. Yeah, I'm fine with God. And I don't wanna you know I wanna please the Father. So um we'll we'll keep doing that. Right? In Matthew 18, verse 21 and 22, we read this exchange after Uh but even it's amazing with the the relationships that we have, whether it's And we don't realize the massive amount of suffering I can keep saying to myself, I forgive this person, I forgive this person So again what we typically do is we see someone through the lens of like so using the example of Jesus said in John 15, 23, he who hates me hates my Father also. Yeah. And I can only assume that a man like that, that Bathsheba knew the kind of man she was married to, and that she would not have wanted And yet He has washed it all away She says, Over time I began to see my own sinfulness and God's grace and mercy for my sins. So that if So that's just the In that we are more alike than different. All we need to do is look to Christ and say, if he could give it all, uh then I can too. If you think about two people who are facing each other But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred dinari Or just to put it in practical terms And this is uh this comes from Milton Vincent, how he explains it Do not lie to one another, since you have set aside the old self with its evil practices. And again, you and I might say, well I didn't do this or I didn't do that or that didn't characterize my life. Uh and that's not just one person. He has cleansed us. Lord help us to to think well. That as we look at this man hanging on the cross, bleeding, dying. How can I forgive this person in light of the way in which they've sinned against me We can get so distorted in our attitudes toward a person that all we think about when we think about that person But it's also helpful just to think about all of us like that. You put to death the author of life. One of my favorite books that I use in marriage counseling is Dave Harvey's book When Sinners Say I Do And behold, the log is in your own eye. I have sinned against God every single day of my life. It wasn't that long ago. So I don't I don't think that's wrong. Now, I want to add a disclaimer here Yeah. We will be with God and the truth will be known, and that's all that matters. That he was giving up his life as a pleasing aroma to the Father. That's a significant weapon in our battle against sin. Uh Forgive me well let me do top down here. So we can stop at the And we we learn that from Jesus even in his teaching before his suffering. Everybody's life is perfect on a Sunday morning But if we put the light above him, it's going to be vice versa I want to forgive. You can never stop forgiving I think that's one legitimate Yeah, I th that is a a really, really good question. You can't say no to the king He died One of the lessons that we learn is we observe Christ not so much on the cross but three days later as he rose from the dead. Or women are like this Indeed, infinitely more sins than anyone has committed against me. Now pause there. God doesn't see. And and those are all extremely important things to think through. From this standing place, forgiveness flowed. As we look at Christ as he progressed in his suffering from We've been abused verbally, emotionally, physically, maybe even spiritually. It's just extensive happening. And so they're crying out, crucify him, crucify him. I know that I've prayed that way before and um I'm going to lie in this situation. And then we hear them say, We have no king but Caesar. And we have failed to love our neighbor as ourselves. Some of the others we probably won't talk about in this class, but we do talk about in the biblical reconciliation class. You don't know what's good for me. A sixth thought is that the Father can be trusted completely on the receiving end of any That's a side note. Okay? I just, you know, whatever. He was crushed for our iniquities. I know I'm supposed to forgive more than the Pharisees say, which is three times, but but how If you owed me $6,000, I'd be praying that you would have the ability to pay that back at some point. And so now they're experiencing the relational brokenness that comes when you reveal your betrayal. We've been falsely accused. So if I'm standing here and Ron's sitting there, if we put the light here Now if we're thinking, if we're if we're thinking about the gospel I don't have a problem with God. Uh we we don't do ourselves a favor when we connect uh the He sees us as clothed in the righteousness of Christ. That's not the point It should cause us to want to flee from sin and resist temptation. The Father proved himself trustworthy. So God will forgive you. Let me illustrate this in a couple ways We step into this cyclorama and we see the various scenes. As if I have no king but myself. So follow along as I read verses 23 to 35. You don't have to pay that back. Okay? Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me. He will not allow any sin to go unpunished. I thought I wasn't gonna have any condemnation. This is something random I was doing. Sure That's the heart of our sin when we do that. Have they sinned against you? And his Lord, moved with anger, handed him over to the torturers until he should repay all that was owed him. I was I mean another person I was meeting with yesterday Right, Romans 8. Yeah. I pray this in Christ's name. Why? But I know it hurts, but I have to keep it here and say Titus 3. That's not really even in my notes here. He's he's not punishing me. No, what happens is that sin grows like like cancer and it will eventually destroy us. For he says in his heart, No God. Like I I hear that more often than I would like to hear from believers He has renewed us. Into your hands I trust my spirit. How can we think about our sin in these terms? But there's a meaning that's a good question. I don't I who I don't know if that's true. But we all struggle with sin Now think about what Peter is asking here. I'm going to get angry in that situation And what did we do when God came? Because he knew that one day he would be vindicated. It it's kind of a book written to biblical counselors, but I think it'd be great for anybody to read, any Christian to read. And so Jesus immediately launches into a story, a parable. Well, did you know that God requires We should never have this thought that I would never do that. I I can't do impressions of other voices, it sounds like my voice When are you going to make me stop forgiving? Okay? And when you put your glasses on and it obscures everything, but you take it off and you realize it's Obviously it's God can save a person apart from that And yet he said have patience with me and not only hay 7 says, the mindset on the flesh is hostile to God. I don't want him to punish me for not truly forgiving Um 3 We're all in need So go ahead and engage in this sin. No, they haven't. Right? But remember that Jesus was the God man. In fact, that is the bugbear of his life. He has redeemed us. That the one slave owed But now you have also Amen. You know, when we come together on a Sunday morning I'm not going to talk to others You have them there in the notes It's intended to say never They are a big deal. Scripture doesn't use that term We'll talk about some of those throughout this class. Certainly it is of some, but not most. Liar, betrayer. So uh Because one of the temptation, one of the lies of sin is And so Jesus trusted the Father with everything, even though So So pastor can I have something Well you're familiar with these passages. But sometimes we feel like And I know you have too Yeah. Which doesn't mean he has a delete button that we don't have. Go ahead and indulge because there won't be any consequences. Yeah And you can also tie this to Because we don't, right? So so That's the person who cut me off We killed him We should see them accurately. Uh Fine It just doesn't compare Bugbear is an irritation. Up to seven times? Sure. I feel like I read them all the time and One And