Suffering is always a complex experience Virtually never do we experience just a single strand of suffering. It's almost always a multi-threaded experience Those of you who experience migraines know that you don't just have a migraine and suffer that pain. You perhaps suffer the loss of work. the loss of fellowship, the loss of ministry that uh the migraine prevents. You don't just suffer a fender bender You suffer the loss of time, the need to go through that complex process of dealing with insurance and multiple years of increased premiums. Virtually every form of suffering has interwoven strands that stretch the that moment of suffering into days or weeks, months, maybe even years, or even the rest of your life. And this multi-threaded experience of suffering is further complicated by how we feel about our suffering. Shame, perhaps, that is self the result of self-induced suffering. Anger over the suffering that's come upon us by somebody else's sin. perhaps confusion over natural suffering and just living in a fallen world of being confused why these things happen to us. These emotions take the experience of suffering in this life and intensify the pain in the soul. And then there's the other dimension that squeezes the soul in suffering, and that is how we think about our suffering. If you think that there is no purpose, no meaning, no benefit to your suffering, everything you experience becomes intolerable In fact, hopelessness in suffering is what leads people to look for the quickest escape, whether that's through substances or even death. On the other hand, if we think that there is a worthwhile purpose, that there is a substantive meaning to my suffering If there is some practical benefit that is experienced in the moment, or perhaps at the end of this suffering, we will endure. And the more meaning, the more purpose, the more benefit we have, we assign to our suffering, the more intensity we will be able to withstand A patient, for example, will endure a lot of pain in the process of physical therapy, knowing that that pain will lead to a restored mobility in the end. A soldier will endure intense training and long deployments and much danger outside the wire knowing, being convinced that this is what it means to serve their country and keep them. Safe and ultimately bring them home. And of course, a mother will endure all the discomforts of pregnancy, and ultimately the pain of labor, with hope, with the expectation and anticipation of holding her little baby No matter the cost of suffering, what you think is the purpose or the meaning or the benefit will ultimately determine your commitment to endure We will see in verses 27 and 28 this morning how the glory of God was the motivating factor that drove Jesus and his endurance through suffering. And then we'll consider how we can follow his example. Let's read the passage once again and we'll quickly quickly review where we've come so far. And then dig deeply into God's Word. Follow along as I read John chapter twenty, uh excuse me, chapter twelve, verses twenty through thirty-six. Now, among those who went up to the feast to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethseida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus Philip went and told Andrew, Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls to the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me And where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now my soul is troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had and heard it said that it had thundered Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him. We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is the Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. The theme of this passage is glory. Primarily the glory of Jesus Christ as he puts on display the glory of God at the cross. But there's also the glory that Jesus invites us into by believing and following him And we've been tracking our progress through this passage using signposts, if you will. Just as a signpost helps you keep track of your progress on a road trip, these signposts are marking our steps through this passage. And the first signpost that we saw is the people's interest in glory in verses 20 and 21. At this feast where the largest amount of Jews would come to celebrate Passover, there were also Greek-speaking Gentiles. Gentiles who worship the God of the Jews, but who did not take that the steps that were necessary to become proselytes. They didn't reject their Gentile identity. And this particular group of Greek-speaking Gentiles most likely had come far away, which means that this was going to be their only exposure to Jesus. And so they were desperate to get some time with him. So they asked one of his disciples, Philip, who had a Greek name and came from a city that had many Gentile residents, hoping that he will take their request to Jesus. And then we move next to Christ's announcement of glory in verses twenty-two and twenty-three. There Philip takes the request to Andrew, also from Bethsaida, and they agree together to take the request to Jesus. Now, ministering to Gentiles is nothing new for Jesus. You may remember that when Jesus went to Tyre, the region of Tyre, with his disciples to try and get away from the Jewish crowds, it was a Gentile region. Uh a Syrophoenician woman learned that he was there, and somehow she had known about Jesus, and so she interrupted his time with his disciples and pleaded with him that he would heal her daughter, cast a demon out of her daughter Jesus initially denied her her request, but because of her persistence and her faith, Jesus granted her request. And then there was another time when Jesus was ministering in Israel, and a centurion, Gentile Roman soldier, came up And asked Jesus, pleaded with him to heal his servant. And Jesus gladly, without hesitation, healed his servant So Jesus was not opposed to ministering to Gentiles, but here Jesus effectively declines their request And why is that? It's because the time for private ministry has come to an end. There would be no more preaching, no more teaching, no more discussions with the religious leaders, no more answering questions, and no more healing. The only signs he would do from this moment on would be his death and his resurrection In fact, we can't be absolutely certain, but there are hints in this passage and the rest of the chapter that these words that we just read are the final public statements that Jesus made prior to his death. Remember it says there at the end of verse thirty six that when he had said these things he departed and hid himself from them, likely hiding himself until uh until he went with his disciples on the night of Passover. So in response to the request, Jesus announces the hour for the Son of Man to be glorified has come. Speaking of his death, Jesus declared that the time has come for him to be publicly presented as the Christ, the Son of God. Son of man, as we saw, is the title for the Messiah that comes out of Daniel's prophecy in Daniel chapter 7, verse 13, where Daniel had a vision of one like a son of man, a divine being who had the appearance of the Son of of man, and he was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. And so the question comes, how would the death of Jesus shine the spotlight on him and his identity as the Messiah, the Son of God? And the answer is that by going to the cross, Jesus would put on public display the most glorious attributes of God. The people who were there were blind to his glory just as they always were. But as we look back at the cross, we can see That the love and the mercy and the justice and the patience and the grace and the faithfulness of God and many other attributes as we have seen All that God showed himself to be in the Old Testament, all that he promised that he would be in the future, came to fulfillment and inauguration at the cross. He fulfilled the promises of forgiveness and redemption, and he inaugurated the new covenant promises, even as we'll see this morning. Some of those promises we experience here and now, some of those promises are yet to come. Well, that brings us then to the path of glory in verses 24 and 26. To make it clear that Jesus is referring to his death and to explain how death can lead to glory, he goes on to explain the path of the of glory for him and for us as well. In verses 24 and 26, Jesus through 26, Jesus teaches that the path to glory, the path to life, is through death itself. And he does not mean by this that we must physically die to enter into the glory of God, though there is truth in that, obviously. But what he means is His point is that before we can experience the abundant life that God has intended for us, that is a life reconciled to him, a life of service to him, a life of joy and peace, we must first Die to ourselves. We must die to our own agenda, to our own expectations, to our own ideas of what life should be like. You see, as those who are born in dead in trespasses and sins, we are cut off from the life of God. We are Hostile to God. We are opposed to all of his purposes, and we are enslaved to our own passions and desires We are naturally committed to living for ourselves and only for others to the degree to which it serves our own purposes and well-being. God created us to reflect the glory of his love and mercy and grace and kindness and patience and all of who he is in his attributes of goodness. But sin in us distorts the image of God, making us selfish and bitter and angry and rash and hateful and unjust and lying people Now thankfully we are not as bad as we could be, but we are never as good as we should be Sin has infected our entire being, and because of that, we deserve the justice of God. And the only way for us to escape the wrath of God is to die to ourselves. It's to acknowledge who we are, and that what we do is an offense to God and ask his forgiveness. Friends, the good news of the gospel Is that he grants complete forgiveness and eternal life in place of death to all who believe on him But that's not where it ends. Once pardoned and given life, we still find ourselves battling our old ways every day And so each new day is an opportunity to die to ourselves once again, to pick up our cross and to consider ourselves dead to sin, so that we can follow and imitate the Lord Jesus Christ who died for us. And so now we live to serve his purposes and not our own. Our whole life must be dedicated to his service That means that our money doesn't belong to us. It belongs to him. Our children don't belong to us. They belong to him. It means that our time doesn't belong to us. It belongs to him. It means that when we are sinned against, we are not to repay evil for evil and exact vengeance for ourselves, but what rather we are to represent his love And his forgiveness and grace toward others. It means that our tongues are to be employed for the purpose of building others up not tearing them down. And our bodies are to be used to serve and bless others, not to take from others for our own desires. To die to ourselves to serve Christ is to ask ourselves in every troubling situation, how can I die to myself and live for the one? Who gave his life for me? How can I respond in this situation in a way that allows others to see Christ in me Just as Paul said in Galatians 2. 20, it's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives within me. Because I've been crucified with Christ in the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me And gave himself for me. And what we find in the service of Christ is that doing his will, dying to ourselves and doing his will, does not lead to loss. It leads to a life, a greater life, than we can find for ourselves. And beyond the blessings that we experience now, our sacrificial service to Christ now increases are rewards for eternity. Just as the death of Christ led to his exaltation, so service to Christ in this life leads to being honored by the Father, as Jesus says here, in glory. Well, that brings us then to the next leg of our journey. The signpost that we see next on our journey through this text is Christ's commitment to glory. Christ's commitment to Look at his commitment there in verses 27 and the beginning of verse 28. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name The path to glory is a hard road. It exacts the highest price, life itself. Jesus has counted the cost, he feels here the weight of that cost, and yet he is undeterred deterred. He is utterly committed. To the Father's glory. Having announced that the time for his glory has come, and having shown the path to glory for him and all who would follow him, that the toll of that path Now weighs on him. Notice how he says here, now my soul is troubled. Troubled There is a storm raging in his soul. This is the same word used to describe the disciples when they were on a stormy sea and they saw Jesus walking on the water. Matthew 14, 26 says, they were terrified. And yet, in another sense, it's used in the book of Acts to describe a crowd that is being stirred up and agitated. This word, Tarasa, has the idea of being shaken up, stirred up, unsettled. You know, when your stomach is all tied in nuts at the prospect of doing something that you really wish you could get out of, your soul. is troubled. Most of the time what troubles us turns out to be much ado about nothing. Not so with Jesus. He knows with complete accuracy exactly what it's going to cost for him to glorify the Father. In fact, that his soul is troubled here shows that while he is truly God, he is truly man. God himself is not disturbed or troubled by anything. Nobody can do anything to God that would in any sense cause him pain or suffering. But here, with full divine knowledge of his impending suffering, the human soul of Jesus churns with angst Over the betrayal and the denial and the false accusations and the torture and the crucifixion, and ultimately, and most of all, the wrath of God He is about to endure When he speaks in verse 24 of the grain of wheat falling and dying, The simplicity of that illustration betrays the incalculable suffering it means for him The thought of his glorification is not just a passing thought, it is a felt reality that stresses every fiber of his being And so knowing the cost, Jesus raises two possibilities of how he should respond. He says, And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. In other words, in light of the cost to my life, I could do one of two things. I could ask the Father to rescue me from this hour of suffering. Or I can drink the cup of God's wrath. Now, in this moment, in Jesus' mind, there actually is no option The first is not a choice at all. There's no wavering in his heart between the two options. He only raises the first option so that he can publicly denounce it. In fact In light of Jesus' prayer in Gethsemane, some have said that what Jesus prays here is the beginning of what he ultimately prays in the garden, but I think it's better to understand Jesus as raising this question rhetorically to show how it is unconscionable to ask the Father to rescue him. What he's actually saying to his own troubled soul is, How could I ask the Father to save me from the very thing I came to do? That would undermine everything I've done and everything I've said, and it would make me a rebel to the Father's will. After all, Jesus had said in John chapter 4, or rather chapter 7, verse 18: The one who seeks the glory of him who sent me is true, and in him there is no falsehood. By seeking the glory of the Father, as Jesus did throughout his whole life, he proved the genuineness of his claims. And so now, if he elevated his own desire for self-preservation above the Father's will, he would prove to be a liar. He would be saying he's devoted to the Father's will while in truth being devoted to his own will. So no, Jesus does not even consider asking the Father to save him from this hour of glory. Now someone might ask, well what then should we make of Jesus' prayer in the garden? That off uh that uh awfully sounds like he's asking for rescue. Well, I would submit to you that in Gethsemane, Jesus does not ask the Father to save him from suffering and death. He does not say, Father, save me. According to Matthew 26, 39, Jesus actually prays, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. Or Luke 22, 42. Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. If Jesus was crying out to the Father to be rescued, he would be pitting his will against the Father's will and appealing to the pity of the Father to change his will. But what he prays shows that he is in complete submission to the Father's will. In other words, because he is immovably committed to doing the Father's will. He seeks relief only if it would be consistent with the Father's will. You could say his plea sought the will of the Father to see if there's anything within the Father's will that would be an alternative path, while fully being willing to stay the course. So, no, I don't think Jesus was ever asking the Father to rescue him, to be saved from the hour of his glory. Not in any way, at least, that would put him in conflict with the Father's plan. And why would he not ask that? Because he is fully aware and committed to the purpose of his life Now while we know very little about the childhood of Jesus, we get one vignette from when Jesus was twelve Years old. You may remember that at the end of Luke, it tells us of a time when j uh Joseph and Mary took their family along with many other Jews to Passover. And on their return journey, a day into their return journey, they realized Jesus was not with them, so they went back to Jerusalem, searched for Jesus, finally found him in the temple, and Jesus said to them, Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? So even at the right young age of twelve years old, he was well aware of his identity, and we can assume he was aware of his purpose. And then once Jesus launched his ministry, he did not ride the wave of popularity, just taking that wave wherever fame took him. No, he controlled his activities. He limited his movements and limited the growth of his popularity When he could have stayed in one place for more days to heal and teach the growing crowds, he put a stop to that and moved on so he could preach somewhere else. When he knew that the people were going to come and make him king, he dispersed the crowds and brought it to an end. All of that because Jesus knew his purpose. He knew what he needed to do to fulfill his purpose And he knew what would ultimately distract from his purpose. And now that it was time for the Son of Man to be glorified, not Even the intensity of the coming suffering could keep him from fulfilling the purpose, or you could say, the glory, for which he came. And what is that glory? Well, you can see right there in verse 28. It's the glory of the Father. Father, he says, glorify your name. Jesus once again proves he is true by seeking the glory of the one who sent him. He is so consumed with seeking the Father's glory that he is willing And committed to giving his life for it. So with a deeply troubled soul, Jesus does not say, Father, save me from this hour. He says, Father, glorify your name. Now I think Jesus could have said, Father, glorify yourself, and meant the same thing. But I believe he intentionally refers to the name of God to connect his death to the promises of God. Remember that the name of God represents the nature of God. And remember that in Exodus 33, when Moses asked to see the glory of God. God said to him, I will proclaim my name before you. And that's exactly what he did according to Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7. And we saw last time that the revelation of his glory, of the glory of his name, finds its ultimate fulfillment at the cross. But between Exodus 34 and between the cross, almost in the middle historically, another broth prophet boosted the signal of the glory of God's name forward to its fulfillment at the cross. And that prophet is the prophet Ezekiel. I want to take a detour from John To show you something of great significance. I would encourage you to turn in your Bible with me to Ezekiel chapter 20. Ezekiel chapter 20. Ezekiel was a prophet to the northern tribes. He was exiled along with them to Assyria. And his prophetic ministry explained the judgment of God and promised future redemption to those in exile. And in Ezekiel chapter 20, the elders of Israel came to Ezekiel to seek the Lord. They wanted to ask the Lord some questions, but before they could ask the questions, the Lord responded to them first. And the Lord explained to them why he would refuse to entertain their questions, namely because of their past and present rebellion against him. But to emphasize his denial, the Lord walks through some of Israel's history of sin against the Lord. And for the sake of time, we won't read the whole chapter, but we'll just drop in at various points to See what the Lord says here, which connects ultimately to John chapter 12. The Lord begins his diatribe in chapter 20, verse 4. He says, Will you judge them, Son of Man? Will you judge them? Let them know the abominations of their fathers. And from there the Lord goes on to walk through the birth of Israel as a nation, up to and including the time that they were a nation in Egypt, and how they refused to forsake their idols. Look at verse 8. But they rebelled against me, and were not willing to listen to me. None of them cast away the detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. And then notice verse nine. But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among whom they lived, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. What does he mean that his name would not be profaned in the sight of the nations? It means that if he poured out his wrath and disperse the people, the nations would only know him as a God of wrath who was ultimately incapable, powerless, to preserve his people They would not know the power of the love and the mercy and the grace of God. And so the Lord displayed those qualities and not his wrath. Well, then the Lord walks through Israel in the wilderness and says in verses 13 and 14, But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my statutes, but rejected my rules, by which if a person does them he shall live, and my Sabbaths they greatly profaned. Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to make a full end of them. But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out Again, the Lord did not want the nations to get the wrong idea of what kind of God He is, to think that He was like all the other gods, full of wrath, but with no love or grace, ultimately powerless to sustain and preserve His people. Well, then the Lord moves on to the second generation who came up after the first generation had died in the wilderness. And to this new generation, of course, the Lord revealed himself. Again, he cared for them, he gave them the law which would cause them to flourish. And then it says this in verses 21 and 22. But the children rebelled against me. They did not walk in my statutes and were not careful to obey my rules, by which if a person does them he shall live. They profane my Sabbaths Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness. But I withheld my hand and acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out And then from there the Lord speaks of the judgment that he finally brings upon them because of their idolatry. Now turn to chapter 36, Ezekiel 36 Between Ezekiel 20 and 36, there are many more proclamations of God's judgment against Israel and the nations. But then there's a turn toward the promises of redemption, and that's where we pick up in Ezekiel 36. Look at verses 19 and 20. Ezekiel thirty six, nineteen and twenty. I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries, and accordance with their ways and their deeds I judged them But when they came to the nations wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, in that the people said of them, These are the people of the Lord, and yet he had or they had to go out of his land. In other words, the nations thought that the Lord did not have the power to preserve his people. The Lord was ultimately powerless to protect them from their enemies. And because of their own blindness, that is the blindness of the nations, no doubt aided by the uh unwillingness of the people of Israel to be honest with the nations about why they were being exiled out of his land. The nations got the wrong idea of who God is and what God is capable of Then look at verse twenty-one. But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they came The Lord's name, which represents who he is, had been drugged through the mud. Israel was to be a light uh to the nations, a city on a hill, they were to put on display the glory of God through the distinct way in which they lived and worshipped. The nations were supposed to look at Israel and be amazed at the God that they served. And yet the exact opposite happened. Israel still held on to their identity as the people of Yahweh, but they lived and worshipped like the pagans around them. They took the light of revelation God had given them and they hid it away so that they could revel in the darkness. And so the nations looked at Israel and they mocked God. But the Lord would not let that last forever. Look at verses 22 and 23. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says The Lord God, is it not it is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came and I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them, and the nations will know that I am Yahweh, declares the Lord. Yahweh, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. Now the promises the Lord is about to make in the subsequent passage, whatever whatever benefits they serve for the people of Israel, they are aimed at broadcasting to the world the glory and the holiness of God His name will be put on display in a way that none can question the power and the glory of God And so what will God do so that the world would see the glory of God and the glory of his name? Well, look at verses 24 to 27. I will take from you the nations, take you from the nations, and gather you from all the countries, and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and I and from all your idols I will cleanse you And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit, I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. This is of course the new covenant which Jesus inaugurated at the cross. Now God showed his power through working in the hearts of pagan kings to not only allow but encourage and even financially support the return of the people to the land, as well as their building of the temple and the walls of the city of Jerusalem But far more significantly, the power of God would be seen and how he would so transform his people that they would be able for the first time to obey and represent him in the world And the way that he would do that is by exhibiting his love and his justice and his grace and his mercy at the cross. He would send his own son as a sacrifice, not just covering, but actually completely removing the sins of his people And he would take the righteousness of his son and impute it to his people so that he could declare them righteous. And he would cause his spirit to dwell within them such that they are not dependent on a temple or a priesthood, but they themselves would know the Lord and would serve the Lord all the days of their lives. And so coming back to John chapter 12, as Jesus looks at his disciples and the people around him, as he considers the turmoil in his own soul. He is utterly committed to not being like Israel, who profane the name of the Lord, but rather being the one who would vindicate the holiness and the glory of the Father's name by fulfilling the covenant promises of Ezekiel 36 And so Jesus says here, Father, glorify your name Nothing can stop him from fulfilling his purpose. There is a vital lesson here for all who want to follow Christ. Not only must you die to yourself and walk the path of glory, but you must do so with your eyes fixed on the same purpose as Christ, namely the glory of God. This was not just Christ's purpose. This is your purpose. You were redeemed For the glory of God. Paul writes in Ephesians 1, 13 and 14, In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and And believed in him, you were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory And so it is for the praise of his glory that we must live. Colossians three seventeen says, and whatever you do In word or in deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him. To do everything in the name of Jesus is to add to do everything for his glory. Why? Because you have been redeemed, you belong to him. First Corinthians six, nineteen and twenty says, Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price, so glorify God in your body. Now, there in the context, Paul is speaking about sexual immorality, but that principle applies in every area of life. You do not belong to yourself, you belong to God. Paul also wrote in Romans 14, 7-9: None of us lives to himself, none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then whether we live or die, we are the Lords, for to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. To say that he is our Lord is to say that we are his slaves. We are obligated to live for his purposes and to serve his glory and to do his will. In second Corinthians five nine, Paul says, so whether we are at home with the Lord or or away from the Lord, we make it our aim to please him. Those who live to serve and follow Jesus have one aim in life, and that is to glorify and please our God. Paul modeled this in Philippians 1 twenty. He says, It's my eager expectation and hope that I will not at all be ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by Death. That he said while he sat in prison, hoping for his release, and yet willing to die for Christ, but he knew that no matter what His whole life was devoted to the honor of Christ. And so in dying to ourselves, we don't we don't merely die for the sake of dying. We die to ourselves so that the purposes and the will and the glory of God can be our aim. Instead of living to make our name great, we live to make his name great. Instead of working to show how show people how good and how smart and how strong you are. You live to point to the goodness and the strength and the power of God. Instead of living by the wisdom of the world, you live by the wisdom Instead of conforming yourself to the world to make the world like you, you must conform yourself to Christ and show the world that He is worthy of your life. Now make no mistake, this is not a path toward ease and comfort and popularity. When we look down the road at the glory of Christ, we see the glory of Christ. But we also see a whole lot of suffering. But he shows us that suffering is worth it Like him, we can endure whatever suffering comes our way, because we know that the sufferings of this present life are not worth comparing to the glory that will be revealed to us, as Paul says in Romans 8. 18. Jesus was committed to glory, and in that commitment, he models what a life committed to glory can endure. You know, too many people are willing to die for Christ, or at least they say they are, but they don't seem to be willing to live for Christ. Like Peter, they boldly proclaim that even if all fall away, I will never leave you Christ. And yet in those little moments, the mundane things of life. Your relationships, your career, your money, your time. They show that they are living for themselves Christ and his kingdom too often are a highly compartmentalized part of our lives. Is that true for you? My prayer, beloved, is for you and me is that we would see the commitment of Christ, not just his stated commitment, but seeing him walk out his commitment on the cross. And that we would follow his it his example of commitment to glory, to the glory of God, no matter the cost. Let's pray together. As I pray, the men can come towards supper. Father, we thank you for this study, for this reflection on how you have marvelously showed the plan of redemption throughout the ages. That even from fifteen hundred years before Christ, you showed your glory. Seven hundred years before Christ, you proclaimed that one day you would vindicate your glory, and then in Christ, you manifested your glory And now we who have the Word of God can see your glory. And because you have shined the light of his glory into our hearts, we can believe and we can receive the promises. Of forgiveness, regeneration, and transformation. Lord, work in us Help us to see those areas of our lives where we have not conformed ourselves to Christ, where we are holding on to our own desires And show us how we can experience a greater relationship with you when we die and seek your glory. And even as we prepare now to celebrate the work of Christ on the cross, fill our hearts with joy. Forgive us for our sin, and grant us a greater love for Christ by the power of your Spirit we pray. Amen.