Meanwhile you can think about that. Ooh, all of the gifts? Oh okay. Just like okay, the very first, if you remember the very first b breakfast that we did the on the spiritual gifts was on the word of wisdom and the word of knowledge. We know we are commanded to grow in wisdom and knowledge. That's all believers, not just those that have that spiritual gift. So there is command That you can find for almost, if not all, of the spiritual gifts. But today we're concentrating on teaching. That's something we all know inherently, what it is But I just thought I would write it out so that we can all see what is the spiritual gift of teaching, and that is the ability to explain God's truths clearly, thereby edifying. Now, don't get the gift of teaching mixed up with the gift of pastor-teacher That's mentioned in Ephesians chapter 4. I just wanted to clear that up. Ephesians 4, 11 says, and he gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelists. some as pastors and teachers. That last one in the Greek construction it means just one person, the pastorslash teacher. Okay, these are four men. Gifted men given to local churches. It's not like a spiritual gift in the sense that the others are gifts. Teaching is a gift, but the pastor teacher is a person. He ca he is God's gift to the church, just as the evangelist is. The other two are no longer with us, but that's another story. But just to get that straight out of the way, we are talking today about the spiritual gift of teaching which some of you have, I'm sure. I'm also sure that not all of you have But look at the next sentence. All believers do not have the gift of teaching, yet all believers share the responsibility to teach the Word of God. So it's on you all. At some time or another you are to be a teacher. Now you say, is I really commanded in the Word of God? Well I have two scriptures here. First one is in Hebrews 5. 11. It says, For though by this time you ought to be teachers. That is actually a reprimand that the author of Hebrews is giving these people. He's saying, and the context if you read further there, he's saying That you are satisfied with milk, the milk of the word. You want somebody else to feed you. When by this time You ought to be the teachers. You ought to know the meat of the Word of God. Now he doesn't say how long They had been a believer, and this is not true for people who are just new believers. You thrive on growing in the milk of the Word of God. But after a certain time You should have been in the Word of God enough just in your daily Bible reading, your studying of the Word, your listening to sermons and other things that you now know. enough of the meat of the Word of God that you ought to be a teacher. He's saying that to all believers by a certain time you ought to be teachers. Let's look at the next one. Colossians 3. 16 says, Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you with all wisdom, teaching And admonishing one another. Again, this is written to the church at Colossae. All of the believers of that church are to be teaching one another by this time. So I hope that you get it right now. If you don't sit there and say, well, I don't have the gift of teaching, so I don't need to listen to this. No. We all need to listen Thus the title of this lesson. And I will answer that title. What? Me? A teacher? The answer is yes, you, a teacher. Every one of you. So I want you all to listen up. Now we are gonna look Next at 1 Corinthians 12, verses 4 to 6, this is in the heart of one of the two main passages about spiritual gifts. 1 Corinthians 12. I'm going to read those verses to you. Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit. And there are varieties of ministries and the same Lord. There are varieties of effects, but the same God who works all things in all persons. Now I have written out those verses spaced so that we can see some patterns. This is one of the things we do in Bible study. We're spacing them out to see some patterns. The first pattern that I see is at the end of the verses where it mentions every member of the Trinity. Uh oh. Wow, I thought spiritual gifts was all the bailiwick of the Holy Spirit. Not so The whole Trinity is mentioned. But, you know, when we always talk about the the the Trinity, I've said probably ninety to ninety nine per times percent of the times, we say it Father, Son and Holy Spirit. That's just the order we say it in. If you look closely, this is the opposite order. Starts with the Spirit, then the Lord Jesus, and then the Father God So that's just something interesting to know. All of the Trinity is involved deeply in these spiritual gifts. The next thing I notice as a pattern, it says this phrase, there are varieties of, in all three of those verses. So I want to look at varieties It it's not a hard word, basically in Greek. It just means different. In other words, we could say there are different gifts And there are different ministries and there are different effects. Okay? Now, verse 4, we're all very familiar with. It says the Spirit gives the gifts. There's varieties of gifts. There is a limited number of them. The spiritual gifts as mentioned in scripture. It's around about twenty. We could just say twenty for a for a round number. So even for this size of a group, twenty gifts, well We and we know we all have at least one if we're a believer. So the gifts are repeated over and over and in the whole size of our church. There's a really a limited number, but there are different gifts. That's what that verse is saying. The next says there are varieties of ministries. Now that word ministries, not to get too technical with you, but it is the Greek word Diaconia. When I say that Greek word, diaconia, what English word does that make you think of? Say it loud. Deacon. Yes. Deacon or also it means service because the deacons are the ones that do the service work in our church as opposed to the teaching which is left to the elders. So it says there are varieties Of ministries, of services. This is how you use your spiritual gift. Everyone with the gift of teaching is not going to be doing exactly the same thing. In fact, I think everyone who has it has a different ministry. There just like there's a limited number of gifts There's an almost infinite number of ministries because we're each different and we're each going to use that in a different way. Someone with the gift of mercies might help uh show her mercies by visiting the sick in a hospital or going to the jails and and visiting there Or she may just look around and see an overworked mother of young toddlers and know that that woman needs a rest. These kids are so little they're not even in school yet And she volunteers her time to go over, say, I'm going to take care of your kids, I'm going to feed them lunch, but the but you take a day off and you go and get your nails done And here's a gift card to the nail spa something. You need some time to yourself. That's her ministry, ministering to individual people. It's it's all different. No matter what gift you have, you have a special ministry which is mostly different from all the other people. But I love verse six because that takes the pressure off. It says there are varieties of effects. Effects means outcomes when you use your gift. But it's God who works all that out You don't have to worry about it. You have the gift of evangelism and you go and you you pour your heart out and you're it's not up to you whether that person gets saved or not. That's up to God. That's the outcome. That's the effect. You are not responsible for that. You are just responsible to use your own gift to the best of your ability. I don't have to worry. When I teach a lesson, I can't make anybody learn Only God can do that. I don't have to worry whether they learned that or not. That's up to God. It says here God works all things in all persons. So I just summarized that below. That we can just remember that the Spirit gives the gifts, the Lord gives the ministries, but God causes the outcomes. And I think that's that's very special for us. Now I want you to look back at Colossians three sixteen, just above it. You see I didn't put the whole verse. You see it ends with dot dot dot that's just half of that verse let the word of Christ richly dwell within you with all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another Oh, turn the paper over and you see the end of that verse with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Ladies, that's an example. of different ministries. Singing can actually be a ministry of the gift of teaching. We look back, we are to we are to be teaching and admonishing one another With these psalms, that's Bible verses, hymns, and spiritual songs. Do you know when we sing in church tomorrow morning or any Sunday morning. A lot of the hymns we sing, we're really singing to each other. And we are admonishing each other. That famous Christmas Carol Oh come, all ye faithful, come let us adore him. We're singing to each other. We're admonishing each other. and teaching each other. You can look at the songs that we sing. We have just sung two songs to God. It says here, sing we're singing with Thankfulness in our hearts to God. Some of the hymns we sing, like Great is Thy faithfulness. We just sang to God I challenge you to to Sunday morning, just think about that. Am I singing to my other brothers and sisters this song or am I singing it to God? You know, s some of the well I I'll say that later. But that is just an example of different ministries. And I wanted to concentrate this morning on ministries because I think that's something that people mostly don't think of in regards to the spiritual gifts. I've tried to list some of the ministries of the gift of teaching since that's what we are talking about this morning And the first is teaching groups in gr in a group setting. I divided that into children and adults. And I listed, boy, the first one of great importance is in the Sunday school because it is such a need right now. Every week in our Friday night email we have Brian begging for teachers. They need teachers of younger kids for the summer and we'll be starting in June, the summer quarter, June July and August. Don't say, well, I don't have the gift of teaching. I can't do that. No. We are we are all commanded to be teaching each other. And this could be a way that you could step in and just volunteer for the summer term and see if that's not something that's for you. You could teach these kids. We have a great need. There's Adventure Club on Wednesday night. There's VBS and I thought of another one that's real important after this winter printing and I didn't want to do it again. So I want you all to take your pen and beside VBS, which is standing for Vacation Bible School, put H A, which stands for Hope Academy. which also needs new teachers for next year. So you can consider that too. You can work with young kids, teens, all like that. Adults, you can have a ladies Bible study group. My particular favorite, a precepts class, and I could go on and on. I could talk for the rest of an hour about how great precepts is in learning the word of God verse by verse, but suffice it to say, that's for another time. You can get together with a small group, especially I think young adults, after they're no longer teens and What are they going to do? And some of them have gotten married, others haven't. Just find a group of your peers. They're during your season of life. Maybe a group of young unmarried. Maybe a group of empty nesters. A group of older women who are mostly now with us Whatever. You can get together in that sort of a group. The next thing I put down here is writing. Many people with the gift of teaching have never stood before a group of people. Never even taught one on one somebody else. They do it in writing. They have written books. There's Christian fiction, Christian nonfiction, there's Bible studies that you can buy in book form. There's devotionals which Christian authors write. And really the ultimate for the we're highly educated. There's there's uh commentaries which gifted men have written. Some of them are also speakers like John MacArthur but some of them don't speak at all. They just write books. But we Learn by reading those books. They are teaching us things. There's also children's books which teach kids Christian values. Christian I I learned something uh Diane was talking about these ten minutes and how they affected you. I'll just tell you that when my friend Marion um Queen spoke about the teas and the chastity tea that she gave for her nieces Well, Nancy has five granddaughters. I'm gonna cry, who are also my five great nieces. We said, We can do that. These girls are all teens now except for one, and she's almost a teen. She thinks she's a teen. So we have five of them. And we did it. Nancy made scones. I got cucumbers and I cut off the crust of the things and made little cucumber and cream cheese sandwiches. And we had the whole different sandwiches. We had to I got these little cream puffs. You know, miniature and Nancy had these beautiful tiered things and we we it it's we had a wonderful time. The girls really enjoyed it. And Marion loaned me a book called The Princess and the Kiss was all about saving yourself for marriage and being pure. And the girls got the message. That was a book written by some author to teach little children these things. Also, songwriters teach us, you know the old hymns of the past. Great theology. And then there was a time between that and the the songs weren't too great. But now they're coming back. These new songs that people are writing and we sing them on Sunday morning They it moves me to tears a lot of times. These are great theology in these songs. You can listen to songs and be taught. If you listen on your radio, your computer, whatever it is you listen to songs in. The third thing I say is by example, the way you live and you all know if you are a parent, you're driving your kids to school or to the grocery store, someone cut you off All of a sudden the kids are all, boy, they're interested how you're gonna react, what you're gonna say. That speaks, you know, volumes, whether you thought they're listening or not And I I wrote here, people are watching you, whether you know it or not. Last fall, early fall, I got new next door neighbors. My lovely neighbors of fifteen years moved away. A new couple moved in. I think they're Korean. It's very difficult. I know English is not their first language, so our communication isn't the best. But recently we were out in the yard and talking about flowers. And I had gotten some hanging baskets for both of our poles and she had gotten some um hydrangeas actually that I love and had planted around and I thought we were talking about flowers. And then she says to me, You go church every Sunday morning. She has been watching me People know what you're doing, how you're living. It's important that we live for the master. Next I had teaching one-on-one. Now I have to say that this seems out of place. The first time I wrote this, group one was teaching groups. Number two was teaching one-on-one. And then I had writing an example. But I pulled out this teaching one-on-one for a couple of reasons which will become apparent to you momentarily. The first one is children. And now we know parents are are commanded to bring up your child child in the fear of the Lord. But also if you're grandparent. That's a wonderful uh ministry, ministering to those kids. And my personal favorite, if you're an auntie, oh boy, the kids love their aunties and there is so much you can teach them. And then we have homeschooling on the children's side. The adult side, Bible study, this is a one-on-one. I have done a handful of those in my life where women have come to me, just one, wanting me to do a Bible study with them, and I've done that. And so that is a ministry you can do And the last one is mentoring. This one is near and dear to my heart. And I hope I can tell you this without breaking down. But I know this gift of mentoring personally. I have been involved one time in a mentoring group, not as a mentor, but as the mentee To give you a little background, I was not saved until I was 38 years old I grew up in the church. I had always gone to church. My mother was a founding member of what became Foirse Memorial Church. The church was founded eleven years before I was born, though So, from the minute I was born, I was in that church. And you know people come and go and they often say to you, How long have you been coming here? We asked people that too. My response was always from the womb. Because it was true. I had. I was only I grew up in a what I would think was a good church, but I was not born again. I I said it wasn't until I was thirty eight years old and that's a story For another time, but suffice it to say that shortly after I was truly born again I'm talking a matter of maybe several weeks or a few months, but very soon after, I have to give you the background to this Forcy Church is a little unusual because for the size of the sanctuary and the number of people that are in there, the lobby is very, very small. So when church is over and you have all these people pouring into this little lobby, it quickly becomes very crowded So this one Sunday morning, if here I am a brand new Christian, I'm finally paying attention in church, you know, actually listening to the sermon instead of reading something else, whatever. I'm in the lobby and there's a level of noise because people are chatting and talking with each other and everything. And then there's this woman. Her name was Joan Forcy. She's the daughter-in-law of the founder of that church. Joan was a very big woman. I mean big. She was close to six feet tall. I wouldn't be surprised if she was five eleven. Just head and shoulders above even many men. She was also big. She wasn't fat, but she was what they say big bone. She was sturdy, but she could wear clothes like nobody's business. I mean she was an elegant looking woman, very big, had a deep voice for a woman A very commanding presence. This was Joan. So here I am out in the lobby, a little talking going along All of a sudden, a voice booms across the whole lobby. I mean booms. The voice says, An case The Holy Spirit has laid you on my heart. My goodness. I was sh I w I started trembling. I was shaking I was kinda shy in those days if you wanna believe that or not, but here I am. And sort of the conversations died down and everybody's looking. Jelly's at one end, I'm at the other end of the lobby. This and she doesn't move, she doesn't say anything else. And there in front of me, just like the Red Sea, the people started stepping back. And they made a pathway for me. to walk to Joan. Joan didn't move at all. And here I am shaking and trembling. I walk over to this woman and you have to look up to her There's nothing else. It's a very commanding presence. And she wasn't booming anymore. She was just talking to me. But she said to me, I want you to come to my home Thursday evening at seven o'clock. Now I didn't even know this woman. I had never even spoken to her, let alone know where she lived. So she gave me her address. This was forty years ago When I was thirty eight, first say, she just gave me her address. It was up to me to get a map. You know, you you don't even know what a map was. There's no GPS. I had to figure out where she lived to go to her house and I almost didn't know what made me do that. I didn't know this woman from anything, but yet I felt compelled. I had to do that. I went that Thursday night And thus started a relationship which lasted almost exactly three years. I went to Joan's house every Thursday night. For all those years very quickly we became fast friends. Joan literally poured herself in to me. She taught me how to live the Christian life. I had ups and downs and questions. Oh Just like any new Christian has. And and you know me, I'm still full of questions, but oh back then way, Joan had so much patience with me. We would go over the same things over and over. But every week we prayed together How I learned how to pray. We laughed together, we cried together. Sometimes she would just out of the blue give me a book. Here, read this book. We'll discuss it next week. Boy, I had a whole week I had to read that book. You know? And we would discuss it. She just taught me everything that a new Christian needs to know. How to live the Christian life. The first Christmas came up after we had started this meeting, Joan gave to me a little empty book. These blank books that just have lines inside where you're supposed to write on the lines. Some people write it as a diary. whatever, I don't know. She showed me her little book where she said every day I take a new page, I write the date at the top, I write out a prayer to God. And I filled the whole page. And at the bottom, they put a big J. That was how she signed her name. J for Joan. She was kind of a flamboyant woman. Joan She gave me that for Christmas and I says, I'm gonna wait till New Year's Day and a new year, I'm gonna start this new habit of writing in my journal. And I started on January first nineteen eighty four. I still to this day do that. Every day. I have this is the thirty-ninth year, I have filled twenty-nine of those books. I'm now in my thirtieth book. I don't do it the exact same way Joan did. I do it my own way. I do put the date and I always write a prayer to God for that day. But I never fill the whole page. I just do my own. And I don't sign it. And then 'cause God knows who it's from. And it it might be in the middle of the page, whatever, I'll put the next date and start the next day. And I keep writing. But you know, those books are precious to me now. I've heard people say like if you had a fire in your house But all the people and the pets were safe and you could only save one thing, what would it be? And people usually say family pictures or something. Not me. I would save those books. That's me pouring out my heart to God every day. Well some sometime about in the second year of me and Joan doing this, I discovered precepts. Oh boy. I just going to class as a student, of course not as a teacher. I was a student many, many years before I became a leader. But here I was going Monday nights learning the Word of God in precepts and Thursday nights going to Joan and learning how to live that out. How my life would be, how I would be as a Christian. And I I I just can't tell you how wonderful that was. I I forgot to mention Joan was quite a bit older than I she was old enough to be My mother. Didn't matter. We were fast friends by then. After three years, almost as abruptly as it had started, it ended One night was there, we did our usual thing. When I'm packing up to leave and go home, Joan announces to me, this will be our last time. I have told you everything that I know. You are now to go out and live on your own. Maybe I was beginning to use her as a crutch, I don't know, but Joan knew I was ready to step out and be on my own. We stayed fast friends even though we didn't have that relationship anymore. And she died maybe several years after that, but we were friends till the day that she died. And that has been I think the most wonderful thing to start me on the road to my life as it is today as a woman serving God. So you see why I say these last two, because we are going to hear now from two women. One is going to speak about homeschooling, the other mentoring. And I just have to say this. I asked each of these women independently of the other and privately But they both responded in the exact same way. When I asked them if they would do this, instantly, yes, yes, they were eager to do this. loved their jobs. I mean, their how they use their gift of teaching. It isn't like, oh, you know, I'll pray about it and get back to you, you know, can you no, instantly. Yes, yes. And the first one is a woman who has homeschooled all seven of her children. You think you have three or four, that's a lot. Seven. Not only that, she's done it all over the world in different cultures. And that is Corine Green. She's going to speak for a few minutes on that. And then we're going to have a mentor. I am so anxious to hear this because I only know this relationship from one side. That's the mentee. I am anxious to hear what the mentor gets out of it and how it affects her and that will be Carla Doyle. So those two women will come uh Corine first and when she's done Carla will come up. Um now I I don't have to introduce myself or anything because Anne took care of that. That's great. Um I was raised in a home where learning was part of our daily life. I mean, my we'd sit at the dinner table and if we had a question about something, my dad would go down the hallway. We had a set of encyclopedias there. Of course everybody who's younger can't fathom that we didn't have any Google search or anything like that, but we would go grab the encyclopedia off the shelf and we would read about whatever it was we were talking about. Right there at the dinner table. We d that's how I grew up. That's how he grew up um years earlier too in his home. So we read constantly in our home. I grew up not having a lot of money. Our T V broke down when I was I think in kindergarten right before Christmas and my parents said to my sister and me, Do you want a TV or do you want Christmas? Well we're little children. Christmas, of course we want Christmas. So my parents Noticed that we started to play differently when we weren't watching T V all the time. We started reading more and they looked at each other and they said, Let's not replace it. Let's just not say anything about it. So I didn't even actually have a TV in my home till I was eleven years old. Um so always reading, always learning. I was not from a Christian background, so this was just their they just loved learning. This was just it wasn't any kind of moral issue for them. Um we did 4 H all my years of growing up. We were in 4 H and we did tons of projects. We were always Doing something new. My parents were always encouraging us to learn something new, to not be afraid to fail. to um just experience so many different things and they worked hard at that. So when we began home schooling, so I became a Christian in college and we my husband and I met a home school family and um Um so how we started home schooling is another story. There wasn't anything huge, it's just we always knew that we were gonna home school. So our home schooling life began when I had three children and they were four two and nine months. So they were young and I I didn't grow up liking children. I didn't like them. I didn't babysit. I didn't have any experience with kids. I wanted nothing to do with them. Um, I really didn't like kids. And I didn't want to teach 'em for sure. So um I had no clue and no clue and um no experience. I was still a young Christian So I d didn't have a lot of wisdom either. But I did, I had the Lord and I absolutely had full confidence that He was going to equip me and He was going to teach me and some of my favorite favorite verses in the Bible are the verses where it talks about God teaches us, how He teaches us. I look those up all the time. I would 'cause I was very insecure and I felt unworthy. I was I felt my sin. I'm like Why would God want anything to do with me? And then I would say, Lord, I need to learn, I need to grow. Why would He want to teach me? And then I would find these verses that talked about God teaching us t teaching sinners. That's some of my favorite verses. Anyway. So I was scared to death. I I was scared to death. I bought a curriculum and it had the script right in it. And I read it to my little children. I made them sit on the table and I actually read a script to them. Do not laugh at me. I know it. But uh obviously I outgrew that really quickly. It was created for a like a public school, a private school. So you're not gonna spend eight hours teaching a little four year old at the kitchen table. You immediately learn how to revise that down. You see what works for you and that's what I had to learn. I had to learn what worked for me It's not uh one size fits all kind of a thing. Everybody home schools differently. What works in one family will not work in another. So you're always learning. Um I didn't know anything about history or not much not much about literature. I didn't know a lot. I learned as I taught my kids. Um many homeschool moms came alongside of me and encouraged me and shared their wisdom and shared curriculum that worked for them. Um they I would share struggles I was having in different areas and they would just come alongside of me. It was a huge blessing. The curriculum that we used had a Socratic discussion that they used as an evaluation of what the kids learned that week. So the moms and their kids all worked with each other all week long. we got together, it was online, we had online discussions and I learned how to lead a discussion and I had people that were in BSF, something similar to precepts, where this deep down digging, good Bible study. And they had learned how to break apart this chunk of time, how to evaluate the discussion how to sh you know, trim it down or add more to it and as I I think the first time I did it I almost threw up. I was just so nervous and so scared and over time I learned over time and experienced experience. I learned how to break things down. I'm not naturally gifted in organization, so people like this came alongside of me. And um I want to share From Psalm 18. This is some a chunk. It's one of my well Psalm 18 is one of my favorite Psalms. But I love this, and especially verse 34, but I'll read 31 to 36. For who is God but the Lord? Lord and who is a rock except our God, the God who girds me with strength and makes my way blameless. He makes my feet like hind's feet. That's those like goats that jump on the mountains. Um, He sets me on my high places. He tries trains my hands this is verse thirty four, he trains my hands for battle, so that my arms can bow bend a bow of bronze. You've also given me the shield of your salvation and your right hand upholds me and your gentleness makes me great. You enlarge my steps under me, and my feet have not slipped. Another favorite part of that. And That was my cry. That was my prayer. That God would train me, that He would equip me and um just make my steps firm. And He did. He did. Um I homeschooled. schooled for twenty four years and all the kids now have graduated. Just my son just graduated last spring, he just finished his first year in college. So we have let's see, they're all over the place because we're military, we've lived all over, so we've got kids all over the place and they love learning. That was one of the things that was passed along is um this love for learning and they're all They always amaze me. They're always going somewhere historical and like sharing all about the information. They're going somewhere in the Mom, I'm learning Italian or oh, I'm I'm learning one of my daughters that like they had this crazy thing ever sent. Okay, we have to have a secret talent. We're gonna learn it quietly. We won't tell anyone about it and then we'll tell each other when we get together for Christmas. So my daughter wanted to learn how to write with her left hand. Like nothing, right? So okay I wanna learn how to whistle. like really loud. And so that's my next thing. I'm learning Spanish right now for fun. And French horn again 'cause I had to set it aside for while I was teaching and it's just fun. Learning is fun. Um, I think I'll stop. I have more but I think I can stop because of time. I'll pass this off. But anyway I wanted to share that and God will equip you. He will teach you. And yeah, it's super scary. But He will teach you and He will Bring people alongside of you, you can come. And he will make it happen. You don't have to be afraid And that's it. I don't know if I'm gifted in teaching, but I do love it. I love coming alongside of these young people, my kids. I loved it. And now I had six young women at my table, I felt like I was home again. All right, I'm passing Passing this off to Carla. Good job, thank you. I I think it's really important, especially for homeschooling that you realize that not all of your kids are going to learn Italian. Uh we homeschooled our two boys and they never went to prison. I mean, I I that you know, y every day you're like, No, we probably just need to do the dishes, honey. I'm I think the department of something is gonna kinda minute shut us down. So you just learn to to set the bar according to who you are and and who your kids are. But I I will say that I still like my kids and so that that's a good thing. I'm Carla Doyle, my husband's one of your pastors, but if you're new here or you don't come to this church, he's one of the pastors here at Hope. Um when Dave teaches, he says nice things about me. And so every once in a while a woman will say, Do you ever meet with women? And as I have met with women, I have realized that there are three categories that we usually end up falling into. And so I didn't make this up. I didn't I mean I didn't I didn't like go out to say, well your category this and your category that and your category this. But it seems like when I meet with women it's decided Counseling or mentoring. And they want one of those three things. And so when they ask me, do you ever meet with women, I say, yes, and I have a menu. Because a menu makes things easier. When you go to a restaurant, you see the menu and you go, That, that's what I want. And so a woman will come to me kind of disheartened because she knows she has a need. She knows she needs something, but she doesn't know what it is. What and so this is what I say. Counseling is subject driven. You're having trouble with a family member or a business associate an academic situation. And so counseling is from one to three sessions. It's about one topic. The textbook is the Bible more often than not unless there's some kind of specific thing like people pleasing and then you want to give them a book like What do you think of me and why do I care? And those are good Those those are you know there are specific things about counseling. And then there is discipleship. And discipleship is usually a a new Christian or someone who has been in a church that is really not preaching the word. Or for some reason they find themselves like, I don't know what the pastor is talking about. I don't know what this grace thing is. And and I don't know. And so what I would use for that for discipleship would be the fundamentals of the Faith. It's a very basic book. I really like it. Um it's twelve weeks and I say it's twelve weeks, it takes a year to complete. So discipleship is about a year. We do a half a chapter And then we work on other skills like having your quiet time, getting along with family members, how to actually be a Christian at home. So I love the um progression of this book starts with what is the Bible, who is God, who is Jesus, and it went all the way down to week twelve and it talks about spiritual gifts. Like, okay, let's talk about you now. And so I I like this. I love discipleship. Um it's it's wonderful to see people grow. And then there is um just this uh another book called Side by Side, Walking with Others and Wisdom and Love by Ed Welsh. And this is just talking about like if you just wanna spend time with someone One on one, this is a really good book. Mentoring is when a woman is in a new life stage, a new mother, a new bride, a new college student, where she's not living at home anymore. And she realizes, I have all the sin in the world at my disposal. But I m would rather not. And so mentoring is when you're walking along for a life stage. You're looking over someone's shoulder. One woman I met with said, I just want to make sure I'm thinking right. And so usually if they're married, I will do created to be his help me which is a very good book. That's my five minutes. Noth nothing else quite like this book. But if they're younger, uh teenage type, this is preparing to be a help meet. And I I really like this also. It's for younger ladies. It doesn't talk about marriage implications. And I I really like that too. Mentoring is about once a month and crazy often technical. text which will be like I don't want to go to work today and then so I do a lot of counseling by text and is I find it very effective. It's just like what does the Bible say? Let's get into the Bible. And so So um I want to to me the best thing is teaching one on one because you can design it for that person, for what they're going through. We have a example in the Bible that says that older women should teach the younger women. If you're fifteen, there's a thirteen year old who thinks you are all that and would love to talk to you about scripture. Proverbs says that the w wise woman opens her mouth with wisdom and the law of kindness is on her tongue. So even if you're not mentoring, discipling, or counseling You are always teaching. And if you just want to write on the bottom of your page, I am always teaching. We all have a teaching ministry. Example in Scripture is that the older women are to teach the younger but what I have found is the younger have to come to the older and say I would like to talk to you. Usually you just just set up one conversation And then when I explain what we do, mentoring, counseling, discipleship, then their face clears. It's like, oh, oh, okay, I need This. And it it clarifies things to just put it in those categories. So a lot of you are thinking right now, who could counsel me? Who could mentor me? Who could disciple me? But if you've been in a Christian church for more than a year or so, you might be wanting to ask yourself Who could I counsel? Who could I give a word of wisdom to? Who could I mentor? Who is that young man? mom who just needs a break or she needs just an adult to hold her baby and just rest, just to put her feet up in her own house, you know? Who could you mentor during that time? when you're having that cup of tea and holding her baby and speaking words of wisdom to her. So ask yourself, who could I be mentoring? Who could I be discipling? Who could I be counseling? You are always teaching