This morning before I deliver God's message to you, I just want to update you on the last uh uh Philippine Medical Mission Street. Uh personally I'd like to thank you personally for your gifts and support and prayers. We have a lot of news for the Philippine Medical Mission. There's been so much going on I think the eleven volunteers who came with us are excited. They're all excited. They've been changed. We see the world as it is. In Asia, the Philippines for instance. But we do invite you sometime September we can insert the uh mission report because the book of September is so book Wednesday's book, Friday's book, so on we get prayed about that. Pray that we would be able to present God's uh doing, his sovereignty and mission. So this morning In light of that, uh the message is taken from the very popular Passage Romans 8, 20 to 30. I think the average Christian knows this and memorized this by heart The title is The Providence of Power of God and it is subtitled, Does God Really Control Everything? Because in times of problem, in times of cancer, in times of you lose your job for six months, you wonder, is does God really control everything? I firmly believe in the providence of God, as most most of you do, and I believe the majority of you. The older I get The more I'm convinced of the power of God in everything. I just had my birthday last um Last week, by God's grace. And it's it's the more I look behind me, the more I see God's hand in my life. God's providence is somewhat mysterious and esoteric, but it is evident in your life, in my life, to look closely into his life. Looking back down in my own life before God saved me in 1978 and before God called me to lead the ministry of the medical mission ministry in 2000. And the more I read about it, I'm really encouraged gloriously, I have to use the word gloriously, and immensely comforting to know that God is in control, right? The Holy Scripture clearly describes the servant of God in all things: creation, human governments, the pagan nations, that includes the Middle East, right? Other parts of the world in all things, good or bad. And most specially, if you're a believer, he is prominently In control of your lives. I think personally the most comforting and popular passage in the terms of God is Romans 8. 28 and following. And if you go beyond that, the doctrine of the servant of God is apparent throughout the Bible. Oh, you see it from the day of creation, right? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and thereafter God shows his sovereignty over all things. His people, his nations, and others. Yet throughout your struggle, throughout your m sometimes misery and difficulties, we tend to question God in the midst of trial and sufferings. I have personally. I have personally questioned God sometimes. Because I don't understand. Because humanly speaking, we try to understand. But we can't. We can't. We can't resolve everything. Give it your own lives. If you encounter a uh an unchargegoer or uh an unbeliever, for instance. The most difficult problems to explain to him is evil. The problems of evil and suffering. They don't understand that. We Christians have some glimpse of truth in it, but we don't fully understand everything, do we? One atheist that there is evil, therefore there is no God. I would say personally There is evil, therefore there is God as a believer. See? Our road is broken. It's a big mess. It's a great mess after the fall of Adam and Eve. Talking Genesis chapter chapter four, the first murder was committed by the oldest son, uh oldest son of Adam and Eve. You know this Cain killed his younger brother Abel out of anger and jealousy. So the question for us to answer is this: who made Cain more evil than Abel? I don't know. Theologians call it the mystery of iniquity. The mystery of iniquity. There are tsunamis, earthquakes, hurricanes, murders, airline disasters, and most recently the Ebola virus scared spreading in Africa. They killed hundreds of people already. The endless worst in the Middle East. Broken marriages, cancers, and so on. If you take it personally, perhaps some of you have lost a loved one to disaster, to a disaster, or one of your loved ones is suffering from a serious illness, or you have been treated to cancer. Some of you are going to a difficult marriage. Perhaps you are lonely or depressed. Perhaps you are suffering because your spouse is not a believer. Some of you are having difficulty working with fellow believers in your place of employment, even in church I overheard someone uh a conversation, a Christian who says that Because his his uh his employer was a mean Christian, you know, meaning he's very strict So someone asked him, what would you do? Well I would rather work for a nice Jehovah's Witness than a nasty Christian. See that? That's the idea of human perspective here. Would you? That's the easy way out. Some of us, by the way, have children with ADD, epilepsy, Down syndrome, autism, schizophrenia and other form illnesses. It is all in the providence of God. Keep that in mind. When you are a believer Your eternal destiny is settled. It's settled. It's fixed. It's permanent. Nothing can work against that. All things good or bad are all taken by the providence and power of God. It is comforting to know that the providence or power of God is on our side. Alistair Bag said We might be confident in this that in the pain of our sovereign is the presence of a faithful God. I like that. Islamic says in uh Psalm 23, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? Because thou art with me. If you're if you're a missionary, that is in your mar in your heart. In fact, if we go to the Philippines, we're not really afraid of anything. Well we do we are cautious but we're not afraid because we know in our heart that God is with us. Right? You apply that you appropriate that that verse that we we just read in Romans 8 you know 31 what can separate you from love that the problem is appropriating that verse in your life all life when something happened something dreadful So what is the providence of God, if you ask me? Why any any pastor? What is it? Is there a difference in the providence and servant of God? Well they are really intertwined, related simply by definition I think it was our search Paul who said that the servant of God, rather the providence of God, is the beneficient, outworking Of God's sovereignty in the lives of every believer. Okay? That's the beneficial outworking of God in your life, my life. I have two definitions here from two great theologians. Charles Hodge says that the Providence teaches that an infinitely wise, good, and powerful God is everywhere present. Controlling all events, great and small, necessary and free, in a way perfectly consistent with the nature of his scriptures And with his own infinite excellence, so that everything is ordered by his will and is made to subserve his wise and benevolent design. Here's one from R. Paul. He says, the doctrine of providence of God leaves no room for faith, F-A-T-E, blind or otherwise. God is not blind, neither is he capricious. For him there are no accidents. No accidents. He goes on to say that if God is not sovereign, then God is not God. God and chance simply cannot coexist. Another one says the providence of God is the bedrock belief that enables us to confidently encounter life's tragedies, triumphs, and perplex these. So this morning we're gonna have to s to look and see if we have time enough to go I think there are about six points. I don't think we got two through that. I preached last year in Pinus. So hopefully pray that I would can preach again maybe sometime this year. That's the way it goes. That's far better than three. For me, right? Even Pastor Allah can praise that It's good. It's good for us. Because listen, seriously. Seriously, this is the message of Paul to us from God. For the sake of expediency, I simply call the points providential points. Because some some students they they like you like those uh You know, you see to memorize things? Sure, l y you know, I I call it providential points for Romans eight twenty to thirty. The first point is this providential point. The providence and power of God is a privilege of certainty. Okay? It is a privilege of certainty. In other words, it is the certainty of privilege that is being taught here. Number two, it is patently inclusive of all things. All things, okay? And plainly exclusive to those who are called. Sub point, number two. Plainly exclusive to those who are called. Number three, there is a plausible explanation of God's foreknowing us. But we're gonna have you must spend much time on the word for no and for new, okay? That's where the the battle begins in theological discussion There is a plausible explanation of God's foreknowing us. Number four, it is forceful and permanent. It is purposeful and permanent. Number five, it is gloriously powerful. I think I like that one. That's a sixth point I can't mention it very much that but so why is it a certain privilege? We have a privilege to know the Lord, right? And many times we use the word we know, right? Verse 20. We know that God causes all things. But look deeper into the word know. What does it mean, we know? It is not a matter of wavering or doubting, but certainty. Christianity is the only religion in the world with certainty, assurance, security. Even in the words of Jesus, he spoke with what absolute certainty Absolute certainty. The Apostle Paul did not say, we hope, but rather, we know. Coming from Paul. Paul is certainly so he is so certain and so sure of this promise that he used the past tense in every critical words. Look at your scripture again. The words and sequence are per new, past tense, predestined, past tense, conformed, past tense, cold, justified, even the word glorified is past tense. The future glorification is written here in a prophetic past tense. By the way, prophetic past tense is also present in the what new old testament. Isaiah 53 is clear. He was wounded for our transgression, remember? Pastens. Thomas Watson said, though a Christian has not a perfect knowledge of the mysteries of the gospel, yet he has certain knowledge of God's purpose and plan. We see through a glass darkly. We see through a glass darkly First Corinthians 13, 12. Therefore we have not perfection of knowledge, but we behold with open face. Second Corinthians 3. 18. Therefore we have certainty. Think about this. The Spirit of God imprints heavenly truths upon the hearts of believers, as with the point of a diamond. Christian may know in infallibly that there is evil in sin and a beauty in homelessness. He may know that he is in a state of grace. But he knows, like John says in 1 John, we know that we have passed from death to life. That's an amazing verse. Every Christian should be able to say that without wavering. We know that we have passed from death to life. That's certainty. On the side note, by the way, verses twenty-eight to twenty-nine is really because the word sanctification is not there. You know you don't see that sanctification there? But it's there from the beginning. The whole process is sanctification. Verses twenty to twenty-nine, although it's not mentioned there. It is implied. It is implied right there clearly It logically follows the discussion of the goal or end of God, which is what? To be conformed to the image of Christ and glorification. According to Bible Knowledge commentary, to discuss the goal of sanctification, a believer's hopes which he awaits eagerly and steadlessly is pointless unless we realizing that goal is certain. God provided the certainty and confirms the believers' hope since sanctification from its beginning into regeneration to its completion in glorification. is certainly ultimately God's word. Which believers appropriate by faith. There you go. Faith. Sanctification. We are sanctified by faith, if you will. Christians know intuitively, though he may not fully understand and sense it experientially, that in all things God works for the good of those who love Him. So that brings us to point number two. First point on this, there are actually two points in the number two. It is patently patently inclusive of all events, all things. What do you mean all things? Well everything. Suppose you took a shower as you normally do every morning I do. Fry my hair. I walk to my M but I mean my my bedroom barefooted. I thought something sharp. It's the time tax. That's probably an It's providentially bad, but I can't blame God for that. Isn't it? The word providence is not yet script, brothers. Think of it there's bad and evil together. My responsibility is to watch for the Tom Tax. Not be careless, right? That's human responsibility. You see? But God knows that, right? He knows that, right? So that's one thing that you have to know as a believer. According to John MacArthur, Dr. J. MacArthur, all things include all things, good or bad. They are worked together for good. Like threads in a tapestry, all events in your life are woven to produce divine hand according to the purpose of God. I like that again. Let me read it again. Like threads in a tapestry, all events in your life are woven to produce the divine hand according to the purpose of God. My lovely daughter-in-law, Paula Bianca Lopez, is with us here today. Thank God for that. She was married to my son Scott about two weeks ago. I saw the wedding, I was there of course. She walked down the aisle, it was a vision of beauty. It was the vision of beauty. What added to her natural beauty was her wedding dress. It was the beautiful tapestry of woman treads. It was so beautiful that everyone was saying, was praising. That image of Tavisri Brothers and sisters, it's the picture of our lives in this world of trials and suffering. In God's eyes, your tapestry is being woven. To him it's beautiful. But we don't see it. So you might ask the question, all things I've mentioned, yes, all things, good or bad. So what does the scripture say about it? There were just about eight passages here. I don't know if we have time to read all of them, but I'll I'll take some here. The Old Testament suggests, not just suggests, but explicitly describes God's power. Look at Deuteronomy 32, 29. God says, see now that I, I am He, and there's no God besides me, it is I who put to death and give life. I have wounded, and it is also I who healed, and there's no one who can deliver from my hand. In relation to that, there's Samuel 2. 6. It says, the Lord kills and make alive. He brings down to a shawl and raises up. The Lord kills and make alive. There's a many of you know that I'm a surgeon years ago before the God called me into the ministry. I remember We uh admitted a patient in the emergency room with a ruptured abdominal anurism, which is a life-threatening uh Problem. We rushed the patient to the ER. There was no time to prep. We barely prepped the abdomen. We were able to stabilize him. We were happy about it. In about 35 minutes, we were ready to put the grass. I noticed the blood was thin as water. There was no clouding. That's the scary thing that can happen to anything in the operating room. We see the blood not flooding. There's nothing you can do. Your blood pressure goes down and we lost the patient. Looking back, Satan saw based on Deuteronomy, first Psalm 1 to 6, the Lord kills and makes alive. Isn't that true? In our in my in my profession earlier we want the patient to get well, don't we? In fact, I have to quote Stephen Richman, he's not here today. So Stephen says, God, when you go to a doctor and you're really sick, you're simply delaying your lives. Yeah, he's just postponing your death, isn't it? Think about that. Think about that. Because in Hebrew, Hebrew is writer, Hebrews says, it is appointed for man to die once, and after it is what Judgment, yes. Thank you. It is life is so short. You might live up to ninety-four. Oh a hundred, but life is sure, that's nothing. A hundred is nothing. I've seen people who die young. The Lord kills, remember that, and make a lot. We praise God for healing. We praise God for those things. But we have to embrace the truth that God also can take life Don't forget that. Number three is uh this is a good one too. First time all truth, the Lord makes poor and rich, He brings law, He also absorbs. I was reading a book by uh I don't have it here, by uh Leighton Talbot, Not by Chance. The more I look around me, he does make some people rich. He does. He does. Even Christians like the parable of talents, he can give you five talents, four talents, and one talent. The one with the one talent was lazy. He buried his his talent and the result God judge him. So I think it is in the economy, in the business of economy, I think some there are some good Christians are good stewards. They make money. What are others? Because of God. God is doing it. You see. Job in his suffering said, Shall we indeed accept good from God and not accept adversity? You know the story of Job is not the sh there's no one like Job. Wow. Ecclesiastes seven fourteen says, In the days of prosperity be happy, but in the day of adversity consider God has made the one as the other, so that no man will not discover anything that will that will be after him. Saiyaj 45, 6:7 That man may know from the rising of the sun that there is no one besides me, I am the Lord, and there is no other. The one forming the light and creating darkness, causing well-being and creating calamity. I'm the Lord who does all this. He creates criamity. In fact, if you uh look at the recent hurricanes and and flooding, the one in the the Philippines that uh decimated the island, I was there last uh January. It was God who did it. Some people if you look at the news media, oh Mother Nature did it. No, it's God who did it. He creates calamity, earthquakes, tsunamis. Think about that, as a servant of God. Lamentations 3. 38 says, it is not from the mouth of the Most High that both good and ill go forth. According to Bible Knowledge commentary, God harmonizes them together for the believer's good because his goal is to bring them to perfection in his presence. Amen. Patients 1 4, 5 27, Colossus 1, 2 24. But the Bible is saturated with that. So what do you think of the uh when you say you know all things really sometimes uh it's uh There's so many. Leighton Talbert in his book entitled God by Chance made a list of things from the miraculous to the mundane. Here's some of the things he said. God is involved in humanly impossible births, health and handicaps, seemingly impossible provision, life, death and escape from death, wounding and healing, poverty and wealth. Humiliation and honor, affliction and blessing, adversity and prosperity, weather, capital W, the weather changes He does it, he changed it. Darkness and light, calamity and peace, woe and well-being, closed and open opportunities. Wow, and there's so many, right? It's endless. You can think of you think of the Bible uh of impossible provision, the prophet Elijah, God provided meat through a raven, remember? The and the re and the and the poor widow. You can see that in your life. God makes provision seemingly impossible. I have to tell you the story that I read years ago, but told by readers digest. A group of soldiers were shipwrecked somewhere in the mid-Pacific. They survived hanging on the floaters and woods. After several hours, they're getting tired and we one Christian prayed was among the group. God helped them I provide their needs. From nowhere, a white bird, big bird, as big as the turkey, landed on his head. He grabbed the leg. The bird did not resist at all. He broke the neck. Pluck the feathers, suck the blood, share it with others, broke them to pieces. They survived for more hours until real help came to save them. You think that's coincidental That is God. That is God doing it, see it. Well I never had any role bird. It's probably a chicken shushi or something, but Isn't it? Well we do eat sushi really what grown fish, isn't it? I mean they are expensive, are they? But this one is not even it's really raw. They were so thirsty they had to suck the blood. Blood is to is really nutrient. You know that it's iron, you know, minerals, electrolytes. So think about that when you go to a sushi shop, okay? God harmonizes those things. Amazing. Here's the one that is uh controversial. The verse those those whom he called. The word called I choose the word pe patently. P rebid is patently. We are American words patently, right? It is fatally exclusive to those who are called. Therefore we can say that others were not called, right? The millions of people being called, but only a few or many will be really saved. So there is that distinction and separation. Bible tells us that. Vessels of mercy, vessels of wrath, right? Children of disobedience, children of obedience. Light and darkness. D. Carson says this. I like D. Carson. He says, by God's determination, the human race is divided absolutely. It's divided. Jesus divides. The truth divides. In fact, one uh MacArthur says uh one of the candidating uh Pastor's graduate said when you go to a church, a subtle church for 30 years, there's a lot of people, preach the word and divide the church. So it is. You see. It's what it is. Keep that in mind. You know, in this in this culture, postmodern non believers reject the idea of what exclusive is and one of the things about Christianity is when you visit them it is exclusive right it is exclusive It belongs to the one who are called by God. Not to the self-righteous, not to the proud. Even so, even even the word uh I think I think the word even uh doctors hate that. One of the famous atheist. You know, I mean he's so full of of of this he hated that the idea of exclusivism. Because man thinks highly as a higher view of themselves in general. Even Christians sometimes they have a higher view of themselves as dangerous. So Fear all just made the distinction between God's people and not his people So we come down to two types of call. I think it's according to J. Parker. There's the general call and the factual call to salvation. Salah versus Romans eleven twenty nine first Corinthians to Ephesians four, Thessalonians two, first Timothy one, Peter two Matthew 24, Matthew 22, 14, it's one, it's like this. Matthew 2, 14 says, For many are called but few are chosen. In the context, Jesus is saying, many are called but few are what? Chosen. He told his disciples, I chose you, did not choose me. Remember that in John? The word choosing is there? Which is related to calling, calling, the effectual call of God. The appicacious call of God. Because if you preach the gospel anywhere, some people will really Who are called real what? Repent and receive the word of God. That's comforting to know. Because you don't say, well, that's not fair. But he's God, right? The word prayer is not scripture. If you find that word in scripture, I'll give you a hundred dollars. It's not there. It is not there If we emphasize the service of God here in salvation, to those who are called, this is it is exclusive. 1 Peter 1 10 is crystal clear. Therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing you, for as long as you practice these things, you will never stumble. Thomas Reiner, one of the uh philogens who switched from Being animal supremium like that. Thomas Rainer have you heard Thomas Rainer? He's a friend now of Jack McArthur. It says this. Regarding Romans 28, this is his commentary. It says that Apostle Paul has the prepared concept, the concept of calling, concept of calling. The verb called occurs 33 times. The noun on nine occasions and the adjective in seven places. Wow, that's a lot, isn't it? For one one verb, one noun. The gospel is to proclaim and heralded to all, whether Jews or Greeks. You know that in 1 Corinthians 1:22, 23. But only some among all those who hear the message are called. Sweiner continues in these in subsequent verses, the term called is made clear in terms of those whom God chose. First Christians 1 26. In other words, choosing and calling are so interrelated. In fact, if you do go back to Romans 8. 28. The wars that we have there in Palestine are intertwined. You can't separate cold, per new, predestined, okay? They're all together. Wisdom. But theologians try to separate that. You gotta have a problem if you just separate the word predestine. Okay. It it could not suggest something unfair, but it's not. Okay. So the words proclaim To those who are called. You know why? Because faith comes by hearing. So we go over road. That's why we have missionaries in Africa and and Spain, you know, even evangelism. I want you to to to be mission minded. I would rather use the word Probably they're so powerful-minded. You know people think that mission is just for say a committee or group of radical, you know, evangelists No, it's it's for everyone. It's an attitude of the heart. We talk about that. Our brother Paul Brodowin talk on the on the evangelism servant of God. I think it is the privilege of our church, every one of you, to witness one way or the other at work. But we what? We are muted. You know why? We can't share the gospel. Why? Because we have like Timothy Callum says we have many idols in our hearts. It prevents us from we we we're just shut our our mouths our mouths are like clams shut because we have sinned in our hearts idols, little idols. We're not totally so loud for Christ, you see. But we came by hearing. You can't witness without sharing the word of God. Yeah, good days. You're you you're paying your taxes on time, you're a good driver, no speeding, but it doesn't really what? That's so those are moralistic ideas. Even Muslims uh don't commit adultery or smoke or drink, right? That's not the idea. The idea is As Christians, we should be able to do it with our words and actions at the same time. Calling then, according to Schreiner, cannot be the same thing as being invited to be saved. In the early years of the Baptist church that I've sent to, they have the altar call, like maybe they will sing two hymns, three hymns, the belavering. They play on emotion. Like the word just as I am. You know absolutely when I when I I only got saved, I said there's something wrong with this method. When God calls you a believer in a biblical preaching, he will be saved Because God's word will not return void. And see according to the Sayyidina. It will not return void. Two effects. It will either make you better or bitter. That's the word of God. It's the word of God. Keep that in mind. Well, let me read that, Isaiah 55, 11. So shall my word be which goes forth from my mouth, it shall not return to me void or empty. without accomplishing what I desire and without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it Wow, time flies. We got ten minutes here. Part two probably next year. Number three point it is there is possible explanation of God's inscrutable wisdom in foreknowing us The word for knowledge is such a big word that I mean the Christian you know community was divided because the word foreknowledge. When you're a Christian, your eternal destiny as as I mentioned is settled. Nothing can work against that. So what is what is the meaning really in Greek the word for knowledge? Let's look at several scriptures here. Ephesians 1, 1 to 14 describes, Post of Paul describes the whole council of God. Patients 14 says he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. The word chose is closely related to foreknowing. Until we just debated for many years just what Paul means by for know. In Greek generally the verb means to know something ahead of time. Some scholars think that God knew ahead of time about the fate the people would have and possessed in those who would believe. But if that is the case, if if if that is the definition of foreknowledge which Armenians believe that in the whole Satan God looks, oh yeah, he's gonna come to me. No, no, said that That's what the word foreknowledge is in in in the original text, in the Greek text. It means what? More than that It means that uh if if in other words if that's the case, man makes his own decision to accept Christ, right? It makes him what? The author of salvation. He's sober in his will is sober over God, isn't it? That's not the case, no. Because salvation is from the Lord. Salvation is from the Lord. The corruptionistic use of the verb no raises more biblical possibility. This verb, know for know, connotes not mental knowledge but intimate relationship Genesis 18, God says, For I have no for I have new knew Abraham, or I have chosen him. Some textures are the word chosen and know. Oh the verb is the usual Hebrew word for no. I see in General 15 and MS3 Truth. It indicates an intimate relationship. Most of the New Testament occurrences of Ornoa have this sense. Since Paul here does not say that God knew everything anything. about us but rather that he knew us. The idea is that he chooses us ahead of time. Makes the best sense. That's deep. Even Dr. Smooth, one great scholar, says that is deep, that is profound. He has for no knee. Okay? He has foreknown Christ. First Peter 120 again is again crystal crystal very crystal clear. For he, Christ, was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but has appeared in these last times for the sake of you. foreknown ready God the world. He has foreknown you before the foundation of all. Well if you you cannot explain what you do with it. You cannot resolve it. Embrace the truth, brothers and sisters. Embrace the truth. Isn't it? Embrace that's the problem with the cults. They cannot understand the person of Christ, the nature of Christ, so they think he is just a created being. He is the God-man, Jesus is. Fully God, fully man. I cannot explain that, but Bible teaches that. So we embrace that truth. So it is with the word for no one for new. It relates to the word chosen before the foundation of the world. I think we have about a few more minutes here. One one final point. That brings us to number four. It is purposeful and permanent. I like that. In contrast to election or choosing, The opposite is what faithalism, isn't it? Faithalism is meaningless, without hope, and without purpose. But choosing, a calling has a purpose and permanency in the council of God. Think Allah says, think of the word predestined as permanent affix. Whenever you look at Romans 8 and Arab scripture, The word permanent is there. It's in the eyes mind of God. What he did to you is permanent. It is irrevocable. It is unchanging. Okay? It is fixed. It is predetermined. It is predestined. According to Exposter's Bible commentary commentary If predestine stood by itself without any amplification, one might conclude that all that is involved is an action by God whereby one is chosen to salvation. But the remainder of the sentence indicates otherwise, pointing to much more than deliverance from sin and that. So here the background is adoption as it relates to the sun. The destin actually goes towards what being what component of the image of the sun, which brings us two more points here, some points. So the Apostle Paul presents two aspects of this conformity. One, if believers sharing, in the suffering surprise. There you go. He suffered, so we suffered. Just so as the world hates you, they so they you know hates me so they will hate you. See? I have problem, I have really have problem relating to unsaved loved ones and friends. Because they don't have the same what? Understanding? They don't have the spirit of God? They don't know the truth. You see? That's important to know that we are sharing in the suffering of Christ. And we you mentioned the word suffering. Oh no, you don't like that, right? In other words, he is the believer is gradually being made into his likeness. We talk about sanctification. That is the essence of sanctification, is what? You are being made into Christ's like image. We have different personalities, but we are being made into his likeness for sanctification. Mr. says it's it takes it's a lifetime it is a lifetime process. But I think there's a level of some degree some people are more mature than others. Some people remain infantile, juvenile, self you know, oriented. If you look at the prayer request, pray for me, pray for me. There's nothing wrong with that. He prayed for others too. Right? So we are. Being conformed to the image of Christ in that sense. And number two, this is the best one, I think. Conformity of the body to that of the risen Lord to be realized. at the resurrection. Philippians 3. 2. Verse 29 B says so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. Firstborn is similar to the idea of first fruits, remember? In the Old Testament, as the first to be raised from the dead and enter into the state of glory, Christ paves a way for his brothers and sisters to follow. Also contributing to the imagery of this verse is the use of the of the of the word firstborn. Firstborn is uh used oftenly in Old Testament scriptures like Psalm 8927 referring to the Messiah, Christ being the firstborn, he paves the way for us to be what, like him, with recent glorified bodies. I'll close with this one here. God's providence is gloriously powerful. In a human perspective, we know that absolute power corrupts. If anyone of us is given the power to rule the world, say for seven days. If I have the power to rule for seven days, a lot of people will be in trouble. Because our thinking is what Ben Gen, right? Uh uh even our Christians they have the m mindset of retaliation. Have you ever said in this in this in this culture in in in the in the in the midst of the you look at the movies right now, I mean everyone's carrying a gun. Defend yourself, retaliate, get even, right? But you have done God. We will compromise if we have that power. We vacillate Because we are imperfect. But not with God, because He is perfect and He does not change. Let me let me just spend a little time with that. God does not change meaning what? Is immutable. Got a good definition from from someone here. This is The unchangeable unchangeableness of God is uh has nothing to do with uh in your mind whether what you know, but it is something about about Him. Immutable means that God does a change in his essence of being, perfections, power, promise, and purpose All those scripture is all you see there. He does not change in his perfections, power, promise, and purpose. But someone says, what do you mean by word relent? God relent changed his mind, for instance, in the book of Jonah, right? He started to say then, right? What do you mean by that? God changed in a sense it's got you know from the anthemorphic word, God changed his mind from a human perspective, God did change his mind. I like J. D. Paker. He says, disposition. God changed his disposition. In certain situations, he might save some, he might save others Okay, keep that in mind. God is perfect, so therefore he is immutable. Finally, here in Matthew 28, Jesus talks about mission, Greek commission. Jesus, the recent Lord, declared to his disciples, All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth. That is one glorious and powerful statement. I like that. It's a short term missionary. He's saying in other sense that he is the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. He's the supreme ruler of all creation. He's the God of providence. He is the resturation of the life As Christ was the first one to have glorified body from the dead, so we are also going to have glorified body, glorified resurrected body. So in other words, our future glorification is recorded in John 17, 22. Jesus said, the glory, praying to God the Father, the glory which you have given me, I have given to them. that they may be one as we are one. Romans 8, 20, 21, 4, the creation was subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who is subjected, in hope that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption, into the freedom, that's the word, into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. Brothers and sisters, that is our living hope. We will be glorified. As Paul is certain, we will be glorified. Romans nine, twenty-two-twenty-three says, What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power known, endured with which with much patience, vessels of wrath? There you go. This distinction. Vessels of wrath referred for destruction. Verse 23, and he did so to make known the riches of his glory upon the vessels of mercy. We are the vessels of mercy because we receive mercy, right? Which he prepared beforehand for glory. There's that word again, glory. Even us whom he also called, not from among Jews only, but also from among the Gentiles Paul says in Philippians 3:10, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, the policy of his sufferings. Being conformed to his death, in order that I may attain the resurrection from the dead, it ends up where in glorification This is uh I'll just read this the final points of application in this this b this uh great verses. On the providential power of God. Number one, embrace the truth of providential power. Number two, make yourself available to serve Him anywhere, at any time. Number three, be worshipful in all things and thankful, good or bad. Number four, be courageous, be unafraid. Nothing can separate us, separate you from the love of God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this message from you. We're so thankful that you are sovereign above all things. You have chosen us in him and told us so deep. What are things we have to learn yet we doubt many times? Help us, Father, to Apply, appropriate the grace that you've given us to be better Christians, better husbands, better wives, better citizens of this world. We ask this in Jesus' name for his glory. Amen.