Start of the new year, I know for many is the start of new resolutions. Nothing wrong with that, I guess Except when we remember that our whole new life is a new resolution. We've been given an entirely new existence and we are to live our whole life indeed New. Everything about us is to be new. We go around and see all the old, and we are not to be patterned back to the old. We are to be new. That's a challenge, but it's also a truth. Well, the start of the new year I think is a great opportunity to talk about the new life we have in Christ. What do we have before Christ? How did we get our new life? How does that work? And so over the next uh I hope two weeks, we will be able to study this great doctrine of regeneration, the transformation of salvation and look into it. First John two seventeen says, the world is passing away. He says it's already in the process of leaving. And also it's lusts. So if you're engaged in the lusts and you think those are important, it's all passing away. But the one who does the will of God remains or abides or lives forever. Our text is going to talk a little bit about that. Please open again to Titus. We're in chapter 3 now. We'll be focusing on verses 3 through 7. Please follow along as I read. Titus 3, 3 to 7. For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived. Enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful Hating one another. But when the kindness of God our Savior and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration. And the renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by His grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Well, since this is a transition, notice the first word in verse 3, the word Or, a little signal word. It lets us know that this is an explanation of what Paul just wrote prior to that. So you have to look back at verses 1 and 2. Indeed into chapter 2 at the end there. Let me refresh your memory. It's been a little bit of time. We were told to live in submission to authority, authority that is mentioned in the the end of uh Chapter 2 and the first couple of verses there in chapter 3. We're not only to live under authority, but we are to be good to others in society. We're to be good, caring citizens. Why? The answer is given in verses 3 through 7. Because God has made us anew in Christ. In other words, we all used to be the same way that the sinful society is, all the rest of society, but God Not us. God has changed us. With the intent that we would no longer be like them. There should be an apparent difference that we are not like them. They do rebel against authority. We are to embrace the authorities in our lives because they are God given And though none of those authorities are perfect, and some of them are evil, yet God Himself superintends it all. And we are to live well for our fellow citizens because we reflect back on what God has done for us. And we want to give back, in a sense, through the preaching of the gospel and helping those fellow citizens who were deceived and lost. And are headed to destruction. Of course, as we live better, we need to remember a very important truth, and that is that our transformation is all of God's grace. Yes, I know you know that, and you've heard that many times before, but what we need to do is let that sink in. So that when we are impatiently angry with those sinners out there, we would remember, but for the grace of God, so go I, right? This is the work of God, and we ought to be caring. And the fact that we've been transformed by grace, when we properly understand grace, It makes you kind to lost sinners, not just angry at them. We're angry at what they do to destroy truth and righteousness, but we should have a compassion for them too, and this should motivate us to that and all also to new godly living. Well the passage takes us through three stages, called three stages of our Transformation. The first stage is kind of before we were transformed. That's what we're going to cover today. The first stage is the natural man. You can write that down if you're taking notes. The natural man The second stage we'll get to, Lord willing, next time, the regenerate man, that's exciting. And then it hints at the third stage as a little bit Deduced from the passage, but since it's hinted at, we'll follow that through and talk about the perfected man. The natural man Let's look at the first stage. Look at verse 3. That's where we'll be today, parking it right there. There's a lot of truth in there. Let me read it again. Look at it, think about it. Don't necessarily be looking for something new that you've never been told. Look at it and let God work on your inner person as you think about these truths. For we, that's pretty important. Right, into Christians, right? For we also once were foolish ourselves Disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. Okay, that used to be us. That's the first stage. A little bit hard for us to hear this, isn't it? We also once were, speak for yourself, Apostle Paul, we were never like that We were so good in our past. No, he says we also once were. The we includes all of us. This by the way expresses an imperfect tense in in the Greek, so that shows that this was an ongoing uh state of being. That's why we refer to it as a nature. It was something that was not just once in a while. This was what we were in an ongoing sense. We all shared what unbelievers have right now. There was a continuous way that we lived in our BC days before Christ. The word once there is a temporal marker, it's intended to be. It shows that what was formerly true of us, yes it was. is now no longer true of us. It once was that way. And the we, of course, as I said, includes all of us. There are no exceptions. We are in verse 3. If you think you're not in verse 3, you need to look a little bit harder. Your name is in there, I promise. Verse 3. All the saints in the church started out as inks in the world, right? We didn't have it. We started out that way. Put another way, no regenerate human being was regenerate from birth, except for possibly John the Baptist. We all started out as natural men. Natural men. It's very important for us to remember this. To recall who we were before being transformed by grace. That truth is meant to bring us down, to humble us, settle our hearts, cause a remembrance to come back to us. Have you read anything in the news recently that just has upset you? Pick the news outlet. It's all there. One immoral act after another that just goes on and on and on. You just get angry just reading the news, can't you? But what made you angry and disgusted, remember, with all those more and more bold expressions of immorality, we were like that and controlled by that before. Remember that. You have to have a couple of different mindsets. Yes, it's okay to be angry at the sin, but you have to remember they're lost people. They need salvation. Well, I read all of that too, and it bothers me at times, and I I need to remember that I can relate to an unbeliever because I was an unbeliever. We were all born unbelievers. We were all born rebellious. Ask any parent. We were all born deceived about ultimate things. So, in denouncing them and in correcting them, there ought to be some gentleness that comes from us, some kindness, certainly some patience. When you hear of the sin and the folly of unbelievers, any zeal that you have for Jesus Christ and the Word of God, and I hope you do have zeal, must be accompanied with a humble reflection as we think to ourselves. And I'll say it again. But for the grace of God, there I go walking in their shoes as well. Just because we are delivered by truth now does not mean that we deserve to be delivered by truth. You know something? If you won the lottery, do you think that people would be coming to your house saying, tell us what business advice you have for us as a great financial guru? No. You won the lottery. You just picked the right ticket, the right place at the right time. That's it. You have nothing to offer in terms of grace. That's why it's grace. So with God we've hit the lottery, so to say. We have everlasting life better in the lottery. We've been given grace We've been given an eternal inheritance. We've had our eyes open. We're going to see all of that in this passage. We've been given things that they don't even know can be given. And we have it as our present possession. And we're going to get even more that we haven't seen Can't go bragging with that. When we see others that don't have it, we can't go bragging. We have to have a humble disposition towards them. Being good citizens, with rebellious and sometimes stinky people, we need to remember who we were. It grants us patience with all men. Even those of you that grew up in a Christian home, you know, you can't remember the time that you didn't know the truth and worked. you know, born again. But the truth is you were born with a a sinful nature just like everybody else. You ought to thank God you were saved very, very early on. By the way, you could do a little bit of reflection here You you know, you you were not virgin born. You you you were not, you know, you you you came in with a sin nature. You could give a little reflection and just sort of look at some of the boys and girls and teenagers that grew up in non-Christian homes and start thinking about your personality and Just how wacko you would be without the gospel of Christ, right? You can do that. You think about your own selfishness now as a believer and think about without the Spirit of God in you, without the exhortations from Scripture, without any. Without the opening of your mind to truth, where would you be right now? What we all had was what the Bible describes as a fallen human nature. Fallen nature. What the Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of God's Spirit, elsewhere calls a natural man, human beings who are born in Adam. What is a natural man? He's not a rugged naturalist out in the Australian Outback. A natural man is a man made of the flesh of this earth, who lives on this earth without the Holy Spirit, and who, if left unchanged, will die upon this earth, without a new nature in Christ, and without hope. In other words, it is who we are in this world by birthright. Let's go to 1 Corinthians 2 just a minute. You'll see Paul's use of this term and where this doctrine is developed a little bit more. First Corinthians chapter two and verse fourteen. He's writing about the great work of the Holy Spirit and the verses that precede that, and how God's Spirit has worked in uh the word of God, putting uh divine thoughts from God into spiritual words. And we come to verse 14 after all this this great work of the Spirit of God, and you have the word but in verse 14 it says First Corinthians two fourteen. But a natural man. There it is. A soupikas man. A natural man. Sukikos A man only of the soul, a man only of this realm. A natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God has a lot of Truth to teach them, but a natural man does not accept those things. Why not? Well, we're given the answer. For they are foolishness to him. He listens to the stuff about the cross of Christ and all this Bible and and he doesn't get it. It seems silly. It doesn't add up. It's foolishness to him. And why is it that way? Because he cannot understand them. He cannot. The word has to do with ability. It has to do with inability. He is not able to understand the gospel. He is not able to understand the significance of the gospel for his life so that he would believe. He cannot understand it. It takes spiritual appraisal. These things are only appraised spiritually. These things are only appraised by you because you have the Spirit of God in you. You see? You're able to connect with these truths and to love them and sing about them and rejoice in them and apply them because you're not such. You're not natural anymore, but you were, and I was too. This natural man is not yet a new man. We have to pray for the natural man to become a new man. He doesn't accept the things that God wants to teach him. He is not able to do that He cannot appraise them. He doesn't understand them. If he were to examine them and investigate them and parse the verbs, still the meaning of them would not penetrate his darkness. He doesn't get it. Without the Holy Spirit, the natural man cannot discern. He can't see it. You see the beauty of the cross of Jesus Christ. He doesn't You see the power of the resurrection and what that means for your future. She doesn't. You see the wisdom of how God is at work in your life. They don't Only the Spirit of God penetrating darkness and bringing light will bring light into their minds and cause them to be born again. That's why the Bible teaches that no one can come to faith in Christ unless It is granted from God. No natural man has the capability or even the desire to believe in Christ, be drawn toward God, and seek things that are invisible to him and he can't see with his eye. He may have a religion, he doesn't have life. Natural man can have lots of religion, but he has no life. This is why we call it total inability. He has no ability to even respond to the things of God. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 1 calls a natural man dead. He is not dead in this world. He is dead with the things pertaining to God's Spirit. And you know what dead do? They don't respond to any stimulus. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1 It takes the granting of life for a sinner even to respond to the call of God that comes through the gospel preaching. Now let's turn back to Titus. I just wanted you to see that as part of Paul's doctrine of the natural man here. When we come to Titus, we have this list, and if you've read Paul's letters, you know that he loves lists, and many times we zip through the lists, but the lists have so much truth in them. These are spiritual. Words put in a spiritual context, and we ought to be meditating on them and thinking about them. We're given the description of what we once were. Six descriptions. of the natural man. Let's go through them and think about them and let them impact us. First, we were foolish. And this kind of sets the stage for everything else that's going to follow. Everything else expresses the foolishness. But he starts out with this. We were foolish. Remember, this is God's estimate, God's summation of a life of a non-Christian person walking and living on this planet. Foolish. How does God, when he looks down on a busy, active, educating religious world, how does he view all of this human activity and and what we're doing. He calls it all all their religious activity, all their politics, all their business. All their learning, all the ethnic groups, all the nationalities, the whole mass of humanity, he just says we were foolish Didn't matter whether this was true of Cretans, or whether it was true of Italians, Romans, or Greeks, or whether it was true of anyone else in that world and that time or in our world today, we were foolish. The word Ah, noetas means without understanding or without thought. It's a word really which indicates a complete lack of understanding. It's the opposite of words like wise and insightful. Whatever you get and see and live and operate because of what you perceive, they don't have that. They're foolish. It's a word used in 1 Timothy 6 9. Those who want to get rich. Is that you, by the way? Do you want to get rich? Better answer that question carefully. Set you up. But those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and listen and many foolish, same word, and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction. Unbelievers, even the so-called wise unbelievers, God calls foolish. And you know something? God knows. There are kindergarten tools out there, there are high school dropout tools out there, there are collegiate tools out there, and yes, there are PhD tools out there That's because the entire educational systems of the world do not educate in the things that matter most. They get a failing grade from God. Their whole educational system which empowers them to do all that they do, build rockets, heal diseases, run algorithms Build businesses, make money, fails to lift them out of the category of foolish. With that education, they never come to know their maker, they never get the meaning of life They don't even know the proper way to live. They can't even make moral judgments properly. Or I should say properly and consistently. Remember, remember, we once were one of them. Foolish. Maybe you had religion. Before you had Christ, you were foolish. Maybe you were a philosopher before Christ. Very intelligent. You are foolish. All the work that is done every single day, all their hard work, getting up You know, working, going to sleep, getting up the next day, going through the routines, their whole life is being wasted. Can you think of anything more foolish than that? Everything they will ever do or accomplish or hope that their children will accomplish, it's all being wasted. There's nothing more foolish than that. And brothers and sisters, we once were one of them. Are you glad you were rescued? They wear their pins of badges, you know, their badges of honor on their chests, you know, their grand awards. They got the Nobel Peace Prize They got the Grammy Award. The Grammy. The presidential honor. The Super Bowl trophy. Sumo cum lade. Foolish, wasteful, missed the whole meaning of life With God, they're going to get nothing. Nothing. I mean, he's got the riches of eternity, and he'll give them to whoever he wants to, and they're going to get nothing Thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for saving my soul and transforming me by grace. Category number two, I'm sorry, characteristic number two. We were And they are disobedient. Ouch. Ah, pefa. It's a word that means obedient and has the little negative on the front of it. You know what that means, right? Not obedient. Translated disobedient. This is simple. This is very easy to interpret. Not obedient. Look back at Titus 1:16. Titus 116. Talking about these uh un unbelieving false teachers on the island of Crete. They profess to know God. Lots of people talk a big talk. But by their deeds they deny him, being detestable, and here's the word, and disobedient and worthless for any good deed. They're disobedient By the way, the word is also used, kids, if you're out there listening, out there in children land, wake up. This word is used of disobedient to parents in Romans 1. 30 and in 2 Timothy 3. 2, disobedient to parents. It's a bad thing. The word is really very helpful. It it helps us to understand the the natural man, the fallen human nature Unbelievers, what are they? They are non-obeyers. They're non-obeyers. 1 John 3 23. This is God's commandment, commandment. That we believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ and love one another just as he commanded us, they break that command. They don't believe in the name of Jesus Christ and they don't love one another. They don't believe, and their unbelief is disobedience. Disobedience describes those who are Not brought under the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. Ah, you can attend church and still be disobedient. You can call yourself a Christian and still be disobedient. Disobedient people of the same spirit as Frank Sinatra. Some of the older people enjoy that. Frank Sinatra, he did it his way He did it his way. He didn't do it God's way. But he did it his way. And now I wonder what he's thinking. I wonder what he's thinking now. That's why we exhorted you last week to be obedient to all of your authorities. God says that. Be obedient in the home and church and society. All authority comes from God. But the spirit of disobedience is in unbelievers. By the way, it's in the unbelievers, even who obey the commands down here. They could be in the military. They know how to take orders, but to God's law they will not bow. They'll listen to the lieutenant and the captain, but not the captain of the hosts of heaven Some unbelievers will enjoy a nice spiritual conversation with you. Look like they're all spiritual. Sit down, have a talk, cup of coffee, and you bring up Christ wants you to repent of your sin and give your entire life to him today. Are you willing? And the topic changes. That's a form of a rebellion against the Word of God. Oh, it's polite, but it's rebellion. They don't like God demanding them to repent. They're really good about slapping those bumper stickers on the back, be civil, you know. But there's the commandments of the great king. This is his universe. This is his society. This is his world. He made it all. He made them. How about obeying him and listening to him? Other unbelievers will lecture their fellow citizens and morals while they keep committing the greater sin of pushing off submission to God's Messiah. Do you see that the Holy Spirit is right in declaring all of them disobedient? Repentance is the demand, not just the invitation The demand that God makes to this world. How do I know that? Acts seventeen, thirty and thirty-one, Christ's hand chosen apostle Paul standing Mars Hill in Athens to all the great learned men, he said, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should what? Repent. Because God has fixed a day in which He will judge the world in righteousness. It's an invitation to escape the judgment, but it is a commandment from God as well. But they refuse. They balk. They will not budge. It's their light. They'll do with it as they want to. They want things on their own terms. If God would just do this for me, then I would believe It's not your universe. You don't get to set the terms. It's God's universe, and his terms are surrender. Repent. In fact, that's what Psalm two is all about. Talk about Son of God. You know all the kings of the earth. Oppose the Messiah and God sits in the heavens and he does what? He laughs one of the few times it says in the Bible that God laughs He laughs all the people on earth. We're gonna do what we want, we're not gonna listen to the rain of the Messiah. Oh no! And God laughs But as for me, I've installed my king on Zion, my holy mountain. I will surely tell the decree of the Lord, Thou art my son. Today I have begotten Thee. Ask of me, and I'll give the nations as your inheritance, and the ends of the earth as thy possession. You will rule them with a rod of iron, you will shatter them like earth and ware. And then he turns to all those kings and judges and says, Be warned, O judges of the earth. Like the King James, kiss the sun. He holds his ring out because it would be a left hand. He holds his ring out, and they better kiss his ring on his hand to acknowledge his authority, or they will be trampled underfoot. They will perish in his way. The Son of God Jesus Christ will come back. And He knows who those are that are disobedient. Do you know in the Bible, many times the unbelievers just call the disobedient? They're just disobedient. Third characteristic They are deceived. They would have to be. I mean, if that's true, Christ is coming back to destroy them, they would have to be deceived. That word there is planau. Sounds like planet. In fact, we get our word planet from planau. I guess the planets don't move the way the stars do in the skies, so they were described as wandering around, and then from there came the idea that they were deceived. They were led to the wall. It shows that they weren't deceived once in a while, but their whole manner of thinking was ongoing deception. One false idea after another Their education never lifts them out of darkness. A continuous mindset that was led astray, off target. They could be involved in this cause, or they could have that thought, or they could follow this religion, or they could do it that way, or they could change a little here, but the whole lot of it is deceived the whole spectrum. All unbelievers are following a false way. I hope that's not you today. None of them have truth gripping their thoughts. None of them have truth leading their lives. If they were following a true way, they could not categorically be described as deceived. Every unbeliever, religious or secular, live in a world of unreality. And they judge other people by their unreality, their notions of evolution They actually think of science. They're deceived. Their notions of man's basic goodness. You notice in all the all the movies that evil is always on the outside of man. It's hardly ever on the inside, like the Bible says They live for pleasures now and they have no regrets, but they will then. The whole point of wisdom is to look down the road and see what's coming. Their worship of the creation flies in the face of the Creator. They worship the creation in some form, pantheism, whatever it is. Their liberal dreams of utopia? Whatever it is, they are deceived. And they deceive others because they don't want the truth. By the way, if you don't want the truth, then you're going to go looking for what? Whatever's left. What's left outside of truth? Myth. Myth. 2 Timothy 4. They turn their ears from the truth and turn aside to myths. Matthew 24, 11 describes the end times. Many false prophets will arise and mislead many. The masses are easy to mislead because they don't want the truth. They deserve the deception they get One way they are deceived, of course, is by not acknowledging their guilt for their sin. First John 1 8, if we say that we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves. And the truth is not in us. Now some people say and will acknowledge they're a sinner, but they're really not. They're like, yeah, I sinned, so does everyone, no big deal, right? No, there's a big deal with sin. Sin brings eternal judgment Are you willing to admit that you are responsible for your sin and you are guilty for your sin and God is right to judge you for your sin, and that judgment will be severe? If you admit that, now you're confessing sin You may ask, can someone be both a deceiver of others and also be deceived themselves? The answer is, of course. 2 Timothy 3, 13, again describing the end times. But evil men and impostors will proceed from bad to worse. That's not really a rosy picture of the end times, is it They're going to go from bad to worse. And then it says, deceiving and being deceived, trapped in their own distression If you get a chance, go study Ephesians 4, 17 and 18. It describes unbelievers as having the futility of their own mind. It describes them as darkened in their understanding. And then it says they have ignorance inside of them. That is a pathetic description. But it's true of every unbeliever. They can't make out what's true. Ignorance is lodged deep within them. That's offensive to say, isn't it? That's offensive. You know something? God is offensive. God tells it like it is. That's another reason we know it's the word of God. He's not interested in making people like his book. You know, buy my book I'm endorsed by the angels on the back. You'll like it. You deceived and dead and headed for destruction. Who wants to read a book like that? Only those that want the truth, right? You know, unbelievers can achieve many great things with their minds. After all, their minds were created by God and made in the image of God, but perverted and fallen. Music, great music, arts, science, technology. But with all of that He doesn't know who God is. He doesn't know why he's here. He doesn't know what is right and wrong. He doesn't understand Christ. He can't see in any direction he looks. He can't see ahead because he doesn't know what's coming in the future. He can't see up because God is hidden from his eyes. You know, like the hymn says, the eye of sinful man, thy glory, they may not see. He can't see around their problems because he lacks proper perspective. He can't even see inwardly correctly because there's ignorance there. And he can't see through the lies that the world presents because his judgment is all clouded. In Paul's day as today, the philosophers with all their proud learning and logic and reasoning never, never, never came to understand the truth. Paul says that in 1 Corinthians 1:10. He says, Where is the wise man? He's inviting them to come and stand up and present their wisdom. Where is the wise man? It's a challenge. Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Hasn't God made foolish the wisdom of the world? He writes. But for the grace of God we would be deceived too. Fourth, they are enslaved to various lusts and pleasures. This word literally speaks of being a slave. That means they don't have freedom. Isn't that interesting? People follow all their desires and they think they're free. They want to do what they want to do and they feel free and they Bible says nope, they're enslaved. Romans 6. 6 says there's slavery to sin. Romans 16. 18 talks about slavery to appetites. Galatians 4. 8 talks about slavery to idols. And Galatians four nine talks about slavery to worthless and weak things. And here we're told about slavery to lusts and pleasures Lusts rule and dominate people. You don't need to tell you that. Just go read what they're doing out there. Just go watch them. It's not always the same lust in every unbeliever. Not every unbeliever is an alcoholic. Not every unbeliever is on cocaine. Not every unbeliever has this problem or that problem. But all unbelievers are slaves to lust, their lust. The lust that they lust after, they're their lust. Find an unbeliever, any unbeliever. Ask them some tough probing questions. If he speaks honestly to you, he'll tell you of his cravings, his inner desires, his lusts, or he'll tell you of his depression for not achieving his lusts in life. They have lust to do what? To succeed? Lust to impress others, cravings for pleasures of all kinds, for bright, beautiful, shiny things, for relationships they have to have Or an unquenchable desire for mullah, they want it. 2 Timothy 2. 22 says we're to flee from youthful lusts Run from them. Run far from them when they start to come at you. First Timothy 6. 9 says they're harmful. By the way, the word for pleasures there is the word from which we get hedonism. Hedonism. Hebon A. It's used in James 4. 3. You ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. That's why God doesn't answer your prayers, he says. Luke eight fourteen it's also used. Jesus is talking about the uh parable of the soils. The seed which fell among the thorns, these are the ones who have heard the word of God and as they go on their way they are choked with worries and riches and pleasures of this life and bring no fruit to maturity. I hope that's not you. Are you bearing fruit for the kingdom of God? If you let the pleasures of the world choke that out, you're not bearing fruit for God. You're not even saved. You're not even saved. The word hasn't taken root in your own heart yet. Pursuing pleasures is a pretty good description of modern America. Won't you agree? I wish they just paid us a million dollars to do a little sociological study. What is modern America like? They love their pleasures. Yes, they do. Oh, they love them a lot. It's so common. It's so normal. We have to slap each other in the face when we come into church and remind ourselves that's not normal. That's not normal. That's bad. That's right, that's right. Don't get conformed to the thinking when I go back out there. That's wrong. You know what the problem with hedonism is? You see the people in hedonism, they're like, oh look at them, they're enjoying themselves. Yeah, but you don't see them after that little brief period of time. where they're having all their little fun and then they get to the end of that and they'll never make a movie about that part. Why not? Why don't they show that part They are depressed. They uh they hate their work. They're cussing all week and complaining at the boss, waiting for the next weekend. What a life. Miserable. Miserable. It's all a lie No one living like that can find satisfaction. That old rock song was right. They can't get no satisfaction. You commit sin, the Bible says you are the slave of sin. You don't go up to sin, commit it, and walk away. No, it's got you now. Like a loan shark. It's got you. You can't keep control of your life when you sin. You lost it. Sin is not an individual act of disobedience. Sin is a spiritual force. It's a power. It's a controller. It's a master. And the Bible talks of it that way. People act like they can do whatever they want to go do. That's one of Satan's lies. They like to get drunk, have illicit sex, express a foul mouth, be lazy, lay around a house all the time, do what they want to do, boast of their freedom as they do, they're fools, and they're deceived, and they are enslaved. Those things own them, and those things ultimately will destroy them. This is not a pretty picture. You cannot live as you like. That is a lie. You are controlled. You're either going to be controlled by sin and Satan behind that, or you're going to be controlled by God. By the way, uh Dr. Ben Carson's been in the news a lot recently on the Fox News channel I think it was Greta Van Susteren. He said this, talking about America, he says, We're gradually just removing all the barriers to hedonistic activity. We're changing so rapidly to a different type of society and nobody is getting a chance to discuss it because it's taboo, even to talk about it. They shut us up so we won't even say, yes, homosexuality is wrong. No, you're not supposed to get naked on television. Stop it. No, we can't do that. We're haters and we're this, we're ignorant, we don't know anything and all this. So they shut the mouth of any any biological discussion. Any ethical discussion, any rational, factual study that's done to back up the things that we believe, even the quoting of Scripture. That's insane. That's so intolerant. Oh my goodness No, it's actually quite reasonable. They're the ones that are not being reasonable and moral. You know, they have businesses now which assist people in finding discrete adulterous relationships. Have a little fun, we'll help you. No shame for hurting the marriage, no shame for lying. It's good. Sin is only pleasurable for the moment. It's like a fish on a line. Got the worm, nice and juicy. Now you're going to feel the prick. And dragged to destruction. We cannot control sin. Only Christ can set us free from sin. I say it again: thanks be to Jesus Christ, the Savior The Savior of our souls. Amen. Romans 6:17. Thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. And having been freed from sin, listen, having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. A little quote from one of the commentaries, expositor's commentary, says, To be set free from obligation to serve sin means entrance upon the service of righteousness. There is no middle ground. No place in Christian experience where one is free to set his own standards and go his own way. So it is idle to object that on becoming a believer one is simply exchanging one form of slavery for another. There is no alternative. No one can say, however, that the two bondages are on the same plane. The one, the one slavery, is rigorous and relentless, leading to death. The other, slavery to righteousness, is joyous and satisfying, leading to life in people. Bring on slavery to righteousness Fifth and last. No, no, not last. Getting close to last. Spending life in malice and envy. Spending life just means this is the way that they lived, and we used to live. It's how they go about presently with their life. In malice and envy means in the sphere of malice and envy. What a terrible thing to live that way. Now that doesn't mean that every unbeliever hates everyone else out that is out there. Nor does it mean that they have the full expression of their hate towards every person, but it means they do have hate. They won't call it that, but they do have hate. Even those who preach tolerance are hypocrites, they have hate. They are malicious towards someone. They do show spite. They do show hate toward others. You ever think there's a really nice guy? Look at that unbeliever, it's a really nice guy. What a nice guy that is. All you have to do is put them in the right situation with the right light on them, and you'll see they have hate also. God will expose it in time. People do a very good job of masking the evil that is within. Don't be naive It'll come out when they're driving. You know, a mild mannered lady turns into a out of my way. It'll come out when they're at the football game. When they're shopping? Oh yeah. Shopping. And the salis? Phew. Taking advantage of others in the workplace, the hate comes out, positioning themselves as a nice guy, except for the one person they got to beat. For hogging things for themselves. Envy is the other sphere in which they live. Envy is a terrible sin. Envy eats people up. Envy never satisfies. Envy always wants more. You can't satisfy envy. People who struggle with this sin end up complaining when others don't do enough for them. They may be given a lot. But they want more. Because what? Because they're envious. Is that your soul? And then they brood and have a lot of self-pity because they don't get it. You know, envy is a sin that punishes itself. It only leads to more and more unhappiness. Envy leads to a tailspin ending in what? A pool of depression. Swimming in self-pity, that's tiring. Some people who have been diagnosed with a lot of lack of energy are simply dealing with the consequences of the sin of envy in their life over a long period of time. One way to expose the sin of envy is to ask someone who is depressed, what do you think about when you are depressed? And it comes up what they wish would have happened or what they wish they would have And so they see that they are envious. And envy is driving their depression. Self pitying people will often cry when you're talking to them or when they come to counseling, but their crying is manipulative, they want more pity. They are brooding. Dr. J. Adams, biblical counselor, wrote, Brooding is thought without action. It is self-talk that does not focus upon God's solutions. It can have only bad effects. When one broods over past problems, for instance, he allows that which is gone and has no existence except in his mind to make him miserable today. Past problems have no such power. What one does about them now determines his present state. When what he does is to brood in self-pity, he is making himself miserable. We used to be this way also. Sixth and last, hateful and hating one another, just kind of reaching a crescendo a climax with this description at the end. They're into self-protection, putting others down, doing whatever they have to do to advance their life, a vicious cycle of hate. Only God can free a soul from that Hate brings about divorce. And hate is not always called, oh, I love her, but we're not compatible anymore. No, you you have hate in your heart. Hate brings about unfair criticism of others because you're looking for every little fault that you can find in them without looking at the two or three or four huge beams in your own eye. Hate is what's behind prejudice, right? People that are different from you love them. No, they're different from me. I hate them. See? Hate is cold. Hate sees people in need and says, let someone else help them. That's what hate does. In all this description of the natural man, we must remember as we look out, and this is true of them, that this was true of who? Of us. We must remember that. We must be able to shed some tears for the lost. We must remember that we identify with them. We were that. You're angry at them? Love them. Reach them. Care for the lost. Help them. Help them see the error of the way. If they won't listen, don't get angry. They're going to have their own punishment. Just remember, this was me. I once was lost, but now I'm found. Amazing grace. Father, thank you for your grace. Thank you for your mercy. Thank you for your transformation of us. May we understand that transformation and the power of grace more. Even as we come, Lord, to celebrate around your table, bless us in our meditations in Christ's blessed name. Amen