That people know things and that's pretty dangerous most of the time. So um you might already know this, but maybe you don't I'm not here because I like to talk because this is easy It's kind of like giving birth to four people at the same time, I think. Writing a lesson and then presenting God's word. It's a very sobering, frightening thing. It's filled with joy, but it is extremely scary. Um so in Titus II Verse 3 in the Bible, in the New Testament, it says, Older women, I am an older woman. Likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers, or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good. And so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be reviled. So I am here in an attempt to teach you what is good. And anything that comes out of the Word of God is good. My um time with you this morning is going to be a little bit different because um I want to attempt with other people's testimonies to encourage you in um in prayer. This what I'm teaching about is not the gift of prayer, it is the spiritual gift of faith. And by God's grace you will understand the difference between saving faith, spiritual faith, and um focusing on um faith uh being put into action through prayer. Okay? So if you have any questions afterwards, please please ask me. And another thing that is so exciting is that we do have Pastor Dave that is overlooking the women's ministries. And he blessed us with an overview of the spiritual gifts and just the spiritual gifts, just to make sure that we are awake and learning And so if there's anyone younger than you, then you were an older woman also and you can teach too. Let's see what you know. So we're going to do a little call and answer. And just as a group, when I point to you, I want you to just say out loud and please don't be embarrassed if you say the wrong answer. Um, I want to see if you remember what you've been taught so far. Okay? And if you've if you don't know, then you can just listen and watch. Okay. So it'll be like this. I'll say Mary Christmas Try this again. New Year. All right, let's see how this goes. Alright. So, um just to just to bring you along, we're gonna do our our our lovely quiz and then I'm going to give you some some teachers' insights, uh not mine, someone else's, um about spiritual gifts and the differences, and then I'm going to have some testimonies at the end. Then we're going to close in prayer. Okay. So number one on your on your sheet of paper, um, each believer is given at least Blank gift. One gift. At least at least one gift. The blank blank determines who receives which gift. The Holy Spirit. We are to use our gifts to blank blank for the benefit of the body. To add a button. We are to use our gifts to serve others for the benefit of the body. Number four, each blank is equally valuable. Yes, each gift. We are blank to use our gifts. Commanded. We are commanded to use our gifts. Exercising our gifts must be done in spiritual service to God with sound judgment. Number seven. A spiritual gift is a God given ability for blank. Service service. Abilities can and must be blank by the one to whom they are given. Good. I did. Okay. Thank you. Number eight By the grace of God, a measure of grace is given to us to exercise our accordingly. Right. And these are not fill-in-the-blanks, but God's grace enables our gifts. God's grace empowers our gifts. God's grace enriches our gifts. So regarding spiritual gifts in general, I thought that this was a poignant and helpful quote from Pastor John Piper. Spiritual gifts are given so that others are less easily toppled by their afflictions. Have you ever felt toppled by your afflictions? Our afflictions put stress on our faith. I think we all know that. Piper points out that in Romans 1, 11 through 12, this is very interesting Paul is talking to the Christians in Rome and says, For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift. to strengthen you, that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, by yours and mine. Paul's not going to give them a spiritual gift. He's going to use his spiritual gift to strengthen them. I had never seen that before. Spiritual gifts are given to us that we may strengthen other people. We also get great benefit, but gifts are given to be given. Not hoarded, and Tom Piper says, or they will rot. The faith that every believer is given. Let's see here. So Ephesians two, eight and nine For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of I left out the word of, if you want to read it in, and this not of your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. 1 John 5, 4 through 5 For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? So what is the spiritual gift of faith that Paul is telling the Corinthians about? So let's review the verses. For to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit to another faith by the same spirit, and so on, and that's in 1 Corinthians 12, 8 through 9. Dr. Alan Plumley, our very own, says that the spiritual gift of faith is a special measure of trust in God intended to encourage others in the church. by word and example, to rely fully on God and in what He has promised. He explains that there are some certain convictions of those with strong faith, such as nothing is impossible with God. If you look at Jeremiah 32, 17, here's an example. Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth. By your great power and by your outstretched arm, nothing is too difficult for you. And also Jeremiah 32, 27, behold, I am the Lord. The God of all flesh is anything too difficult for me. God hears us when we pray according to His will. Another characteristic that certain people believe with great faith. Psalm four three. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly man for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him Psalm 10, 17, O Lord, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will strengthen their heart. You will incline your ear. God gives us what we ask for when we pray according to his will. If you look at 1 John 5, 16. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the request. which we have asked from him. And then finally, we need to be filled with the Spirit If you look at Acts 11, 22 through 24, the news about them reached the ears of the church at Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas off to Antioch Then, when he arrived and witnessed the grace of God, he rejoiced and began to encourage them all, with resolute heart, to remain true to the Lord. For he was a good man and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And considerable numbers were brought to the Lord. We need to live by faith. Romans 1, 16 through 17. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from face to face, as it is written, But the righteous man shall live by faith Also, this world is not our true home. Important to remember. Let's look at 2 Corinthians 5, 6 through 10. Therefore, being always of good courage and knowing that while we are absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord, therefore we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done whether good or bad. Uh Pastor Plumley gives us some examples of saints in the Bible. Paul in Galatians. Stephen in Acts and Barnabas in Acts, um, and possible applications um for using a spiritual gift of faith. is a persevering prayer warrior, a pioneering missionary, a visionary mission ministry leader, and someone who is undeterred by persecution. Paul Enns, who is in the Moody Handbook of Theology has a description of the gift of faith that I thought was very helpful if you can tune in. He says, the gift of faith is the faith which manifests itself in unusual deeds of trust. This person has the capacity to see something that needs to be done and to believe God will do it through him, even though it looks impossible. Stephen exhibited this gift as he was a man full of faith. Men such as George Mueller and Hudson Taylor are outstanding examples of those possessing the gift of faith. And finally, Alistair Begg. Raise your hand if you listen to Aleister Begg. Love him. Says this about the spiritual gift of faith. Faith is clearly not the faith of justifying faith or saving faith. It's a special endowment, a special something from God. It's a peculiar confidence, a peculiar boldness, and insurance in advance of the gospel It has been seen not only in apostolic times, but it is seen down through history. For example Do you not think that Hudson Taylor either was the most presumptuous of men or was granted such a gift of faith to believe that the unreached nation of China could be touched with the cause of the gospel? Do you not think that Mueller, in the founding of his orphanages, was granted a unique gift of faith to trust God for resources that were apparently beyond the human imaginations of men? And speaking of George Mueller, I have a wonderful quote from him. The province of faith begins where probability cease. And sight and sense fail. On the ground of our own goodness, we cannot expect to have our prayers answered, but Jesus is worthy. And for his sake, we may have our prayers answered. There is nothing too choice, too costly, or too great for God. To give him. He is worthy. He is a spotless, holy child who under all circumstances acted according to the mind of God. And if we trust in him, if we hide in him, if we put him forward and ourselves in the background, depend on him And plead his name, we may expect to have our prayers answered Um when I was talking to Pastor Dave about this lesson, he asked that I share um how I n knew that I had this spiritual gift of faith. And the um if I look back, I was saved when I was eight Um, and that's another story. I don't want to take time with that. Um, but I'll just say that the gospel was presented to me very simply and as an eight-year-old I got it. I got that I was a sinner And I got that I needed a savior and I understood it because of the grace of God. Um I Um didn't really understand a lot. I didn't have Christians around to me. My life was pretty um bad. Um but I would pray fervently for things and not stop. Now a lot of children, you know, are Can I, can I, can I, can I please please please write? And so I was like that with my heavenly father. Um and then I remember when I was about twenty-one Um there was a situation that needed much prayer and seemed very grave to me. And I thought, what can I do, dear Lord, to show you that I'm serious about this? Well people fast in the Bible So I'll try that. And that was a work in progress, understanding how I could fast according to my body and metabolism and give a sacrifice with my prayer life to the Lord. And um And there is a sense of pressure, I would say, for praying. Um, like I can't I cannot not pray. Um and I have nothing to do with it. I have absolutely nothing to do with it. In the middle of the night when I get woken up, my first thought is, you know, if I'm in pain, which is usually the case Um, I'm like, okay, dear Jesus, who do you want me to pray for? I never think that the pain that I experience is just my pain. Um and so And and there's there's joy in that. It's like, okay, God's at work and I need to get with the program and if it's two thirty AM and I'm in stinky pain, you know, what can I who who does who's God? is what's going on, dear Lord. What do you want me to pray for? Um I do not show up at every prayer meeting. There are a lot of the there's um very faithful, wonderful people that show up every single Sunday at 9, 10 in the morning to pray for all of you and everything that goes on. from the pulpit, et cetera, on Sundays. Um and many times I'm not there. I I'm not sometimes I don't even pray uh end up at my own prayer meeting. So um It doesn't look like that. It doesn't look like perfect a attendance at every prayer meeting. Um but there is um i you you just sense it that y that's what you're called to do and you do it and there's so much joy in it So, um, you know, COVID was really special in a lot of ways. Um and God did amazing works and I think that we we should all write an article on um what you saw God do in COVID in your part of the world Um because uh yeah, he did a lot. And one of the things that happened was that we all went online And um the ladies, um, we started praying uh three times a week from seven to eight in the morning on Zoom. Nobody knew how to use Zoom, probably besides Colleen. Um prior to that. Um And uh I didn't want to stop. God didn't want to stop in me, right? Um so Uh we uh I I didn't know if anybody would keep coming. I knew that there were um those of us like Sharon who weren't gonna go anywhere and dear Sharon is a social butterfly and it just about kills her to have to be in all the time and she'd show up. on that Zoom prayer meeting because she wanted to to be with everyone and and she loved to pray and um and I thought, well if it's just Sharon and I then here we go, dear Lord. I'm gonna do this as long as you tell me to keep doing it. And um and a lot of people weren't interested and that is that is totally fine. But um I would appreciate if All of the ladies, just for a moment, even if you're not going to share, who have been in that prayer meeting, if you come stand up here, just about at every single prayer meeting that there is Um and so um I've I asked Irina to share because um she does have also have the spiritual gift of faith. And I thought that it would be helpful to have another sister in Christ share how that's manifested itself. um through her. And then my other lovely girls here are going to share some stuff to encourage you about the prayer meeting. Um it's this is a joy. And and and I'm here and we're here because it's a joy. And when you walk in your spiritual gifts and you act it out, it's a joy, right? Um and and so I just pray that you are filled with joy. And if you if you pray, pray for prayer groups also. Right? Because um I I still don't know why we get up at seven o'clock in the morning, right? I mean it's crazy. And and sometimes we we take off, we'll take off for Thanksgiving and so forth. But Um, it's the Lord's work. It's the Lord's strengths. And and um yeah, and then um after after you all share, I'll I'll share a little bit more and then we'll close. Okay Uh for those of you that don't know me, I'm Derena Walker. And um The Lord um has truly worked in my life. He has truly given me the gift of faith. Hebrews 11. 1 says, now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, conviction of things not seen. Things can look totally, totally dark, totally crazy, totally like there is no way this situation can be any different. But in my heart, I see it totally different. What I see before me, whether it's a situation with my family And there are dark things happening right now within my family. It does not cloud nor diminish my faith in what God can do. James 1, 3 says, because you know the testing of your faith produces perseverance, when I'm asking God for something. It is in his perfect will that he will answer. It does not have to be what I want it to be. But I trust him enough to know that his perfect will is what it should be. So that helps me to persevere, to continue on to the day that he removes me from this earth. All believers in Christ Have a s we we're given a shaven faith. God gives us that through salvation But the spiritual gift of faith is given to some of us. These individuals will exhibit a strong, unshakable confidence in God, His Word, and His promise. Does it mean perfection? By s no means are we perfected in this, because Christ Himself is the only true perfection. Doesn't mean we don't get shaken, but when it happens to me and something happens severely or whatever. I might feel shaken for a bit, but then I remember who God is. And I won't stay there. I won't stay in that place of doubt of fear or any of that. I he brings me out of that. And it's not of my own doing. It's not. It's totally not. I take no credit for this Because it's all God and I know it's all Him. I know it's His sovereign will over what happens in this world. Because during COVID And all of the craziness around us and talking to people and talking to my friends and family, uh always he always brings it back to mind that Deren, I'm sovereign over all of this. So these politician all this stuff that's happening in the world It really not that I do don't have compassion for it or whatever is going on, but it really does not shake me because my trust comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. That's it. He is The true dominion over everything. And so with that, I rest assured in all of this of one life throws us. So during prayer, prayer will help us to alleviate anxiety. We gain more confidence. When we have confidence, that alone will increase our faith. And that's why I love to come together with these women that we do Monday, Wednesday, Friday and pray together because we have seen the results of our prayers. We have seen the results of his answers to our prayers. And that When we pray words of faith, it can change things into according to the will of God. If it's the will of God. If we pray it, he hears it, and if it lines up with what he wants, then that's what will happen Prayer invites God into our daily lives. Prayer helps us to understand the will of God. In the book of Matthew, Matthew accounts that Jesus took the time to teach us how to pray. Prayer is important to growing your faith. Prayer helps us to alleviate anxiety and we gain more confidence. When we have more confidence, that alone increases our faith. So ladies, I encourage you To pray, to pray, pray, pray, pray. When you wake up and you have nothing else to do, because like Diane said, that's what I do immediately. But I find myself at fault I don't pray for myself that much at all. And then God reminds me, Dereny, it's okay to pray for yourself as well, because I'm thinking of each and every one of you. Because not along with the gift of faith, I have the gifts of mercy. And I think about you all when the prayers are posted on Hope Book I truly care. And that's not my own doing either. He gave it to me. So I encourage you all to pray. And your faith will strengthen. Thank you. And I guess it was about a year ago. Um, it was a women's event and I remember it being in the evening and I think the whole focus of it was prayer And I remember Diane standing up and talking about this three-day week prayer. You can't hear me? Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. Oh yeah. Is that better? Okay. So at this gathering about prayer, um Diane mentioned the first time that I knew about about a group of women who meet on Zoom for prayer three days a week. I got really excited just hearing about that. And so I asked Hong how do I join into the Zoom? I mean, I was teaching virtually so I understood Zoom. I wasn't intimidated by it and all, but you know, getting on a prayer line with women, I see these these great women of faith was a little intimidating. But Diane was like the first face I saw and she was so welcoming and all of my anxiety was like And I remember that first I got through the prayer that first day and I said, you know, I'm gonna make this a habit because As a teacher, I know that you get better at anything that you do more of. And prayer is something that I've always wanted to get better at. So I'm like This is going to be on my calendar, I'm going to make this a habit. And so now, I don't know how long I've been part of this, but every Monday and Wednesday I so look forward to it. I have my coffee ready and when I get to my laptop and I click on that link and I see these faces. It is so it's like putting on a warm bathrobe. It is so it is so comforting. I'm sorry. But it is. Thank you. And we usually have to left the robes on the fans. Alright, um, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, but it I would encourage you to to be a part of it. It just has so increased my faith And just to know that these ladies are praying for me as I am learning how to care for my mom amid this this p stage of life where I have to take care of my mom and just learning from them, patience and just knowing that they're people who are praying for me. It is wonderful. So thank you for allowing me to share Um okay. So I joined this prayer meeting um back during COVID because I thought how can the church operate as a church if we don't even know what's going on with one another. I mean God put us here to to be together. Um and then after that, um Diane continued it 'cause the Lord put on her heart just to keep going. And um so I stayed, um, because I I wanted to be a part of it and because I wanted to develop certain disciplines. I am not a morning person. Those of you guys, if you've ever seen an email from me, if you get it at one AM in the morning, it's because I'm still up Um I just so I wanted to develop the just the discipline of getting up in the morning and praying. But I'm also not very good with corporate prayer. Um, so I wanted to grow in that area too. But it has really been just a blessing to walk through life literally with these women, um, knowing what's going on in their lives and seeing answered prayer. And um seeing the younger women where Caitlin joins in who's back there and Donna Sparza um who's sick today. But um just hearing them and their season of life and how they're trusting in the Lord And um and then I don't know if you guys have ever heard Sharon Armstrong read scripture, but I'll I'll cry if I think too much about it. Um, because when she reads scripture it's like you can just hear her trust in the Lord. It's its experience, a long experience of the Lord, and it just comes out as she reads. So I too would just encourage you guys um to join us in the morning. Um I'm only there on Monday, I'll be honest, because I as I said I'm not a morning person, it's a struggle for me. But I've been able to commit to Mondays for the most part. Um So uh Dawn did send me a beautiful testimony of why um She likes to join us um in prayer also. And um I'm not going to do it justice. Um So uh she can she can share with you, but there was um there was some words in there about us being older And and and and all of that. Um but i uh so um Yeah, so uh about that I I did want to to say uh again, please continue to prayer for pray prayer pray for prayer meetings Um because it's a spiritual warfare. And it's serious. And we're human And we're ladies and we can get into each other's business. Right? And we can hurt each other and step on each other's toes and everything like that. So uh be let's let's be awake So um it was so funny, Karen asked me, what's the name of your prayer group? And um I said it's gonna be awake. Awake. Yes Yeah. And um just just to let you know, uh sometimes we um a lot of times we have to turn the the video off. And we mute, you know, and and you don't have to say anything. You get so encouraged by what the Holy Spirit is doing in other people. And and how the Holy Spirit is is working there. So my dear hong um has a wonderful tool that she's going to introduce to you in prayer. Okay. So I love tools. Tool accomplished thing. in a way that uh most affected. So I went to an ADBC conference in um October Um A C B C Conference is a conference for counselors and we would train and they have um sessions and they have classes that you can take and breakout sessions and one of the breakout sessions So I went through is teaching your counsel how to pray the scripture. When I heard that, I was like I'm there I went in that class, this pastor was giving us the reason why we should pray and things like that. And the thing that captivates my heart the most is a prayer book And then this prayer book is according to um it divide into um sections according to the acronym Act. Adoration confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. And each of the of the sections, when I used to do it, I wrote my prayer out. Page after page after page of woodlet. But this pastor has shown me that he wrote scriptures for that section. And wake up in the morning the first thing he does he open that section, adoration, scripture in front of your face. And he read it and that is just encouraging prayer. And we pray according to scriptures. Now according to your word. And I came home. I got so excited. I got my prayer books. And thanks to one of my special friends, she got me a book. So I got a book going. Let me go show you. I got my book. Got my name on it. If you ever get lost, come back to me. The first section is Adoration. And they have two verses on it Mm-hmm. And I date it. And what it does is when you pray scriptures, is remind you how great God is. So in the morning I woke up And sleepy I said, Who is like you, Lord among the dogs? My soul Now, who is like you majestic and who is awesome and glorious doing awesome work? Your soul awake. Awake your soul, right? And then it's awake your soul. And then you come and you pray and then you say, Whoever can steal his transgression will prosper will will prosper. But he who confess and forgive them will obtain blessings. Like, come on, please. I'm down on my ground confessing my sin, right? And then after that you're confessing your sins and you add verse, you read the Bible and say, Oh, that's worse than being here, confession. I wrote it on my Bible. And then you come over and you think Give thanks to all circumstances for this is the will of God and Christ is it for you. Well you want to thank yes you want to thank God, right? So add birth into it, add birth into it, and then supplication And supplication part I have prayer I have for the church. And then I have J for Jeff, L for Lillian, and N for Noah And every one of my children, instead of writing down the the like prayer mommy said, I wrote down the verse for them and they dated. So this when I go to heaven I can't take this a little bit. My grandchildren can have a legacy of what is life always praying for them. And guess what? This book I'm so excited I got eight of this This side pack right here. For spouse, grandchildren. Bow grandchildren Very nice. But you'll take it in your heart. I take it in my heart. And what he does when you pray scriptures And when you wake up at night, you praise for it and God answer because that's his word. And so that's what you do So I'm encouraging you, a tool. Just like cleaning, Julie said it's a tool. It is a tool to clean your heart. So you're not selling those books, you're not No selling. You can get this for nineteen ninety-nine. All right. You make your own, whatever way you want it. Okay? As big as small as you want. Thank you. Um and I forgot to mention that dear Caitlin also um has uh shared some wonderful testimony. So can you raise your hand, Caitlin? Thank you. Yeah, so um I I think she also has the spiritual gift of faith. And um if you would love to learn about how the Lord is working through her. That would be great. Um and she's added um uh little babies to the Zoom meeting, which is so so much fun. So much fun. Um so uh another encouraging thing Please, it is November, next week is Thanksgiving. Please get yourselves a Bible reading plan for 2023. Yeah. And if you feel so motivated to start now, um then start now. But um and I will I'm sorry, I will say it over and over and over again You know, you don't think about, well, today I'm not gonna wake up and brush my teeth. No. Because you've been doing it your whole life. Or today I'm not going to drink water. Or it unless you're fasting, today I'm just not going to eat. I don't need to eat. I don't need to drink water. It's ridiculous. You need God's word. He's been really clear about that. If you were in the Lord, you it should Man does not live by bread alone, but everywhere. Right, and so there is a special Communion with the Lord that happens when it's you alone and his word. It does not happen when you listen to Alistair Begg or John Piper or anyone else on your way to work. That does not happen when you listen to WRBS or WAVA or anybody else. It doesn't it's not the same Jesus died for you as an individual, rose from the dead for you as an individual, gave you as an individual his Holy Spirit. He wants to be with you as an individual with his word. That's why it's so important to have a Bible reading plan. You won't even think about it. You just get up. Okay, I don't Let me just read. Okay, I'm in Genesis, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Good, okay. I didn't get all the way through. Alright. Well, I still started. You know? And just just to get that in your life so it's not even a I have to make a decision about this. It's just an automatic. I'm just teaching you what is good what I've been taught. So I um this morning happen to be in the book of Ecclesiastes in my Bible reading plan. Um And in in seven it says, a good name is better than precious ointment in the day of death than the day of birth. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. For this is the end of all mankind, and the living will lay it to heart. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by sadness of face the heart is made glad. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. So those are some heavy, interesting verses from Ecclesiastes. And um several of us are about to go attend um the memorial service for a godly, cheerful, wonderful, sweet woman, Isabel Ghobi. And support Monica and Kevin and their children. And I thought that we could pray together for that. So if you want to bow your heads. Dear Heavenly Father, you're so kind. You're so So kind. Thank you, dear Jesus, for for giving us this time together, for giving us your word, Lord. Your ways are higher than our ways and your thoughts are higher than our thoughts, dear God. We would never think that it's better to go into the house of mourning. We would never think that God that you say this. You tell us why, dear Lord, because we're all going to end this way. We're all going to die. And to be at a funeral or a memorial service helps us lay the heart What we're doing in our lives. How will people remember us? Dear Lord, we would never think that sorrow is better than laughter. But you say this is true because it grows us, dear Lord. We are so thankful for laughter But we understand that there's great value in sorrow. Dear Jesus, you teach us that you have made all life. That you've ordained all of our days, that you knit us behind and before, dear Jesus that those that are called yours y you have a book called the book of life and you wrote each one of our names in it before you even created the world Thank you, dear Jesus. Thank you, dear Jesus, for the gift of life. Thank you, dear Jesus, that as saved ones There is celebration of our lives at our funerals. And it all points to your glory, God. We thank you, dear Jesus, that we can be together and encourage one another, God. We thank you, dear Lord, that You tell us the joy of you. The joy of the Lord is our strength. I pray, dear Jesus, that for every lady here this morning That they they would understand more, that I would understand more, that the joy of you is our strength, dear God. I pray, dear Lord, that we would walk in that truth, rest in that truth, no matter how bad our circumstances are right today, or how good they are Thank you, Jesus, for giving us hope and life and joy. In your sweet holy name. Amen.