Title of this message today, The Foolishness of Educated Unbelievers Seeing the word foolishness and the word educated in the same sentence might be a bit perplexing to some people, some groups of people even. If you're a person who is considered to be an educated person, you certainly don't think that your education brought you any foolishness. We feel that it has helped you out, it has caused you to succeed in life, it's brought you wisdom. I think some might concede that an educated person could lose his mind for a moment Could uh fall in love, have a romance, take over his thinking. But we would say that that's out of character for that person Some binge they might go on. Yeah, they did that, but that's not really a product of their education. That's contrary to what they were taught But what I mean by that title and by this topic is that people can be educated. In fact, they can be thoroughly educated in the finest schools and still be utter fools. They are unbelievers, not because they got a better education, not because they're more scientific, not because they're more well-read necessarily, or better versed in human history. Than Christians or believers are, but because something has happened to their thinking at a foundational level, it has gone astray at the very base of their thinking. They're not stupid, I'm not saying that. They might be brilliant men in one sense, a very high IQ, or women with a supreme intellect. It's not their mental and intellectual faculties that I'm talking about. They probably are working just fine But the spirit within them that controls the conclusions and guides that intellectual process inside of them, that is folly. And has turned aside to folly. Now you and I know that it is very true that faith on the one hand, religion, faith, and education and the intellect and reason on the other hand have been pitted against each other Some might respect religion for its feeling, its fervor, but not for its intellect. Today, however, I hope that you will see that a lack of faith in the true God actually stands against reason. To not have faith, in other words, to be an unbeliever is not reasonable. And I hope you will at least begin to see that Often we Christians have been made to feel intellectually inferior. Have you ever been in one of those conversations? Something gets raised by someone who obviously seems to know a lot and you're standing there going, uh, I know that's not true, but I don't know what to say. You feel frustrated and angry and maybe even confused and maybe even affect your faith from time to time. It's happened to me. Often we are meant to feel inferior. Well today's message I hope will give you a bit of a boost, a little bit of encouragement, a little shot in the spiritual arm to get you out there and say, you know what? Maybe I can speak up from my faith a little more. Today is an apologetic message. That does not mean we're teaching you how to apologize for your faith. So sorry that I'm a Christian. I'm so sorry. I believe in the Bible. No, please don't do that. Apologetics is the companion of evangelism. You know what evangelism is. It's the proclamation of what? The good news. The gospel. Everyone should know that. Evangelism is the proclamation of the good news. Jesus came into the world to save sinners. He died on a cross to save us from our sins. He bodily, historically, literally rose from the dead. He has power over death. Put your trust fully and completely in him, and he will deliver you in the end. And give you paradise. That's the good news. Well, apologetics comes alongside that, and when the skeptic says, I don't know why you should believe in the Bible, I don't see a good reason to believe in Jesus Christ, and provides the reason Apologetics tells why we believe what we believe. I firmly believe that when all the arguments are analyzed and boiled down, there isn't one valid argument against the true Christian faith. Not even one. Not one. Behind every objection to Christianity, as you analyze it, is either a lot of misinformation about what the Bible actually says, what Jesus actually did, what Christianity actually says versus just some group of churches Misinformation. Sometimes it's just poor logic that is used against Christianity. If they turn that same kind of logic against the things they believe, it would fall apart. So they really don't want to argue or reason that way Other times it's just false assumptions they start with. They start with something they believe to be true, but that's false. And then the reason from that, and well if their assumption was true, then I guess Christianity would be false. But if that assumption is not true, well what does that do to the objection? Kind of eliminates it. The basic false assumption, I believe, that mankind begins with, we like to call these presuppositions, by the way Something you suppose from the beginning before the argument starts. And often people are not even aware of what their presuppositions are. You and I should be. We're Bible-believing Christians, we believe what we believe because the Bible says so, that's our presupposition, and we get mocked for that all the time. But often other people don't even know what their presuppositions are. You talk to them and you realize somewhere in the middle of the conversations they don't really know what they believe or why they believe They just have been so used to criticizing Christianity. No one's really ever challenged them. How can you possibly say and believe what you believe? But I think the basic presupposition to all the objections against Christianity Or at least most in our society, I should put it that way, is the gr and it's the grid of modern education, I believe, at all levels, from elementary school all the way up to the highest levels of education, and that is this presupposition. You ought to be thinking for yourself. That doesn't sound bad, does it In fact, we have been told that. Don't let someone else tell you what to believe. Think for yourself. That sounds. Right, that sounds exactly on target. I mean that's sort of the basis of education, right? If you let someone else think for you, then you could be guided in a wrong direction. What could possibly be wrong with think for yourself? It sounds so good But um here's a news flash for many people. From the very beginning that mankind was put on this earth, we were never intended to think for ourselves. We weren't. Yes, we were intended to be rational beings. We were intended to think. We were given a brain. We were supposed to learn. We were supposed to be logical. But never was reason supposed to be supreme to guide us alone. The human race was created by a greater being with a greater mind and greater reason. That being gave us not just a rational capacity to think, but also gave us a clear and cogent revelation of truth. He from his mind, and that's what revelation is, God revealing things from his mind to the mind of a lesser mind, that is the mind of mankind, and saying, This is the truth. Now I made you you wouldn't know this from the beginning. Your brain and your experience won't allow you to know this, but I, in my graciousness, will reveal this truth to you. And that's been our place since the very beginning. Revelation is God revealing his mind, his plan of salvation, his future for this world to man, telling him things he could not know. From the very beginning, even before we sinned, it was true that mankind was limited. We didn't know ultimate truth except By being given words from God, and those words from God that God spoke to the first man, Adam, that is revelation. So we were created to be dependent in our thinking. And a lot of people don't even ever question that assumption. Now that might not boost our egos because we like to to think that we can think independently of anything and arrive at the truth, but if you just study the history of philosophy, it's kind of all run into a dead end, hasn't it? Everyone's just sort of run into a dead end and everyone agrees that nobody really knows what the truth is. The best minds have attempted and they've failed and it's all run aground in uh a sea of different opinions that everybody says is equally valid Well doesn't that just prove with the best attempts by the best men and women down through the centuries that uh they don't know. Do you know it was Satan? The adversary of God, that's what the name Satan means, who came alongside the first woman and ultimately the man there in the garden. And his message was basically this: don't Listen to God. Think for yourself. God said you'll die. You're not gonna die. And then Eve began a process that led her to destruction and death. She looked at the tree on her own, the forbidden fruit. She began to think And her capacity in her mind of thinking was fine, but now she was thinking independent of divine revelation, thinking that that process would lead her somewhere. And it did lead her somewhere. It led her to death. We're going to find in our text today, 1 Corinthians 3, verses 18 through 20, that God is not real impressed with the independent thinking process of mankind. He never intended us to do this. We're going to get his perspective on human education that is done apart from divine revelation. Just what does he think of all of that? Is he impressed by it? We're just going to read. It's just a few verses It's going to be pretty clear to you. We're going to expound a little bit on that and learn some lessons from it today. 1 Corinthians 3, 18 to 20. Would you focus on that with me, please? Let no man deceive himself. Interesting how that starts. If any man among you thinks that he is wise in this age, he must become foolish so that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written. He is the one who catches the wise in their craftiness. And again, the Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are what? Useless. This text is really about foolishness of those inside the church at Corinth. There were some inside the church at Corinth that had embraced a foolishness Foolish worldly wisdom, and it was causing divisions and problems within the church at Corinth, and Paul has been laboring to battle against that now for about three chapters. He's dealing with this internal problem in Corinth of divisions. But it all starts with worldly thinking And worldly thinking, of course, originates out in the world. So they took the unbelieving mindset, brought it into the church, and it fractured the church and caused all kinds of problems. And so it's really the wisdom of educated unbelievers being adopted into the church that was causing the church problem. And as long as those inside the church valued wisdom outside of the church, unity would never happen within God's church. So I want to use this to show you not just that we ought to keep that worldly thinking out of the church, but to show you the foolishness of that kind of education anyway. Which unfortunately drives much of the church's thinking, even in modern times. The thinking of God's people, you see, must be correct, or we're not going to be able to correct anyone out there if we are worldly in our mindset. We begin with you, and we let you pass that on to those outside. Two very simple and direct components to God's message to man here. Two simple and direct components to God's message. First, God's commands. Second, God's reasons. God's commands and God's reasons. Alright, you can follow that. Let's look at God's commands first. Notice back verse 18. Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you thinks that he is wise in this age, he must become foolish so that he may become wise. There are two exhortations there, two commands. To those who think that they know, to those who think that they're wise, to those that think they've been lifted up by human thinking and education, to the wise of this world, to the wise of this age He says, let no man among you deceive himself. And then he also says, let him become foolish so he can become wise. Those are the two commands. Don't deceive yourself, become a fool. Those are the two commands that God has for them. They're both, in the imperative mood, in the Greek, they're both commands from God. And these commands were necessary because of that worldly mindset of the Corinthians. John Calvin writes of this, Paul puts his finger upon the true sword. That they were wise in their own conceit. That was the Corinthian problem. All the rest of their flesh and all this comes from this. Well, let's look at the first command. Let no one deceive himself The man being referred to as anyone in general has reference to people in the in the church advocating some kind of worldly teaching or following that teaching or mindset. Notice that Paul writes, any man among you, so he's talking about within the church, it's penetrated the church. But the commands, I think, are also general enough to extend anyone. If anyone thinks that they know, if anyone thinks that they're wise, then they need to become fools. They need to make sure they're not deceived by themselves. The verb deceive here, ex apotato, is used a number of times in the New Testament. It's used in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 3, where Paul writes, let no one in any way deceive you. That's a good exhortation, right? You don't want to be deceived. And he says, Don't let anyone deceive you in any way. In that Thessalonian passage there were those that were giving wrong information about the end times. Second Corinthians eleven and verse three, that same verb is used Where Paul writes, I'm afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. Also in Romans 16 and verse 18 it says, For such men, speaking of false teachers, are slaves not of our Lord Christ, but of their own appetites. And by their smooth and flattering speech they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting. But here Paul isn't saying, don't let false teachers deceive you, don't let Satan, the crafty serpent, deceive you, don't let other people deceive you. Here he's saying, Don't let who? You self-deceive yourself. Don't fool yourself. You see, not just deception is a problem for the church, but self-deception is a huge problem, not only for the church, but even greater for those outside in the world. You ever watched American Idol? I'm not saying you should. I'm just saying that if you have ever watched this show, and I have, it is a perfect illustration of self-deception. Now I don't know how to sing I really don't know how to sing that well. If I'm next to someone who's good, I can possibly blend in with them. But you know the thing about me is I know that I can't sing. These people will stand in front of a national audience and then they will do what they call singing and even after what's his name, Simon tells them the brutal honest truth about it, they still think they know how to sing. That my friends is self-deception. And that's funny when it comes to singing, or maybe sad, but when it comes to the eternal things about who you are and what God thinks of you and where you're headed for eternity and how safe you are before God, to have self-deception in that area, that's to ruin your whole life That's serious stuff. Oh, how we can convince ourselves something is true because of our own foolishness God warns, when it comes to ultimate truth, let no one deceive you. Don't do that. It will lead to eternal ruining. Notice the personal self-deception is that he thinks that he is wise concerning the truth. That indeed was quite the problem in Corinth. They really did think that they were wise. They really did. And just turn to a couple of verses so you can see Paul repeating this theme over and over here. 1 Corinthians chapter 8, if you'd flip there real quickly, keep your finger in chapter 3. 1 Corinthians 8 verse 2. He says that again, if anyone supposes that he knows anything, he has not yet known as he ought to know. Now why do you keep finding these kinds of statements here in the Corinthian epistles? Keep going to chapter fourteen and verse thirty-seven. You have to keep up with me when we do it. 1437. There in the context of worship in the local church, he says, if anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual Let him recognize that the things that I write to you are the Lord's commandments. Some guys stand up and saying, you know, I'm a prophet of the Lord. I'm a spiritually minded guy. Paul says, You think you're that way, then I want you to recognize the stuff I'm writing you here is the Lord's commandment. It's of the Lord. So there were a lot of people there that thought that they arrived in knowledge that they knew. And of course they were following the Greek mentality of the day. There are many like that today, aren't there? But of course they appear a little more balanced, and that's just gonna come right out and say, I know ultimate truth No, they appear to be open-minded people, discoursing, sitting in a circle in a s a news venue discussing different opinions. These are balanced people, modest people. Their minds are wide open, truth have analyzed, considered everything, and what they believe, what they know, well that's That's good, that's soft. They really appear to be that way. They really sound like they're that way. It's kind of interesting. Are they really that way? A lot of professors in school are that way, are they not? They want to help their students open their minds and discover what is true. So that means they've already mastered that side of things. Yes, they are very open-minded. They've considered everything with a balanced and equal heart. Or so they would have you believe. If you confront them honestly with the truth of Scripture, you'll find out how quick their minds slam shut. You know, uh there are people that can appear to be humble and balanced and reasonable and not be that way at all. And it comes out in different ways And I think that spirit of I already know is alive and well today. How many people truly have a humble mind What is the definition of a humble mind? It's a mind that doesn't think more highly of itself than it ought to think. It's a mind that when it bumps into a greater mind says, you know, you know and I don't. That's a humble mind. How many people are really like that before God and his mind? So what is a person like this to do? What's the command for him? God has the second command there. Don't just avoid self-deception, but second, go ahead and become a fool. The command is be a fool. That's kind of strange to find in the Bible, isn't it? The Bible tells people, be a fool. See, I told you the Bible was anti-intellectual. There it is again. It doesn't care anything about evidences and thinking, and it's just telling everybody, be a fool. Well, I suppose you could get the Bible to be just about anything you want if you twisted the context Somewhere in the Bible it says, curse God and die. Is that good advice? Came from Job's wife, who was sort of fed up with trusting in God and his providence, and just decided the whole thing was wrong. Scripture is not advocating that. Another place says, eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we what? We die. Is that the advice Scripture gives? No, that's the vanity of life. Ecclesiastes is exposing Here, when we're told be a fool, it has a context, and the context is someone who thinks he knows better than God knows, who thinks that his human philosophy and education has lifted him above divine revelation That he and his word and his knowledge and the people that taught him is more reliable than God's word. To that person, God through Paul says, you need to become a fool. So that you can become wise. What do you mean? What does that mean, become a fool to become wise? Well, first you have to admit that you don't know the truth. In other words, you're going to have to renounce your own wisdom. What you've got to this time in your life, I don't care whether you're 20, 30, 40, 50, whatever your age is, you've got to this point in life, you're going to have to become a fool if you're going to learn anything at all. You've got to start all over Charles Hodge in his commentary says, Let him renounce his own wisdom in order that he may receive the wisdom of God. We must be empty in order to be filled We must renounce our own righteousness in order to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ. We must renounce our own strength in order to be made strong. We must renounce our own wisdom in order to be truly wise This is a universal law, he writes, and it is perfectly reasonable. We are only required to recognize that to be true, which is true. We would not be required to renounce our own righteousness, strength, or wisdom if they were really what they assume to be. It is simply because they are, in fact, worthless that we are called upon so to regard them Second, a man in order to be a fool to become wise has to submit his mind to divine revelation. You know, intellectual pride will not bow to divine revelation, will it? So one of the biggest problems, people, they don't want to bow their mind, their intellect, to some other person's conclusions, be it God or anyone. But the human mind is commanded to yield to the divine mind, or it will never come to know the truth. In fact, God in other places has said he shuts out the wise that they may not know. Christ praised the Father that he revealed his truth to the babes and he hid it from the wise or those who thought that they were wise. Listen, revelation from God does not eliminate human wisdom. Revelation from God does not eliminate, I should say, human reason. Rather, it establishes human reason. There is no sane, useful human reason unless it is founded upon divine revelation Human reason, human education can only rise to its fullest potential underneath revelation, not over it, judging it, trying to decide whether or not they like it or not The human mind that thinks independent of God, God says, is a foolish mind. And that is why, brothers The Church of Jesus Christ must be a place where the scriptures reign preeminent because the scriptures alone bring to us what? The mind of God, the thoughts of God We have to be people who live and think underneath the authority and the clarity and teaching of Holy Scripture. For wherever Scripture does not reign supreme, the only thing that can replace it is worldly wisdom. The worldly wisdom that Paul shows here divides and damages the church. Without the Bible as our unity, everyone will have their own ideas. There will always be strife. There will eventually be fracture and division. The Church cannot unify under the ecumenical movement simply because of goodwill and the desire to put churches together It must think the same, and it must think the same as the head of the church, Jesus Christ. And the only way we think the same and think the same with Christ is to think scripturally So the atmosphere of the church must be biblical. When we come in, it must sound biblical, it must smell biblical. Everything about it must be biblical. Scripture, scripture, and more scripture. It must be emphasized, it must be examined, it must be exegeted, it must be exposited, it must be expressed, It must be made sensal to everything that we do in church It is the only way to replace our foolish thinking with God's. It is the only way to be sanctified. Alan's going to get into that in the next couple of weeks. It's the only way to have your mind renewed John MacArthur writes, if a congregation were to have ten men with doctorates who were only nominal in their commitment to the Lord and to his word, and ten other men who had only finished high school but who were completely sold out to the Lord and steeped in his word, it should not be hard to decide which ten were most qualified to lead the church. By God's standards, it would be no contest. Having members who are highly talented and trained can be of considerable help to a church, but only if those who possess such abilities are submitted to the truths and standards of Scripture Christ will rule and unify his church if he is given pure channels committed to his word through whom to mediate that rule. Third thing that a man must do to become a fool to in order to become wise is they have to accept what you yourself Listen, you have to accept what you yourself may think to be foolishness, or you'll never become one. Even in your own mind, you may be reading of something in scripture, and you're like, it can't be. What's God's message to you? Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on what? Your own understanding. Your own understanding can't help you. And all your ways acknowledge him and he will direct your path. You come to something that doesn't make any sense to you, and you're sure God has said it, it doesn't matter that it doesn't make sense to you. Or to me. We're not the standard. Fourth, you're gonna have to go in a direction that doesn't have a lot of prestige to it. By embracing God's wisdom, you're going to embrace what he calls from this very passage earlier the wisdom of the cross. The wisdom of the cross. The cross. The wisdom of the Savior. Executed as a common criminal, faraway land, to save the sins of all of mankind. It's the message. That's the message God has. It's a purposeful message to humble mankind. If mankind's not willing to receive that message, God will have nothing to do with that. It's a message that is intended to humble. There's nothing prestigious about dying on the cross or picking up a cross and following after Christ Nothing prestigious about it at all. Do you remember the way of the cross already that we've learned in chapter 1? Chapter 1 verse 18, for the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. So you're going to have to adopt a wisdom that you know most of the people around you consider to be foolish. And God is going to force you to do that. That's what you have to do. First Corinthians 1. 21. God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. Is that all you're going to tell me about Jesus? I mean is that it? It's just the same old Jesus, Jesus, is and Jesus did this and Jesus did that. Yep, that's the same foolish message we've always had. Yeah, and and the God's commanding you to accept. 1 Corinthians 1, 22, 23, for indeed Jews ask for signs. That's great. Give us miracles. Give us something that spins in the sky. That'd be wonderful. Greeks search for wisdom. Let's sit down and let's just expend ourselves and Let's evaluate everything ourselves. And God said, gee, I'm going to give you what you want. That would be good marketing. He said, we preach Christ crucified. And God knew ahead of time to the Jews it would be a what? Stumbling block. And to the Greeks it would be what? Foolishness. It's the message God said, I'm going to give them anyway. One of the biggest problems with people coming to Christ, becoming Christians, becoming born again, giving up their life, accepting the Bible as true, is not the intellectual arguments. That's the facade. Well, you know, the Bible has changed and it has all kinds of contradictions in it. It's an old book and we've advanced beyond all that. That's charade. It's that they don't want to look stupid or uneducated or uncultured to others. Family members, friends, colleagues, whatever. It's their pride, beloved. It's their pride. God demands it to die before some would come to Christ. But God invites the person prone to self-deception to kill his pride. There'll be great, great benefits after that. The pathway to true wisdom is to reject the wisdom of those around you and go with God. And go with God's revelation. So you see there's an emptying process. The people of the world must go through. They must rid themselves of their wrong presuppositions, their wrong starting points, their base thinking, and fill themselves with God's truth and trust his mind. Remember that challenging verse at the beginning here where Paul said, Where is the wise man? Now he wasn't trying to seek him out to sit at his feet and learn him. He was giving a challenge. Where are they? What do they really know? Where are the wise men? Where is the scribe, that student? That great professor. Where is the debater of this age, the person eloquent and speaking to bring us all to the truth? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? Give up your wisdom. Don't be self-deceived. Embrace the foolishness of the cross. Then you will have wisdom This is what God tells us to do. These are God's commands. Now let's learn God's reasons. Second half, verses 19 and 20. Notice. What are the reasons? Why should we not deceive ourselves and become fools so we may become wise? For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. Stop there. That's it. There's the reason. That's what God says. Why should we do this? Because for the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. There's a reason. That's what you're going to get. That's the reason to obey. Ah, there's no fantastic argument here. There's no long list of Christian virtues and evidences of the faith. There's no complicated logical syllogism. He just says you should do this because, well, the world's wisdom is foolishness to God. Do you hear what's going on there? Paul's bringing us right back to the only standard that gives us any certain knowledge at all. Again, not us, but God. If God, you say that sounds so circular, well, it always goes back to God. If God says that's foolishness, there's no one better to ask whether it is or it isn't. If he says it is, it is. How come? Because he knows. And because he said it. And that's it. So that's it. That's it. So I have to give up my thinking. Yes, you'd have to give up your thinking. And you have to go with God. That's faith. That's trust in God. And it's reasonable. You say, is that all there is to the Christian faith? Listen, there's lots of evidences to the Christian faith. There's fulfilled prophecy that you can read, you can know that it was said ahead of time. You can see that there is fulfillment, and there it is right there in Scripture. fulfilled prophecy. We even see that and going on now, possibly in the Middle East, with Israel coming back to the land. There are archaeological finds that show the accuracy of Scripture. There's evidence for the resurrection. As you examine the accounts, they look very, very genuine. Even to people who are unbelievers, they look at them and analyze them and say, Wow, these men were really changed by their belief in a resurrection. Something happened there There are irrefutable arguments for the existence of God. As soon as you deny the existence of God, you fall into irrationality and you fall into impurity, and so you can't deny the existence of God without falling into error. There is the great unity of Scripture sixty-six different documents that were written over 1,500 different years, and they're all giving us the same unified message. What kind of a mind did that can you find any other book at all like that throughout human history? There are the changed lives of people, people that we know. There's the insight of scripture in the science before the scientific age and into human nature itself. The evidence goes on and on and on to help us with the weakness of our faith. But that's not what God gives here He just goes right to the standard, which is not man and his evidences, but God and his thinking. It is God's mind. God's thoughts, God's word, God's intellect, that is the basis for all certain knowledge in this universe If you don't start with a mind that knows everything, everything real and everything contingent, you can never have certainty in your knowledge. It is only that way that you can. That is our epistemology, the basis of our knowledge, the justification of how we know what we know. Become a fool in the eyes of the world, God says. Because God thinks the world's education apart from him is foolishness. Literally moronic. This is the same argument that Paul made back in chapter 1, verse 25, that the wisdom of God is foolishness to the world. Yes, the wisdom of God is foolishness to the world, but the wisdom of the world is foolishness to God So who you gonna go with? You gotta take your pick You've gotta choose side. See the problem with worldly thinking people, whether inside the church or outside, is they fail to realize that their mind has to reckon with God. Sooner or later. They have to. Enjoy all this freedom and independence now. It's coming to an end. Reckon with God. By the way, there are a lot of different theologies and ideas out there, many, many different philosophies, but do you notice that God just lumps them all in one foolish mass here, one bag. It's the world, it's the age. Yeah, they come up with a lot of different expressions, but it's all this thinking apart from God. And so that's what unifies it as one lump of foolishness. A moronic dead end. This is not to discredit true science or the study of history or math or anything else such as that. The Bible encourages us to study and learn from God's creation. We should be hardworking in our studies, in case the kids got some other idea there. But the philosophies and religions and thoughts of mankind against God's revelation, that is foolish. And often scientists falsely use the name of science to oppose Something that divine revelation has said, right? You'll hear science says, most scientists believe. It's a false use of science. Science is a wonderful thing. God gave us science. Calvin taught that human learning in all these different areas, including the arts, must be kept to the place of a handmaid of truth, not the mistress. The subjects of this earth cannot penetrate into heavenly truths and thus guide mankind. Science can no more decide ultimate truth than a microwave oven could mow your backyard. Or DVD could shovel your walkway this morning. What is science? Science is observing things, testing them, repeating them Forming solid conclusions based upon observation. Science simply cannot, by definition, delve into eternal and spiritual and metaphysical questions and conclusions. To assume that science can is to make a false, listen, a false religious and philosophical assumption. An assumption, by the way, that itself cannot be established by science. And thus is self-contradictory. This is the inferiority of man's thinking, the inability of human science, the limitations of all human education and learning. The darkness of worldly philosophy. But, but, but, the mind screams out with all the learning we've had. I wish I had time for all the buts. But science has proven everything started with a big bang. No, it hasn't. Science depends on observations. Do you know anyone back there that took a picture of the Big Bang? It depends on controls, something testable and repeatable. Think we could repeat that if it happened? Nothing that happened in the past can be known unless you assume certain things. Those assumed things cannot be learned through science. They are presuppositions. They are not science. You get that? I'm not a scientist. I'm not claiming to be a scientist. But I don't like it when scientists try to pull the wool over my eyes. It kind of bothers me because I do know how to think. I'm not the most brilliant guy, but some things don't add up in my mind. I can't prove the speed of light to you as others can. I can't explain to you how it travels through space. But what I do know is that there is no man, no computer made by man either, that can tell me whether or not there is an Almighty Spirit being out there Existing outside of their five senses, who originally created light and the source of light at exactly the same time. So that the light beam didn't have to travel through space to begin with. I don't know whether it happened that way or not, but I also know that they don't know. You can't measure the age of the universe without making unprovable assumptions. No scientist can tell you or me whether or not the processes at the time of the original creation were working faster or slower or the same as now. They don't know because they weren't there. They couldn't run their experiments. They can't tell if the universe that they see, by the way, is the only universe that is there or all of it. They can't tell a lot of things. They have to make guesses, and those guesses are just that. They're guesses. They're not science. And it doesn't matter if most of them agree on those guesses either. You walk into a room and you see a candle burning and it's burned down to within one inch of the table. And you might say to yourself, if you're a detective and you're coming to a crime scene, I wonder how long that candle's been burning. That might tell me something about what's going on in the room. Yes, it might tell you something. But only if you know how tall the candle was before it started burning. Well, you can go to the store and buy one like that, and you can kind of compare that. That's one advantage you can have. But how do you know they didn't like blast something on it to make it run and and melt faster? How do you know they didn't cut it because it broke? What do we know about the beginning to know the time? There are assumptions that have to be made Those assumptions might be true, but they might also be false. They're not science, is the point. They're not proven. They are assumptions. Well, that's man. When God says, For the wisdom of the world is foolishness before God, I would want to know then, okay, if the wisdom of the world is foolishness before God, who's God? Should I trust him? What's he got? What does he know Well, uh he's the most brilliant mind in the universe. He's the one that made the galaxies, the solar systems, and even the tiniest little cells that are more complex than Darwin ever knew, right? He knows the beginning from the end. Psalm 147. 5. Great is our Lord and abundant in strength, his understanding is infinite. I think it'd be smart to trust a guy like that. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth, by understanding established the heavens. That's what I like. He's got a good textbook there for me. He really knows. That's Proverbs 3. 19. Daniel 2. 20, Daniel said, Let the name of God be blessed forever and ever, for wisdom and power belong to him. He's got it all. 1 Corinthians 1:25, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men. Get God to be the dumbest he could be, if you could say that in a reverent way, he'd still be smarter than all men 1 Samuel 2 3, boast no more so very proudly, Hannah said. Do not let arrogance come out of your mouth, for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and with him actions are weighed. Hey, he's the one who made our brains He's beyond us. What does he think of our learning apart from his word? It's foolishness. That's enough for me. That's enough for me, people Well now there's two facts that he gives to show why. For it is written, He is the one who catches the wise and their craftiness, and again the Lord knows the reasonings of the wise that they are useless. Let's look at these two reasons here real quickly. God catches the wise in their craftiness. That's a quote from Job 5. 13 in that context, possibly referring to Job who was caught in a trap of trusting in his own wisdom as he tried to figure out providence on his own, according to Job 42, verse 3. The Apostle Paul here, in using the term capture, is using the image of hunting. God captures just the way a hunter would catch. He catches the wise, and what does he do it then? He catches them in their own craftiness. Drasamanas is a present middle participle of Draso, to catch the seas, to grasp with the hand. He hunts them down and catches them and he catches them with their own wisdom, with their own craftiness. In other words, the tricky measures of the wise people of this world become their own very net in which they are entrapped by God. We often think that some people's arguments are very slippery and elusive and hard to pin down or understand. For God, that's not going to be a problem. He grips them with a death grip using their own devices. You say, How does that work? Well, Matthew Henry writes this God turns their most studied, plausible, and promising schemes against themselves and ruins them by their own contrivance Jeremiah 2. 19 hints at this: Your own wickedness will correct you, and your apostasies will reprove you. Know therefore and see that it is evil and bitter for you to forsake the Lord your God, and the dread of me is not in you, declares the Lord God of hosts. Psalm 510, hold them guilty, O God, by their own devices let them fall. In the multitude of their transgressions, thrust them down, thrust them out, for they are rebellious against you. It's poetic justice. Also, it says God knows their reasonings, God knows their wisdom, God understands all the thoughts that go through their mind, God understands everything going on in every Hall of learning and education that there is, and he looks at it, and he knows that it is useless. It's vain Their reasonings, dialogizmas, means their thoughts or their reasonings. The term useless is matayas. It means empty, vain, aimless, leading to nothing. This is from Psalm 94, verse 11, that he quotes. He probably quoted it from the Greek Old Testament, the Septuagint, where he's giving a paraphrase for the Hebrew Old Testament. It says, The Lord knows the thoughts of man that they are a mere breath. There it is, a breath, it's vanity, it's empty, it's gone, it dissipates, it's nothing. Whatever men think of their thoughts, God's opinion of their thoughts doesn't change. He knows them to be vain. They think they're wise. God knows that they are vain Good to remind us with Hebrews 4. 13, there is no creature hidden from God's sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of Him with whom we have to do. God knows it all, we have to deal with God. Nothing they come up with catches him off guard. That ought to, by the way, give us a lot of confidence in this word. If you believe this is God's word and you believe this reveals the mind of God, then you believe if you keep studying it, understanding it, thinking it through, that it's going to provide the answers to the questions you have. Every intellectual question that you have, it's right in there. It's given sometimes in the simplest story, a simplest account, but the answer is right there and it confounds the why. It's all there for you. It's the best textbook. You know, in concluding, I wanted to just bring some practical things for you in apologetic sense. I I had an urge to make this a two or three-part series. I was even contemplating in the middle of this week of not preaching this message at all because I didn't like having to cut it short like this. You know me. But uh I thought I'll just give you a little bit of a sample of some things that would help you to understand how this God catching the wise in their own craftiness. and the uselessness of human thinking work together. There's a way in which you can listen to unbelievers, and you do need to learn to listen to them in the sense of making sure you're understanding what they're saying before you're arguing with them. Otherwise you're going to appear to be argumentative. You need to know what they're saying. Once you understand what they're saying and you get that, then what you're going to hear is their beliefs are rather arbitrary. And their beliefs are usually inconsistent. And if you can humbly and kindly point that out to them, that what you've selected to believe doesn't really have any foundation to it. It just sounds like it's what you wanted to believe. And and what you're believing doesn't even make sense with itself. It's self-contradictory. And if you can do that with most people, it's not that it's going to save them, but it may humble them and maybe the avenue through which after you've done that that you can make a positive presentation of the good news of Jesus Christ. So you hear someone wax eloquent and you're like, I don't really understand what you're saying and you ask them some questions. You you gather your information, it's sort of like gathering rope in which they're gonna hang themselves, as you see in a little bit, and and you just listen and you make sure you understand, you ask questions, and once you understand, you clarify, are you really saying this and this And then you bring it back on them and say, is there really any basis for what you believe at all? Or is it just what you hope is true or want to be true? Let me just give you some examples. And this is from Proverbs 26 and verse 5 that says, Answer a fool as his folly deserves, so he will not be wise in his own eyes. Take what he said and turn it back on him. Do an internal critique, as some apologists say. And there's some great books on this. Norman Geisler has a great book called Christian Apologetics that does some of this stuff for you. He's a great apologist down there in North Carolina. Here's some examples. Many atheists reject God. Why? Well, there are many reasons. Some is on the assumption that only what is perceivable to their five senses can be real. Right? That's their assumption. What only what I can touch and see and hear, that's real. If I can't smell it, taste it, touch it, whatever, then it's not real. But that very statement, that very principle that they just have articulated, that you can only know something that is true by the five senses, that statement itself cannot be established by the five senses. You understand that? And so it's self-contradictory to itself. They're saying something that contradicts itself. Only what is perceivable by the five senses is true. Well how do you know that what you just said is true? True by how do you prove that by the five senses? You can't. It's an assumption and it's self-contradictory. And there are many that operate on that. To them, God is an idiotic concept. And it's because they have this presupposition that is self-contradictory and you need to point that out to them. Or an atheist often is heard railing against God, sometimes in anger, against God's existence, because of the terrible evil that they see in this world. Do you see evil in this world? Of course you do. We all see evil in this world. We see evil there, and we believe in God. We know that there is a God. We look at those facts differently. We perceive that differently. The existence of evil, they say, is a strong proof against God's existence, at least against a good God who should want to stop evil, and a powerful God who could stop evil, such as the Christian God. But if what they say is true, then it also is self-contradictory, for if there is no God, and never has been a God, and never will be a God, then there truly can't be anything that's evil either At least nothing that's truly evil. There could be things that people call that are evil because they don't like something that happened to them, but it can't truly be evil. It's just something different. After all, everything in an atheistic universe didn't happen by design. It happened by what? By chance, and so it's completely meaningless. So you can't attach a label like evil that has meaning in a meaningless universe. In other words, the atheist has to already assume the existence of God to begin denying him, and that's contradictory. Man cannot by himself provide an ultimate standard of right or wrong because man can change his mind or vote one standard out, and so it's not ultimate. Agnostics love to point that out both to atheists and Christians. They agree with the Christian that the atheists shouldn't be so positive about the non-existence of God, but they also agree with the atheist that the Christians shouldn't be so positive about God's existence. And the agnostic feels very comfortable with positing the fact that nobody can know whether God does exist or doesn't exist or what kind of a God He is. And they believe that's the educated way to go. But how do they know that How can they be so certain that nobody can know unless they know enough about it to be certain, in which case it would be quite self-contradictory again The best they can do is say that they don't know what the truth is. And that's when we rub our hands together and say, brother, got good news for you because I do know what the truth is, and I'm here to help you out. Because God has given us the truth. Not because my mind is better than yours, but because the truth is the truth and God has declared. Open your mind and listen. The pantheist loves to challenge the Christian saying things like You Christians ought not to tell other people that your God is the only truth, going to other cultures trying to convert people to the Christian faith. That only the Christian God is the right God. Listen, all the universe is one. All the universe, you and me are part of that, is God. We are all one. God is all, and all is God Nothing is not God. Well, then that means that I'm also God, right? And if I'm God, you need to listen to me because I'm telling you that this is the truth. Where are they going to go with that? They can't tell us not to say what we're saying if we also are God and there's nothing wrong with us. They can't escape foolishly being caught in their own trap. The pluralist says all roads lead to God. They're all equally valid. We should not criticize other religions. But of course, all religions Don't say the same thing. And if all religions are equally valid, then my religion is equally valid, and my religion says that all religions are not equally valid. Then what are you going to do with that? Hinduism with its thousands of gods is not too compatible with the very first commandment given to the Jews, thou shalt have no other gods before me. I don't know how you get thousands and get one and be compatible. The Muslim says Almighty God cannot become a man. They fervently deny that Jesus is God in human flesh. They say we Christians are idol worshippers. Jesus cannot be God. The Almighty God cannot become man. The Almighty God cannot. That's a hard statement to soak in If he's Almighty, he can do whatever he wants to do, and that includes becoming a man. And then there's just the uselessness of their reason. You can ask, where is all of this going for you? Where are all your meditations leading you? They give you present peace now, but what are you going to do when you face the fires of eternal hell? There won't be any peace then. False religions with their false gods and their false books, what do they really do for you in the end? What solution do they have before a holy God who is angry with your sin and has rejected you? You can no longer be in his presence in paradise God doesn't accept you as you are. There's only one solution. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom, a payment for all. He's the solution that God accepts. He's the one that is called wisdom in flesh. He's the incarnation of God's wisdom. What are you going to do with Jesus? What are you going to do with Jesus? Believe in him. He'll be wisdom to you before God. He will also be your goodness and righteousness before God. He will be everything that you need before God. This is God's word. Beloved, the Bible has the message of eternal life, a promise of God, and it is not useless. It is not the dead end of the materialist who dies and has no hope. It is life eternal. John 20, 31. But these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. John 10, 10 through 11, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd, Jesus said. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. How will I know? How will I know the Bible is God's Word? How will I know what you're saying, preacher, is the truth? Jesus said it best. John 7, 17, if anyone is willing to do God's will, he will know of the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak for myself. God will reveal it to you. Oh God and Heavenly Father, thank you for the brilliance of your word. Thank you that it humbles the proud, that it catches them in their own devices. Thank you for taking simple people like ourselves, giving us the truth, giving us confidence to speak the truth. We pray for any who are here today who still are hanging on to their own wisdom and thinking that they know, Lord, that they would become fools this day and embrace the cross that they may become truly wise before you. For the salvation of their souls, we pray for the salvation of those who are hearing this message elsewhere. Lord, we pray you take it, spread it through your people, give them boldness, Lord, and let the word as a seed Bear fruit in the lives of those who are unbelievers, bring them into the light, we pray in Christ's name. Amen