All right. Well let me start with a word of prayer and uh then we'll dive right in. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Uh we thank you for the beautiful day that we see outside, uh the sun rising once again, putting on display your faithfulness, your commitment. to sustain this world until that day when you will make it new. And Lord, we gather this morning because we desire to hear from you. We desire to learn and grow in our walks with you. Christ and so I pray that this would just be another step in that lifelong process that as we dive into Scripture that you would give us insight that would be edifying and encouraging and uh that you would just stir in us Alright, so just a reminder for those of you who are online to uh keep your mics muted until you want to pipe in and if at any point you wanna ask a question or make a comment, uh feel free to interrupt me. Uh especially those of you who I can't see if you're raising your hand. Um but feel free to jump in at any point if if you want to do that. And uh and of course for those of you who are here in person, uh raise your hand or or jump in at any point. Um at least for today and and uh these first few sessions, uh it's I guess you could say kind of a lecture, but I don't want it to be just strict uh strict lecture. If uh if there's some dialogue that we can have, that would be great. um and just looking forward to to this class. Now let me see. Yeah, I think that's the logistics stuff. So when I advertised this class, I said that this class is for the those who have personal struggles. And or those who want to help others with personal struggles. That was in the description at least of of the class, if you saw that. I have a confession to make. That was actually false advertising. Um, the the reality is there is no one on the planet that doesn't have personal struggles. Right? We all have personal struggles of various kinds and to varying degrees Uh when I started here over a year and a half ago uh and started counseling with people, one of the common refrains that I heard was or or I should say a question that was asked was, are we the only couple that has problems? Am I the only person that is s struggling with this? And uh, you know, at the time of course I was able to say no Absolutely not. You're not the only one. Well now, a year and a half later, and almost eight hundred sessions, uh counseling sessions later, I can definitely say no. We all have struggles, again, of various kinds and to varying degrees. At the same time, all of us, every single one of us is called to help others with their struggles as well. So it's not that there's a category of those who have struggles and there's a category of people who are able to help those who have struggles. No, we're all in the same boat. We all have personal struggles and we're all called to help those with personal struggles. I I really like Paul Tripp's subtitle for his book, uh Instruments in the Redeemer's Hands, which is a fantastic book. The subtitle is People in Need of Change Helping People in Need of Change. And so as we go through this class, I really pray that not only do you grow in your thinking and processing of your your struggles as you understand what what God has revealed in His Word about your own heart and and what's going on that that uh uh creates and motivates uh the the challenges that you face. But that you will learn uh truth that you will be able to pass In fact, this is what God calls us to in 2 Corinthians 1, 3, and 4, where Paul writes, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who cometh Comforts us in all our afflictions, so that we will be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. In other words, Second Corinthians one three and four says, take the the ministry, the comfort, the truth, the wisdom, the encouragement that you receive that ministers to you personally, and then dispense that to others, and not just to those who have the exact same problem. that you have, but to those who have other kinds of problems. In fact, he says, any affliction. That is how biblical truth works. As we'll set the foundation in these first few weeks, there is a core set of truth Truths, which we could probably spend the whole class on, but we'll just spend the first few weeks, that apply to any situation, that give us the foundation to understand any issue at all, and out of which we can analyze. analyze and process and think through all the various kinds of struggles in life. And so as we learn those for ourselves and we apply those in our own lives for the the challenges that we face individually, we can then again take those and minister to others. others. The goal that we should have as a body of Christ, uh as a local church is Found in Romans 15, 14, where Paul writes, And concerning you, my brethren, I myself also am convinced that you yourselves are full of goodness. filled with all knowledge and able also to admonish one another. In other words, this Roman church was filled with people who were able to counsel one another, to encourage one another, to admonish one confront exhort one another because they were filled with knowledge they had the truth of God that that resonated that impacted their lives and then they were able to to minister to others and so as as we think about Hope Bible Church as you think about your role in Hope Bible Church. One of the ways to think about that is it's my responsibility before the Lord to get to know others around me enough so that I can have a ministry in their life. So I can serve them practically. Now last Sunday night we talked about in the uh in the outdoor service, just briefly we went over First Corinthians twelve, where Paul talks about the body and the various parts of the body and various giftings Uh I forgot to use this analogy that I had in my mind uh of uh I don't know if you've seen these these um uh body books, the books about the physical body where they have different transparent pages that each show different systems of the body So there'll be like a skeleton page, and then a muscle page, and a nerve system page, and you can you know put them on top of each other to see how they all you know, overlap each other. And that's how I think the body of Christ is. We we have what we you might consider the external structure that we see in terms of the local church. You have the pastors, the deacons, the ministry leaders, you have the the identifiable ministries, men's ministries, women's ministries, children's ministry, youth ministry, all the rest. That's that's what we see. And typically when we talk about ministry and service in the church, it's it's often thought of in that context of you gotta fit somewhere in this external structure of the church. Are you an ear? Are you an eye? What what ministry are you serving in, we might say? And and that's that's true and that's valid. We uh if the church is going to function the way that we do it, we need everyone to participate in those various ministries. But at the same time, kind of like our our our blood travels throughout the body and our nerve systems are all throughout the body, sometimes the way we minister the way we have a role in the body is not necessarily by having a defined role in that external structure, but more so by having a ministry just throughout the body in an informal, unstructured way. And that happens through our relationship. through our family, in the way that we interact with and encourage and admonish one another. And so that's what we're aiming for to help help us as believers grow in the wisdom of God's Word so that we can minister to God. others with the comfort that we have received from God. Now with that in mind, let me just give you a very general layout of the class so you know what's coming up. The first four weeks, these four weeks of September, I'll be laying out kind of a foundation of biblical truth to understand how life works. What the scripture says about our nature, why do we do what we do, what is the process of change, how do we go about overcoming our struggles in a very high-level way. So today we'll talk about, as those of you who have the notes, the Christian's biography. if you will, in our relationship to sin and righteousness. Next week we'll uh look at the the biblical process of change of what does God say uh in terms of how do we uh go from being overcome by by sin and being uh um overruled by sin to being ruled by righteousness. Again at a high level way. Uh and then the the next two weeks, the last two Sundays in September, we'll talk about the heart. Now if if you've been at the church for a while, if you've taken One or more of the classes that I've taught. You've probably heard me do some teaching on the heart, but in these two sessions at the end of this month, we'll go actually much more in depth than we have in the past. And then Mike Moody, who's my backup teacher, he'll be teaching for a couple weeks while our family's in California, and he'll be addressing some specific issues. So he'll start uh us into the process of thinking through specific struggles. Uh and then when we come back uh in mid October I'll do a session or two on spiritual warfare and how spiritual warfare relates to overcoming our struggles. And then we'll spend the rest of the quarter looking at specific issues, how to understand them biblically, and how to think about them and apply the foundation that we establish to specific issues. So it'll be issues like anger, uh depression, anxiety, uh addictive behavior, uh things like that. So uh we haven't necessarily nailed down every last thing and some things we'll we'll spend maybe one week on, other things we might spend two weeks on. We won't be exhaustive in all of those things, but by setting the foundation and then addressing the issue in light of that foundation, we'll be able to provide, I think, meaningful help in all of those things. So that's that's the layout uh of the class. Let me just pause there and ask if there's any particular questions. Yeah, so uh I'll I'm recording these the the audio version and uh we'll post those on sermon audio. So we'll create a series on Sermon Audio that uh once we get the first one up, I'll send out a link this week, uh, uh post it on the Hope Book group and so you can have access to that link and you can uh refer to that. You can pass it on to others if you desire. Okay. Well, let's talk a little bit, again, this is still introductory material. Let's talk a little bit about why this class is important. When we think about personal struggles, uh we might identify them as something we struggle with, right? That word struggle. uh uh an annoyance in our lives, maybe a tendency. Uh we might say, yeah, I'm r I'm really bad at that, or uh, you know, I just I I I have a tendency to do this. But we don't always identify them as sins that we need to be repented of. And when we think about sin, sometimes we we soften the idea of sin to I have to be malicious. consciously intentional in my words and my actions in in order for something to be a sin. And if and if it's just like a a natural impulse, maybe I I react in anger to my kids or I just I have a struggle with anxiety. We d we don't always think about that as a sin to be repented of. But when you think about what sin is, historically, uh it's sin has d been defined a couple of ways. One is any lack Okay, any lack of conformity to God. So what does that mean? That means if there is any way in which you or I have failed to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. If there's any way in which you and I have failed to love our neighbor as ourself, then that whatever that way is, that is sin in our life. We are not uh exemplifying we're not um uh exhibiting the character of a holy God in our life. Uh another way to think about sin is that it is simply the transgression of the law. That if I do something that violates God's law, then that is sin. And and that's absolutely true. So there's those two components. One is that second component of if I I if I do something that I know is wrong, or maybe I don't know it's wrong, but it's revealed in God's word, this is wrong, that's that's a sin. But there's also the the first component that it's just in in who I am as a human being that I am uh a fallen sinner uh and therefore uh I uh I don't conform completely to the the perfect holiness of God and therefore I I am a sinner and what I do is sin, whether or not I'm aware of it, whether or not I'm intentional in that. So it it's critical that we think of our personal problems as actual sins, that is lack of Conformity to God that we need to be repented of it. And here's why that's important. We tend to think of our problems as kinda little rocks in our shoes. Where you you just feel this little thing in your foot and and it's uh it's not so big that it's painful and and debilitating, but it's it's enough that you just you feel it and it's it's uncomfortable, and maybe you tap your foot a little bit because you don't wanna stop and take your shoe off and get it out and so it's just annoying and you just bear with it for a little bit. Uh what we don't realize though is that personal struggles are not rocks. A better analogy is that they are Cancer. And like cancer, some personal struggles feel benign They're there. They might have some effect in our life, but uh overall they're not really dramatically impacting. I can go to work, uh I can I can provide for myself and my family, uh, I can go to church. It's not really debilitated. It doesn't affect all these different areas. And and other personal struggles, again, like some cancers, can grow rather quickly where they're very serious and the and they cause significant impact not only in our life, but in the lives of others. As well, some some cancers, uh some personal struggles are relatively easy to cut out if we just put forth the effort, right? The the doctor says, Hey, w there's this tumor, it's it's It's right there, we see its boundaries, so we can get in, cut it out, and you'll be cancer free and good to go. And other cancers are embedded in the fabric of our bodies and they take much more difficult uh treatment and and surgeries and chemotherapy and all the rest to root out. And so it is with personal struggles. There are those personal struggles that if you just put a little bit of effort, you can likely overcome that struggle without without too much difficulty in a short period of time. time. But then there's other struggles that are so embedded in your soul that are so natural to you and how you think and they've ha been in part of your life for so long that it takes a lot of effort and it takes a lot of time and it causes a lot of pain. in your life to try and slowly remove every remnant of that struggle. Like some cancers, personal struggles are sometimes completely hidden from others Uh they d nobody knows that you have this cancer. It's just there and it's not visibly present and so it is with some struggles, right? Uh and and th like again, cancer, some struggles are readily apparent for all to see. You know, you have this this tumor on your neck that's like, yep, there's something wrong there. Uh I can see that. That's plainly visible. And so it is with our struggles. People can sometimes because it's how we speak, it's our attitudes, it's it's uh you know, the way we interact with with others uh and and it's it's manifestly visible. Uh and and then another comparison we can make is that like cancer Well, I should say this is a contrasting uh reality. Unlike cancer, for the Christian, there is no such thing as a terminal diagnosis in terms of a personal struggle. We might think, well This is that I'm going to be struggling with this for the rest of my life. In fact, I might even die of this. But the reality is for the Christian, because of the power of God, the indwelling Holy Spirit The work of God in our life, there is no personal struggle that is a a terminal problem. We have the ability to overcome our struggles. But because again they are so much like cancer, we need to deal with them. In fact, I would even say it's stronger than that. Because of Christ, we have a divine imperative to overcome our struggles. To at least to address them and put forth every effort. Now some of you were in my class last quarter of the Gospel for Life. And there's a a a foundation that we established there that I I wish I could go into now but we don't have time. So if uh if you weren't in that class, uh you can find that class on Sermon Uh Sermon Audio and our our Hope Bible Church uh section of that website And uh and I would encourage you to listen there because there is some critical truth. In fact the the one particular lesson, um I think it's called Owned by God or or Purchased by God, something like that. Uh we'll we'll talk a little bit about that today. But because of what Christ has done, there is a divine imperative that we give close attention to our struggles, that we don't just ignore them or minimize them. Whereas we might want to uh overcome struggles mainly to get rid of the uncomfortable side effects. All right. You you know what your weaknesses are, you know how they affect you and others, and you're like, I don't like that anymore. I just i it it makes it hard for me to have good relationships, or it it causes a barrier between me and my co workers, or me and my kids, or me and my spouse. And I d Like to get rid of this. Well, that's not a bad motivation, but that should not be our primary motivation. And again, we'll talk about this a little bit more uh this morning. Our primary motivation should be The fact that God commands us to overcome them and He has given us everything and provided the way for us to live transformed lives. So personal struggles should not be thought of as minor things. That's the whole point of what I'm saying. trying to say here. These are serious matters of sin and righteousness that God calls us to to address. Now, last remark before we dive into the material, why is it important to know our spiritual biography? When I say spiritual biography, I'm saying to look at we are to look at Look at our lives through the lens of our our experience before Christ, who we were before Christ, all the way through to what our lives will be like when we see Christ face to face. And so my question is, why is it important to know and think about our spiritual biography? Just a couple of thoughts to uh to to note. Uh one is because We are not to live aimlessly. If you don't know your past and you don't know your present and you don't know your future, you might fall into an aimless life where you're just getting up every morning, you're doing what you're doing. You go to work, you you have your relationships, you're trying to eke out some existence of happiness, some experience of of joy and peace. But you don't really know kind of where you're headed. You don't have a purpose. And and what knowing our past does is it motivates our efforts. You don't have to turn there, but in in 1 Corinthians chapter, or sorry, 2 Corinthians. Corinthians chapter five, verses fourteen and fifteen, Paul writes For the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all died. And he died for all. So that they who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. But what he's saying there is that the love of Christ controls us. It compels us. When we recognize what Christ has done, the fact that He has died for me, who deserved death, then I am compelled by His love. I I I love to serve him because of how he has dealt with me in my sin. So we need to know our past, to know the significance of what Christ has done for us, and knowing the love of Christ. Christ then motivates us to live for Him. As well, knowing the future gives us hope. I mean, just in the next chapter in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 17 to 16. seven verse one or sorry verse sixteen, Paul writes, Or what agreement has the temple of God with idols, for we are the temple of the living God, just as God said. So here are some promises that God gives us I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, come out from their midst and be separate, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean. And I will welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. And then he says in chapter seven, verse one, Therefore, in light of these promises, having therefore having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of Now if you think about some of the language there that that the Lord said, I will dwell in them and walk Among them, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Your mind should go directly to Revelation chapter twenty-one, where God says that on the new earth, when he says, I will be their God, they will be my people, I will be with them as their God. So that's that's a promise of the reality that at the end of this life we will enter into eternity and have perfect fellowship with God. And Paul says a necessary conclusion as a result of that promise is today, right now, I should be removing myself uh from idols. I should be eradicating anything that that's of the flesh, anything that's of an evil spirit out of my life for the sake of uh arriving at that day with the Lord. So knowing our past and knowing our future motivates and empowers our lives. Okay. Let's dive into the material because I feel like I'm going to run out of time here. So what does this look like? Um let me draw on the board. I I I I'm hopeful that for those of you who are online you can see this. I tried to make sure that I chose a black pen so you can see it. As as you think about the Christian life, there are four stages, four movements. if you will, four uh combination of events and and and stages that uh are important for us to think about. The first step, and we'll we'll put these in multiple ways, but uh for the sake of using one word for them right now, we'll call We'll call the first one reprobation. We'll call the second one Redemption. Sorry. Not redemption. Regeneration. The third one is sanctification Sanctification. And the last one is glorification. These would be the four stages that make up the life of every true believer. And so with reprobation, let's just take some time to think about life before Christ. I hope that everyone here is a believer, that you have been saved from your sin, that you've been forgiven and redeemed and regenerated. But if you're not, if you haven't trusted in Christ, then what we're about to say is God's revelation of what is true about you even right now in your life. Uh and I we don't say these things to to To frighten people, to demean people, to judge people. This is this is God telling each one of us, hey, this is w how you were born into this world. This is the reality of your life. And so Uh I want to do this by starting in Romans chapter one. And I would encourage you to turn to Romans if you have a Bible. We'll we'll look at three different passages here in Romans, and then potentially a couple others in Ephesians if we have to. time, but uh in the the book of Romans, Paul lays out for us in vivid detail what life apart from Christ is like. So I'm just going to read Read this whole passage, I'm going to read it fairly quickly to to get through it. It's going to be uh verses eighteen to thirty two of Romans chapter one And I don't want you to think of this passage in terms of other people. Oh, this is the unbelievers out there in the world. These are the people who are writing out there on the streets or whatever else. No, that this is You and me apart from Christ, before Christ. This was our life before Christ. Paul writes, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. So we suppress the truth, because that which is known about God is evident within them, for God. made it evident to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible invisible attributes, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as as God or give thanks. But they became futile in their ex in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be uh to be wise they became fools, and exchanged the glory of God for the incorruptible excuse excuse me, they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible Therefore God gave them over to the lust, the desires of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored. For they exchanged the truth of God for the lie, uh for a lie, and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator who was blessed forever. Amen. For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions for their women, exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural. And in the same way, the men also abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another. Men with men committing indecent acts and receiving in their persons the due penalty for their error. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which were not proper, being filled with all unrighteousness Wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, they are gossip, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful, and although they knew the orders of God. There's a lot there, and and I trust especially in that list of 21 characteristics in those last few verses, all of us can find ourselves there before Christ and maybe to some degree even even now. I mean just that the very universal reality that children are disobedient to parents. That's a result of the fall every one of us. Why do we disobey our parents? That's because We are sinners. We are reprobate. Reprobation is the doctrine that we are sinners to the core, that every part of our being is affected by sin. We are apart from Christ, before Christ, untrustworthy, unloving, of course, as God defines love. We are haters of God. You can just go through all of those things. We suppress the truth. We look to the creation to derive from creation what only God can provide. Meaning, hope. Satisfaction, fulfillment, salvation in various ways. All of us, apart from Christ, are characterized by these realities. You can use this passage in a remote. You can look at it to to consider the the progress of sin, if you will, in the world. Uh you can even use it to look at the last, I don't know, hundred years or so. uh of American history or world history and identify how these stages take place. But it's not just uh the last hundred years. You can go all the way back to the garden. And how Adam and Eve exchange the glory of the incorruptible God. They thought they were being wise by taking the fruit But they became fools instead. And so you can see this all throughout history, and all of us, apart from Christ, before we are saved, are enveloped in these uh in these realities. The next passage that Paul uses, and here he clearly says, every single person on the planet, apart from Christ, both Jews and Greeks falls in these categories. Romans chapter three, verses nine to eighteen. He says, What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. As it is written, There is none righteous, not even one, there is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one. Their throat is an open grave. Their with their tongues they keep deceiving the poison of asps. is on their lips. The vo the their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their paths, and the pe path of peace they have not known. There is no no fear And then just one more, Romans chapter 8. And this is where Paul really gets down to the core of the nature, the being, the soul of the unbeliever. In Romans chapter 8, verses 5 to 8, he says, For those who are according to the flesh, unbelievers, set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the Spirit, things of the Spirit. For the mind of the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace, because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. So if you want to ask why do people do the wicked things that they do, why do children disobey their parents? Why do people hate and murder one another? Why do people commit adultery and violate the law of God in a multitude of ways? Fundamentally, it's because before Christ, because we are reprobate beings, we hate God, we're hostile to God, we don't even have the capacity within ourselves To obey God, to please God. The nature of the unbeliever, which is each one of us before Christ, is that of complete wickedness. Now, I'm not going to go through these other passages, but you can jot down Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 to 3, Ephesians 2, 1 to 3, Ephesians 4, 17 to 19, chapter 4, vers verses seventeen and nineteen and Titus chapter three verse three. Titus chapter three verse three. All of those passages just reiterate what Paul says here in Romans. And I think it's helpful. At least it's helpful for me. to to get this message over and over and over again to say this isn't just some isolated word you know in one place in scripture. This is pervasive and and even these what is that six passages are representative representative of other passages. God is so abundantly clear of what is the nature, what explains why unbelievers do what they do. The sum of it all is everything in us Our thinking, our desires, our values, our will is set in opposition to God as an unbeliever We we, apart from Christ, walk step by step with the devil. That's what Paul says in Ephesians two. We we are living in cahoots with the desires of the evil one. Apart from Christ. Now, some of you might struggle with the things that you did before Christ saved you. And what I mean by that is maybe Maybe you struggle with guilt and shame. As you think about your life before Christ and you see the perhaps the immorality or the thievery or the lying or whatever it is that characterized your life before Christ, you look back on that and you're just over Overwhelmed with guilt and shame. And there's that thought in your mind of, I can't leave I did that. How could I have allowed myself to get into that kind of a lifestyle? How could I have allowed that sin to take hold of it? Well the reality is when we understand that these things that Scripture says about a person apart from Christ is we should actually be in wonder and awe of how sinful we weren't in the sense that we were capable of so much more. I shouldn't think, man, how could I have done that? We sh we should think, God, thank you for restraining me from even more wickedness. The doctrine of reprobation, the reality of our nature apart from Christ, is that we were and to a degree still are capable of any sin There is no one that we can look at their behavior and say, I can't believe they do that. I would never do that. I could never have done that, even as an unbeliever. Well, that's just not true. That's not true. In Titus chapter 3, verse 3, one of the things that Paul says there is that we were enslaved to various lusts. And passions. So with with each of these stages, uh we can think of Think of them in terms of our relationship to sin and our relationship to righteousness. So before Christ, in our reprobate state in relationship to sin we were enslaved. We were enslaved to sin. We were depraved completely. Not that we were as bad as we could possibly be, praise the Lord. But we have the capacity or we had the capacity to uh commit the worst of sins had there been opportunity, had there been uh had the circumstances been different. Uh it was simply God's grace that prevented us from being even more sinful than we were, because we were enslaved to sin. We loved it. We delighted in it. We engaged in it without much hesitation at all. The only thing The only negative aspect of that relationship that we felt was when there were consequences. You know, if we got caught or if it created problems and destruction in our lives, then we didn't like it. But generally we loved sin. In relationship to righteousness, we were dead in the sense that we had no interest in righteousness. We had no desire for righteousness. As God called to us, maybe for some of you who were grew up in a Christian home as God exposed us to righteous living. Before Christ, we had no interest in pleasing Him. At least not in the way that he would have desired. Maybe if maybe you were a hypocrite and uh or a Pharisee, that your desire for righteousness was more out of a selfish pride. But in terms of God's kind of righteousness we were dead. So that was our life before Christ. Can you see how, because of the reality of our life before Christ, it makes sense that you might struggle with some things today? I mean if this was true, and for s some of you you were saved when you were five years old. Some of you you were saved in your twenties, thirties, forties, maybe later. Uh but no matter when you were saved, because this was your nature apart from Christ, it's no wonder that we struggle today. And that's what we see as we'll get further in that uh we we weren't blank slates, we started And so what's the next step? Well, the next step is regeneration. And I specifically chose that term over other potential terms for salvation like justification or redemption. Because regeneration Specifically refers to the fact that when God saves us, he transformed us in a fundamental way. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. Or you could say a new creation. The old things have passed away. Behold, new things have come. Now, don't we all wish that what that actually meant was that everything we had struggled with in our past is totally done away with and now we have to be able to do that. We have a whole new life with no struggles. That would be wonderful, wouldn't it? But that's not what it means. And you have you have to bring in other truths from Scripture to understand what exactly he's saying. For example, the new covenant. Where God promises that He would give us a new heart and a new spirit. We'll look at chapter 6, Romans chapter 6 in a bit here But the reality that uh by all things passing away is the reality that we have been cut off from the power of sin. So we can we can now say no to sin. But we are new creatures. There is something fundamentally new about us that we are no longer enslaved to sin as we were before. Specifically, Paul says in Ephesians 4. 24 that we were created in righteousness and holiness. So the the new way in which God has created us is having a bent toward righteousness and holiness. To illustrate this, Paul talks in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 9 to 11. You're probably thinking familiar with this passage, I'll just go over it briefly. Uh first Corinthians chapter six, verses nine to eleven says, Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators nor idolaters Nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, neither thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Such were some of you, but you were washed You were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. In other words, these Sins used to characterize your life. He's not saying that you never struggle with these anymore. He's just saying this was your identity. Now you have a whole new identity. You've been forgiven of these sins. You've been sanctified, which means you've been set apart from sin for God. You've been justified, declared righteous in God's eye, so that But God doesn't see you as being characterized by these sins. And so there's a whole newness to our life in Christ. Now, again, if you have your Bible, I'd encourage you to turn to Romans chapter 6. We'll look uh at a significant portion of this passage somewhat quickly. In in Romans chapter six, Paul deals with this question of uh of the believer's relationship to sin In light of the fact that Christ came to redeem us from sin, that He forgave us of our sin, and what we see in Christ's actions is that it doesn't matter how serious, how Um how um massive how numerous someone's sins are Christ redeems it all. And in fact, all that the greater sins, the more serious sins, uh the more destructive sins, all the the worse the sins get, all that that does is magnify the grace of God even more. Paul says in chapter five verse twenty, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. And so in our flesh we might be tempted to say, Well, hey, if if sin abounded all the more, or if grace abounded all the more, maybe I should sin some more so I could experience And he says in verse in chapter six, verse one, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who died to sin still live in it? And there is the fundamental uh transition, transformation that happened in our life. That when we are saved, we died to sin. Remember I said we were dead to righteousness. We were alive to sin and dead to righteousness. Now, as believers, we are dead to sin and alive to righteousness. He goes on to say, or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death. Therefore, having been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ sorry, we have been b buried with him, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. We are so united with Christ that not only does God see uh d did God treat him in light of our sin, and does God treat us in light of his righteousness, but we were We were put to death with Christ, we were buried with Christ, and now we are raised with Christ. And In the same way, kind of by analogy, that Christ's life was different when he was raised from the dead, not in terms of righteousness, but he had a a new character of his life in terms of at least as a physical being. But now that we have a new soul, as it were, we have a regenerated soul, now there is a newness that should characterize our life And that's that's just by definition. So why should we not sin? Because we have been we have died to sin, we've been buried with Christ, and we're made alive for the purpose of what we are. Walking a new life. He goes on to say verse five for if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old self was crucified with him in order that our body Body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin, for he who has died has been freed. from sin. Again, uh we were enslaved to sin, but now that we have died, that is no longer our condition You think of uh the idea of slavery, that's the analogy that Paul's using here obviously, and uh as long as a slave is alive and as long as he's a slave to his master, he has to obey his master. But once that slave is dead, he is he's free. Not only does he uh not have the uh requirement to obey his master, he doesn't have the ability to do it. Well, we have the ability to sin, but we no longer are in a position where we have to obey sin. We have been freed from the power of sin. As we often say, we are are free from the penalty of sin. We're freed from the power of sin in that we are no longer chained to it, always having to obey it. But we still have the presence of sin in our life. He goes on to say in verse eight, Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ has been raised from the dead. Uh he is never to die again. Death no longer has mastery over him. For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life that he lives, he lives to God. Even so, consider yourselves dead to sin. So as a believer, when God saves you, whenever that was, and as you think of your life today, Paul says, don't think of yourself as a slave to sin. Don't think of yourself as this is part of your life. You have the disease of sin and you just gotta cope with it the rest of your life. No. He says you are dead to You have the ability now to say no, to overcome that sin and to live for God, to live Righteousness. So, in relationship to sin, whereas we were enslaved before, now we've been emancipated. We no longer have to obey the sin, the slave master of sin. In relationship to righteousness, whereas we were dead to righteousness before, now we've been made alive to righteousness. We have the ability, we have the inclination to please God. We have new desires and new abilities to live for Christ. And so what's the conclusion? Well the conclusion is because of what God has done for us. in regeneration, we ought to pursue sanctification. We ought to pursue the progressive life of becoming more and more like Christ. We ought to be decreasing in the sin in our life. and increasing in the presence of righteousness. In verse twelve of Romans chapter six, he goes on to say, Therefore, in light of this reality that you have died to sin and are alive to God, therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lust. Don't let it. That's the command. It's not, well, you're just going to have to cope with this. It's like, no, don't let it, because you don't have to obey this sin. By the power of God. He says, do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of righteousness. Don't keep going back to that master and saying, What do you want me to do? Don't keep putting yourself in those compromising positions where you know you're going to be tempted to want to do the things that you used to do before Christ. Instead, he says, present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead and your members As instruments of righteousness. In other words, instead of getting up every morning, whatever your struggle is, and saying, Well, I know I'm gonna have to stand in front of this master again, and I'm gonna have to, you know, argue with him and do bad. But you know, I'm just gonna keep going before him and and and engage it. No. Present yourselves to God. Go to God in prayer. Go to God in your mind. Set your mind on seeking to please the Lord. Say, God, help me today to live for you. It's not so much about not doing sin as much as it is about living for Christ. We are not to present ourselves, to keep exposing ourselves to opportunities to sin in those ways that we might be tempted to do. But we are to expose ourselves more and more to God, to bow before Him and to live for Him. He says in verse 14, For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under law. But under grace. And he goes on from there. As believers, we have the opportunity and the privilege to grow in Christ likeness. Now Well what I want to do here is uh convey some principles uh in a way that uh I I think it would be great if uh if you would commit these to memory. I'm going to give you three thoughts That uh I often ask people that I counsel to commit these things to memory, uh along with the passages that relate to them, so that as you do battle with your sin, as you are tempted, you can bring these things to mind and And use these as weapons to engage in that warfare. And these give us the opportunity to talk about what does it mean to live a sanctified life? So here's thought number one. My life is to serve God's purposes, not mine My life is to serve God's purposes, not mine. This is how we ought to fundamentally think about ourselves. As I get up every day, I should be thinking about God, what do you want me to do today because my life is to serve God's purposes, not mine. This is how Jesus lived. He he said, I I see what the Father's doing, the Father tells me what he's doing. I'm always doing what the Father tells me to do. And so this is how we ought to live. My life is to serve So when we're tempted by the flesh, no, my life is to serve God's purposes, not my flesh. First Corinthians 10 31 says, therefore Whether you eat or you drink in whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. So we know that everything that we are to do in in the big decisions of life and in the mundane decisions of life. That our purpose should be to bring glory to God. Paul says again 2 Corinthians 5, verse 9. Therefore, whether we are at home or away, and he's talking about whether we're on earth or in heaven, Whether at home or away, we make it our aim to please Him. Both in this life and the next life, our our aim, our purpose in life is to serve God's purposes, to please God in all things. And I read earlier Verse 15 of that chapter where Paul says that he died for all, so that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. So that first thought is my life is to serve God's purposes and not mine. Before Christ, everything Everything that we did was to it was to serve my own purpose. It was to live for myself. It was to do what I wanted to do. If I didn't like something, I would try and arrange my life to uh to uh avoid that thing that I don't like. And and if I couldn't, if I was stuck in an unpleasant situation, then that would t that would tear me down into despair and hopelessness and depression and anxiety. But now my life is to serve God's purposes, not mine. So I view everything in my life through that lens. That even the things uh I don't like, the things that are unpleasant, the things that are painful, as well as the joys and the blessings of life, all of it is to serve God's purposes, not mine, that is to glorify God. Okay, that's the first thought. The second thought Is that God's purpose is to conform me to Christ. So, what does it mean to glorify God? How do I know what it looks like to glorify God? Well, I am glorifying God as I fulfill His promise. Purpose to conform me to Christ or to the image of Christ. God's purpose is to conform me to Christ. I I mentioned uh 2 Corinthians 5. 9, where he says, where Paul writes that I make it my aim to please him. If you want to know what does it look like to please God, what what is an example that we can follow Well, there are two times when the Father spoke to crowds around Jesus and said, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. The first one is when Jesus came up out of the water at his baptism in Matthew. Chapter 3 verse 17. At the very beginning of his ministry, God proclaimed to all of those who were gathered This is not just your average Israelite. This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. The other time is in Matthew chapter 17. I don't remember the exact verse, I didn't write it down, but Matthew chapter 17, what we call the Mount of Transfiguration. Uh where the there you just have Peter, James, and John, and the Father speaks out of the out of the clouds. This is my beloved Son. In whom I am well pleased, listen to him. So we know that Christ pleased the Father, and so if if we want to make it our aim to please the Father, instead of looking at a list of rules of do's and don'ts of uh of a law that we are to follow, what we can do is look to Christ Christ. We can look at a person and we can imitate him. We can hear how he speaks and learn how to speak like him. We can hear how he thinks and processes situations with which is revealed in Scripture and we can learn to think in that way. We can observe how he acts. And how he interacts with people, and we can learn and we can imitate him, knowing that if we imitate him, we will be pleasing God. And of course, this is God's purpose. We know Romans chapter eight, verse twenty-nine. Those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his Son, so that he that is his son would be the firstborn among many brethren God's purpose is to conform me to Christ. That's how I know that I'm pleasing God. It's not just trying to figure it out on my own. It's not just following a list of do's and don'ts. It is growing in the knowledge of my Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, and learning to become like Him. Then the third statement is God is patient with me. He expects growth. Not perfection. God is patient with me. He expects growth, not perfection. There's all kinds of passages we could identify, but just consider 2 Peter 3:18. As Peter is finishing out his letter, this is the last verse of the letter. He says, But grow in the grace and knowledge of With all of the things that God tells us to do in Scripture, all of the commands that He that He gives of what it looks like to reflect Christ, to reflect the righteousness of Christ in our lives. He knows we're not going to be perfect. There is a sense in which he calls us to be perfect. I mean even Jesus says, like your heavenly Father is perfect, so you be perfect in all your conduct or holy in all your conduct. But at the same time, God knows us, right? He doesn't have any misconceived conceptions of of our abilities and our potential. He knows that we, even though we are free from the power of sin, that we still have the presence of the sin. So He He expects growth. He wants us to grow. He doesn't expect perfection. He is patient with me. And so what this helps us to understand is that as we are progressively becoming Becoming more like Christ. When we fail, we ought not to be overwhelmed with guilt and shame as as though oh good God now is mad at me. Oh, God expected so much more of me, and I should expect more of myself. No, we should remember that God is patient. God is patient. He wants us, of course, to confess our sin when we fall and to seek his forgiveness But he is patient in that. He is gracious. He he doesn't slam down his his fist on the table and express frustration and anger at the fact that we aren't meeting his standard. He doesn't yell at us. His spirit inside of us who convicts us is gentle even in his conviction. So three thoughts there for you. Some of you may have heard me say those three thoughts in a different way, but I I I changed those up to give a more God-centered uh frame. There. My life is to serve God's purpose is not mine. God's purpose is to conform me to Christ, and God is patient with me He expects growth, not perfection. Now how do we do this? Just very high level because we only have a few minutes. How do we do this? Well, the the key Multiple key principles. One of the keys is that we are to walk by faith and not by sight. And not by sight. What does that mean? That means that as we live life, our natural tendency is to live based on what we see around us. We live based on how we feel internally. We have emotions and values and uh and so we tend to think and respond and and that and that is our perspective. Mark's doing uh uh security out there. Um and that's how we tend to respond to things. That's that's how we define reality for ourselves. Walking by faith means taking what God is. God has revealed in His Word about everything in reality, which includes me, and life and His purposes, His promises. And adopting this as the lens, as the glasses through which I view the world So what God says is important in his word is what I need to adopt as important. What God says is, if you will, unimportant, I need to adopt. What God says is the right way to respond to circumstances. The most effective way to respond to the sins around me, the most godlike way of dealing with sin in my life and in the lives of others. That's the way I need to be thinking. The nature of sin is that it is deceptive. It is a lie. It is always call uh seeking to cause us to think in ways contrary to God's word. And so if we're going to glorify God, if we're going to be like Christ, we have to be constantly taking into our minds the truth of God, because that is reality, that is the reality by which we are to live. That is walking by faith. Even though we don't always see it and even though we don't feel it sometimes, we are to live according to God's truth. And so so much of this class is going to be doing just that, just taking in the truth of God to reshape. shape our thinking uh on life and the struggles that we have. Now the a second Key principle in how we go about this is the reality that we are not left to ourselves. We are utterly dependent on the Holy Spirit. He is inside of us, he empowers us, he instructs us, and we ought to be constantly depending on him. And how do we excuse me, how do we uh express our dependence? Well in large part it's through prayer, as through seeking his help, is through listening to the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. We are not left to ourselves. We have the Holy Spirit of God. And then another key principle I want to make sure we mention is the reality of grace. And I somewhat mentioned this in terms of God's patience. But God's grace should be a constant uh frame of reference in our lives that we know That um God is abundantly, daily, in fresh ways, uh sh showering his grace in our lives. What does that mean? Well, he doesn't treat us like we deserve. When we sin, when we fall, one of the things that we become afraid of sometimes is punishment from God. Now God's gonna do something to bring pain in my life. Well, He disciplines us, but He doesn't punish us. Why? Because He is gracious. And he forgives us. When we are overwhelmed with guilt and shame, it is the grace of God, the truth of God's grace, that enables us to free ourselves from that that sense of being overwhelmed by guilt and shame. So we walk by faith, we are to depend on the Spirit. We are to remember that God is a gracious God, not a a judgmental, unforgiving God. So in this process of sanctification, and there's some assumptions here or some truths that we'll talk about in the future classes, but in relationship to sin, we are in battle, right? We were enslaved, we were imagined. Emancipated, and as we pr as we grow in sanctification, as we become more like God in relationship to sin, we are embattled. We'll talk about that next week from Galatians 5, the battle of the flesh and the spirit. In relationship to righteousness, we are growing. There is a growing reality of righteousness in our lives. Alright, I got just a couple minutes, and you know the last one. Um that is glorification. In the notes, I put it life with Christ, and I don't mean to say that Christ is not with us now, he is, but I was just trying to distinguish life in Christ and life with Christ. uh in the sense that we will be one hundred percent in his presence. We will see him with our eyes, face to face, and when we see him, first John three two tells us, we will become like him, because we will see him as he is. Paul says in uh I think it's 2 Corinthians that we are beholding uh the the glory of God in the face of Christ and the more that we behold the glory of God the more we ourselves are being transformed from one degree of glory to another Well, when that day comes that we see the furnace of the holiness of God, we will be purified 100% all the way through and through. We will be completely freed from sin. The presence of sin will be eradicated out of our lives. And in relationship to righteousness, we will be perfected. We will perfectly reflect the righteousness of God. So, what we're aiming for in sanctification is the completion of glorification. And as Paul says in Romans chapter six, we shouldn't think, well, because we're I'm going to be glorified, why put forth such effort? You know, I I know it's going to happen, so I'll just relax today. No. Everything in scripture says we ought to be motivated for sanctification. We'll we'll talk a lot more about that in this class. But what we're aiming for in our struggles is not just live a little better, struggle a little less. Have better relationships, be a little happier. No, what we're aiming for is glorifying God uh in our lives.