All right, we'll start off uh quick introductory remarks, uh some prayer. A little bit of warm-up to try to get us back into it. And then we're going to spend the rest of the time, I hope, reading scripture uh today, which is good So let's get rolling with that. We are studying the problem of evil. It is presented as the only true proof against God. So the only true proof of atheism. And we Spent a long time there last week, so I won't spend too much time to review other than to remind you of what the problem of evil is. And it's really halfway down that first page there, two premises premises and a conclusion. First premise is that if uh an omnipotent, omniscient, and omnile omnibenevolent God exists, then evil does not. And the second premise is there is evil in the world. And so the conclusion is therefore an omnipotent, omnibenevolent, and omniscient God does not exist And uh first remark there at the top by David Hume. I had it last week, I just shortened the phrase, the the trilemma is the intersection of the omnibenevolence, the omnipotence, and the omniscience of God. not allowing for evil effectively. And although we're not sure if Epicurus actually said this, uh it is attributed to him. And here Hume is reflecting that attribution. And he says Epicurus's old questions are yet unanswered. He is God in this next part. Is g uh is he willing to prevent evil, but not able? Then he is impotent. Is he able but not willing? Then he is malevolent. Is he both able and willing? When then his evil I suspect most of you would object to me suggesting that you have similar thoughts in your life, that you don't phrase it like this. But we talked a lot about God being in a box in your life because you do struggle with his omnibenevolence, his omniscience omniscience, and his omnipotence in your own life. And it colors your prayers. And it colors your ability to obey the Lord in one of the chief Instructions that he gives you from the beginning to end of the Bible, and that is to rejoice in the goodness of the Lord in all things at all times to a degree That makes Christians, those that serve God, those that know God, those that build an entire life and mind on the existence of a true God who is omnipotent, omnibalent, omni- Oh I can't speak this morning. I don't remember which other one I added, so omnipotent. When we live like that, people ask us for a reason for the hope that is in us. And we have an opportunity to share Christ with them. And I spent this whole class trying to convince you that apologetics is not about winning arguments. Because you have no merit in that argument anyway. Apologetics is about you giving a Testimony, testifying, proclaiming, if you will, the goodness of your God. And so few of us Know the goodness of our God, that we live fairly unassuming lives, fairly indistinct lives from the rest of the world You say, why are you always so harsh? Because I want to know God better. I want to walk more conformed to his image. I Amen. I don't want to be useless. I don't wanna be a part of a club. I don't I don't wanna be feudal in my activity. I do it anyway without trying. I want the truths that I find in Scripture to play themselves out in my life such that I am And if it means suffering, it means suffering. If it means profiting, it means profiting. All I care about is being set ablaze by the by the truth of God And I am unsatisfied. This this is me being unsatisfied with me, by the way, not with you. I'm sharing it with you. I'm trying to maybe infect you with a little bit of it But this this is me unsatisfied with me. Because I'm not believing the truths. And it's me unsatisfied with me because I'm watching many of you go through things that you never talk about, which I have an issue with that too, by the way. It's a different Sunday school lesson. That you never talk about, but I know we're destroying your heart The box you put the Lord in keeps getting smaller and smaller because you can't make what you hear about God and what you know in your own experience, no, it should be in quotations there, work I still want to come back to your commentary when you were doing a presentation and you talked about the death of the child and how that was a struggle with you. You alluded to that and you you suggested that you became reconciled with that truth somehow, but you you stole the good stuff from me. You never told me how you did. And I want to hear that testimony I want to be encouraged by it. I know that God is good enough to reconcile situations like that. And I would love to hear that. I just keep forgetting, that's why I threw that in there. But I I am serious about that. I would like to hear it at some time. Tyrade. W why while I know that you would never say what Hume said, I absolutely do know this, that you have adopted some view of God that puts him in a small corner of your life You you have subscribed to the prudish orthodoxy of our age that makes God And I call it prudish because we are afraid. We are absolutely petrified of what happened What would happen if the Spirit worked in us and in our church in the way that he explains that he does work by his nature all through the scriptures? Oh my word, is he gonna get charismatic? I wrote papers on let tongues peace in college, right? That that's not my thing. I don't want to be ecstatic. But I do want to be conspicuous for the glory of the Lord, and I believe He heals everything. I believe to know the Lord is the greatest of all values, and I have experienced value. I have a decent job. I make great money for somebody that really has good skills. I have so many blessings in life. I know what goodness is And I know that I'm still not satisfied. I know that there's a peace in me that God created to be satisfied only in him, and I am looking for it. And I am looking for it to be good in the ways or or m even more than in the ways I know other goods. I have seen lesser goods, and so I know that there is a greater good And I want it. And I am against. There's a word for you. I am against Any boundary put on God that says he was great before and great in the future, and for now we're in a quiet age. Maybe we are But God rules sovereignly in a quiet age. And he collects every single one of your tears. And he celebrates every single one of your joys. And he surrounds you with the resources that you need to draw you up and in. Did you come to church this morning because it was a a part of a community that you live in? Just was studying the Hajj with my younger son, right? What a strong cultural identity the Hajj creates. It draws you out of the rest of the world, you go and camp with a bunch of other people in the desert. It's become bad, by the way, because of modern technology that allows you to set that out there in the desert and all that other garbage. You can actually take a Hajj Tour right now. What is that? But as I was studying that with them, I thought how much it is like our church. Weekly, we hodge to the church. We go to the sacred place, we identify with a set of community Please come here only if you want to find out. Why is it that we do not Why is it that we do not start our services with confession? Do you understand that to come to church, to come before the presence of the Lord, which is what we say church is about To enter into community with other believers, to see God, to know God, to be with God, to worship God. Every time that is recorded in the Scriptures, it is a phenomenal thing, and it requires two parts. A heart that recognizes its need, whether that's a A confessional need in sin, or whether it's just a need for the God for God to interact in our situations, our children, our marriages, our work, our leadership roles Our work in evangelism, our uh whatever it is, right? We must recognize our need. And then we must desire God as the only solution to it. And that has to start with With confession, I confess my need. Again, whether it's sin or just like I I don't even need you. I'm ending up a resource and I require you to fill that resource up. I've tried myself and I see that it's insufficient I was having some conversations with made about the death. That's my default response. God, here's something in my life. I'm going to go do it. And it's not till I fail that I finally get to a place where I'm like, oh, why did I start with me? I knew that was going to work. I got nothing good to say about myself. Why should that work? And now I've created a mess. I've hurt people. I've not done what I was supposed to have done. I've wasted time. I've wasted resources. And most of all, I acted like God wasn't first in my life. I acted, I told the world that I was up to the task. Instead of saying I don't have to worry about this. I don't know how I'm going to do it. I feel totally insufficient. I am totally insufficient for this task. But I serve a great God. And here I go. Church is about recognize worship, entering into God's house is about recognizing our need. Confessing that need and having God address that need. And that results in worship and praise and adoration. And redemption and all those other words that you know. Grace. Now you're ready to start talking about grace. I can't stand it when people talk about grace like it's something cheap towards So I I don't Pester Gabe these need to be two hours long. Sir, if you preach like you did last week, I'll give you three. That was fantastic, thank you. Um, I'm gonna pray. I am not perfect. No surprise there. And yet by my own standard, I am completely insufficient for most things that you give me to do. To be a husband, to be a father, to lead other men and women, whether at work in a quote unquote secular job or in a small group. Certainly to stand up here, and yet I am going to attempt to peel back the clouds of heaven a little, or maybe just the fog that surrounds our eyes. And let's shine through the nearly overwhelming Goodness and truth and power and sufficiency of your providence this morning And so I confess that I am ill-equipped, unworthy, robed in all the sins of my weak and the discouragements of my heart. And yet I just ask you to be great. I don't want to be weird and fictional and mystical, and yet I am tired. Of the house of cards that we build in religion. And we admire the idols of our hands as we craft them and structure them in beauty and prose and all the other ways. I'm tired of those idols. And I want to see you. And so I pray that you would grant that this morning. In your name I pray. Amen. I don't know if this is right or wrong. It's a good book. I'll recommend two this morning. Um this one is gonna make make you sad. It makes me sad. Uh although it's a great book, isn't it? It does have good benefits. Also by Peter Krieg, I've mentioned his stuff to you before. It's called Making Sense Out of Suffering. Super hard to get, so the first five of you in the room that try will probably be successful And the next ten will be told that there are no available copies. It's out of print. I had to get a used copy to get a hold of it. Or steal it off the you can steal it off the internet, but I'm kind of opposed to that I'm going to start here to set the tenor for the class. I'm not going to talk about this book, but I'm going to use the method I'm using today is really from this book. I found this book about 20 years ago, not by chance, Leighton Talbert. Um actually uh I think he's a pastor, um at a small church in Greenville, South Carolina where Angel and I went to school. So I knew him kind of by name in the community. Uh didn't think he was all that good of a speaker, found this book and uh have bought I don't know ten or fifteen copies of it over the years, keep giving it away and having to buy a new one. Um Everybody in this room should read the first two chapters of this book. If you don't read the first two chapters of this book, you you don't care about knowing God. I'll say this I'll say the statement that strongly. Um they they are phenomenally and scripture saturated. Very little commentary, just a ton of scripture strung together like a necklace of the most beautiful gems that you could ever imagine That's my sales pitch. What do you think about me going into advertising? Oh, wrong page. I'm gonna apologize for this, but I do think it sets the phone a little bit. Um Here is the most powerful argument for atheism I have ever seen anywhere in the literature or philosophy of the world. Surprisingly, it was written by a great Christian Uh Dostoyevsky. It is Ivan Karamazov's challenge to his believing brother, I don't have to say that, but I'll say El Yosha. In the brothers Karamaz Karamazov Uh Ivan is reciting horror stories of the suffering of innocent children. I'm not going to read them all to you, but I'm going to read this first one. This poor child of five was subjected to every possible torture by those cultivated parents. They beat her, thrashed her, kicked her for no reason. So her body was one bruise. Then they went to greater refinements of cool key, shut her up all night in the cold and frost in a privy. And because she didn't ask to be taken up at night As though a child of five, sleeping its angelic sound sleep, could be trained to wake and ask, they smeared her face and filled her mouth with excrement. And it was her mother. Her mother did this. And that mother could sleep hearing the poor child's groans. Can you understand why a little creature who can't even understand what's done to her should beat her little aching heart with her tiny fist in the dark and weep her meek, unresentful tears to dear, kind God to protect her. Again, this is the brother that's arguing against God. Do you understand that, friend and brother? You pious and humble novice? He's talking to his brother who's trying to invite him to know Christ. Do you understand why this infamy infamy must be and is permitted He goes on to challenge him and rail against the Lord. The creef picks up here in talking about the kinds of experience that we have of suffering, and he gave many prior to that. You know, uh unrequited loves and uh injuries uh one lady burned her face multiple times and you know a life of pain. But here he picks up and he says, and the universality of it, there's the rub. Your neighbor, your best friend, your doctor, your automechanic all have deep and hidden hurts That you don't know about, just as you have some that they don't know about, everybody out there is hurting. Everybody out here is hurting And if you don't know that, you're either very naive and believe in people's facades or so thick-skinned that you don't hurt yourself and you don't feel other people's hurts either I don't mean to insult anyone. We all do a lot of cover-ups. Our animal instincts cover up our wounds so that they don't get hurt more. Just as animals do this to their bodies' wounds, we do it to our souls' wounds. We are all involved in universal cover-up. One part of this wounding that everyone is involved in is the family. Everyone is born into a family and most people go on to make new families. The family is the first and closest source of the I thou relationship. But this source of our deepest loves is also the source of our deepest hurts. If you are a part of a family, whether it is a home broken by divorce or alcoholism or resentment or whether it is bro w whether it is unbroken, you know how those closest to you hurt you the most, whether deliberately or not And if you are not part of a family, you know the even deeper hurt of loneliness. And it goes on to expand on that, but that's enough to set the tenant for the class. Again, my point in studying the problem of evil is that we would respond to the problem of evil by thinking rightly about God. And thus give us an opportunity for rescue, redemption, and refuge. A right response to the problem of pain is a radical engagement with God. And I shared just, you know, racing through it at the end last week. uh a couple of uh scriptures there. A wrestling with him, right? Radical engagement. What do I mean by that? A wrestling with him with him that says, I will not let you go until or unless you bless me. It wasn't until I felt the sting of things in my life, was old enough to recognize how I was hurting. that that passage began to be meaningful to me. And then it became infinitely meaningful to me. A wrestling with him that says, I will not let you go unless you bless me. While also obediently and trustingly opening our hands to God and saying, everything comes from you. And though my strongest desire, my strongest desire is that God would take this cup from me when I know that He has presented me. With a challenge that I do not want to go through, and that I am wrestling with him about for blessing I also know that not my will but yours is the only way to my deepest desire. All that I talked about at the beginning of class, my total redemption. And while there is a fantastic rational and logical response to the problem of evil, it is it is able to be responded to with all the mathematical symbols of logic. to defeat the premises and draw a proper conclusion. At the end of the day, that would be me saying I can comprehend this. I can figure out what the borders of God are and the borders of evil are in such a way that I can make this work according to the rules of logic, which I would argue are Presented by God, but comprehended by men. And that is not good enough for me. And so we will not take Job's approach, or we'll take the approach that Job decided on when he finally got to see How the world was really work uh how the world really worked. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? A whole book of Job rationalizing logically the problem of pain was presented to him personally. But when God finally speaks, Job describes all of that logic and rationale as, who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand. I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear. I had logical symbology or symbols on a board. That led to an equal sign that said, you in fact are omnipotent, omnibenevolent, and omniscient. Got it right that time. And omniscient. I had heard those things, but now I have seen you. But now my eye sees you, therefore I despise myself and repent and dust and ashes. And so I contend that the only, and we may, if we have time, come back to the logical argument if those of some of you are interested in it, but I do not expect to help you with the logical argument. I attempt I I would expect just satisfy some itch you have to be able to draw a nice clean border around God. And maybe that's valuable for the sake of discussing it with somebody else. But I want to help you. And the only way I know to do that is to draw you into a relationship, a situation similar to that that Job had with God. Now I am not God. I'm not abused by that. Falsehood. But I have his word. And so that's what we're going to use today. Gotta move fast. I've already wasted a bunch of my time. Uh there's a bunch of verses at the end that I would like to get to, but I probably will not. I will not be here next week. I've got to make a quick quick trip over to Europe for work. Uh I wish I didn't. I have a really bad attitude about it. So I will not be here next week. Daniel will be teaching, and I'm really hoping he'll pick up with some of the verses that I don't add to, and then really focus on the goodness of God next week. I am going to focus on the providence of God this week. The sovereignty of God or God's providence. I've got some definitions by a a number of men. I stole them largely from the work that I cited at the bottom. A really good treatise. Old, but I find some of the old stuff is really good. A really good treatise from 1866 by a guy named William Plumer. Uh called Jehovah Gyre it is available uh like on open commons type stuff on the internet if you want to um get a copy of it. It's quite good But a couple of definitions real quick for why I'm focusing on sovereign sovereignty, God's sovereignty and God's providence, and it's really because they pull all three of the trilemma characteristics of God together and discuss them under the topic of sovereignty or providence. Providence is the divine superintendence over all created beings, the care of God over his creatures. The doctrine of divine providence is that all things are sustained, directed, and controlled by God, Leonard Woods. By the law of providence, I mean Uh John Owen said this, not me. I mean God's sovereign disposal of all the concerns of men in this world. All the concerns of men in this world in the variety, order, and manner which God pleases. According to the rule and infinite reason of his own goodness, wisdom, righteousness, and truth. So in case you're missing it, I'm trying to highlight some of the important terms here. And every one of these men separated by culture and decades of time and all this other stuff. You notice how in every case God's work to express his goodness In complete control of all things and all people is clear here. It's either directly stated, like in this last one, goodness Or indirectly stated by words like sustained. The word providence is taken from the Latin and by its etymology means foresight, not merely in the sense of seeing before, but in the sense of taking care for the future, or rather an ordering of things and events after a predetermined and intelligent plan It supposes wisdom to devise and power to execute, omniscience, omnipotence Uh uh in case you missed it, omnibenevolence would be all that care and good stuff, right? Why am I reading all these definitions? I'm hoping one of them will resonate with you. That's that's why I'm reading a bunch of them Providence is the care which God takes of all things to hold them in being and to direct them to the ends which He has determined to accomplish by them, a purposeful sovereignty, so that nothing takes. place in which he is not concerned. I have a whole set of scriptures at the end of this that God hears you. He hears you every day, all moments, all the time. It's so important to how we consider the providence and sovereignty of God. It's so important when we consider our hurts and our pains. He hears you. Nothing takes place in which he is not concerned in a manner worthy of his infinite perfections And which is not in unison with the counsels of his will. God's conserving all things means his actual operation. Notice that. It's specifically arguing against a watchmaker or a clockmaker type guy. Doesn't happen to you because God's like, yeah, yeah, you know, life's coming at you. I'm gonna let that stream flow for a minute. Don't worry. I'll come down and fix it in a second. Many of us have a view of God like that. We even say things to try to get God off the hook like, well, you know, God really didn't want that to happen. Well God doesn't like it that that happened There may be some aspect of that, but I find that a dangerous statement. And I would prefer for you to open your hand and take the sum total of your life and put it in that hand. and lift it high to God and say, Lord, there are things on this that are hurtful to me and they are my fault. Take them off. Take them off my hand. Let me be done and you be all in all. But the rest of the things that remain in your hand are in fact from the Lord And he will give you all that you need, like the most adoring Father, without doing harm to any of his other attributes. He is the most adoring Father. And he will sustain you while he gives you all that is Consistent with his wellness plan for you. Period. Actual operation and government in preserving and continuing the being, powers, dispositions, and motions of all things. And then finally from two of our more notable catechisms or confessions of faith, the providence of God is his almighty and everywhere present power. whereby, as it were, by hand he upholds and governs heaven, earth, and all creatures, so that herbs and grass, rain and drought, fruitful and barren years Food and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty, yes, and all things come not by chance. But by his, and I'll add, direct, fatherly hand Again, I want to say this. I am aware of some of the hurts in this room. And it's not my place to share somebody else's story, so I will not do it, but I want you to know that while I'm doing these studies I am thinking of those. And I am excited about what the Lord has and how he speaks into your heart. And it's a variety of them. Just in here, as I look around the room, I I can think of a variety of them that you've actually shared with me at some point in time. This is not abstract to me. This is not academic to me. I am reading these with the passion that you hear in my voice because I believe this is the goodness that God has. to answer your hurt and your need. God's work of providence God's works of providence are his most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions. It's a very typical Presbyterian statement, filled with amazing truths, and yet they somehow make it sound cold and pallid. Don't know how they do that all the time. But they do have wonderful statements of truth So I added it. We're gonna focus today on God's sovereignty. I'm sorry, this is not gonna be super like I'm just gonna spend time in the scriptures for the next three pages and until the pocket expires. So if you need to go to sleep, go to sleep. If you need to get coffee, get coffee. Otherwise strap in. Let's talk about God's sovereignty in small provinces like Dice. The lot is cast into the lap, but it's every decision is on the Lord. Ers. Matthew ten, twenty nine, three thirty one. Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? Meaning worth very little. And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father. Not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father, but even the hairs of your head. Notice the transition there. He's drawing a strong correlation And you already knew it, but I want you to see the strength of the correlation. These not so valuable birds, and not one of them falls to the ground unless the Lord has done it But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. I am over you and interested in I am interested in you in such a way that I spent the time to count every hair of your head. There is no part of you that I am not interested in. That I am not circumscribed with my work and my end and my plans and my means and my grace, every part of you is valuable. And any parent in the room that's done that, scoop, I don't think I did this by the way, because I'm a cold, heartless person, but anybody in the room that's ever counted the toes of their child, what'd you do that for? Don't Right? At best they've got six fingers. That occasionally happens as I understand it's I need a doctor to corroborate that, but I think that happens occasionally. Other than that, you got you know five on each foot and five on each hand. So those and fingers are stuck But you care about that kid. It's a wonder to you. And so in your weak and sinful state You you tally it up. What is this treasure that I have? I'm an accountess. And while God is not like me, he's infinitely better than me, there is some analogy to be drawn in his infinity. interested in your life. Even the hairs of the head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows Fish, plant, worm, and wind, Jonah, right? I'm not gonna quote all the verses here, you can read them. Or the references You can read them. And the Lord, notice this, appointed. That word's going to pop up in a few of the verses as we go through today. So pay attention to it And the Lord appointed a plant. Oh, nope, I messed that up. And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up donuts. Now the Lord God appointed a plank and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to save him from his discomfort. I love how God's worried about Jonah's discomfort. That's pretty cool. You say it's silly. I don't think it's silly. I quote the New Testament. Every word of scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for Me learning more about God and walking in this world in a way that enjoys the full value of Him, as much as He's poured out on us, which is an amazing amount, but as much as He's poured out on us for now, until He comes again, and the rest of it overwhelms us. Oh, oh. Wish you knew. I wish I knew I'd probably stop trying to do it in my own strength and start depending more on him. But anyway, but when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm is that appointed word again, appointed a worm that attacked the plant so that it was And when the sun rose rose, this one goes should go in the weather chapter. By the way, I added that just for you. Just in the same. I was thinking about you when I added the weather section. God appointed a scorching east wind. But you do need to notice that God brought the plant, the worm, and the wind to teach Jonah about himself, who Jonah was. I love that. God orchestrates even plants and worms and winds so that we can learn more about Him. But we have to understand our need first, like we were talking about earlier, with why do we come to the Lord's house, right? Know your need. Confess your need, spend the time in worship. Got to know our need first, so God was teaching him the need. And it doesn't undo the fact that he also said, and I brought the plant for your comfort. Like, how does God work that out? He's deliberately going to cause Cunnival. Bad situation to teach Jonah about his need But he also cares about his discomfort. And so he he rolled all that up in some way that I don't fully understand and presented it in Jonah's life, and he gave it to us as a testimony of who he is and what he's like He's sovereign over the stars. Isaiah 40, 26. Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these. He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name. And I did some study on this because I wasn't sure I believed the way some of the commentaries were taking it. It's just so wonderful. It's like every night God Stands almost uh obviously anthropomorphic gibberish, right? But it it's nice for me to think about it like this, right? That comes out onto his balcony and he sees the blank night sky and he begins to call these. Or I I'm so stupid I can't even think of another star right now. You'd think I would have prepared that if I was going to use this analogy, right? But I can't think of one. So one of the other smarter, right? And he calls that next star. And he calls that next star, and eventually the sky is arrayed with it. And then he looks at us and he goes, You might know that I care about you I'm not gonna lie to you. Last week has been hard for me. I did not pray in the prayer room this morning, even when the little thanks thing went around, because I thought that would be hypocritical for me to even try to fake a thanks this morning. But I'm warming up to this subject. I hope you're encouraged by some of these. Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these, he who brings out their hosts by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might. And because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Weather He covers the heavens with clouds. He prepares rain for the earth. He makes grass grow on the hills. He sends out his command to the earth. His word runs swiftly. He gives snow like wool. He scatters whorefrost like ashes. He hurls down his crystals of ice like crumbs He sends out his word and melts them. He makes his wind blow and waters flow. N. D. Wilson wrote a book called Is it Deaf by I know it's Deaf by Living, but I don't remember if it was that book or his Tilta World one that he said this in. But he talks about the lavish, extravagant, ridiculous creativity of God. He not only throws down snow and makes the world quiet and beautiful with it, he makes every single one of those snow No place different. Just because he can. Just because that's the kind of guy he is. Because he cares about every little thing and how it speaks to him and his character and his nature And how it communicates him to you that you might have that value in buckets that you can hold. What do I mean? You can't comprehend him. Except by analogy, except by metaphor, except by comparison to something that fits within your small brain. My small brain, I'm not insulting you, which has small brains comparatively I love that it says that he does this thing. And then when we dig deeper into what we would call science, we realize there are never two snowflakes that are the same. And then when he's done, he's like, well, I I showed you what I wanted to, be gone. If I did something as creative as made a hundred thousand, just a hundred thousand snowflakes that were all different. Nobody would ever melt them. I would spend a fortune on cryogenics to make sure that they got displayed for everybody to see my handiwork. And then he melts them and then does it again And does it again, and does it again and does it again. And when we try to counterfeit it, he has written the rules of physics. Such that it works out a similar way, except we don't get to decide when they come and when they don't. He loads the thick cloud with moisture, the clouds scatter his lightning. His lightning. Love that They turn around and around by his guidance to accomplish all that he commands. Did you guys do it that lightning can get into a bubble and hover across the horizon? My family has seen it. That kept me from it. I think I was bad that day or something. I can't remember what they call it, but did you know that lightning would get into a bubble, effectively, like form an orb And it can slowly move across the high. You can watch it. Do you know how many different kinds of lightning there are? Do you know some lightning goes up and doesn't come down? Plain is amazing. So he talks about uh It would be so good if I was more competent. They turn around and around by his guidance. I wonder how many centuries people read that and were like, yeah, that sounds really cool. And then modern science and high-speed photography and a bunch of sensor technologies, which they didn't used to have. Started looking into lightning and now you really get an appreciation for what that means. And again, it's like those snowflakes, this lavish creativity of God, just cause To accomplish all that he commands them on the face of the habitable world. Whether for correction, this is an interesting note that I almost left off, whether for correction, or for his hand, or land, or for love, he causes it to happen. Again in Job. By the way, those are God's words to Job, but he wanted to demonstrate who he was in direct response to the problem of pain. So I want you to notice that. Job 37 is God speaking. You want to know how to answer the problem of pain? Consider this. Consider the weather. Look at this. He couldn't have this great job. There's no engineering like that in the scriptures that I know of, just for the record. I feel like I did the wrong thing. Job twenty-eight, for he looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens When he gave to the wind its weight, how many ancients knew that there was weight to the wind? I don't remember when the idea of calling it one atmosphere that we're here on the Earth and what we mean by that is that the sum total of air above us is pushing down on us to a certain degree. And ten feet underwater is two. Ten meters. That was my problem. I said ten feet and I was like, that doesn't sound right. Ten meters down, another and another and another and another So if you want to change how much you weigh, it's easier to get heavier than it is lighter. You gotta go a lot further up to get lighter than you have to drop down to get heavier. Just consider that. It's a good metaphor there for late weight loss people Uh and a portion to waters by measure when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder. Yep, not gonna make it. Alright, um Matthew eight twenty-six and he said to them, Uh is that true? Yes, I'm sorry. You know this story, right? Him and the boat? And he said to them, Why are you afraid, O ye of little faith? And then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm, and this one is wonderful. He is in the boat with his disciples. And they still don't trust circumstances around them, the pain, if you will, of circumstances around them. And they still don't trust. And he's right there You know you have thought that. If God would just come. Hmm. Has that played out in scriptures? Is the testimony of God's history agreeing with your statement that if God stood right up here, I know all my problems would be fixed? I could go I could trust, I could endure, I could celebrate, I could think, I could work, I could keep going. I could do what he's called me to do if he would just stand here next to me that I can see You know you're wrong. You know you're wrong because this sector makes it pretty clear Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. Disaster. And I need to take a quick aside. Got this directly from this book that does a good job on it, by the way. But the word, I don't know why Bible translators do this. It makes it hard for us novices to figure stuff out. The word used for disaster in evil uh or calamity, I think, is another one in Amos is the word evil. And we try to get God off the hook all the time. We're like, well, God doesn't do evil. Well, there's absolutely a sense of that. He is utterly holy and righteous in all that he does. But in the way that we use language, The word evil is absolutely something God takes responsibility for. I'm just going to let that bother you this morning because I don't have time to do all the disclaimers necessary. But Amos 3. 6 says, is a trumpet blown in a city. And the people are not afraid. Does evil come to a city unless Yahweh has done it? And if you want to understand another Well that means evil like in this sense and not in this sense. We gotta go read Genesis thirty-eight ten, which says, And what he did was evil in the sight of the Lord, and he put him to death. This is that evil that offends God and that he judges. Same word. Same word. I'm not creating a new doctrine there. I'm trying to just help you to not make stupid excuses for your God. We'll read it in a bit, but who stood before God and got permission to go do what he did to Job? Evil incarnate. Right? Well it's you can say that Satan is incarnate. So God is sovereign over disaster. God is sovereign over a word that we use Plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth, and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine. and bread to strengthen man's heart. I love that he not only does these things, he puts an orderly system in place. I created these you know, I I bought a pet, I put it in a I mean not that we're pets, but Right, I bought a pet and I put it in a terrarium and now I gotta feed it, right? That just makes sense. Otherwise I'm I'm an idiot. Right? So we kind of expected God to create a sustainable system But he goes so much further in the in in this verse than that, right? I bring b forth food from the earth, and that's the verse fourteen is the sustainable system part and wine to gladden the heart of man, and oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen man's heart. I made it good. I manifested my goodness. Not just an orderly system that's sustainable, but good. Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. O Yahweh, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all, all your works, in other words. The earth is full of your creatures. What's he talking about? Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with uh creatures innumerable, living things, both small and great. There go the ships and Leviathan, which you formed to play in it. These all look to you to give them their food in due season. Men running around working their best, creatures on the land, all over the place, teeming everywhere, under the sea, mysterious, gigantic, enormous manifestations of God, creativity, all of those things. God says, I feed them all. I care for every last one of them. You think by the strength of your own hand you're doing it, but it's me that does it. An animal thinks by its scavenging instincts it's accomplishing it, but it's me that's doing it. I don't know what fish thinks, so don't ask me that. You make it up. When you give it to them, you gather it up. And when you open your hand, they are filled with good things. And when you hide your face, they are dismayed. And when you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. Matthew 6, therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet their heavenly father feeds them. Excuse me, your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon In all his glory was not arrayed like uh should be one of these. But if God so closed the grass the the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow was thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not be anxious, saying, What shall we wear? For the Gentiles, those that do not know God, seek after all these things, and your Heavenly Father knows that you need them all. Well, I know this story about poverty, and I know this story about deprivation, and I know, and I know, and I know. I don't know what you know. And I don't think you know what you know. And if you're basing it on popular media, anything from about the 1700s forward that poses is news A record or testimony of actual events conforming to truth and reality? I'm taking that verse over your news any day of the week. I don't even have to pause to think about that. What about my own hunger? What about my own What about the testimony of those people that we see in that country that seem desperate for any deal, any clean water, any reprieve from the heat? Or disease. Those are real things. And their father knows what they need And he writes the lavishness of his goodness on snowflakes that he melts in the next instant. How much more. You on whose head he has counted each hair. And we'll add even more to God's care for us as his sons and daughters as we go through this. He gives the beasts their food and to the young ravens they cry. Disability. Then Yahweh said to him, Who has made man's mouth? And why we s hear this about Moses and we're so familiar with the passage and we're like, yeah, whatever. But you gotta listen to this next phrase. Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I? And then we do this dumb thing in the American scriptures. We translate the actual name of God as a title, the Lord. Well you you fail. You you miss something there when you don't say I did it. Yahweh I gave you my name so that you would know I had a particular interest in you. You are my people. And so I will give you my name. Kevin just got back from the citadel. They didn't use his first name for the first nine months he's there. He hadn't earned that kind of recognition. There's even in the modern secular world, there's this idea that the name carries some weight. And for whatever reason, we erase it. We erased it from the Old Testament and we gave it a title. Well, I'm I'm a CEO, I'm an ITPSO, I'm an FSO, I'm a treasurer Did I say president? I'm a president. I'm an engineer. I'm a subject matter expert. I'm a lead technical architect. I have a lot of titles. I could care less about any of them. I hate introducing myself. It goes around the room, everybody gives all their titles and the name and they get to me and I'm like, I don't know, I'm scared. I can put that I actually say that. And then people roll their eyes. Like, I don't know what to tell you, man. God gave us his name and he made it personal and he gave it to his people in a unique way. And here he says Yahweh, I am Yahweh, I am your Father, I am your God. You are my people, and I make you mute and deaf and seeing and blind, because it's good. Nobody else takes that from me. Nobody else made you mute or deaf or blind. Nobody else put those birthmarks on your body. Nobody else gave you that genetic disorder that teach you how to wait that you Are unhappy with. Nobody else made you only an inch taller than a hobbit. Right? Nobody else. God did it. Suffering. Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. God is saying, that's me. That's me. When you open your hand and you have the experiences of your life in it, some of them are you and some of them are other people and you know we can carve those off. But that's me. Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. like their creator. For it is better to suffer for doing good if that should be God's will. Again, right? He's saying that's me. Than for doing evil. He's sovereign over life and death. Yahweh kills and brings to life. He brings down to Sheol and raises up. See now that I, even I, am He, and there is no God beside me. I kill. And I make alive. I was thinking about that verse uh a couple weeks ago in my studies. You know this image we have of the Grim Reaper Dumb. You know another peppy. I got a lot of peppies. No, no, no, no, no. The plagues that came on Israel, uh Egypt in Israel. No On Egypt in Egypt. Um I suppose I'm maybe. Um who passed over? Where where where was he from? Actually I'm not telling you in the last couple months alone how many people have acted like that's the grim reaper? Like the blood of God protected us from Satan. The blood of God, the blood of the Lamb, protects us from God's righteous judgment. Satan gets permission for everything he does. And if God chooses to use Satan to effect his judgment, that's fine. That's within God's purview to do that as far as I'm concerned. I will not question it. I I probably will, but I shouldn't. But just to be clear here, God is the only one who gives and takes life. Under every circumstance. And there is a piece of that which is offensive to those of us that have The lost loved ones and lost innocent loved ones and lost unsaved loved ones and everything else, but there is also a piece of that that should be comforted The God in whose lavish care has been evidenced all through his scriptures that we have been reading about. He is the God that determined that there was goodness in the giving of a life or the taking of a life or the preservation or the expiration. of a light. There should be some comfort in that. There should be a lot of comfort in it, but our minds are limited, so we're probably limited to a little comfort. If we could really get the lavish goodness of God into our brains, there would be a lot of comfort. Put away the grim reapers. There's no such thing. There is God. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. That's a tough one too. And there is none that can deliver out of my hand, because there is no one that competes with God. Come now you who say today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. Life and death are in God's hands. All wealth and possessions. And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. Yahweh gave and Yahweh has taken away. Blessed be the name of Yahweh. What a great confession. That should be in your Bible someplace. When you're not being treated the way you think you should be, when You're not being appreciated the way that you should be when you're not uh rolling in as much resources as the person next to you that is making you envy. Write that down. Put it in your hand and the circumstances that are causing the trouble and hold that up to the Lord and say, all these things are from you, Lord. I will not let you go in this prayer that I'm praying to you right now. I will not stop wrestling with you until you bless me, because you know I want this to pass from me. But I want you more than what I want. And so I will wrestle until you bless me and encourage me, and I will walk in the footsteps that you have ordained for me. And I know that all goodness, all wealth, and all lack are from you I have a bunch of these politics and government because frankly I am distraught over the state of our government. Um and then um but you know what I am going to skip those. Please read them yourself. I need to be able to get to Crucifixion of Christ. Talk about the lavishness of God's goodness in snow. And in life and health and in food and clothing, but this most of all. Or this and the next one most of all. His care and sovereignty and goodness are no place made more manifest than his sovereignty over the crucifixion of his son. For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand. And your plan had predestined to take place. Who hung Christ on the cross? His his Father. His father, to accomplish the end that was more magnificent than the sin of the beginning. He's sovereign over our salvation. He grants repentance. Right, it comes from him. He grants repentance And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to everyone, able to teach patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness That God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth. Who grants repentance? That God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth. And they may escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. So much to unpack there and no time for it. Please think about that a little bit. God's sovereign over salvation, and that he draws you to this thing that he has secured in Christ All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. You don't even get to know them Let alone respond to them, unless they cooperate to communicate themselves to you in a way that draws you in. And then he gave you faith. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. I don't have any time for this, but I am so tired of people talking about, well I just have faith. Oh, stop it. Stop it. You deceived person. You are spewing a most satanic of lies. When God says he gives you faith, it means that he gives you a heart and mind to see him for who he is and what he is. and draw you up into it and it always results in a radical, life-transforming kind of obedience and happiness and testimony and service and all the other things that are consistent with that. character. Creativity and diligence. On and on and on. It's what He gives to you to say, well we don't live by rules, we live by faith. Yes, the faith of God imparted to you to accomplish all that he has for you. There is never a time when the word faith should go next to anything that looks like insufficiency Or weakness, or inattentiveness, or indifference He gives us faith by his sovereign work. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. It is the gift of God. Wow. Not a result of works, so that no one may boast. And then we say things like, well just faith. Oh my word. Light and darkness. I don't have time. It's a wonderful passage. It speaks to so many things. Please make that your your your reading time this afternoon. Maybe right before lunch or right after lunch if you're as hungry as we are when we get home Isaiah 45, 5 through 22. It's wonderful. It's wonderful. Please read it. Evil intentions of Satan. Then Satan answered Yahweh and said, Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has on every side You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face. Take take away the outward manifestations. Put some evil and pain in his life And he will curse you. Do you want to know where ultimately this brain puzzle of the problem of evil comes from? I just read it to you. Comes from Satan. He knows our frailty. And he's like, if I just Hold back if I somehow buffer them from the goodness of God. If I can keep them so numb with entertainment and news and busyness that they never open their hand to a falling snowflake Wherever look at the sky, or ever consider the abundance and goodness of the very food that they eat on a regular basis If I just keep them from seeing the goodness of God writ large in all things that are in creation, I can get them to deny God. Or to put him in such a small box that it's an idol. And they'll set him on the dash. And let's face it, that person doesn't know God. You have blessed the work of his hands and his possessions have increased in and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has. And he will curse you to your face. You just got to look inside the chief strategy of Satan in your life. I'm not trying to be stupid I just don't know the simpler way to say it, and it's pretty pretty simple. That's it, people. You might want to write it on a note card someplace, honestly. I'm not being sarcastic or ironic here You might want to write it on a note card someplace and just remind yourself the strategy of the evil one in my life today is this. What am I going to do about that? And Yahweh said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him, do not stretch out your hand. I feel like I skipped a part of that one. I think it's against his life, right? So Satan went out from the presence of Yahweh. I don't know why God tolerates the presence of Satan. I don't understand how those two natures can be approximate. I guess that's a stupid statement. How can you not be near God when God is One's not bound by time and space, right? But so a whole bunch of silly thoughts in my head about that one. But I'll tell you what encourages me there. Satan, it's your turn You had to be in line, but it's it's your turn. Yes, I see that your strategy is going to be a successful one, generally, in your and I understand that your strategy But I also need Lion. You can go and do those things. And when s when Job got angry about it and said, God, justify yourself. Did you notice he did this? He took Joe back to his sovereignty just like I tried to do this morning. I hope that you I I I can't, right? We're we're out of time and I'm trying to be respectful of your time, but I I hope that you are encouraged this morning. I hope that you are thinking about the things that are challenging your life. Right, whether it's a worries, your fears, or doubts, or deep things, deep hurts, deep struggles. I hope that all of those were there in your mind this morning as the light of God's sovereignty and goodness As his omnipresence, no omnipotence, omniscience, and omnibenevolence shown through, through his own words. In the testimony of himself that he gave to you in the scriptures. I hope I hope that that's what happened in your heart and mind this morning. Again, we'll go on to talk more about his goodness. We'll go on to talk more about the nature of God and hopefully even get a little bit into some of those logical arguments. I I cannot think of a more biblical response to the problem of pain than the one that uh died demonstrated in Job's life when the very strategy of the problem of pain is first recorded so clearly in the scriptures Lord If beating something the with words would help, then I have been successful this morning But I know that that is not sufficient, and then only by the work of your spirit in our hearts and minds will we Really be able to apprehend the joy of Job when he said, These things are too wonderful for me. So I put my hand over my mouth. I stopped talking. I stopped trying to make an excuse for you. I stopped trying to explain things that I can't quite get to in my head. And I just am comforted and amazed in all that you have shown us. And I pray that that could be our heart's confession this morning and every day. Be pleased, Lord, to make of us a people peculiar for your glory. In your name I pray. Amen.