Much to the what would no doubt be the chagrin of my tenth grade teacher of English, I have two and really only two memories of that tenth grade English class. The first is that our teacher, whose name I sadly can't even remember, He got a kick out of telling us pretty much every class about the old Burma shave road sign ads And unless you happen to be in his class as a tenth grader or whenever you took his class, you probably don't know about those signs unless you're at least over 60 years old. These signs for Burmashave were uh one sentence divided into multiple signs over the course of time on the highway. So you could be driving on the highway in one of forty-five different states and come across, for example, this sign. His beard was sharp, and so was he. Till he took a ride with a bumblebee Burmash Most of those signs didn't really make any sense. Some were m caused uh intended to make you laugh or be bewildered or confused, but more than anything, they wanted you to think about Burmashave. Why he thought teet uh teenagers in nineteen ninety seven would want to know about these ads that only ran from nineteen twenty five to nineteen sixty four, I don't know. And I'm sure he would be disappointed that I remember that far more than any of the curriculum that he taught us. But there we are. Well, a second memory from that class is far more significant. As one might expect for a 10th grade English English class, we had a number of books that we had to read. And for every book that we had to read, we had a book report form that we had to fill out. And on that form, one of the elements was you had to summarize the book in twelve words or less And in instructing us on how to fill out this form, he gave us this example. And he said this as he wrote on the board. He says, I can summarize the whole Bible in five words. And he wrote on the board, God creates man, makes rules God creates man, makes rules. I wonder how that particular summary strikes you. I personally think that he thought that was a faithful summary of the Bible because that's what most people who've never read the Bible think it's about. Well, in that moment I knew it was absolutely wrong, but I lacked neither the words nor the courage to speak up It was only sometime later that I, in reflecting back on that moment, wished that I would have raised my hand and said, Does that mean we only have to read the first chapter of every book we read? But alas, that didn't happen. Well, if I could go back to that day and propose a more accurate summary of the entire Bible In twelve words or less, I would propose the words of Romans chapter 4, verse 25 Romans chapter 4, verse 25. I'd invite you to turn there in your Bible. It's page 942 if you're using one of the blue Bibles Romans 4. 25 is 12 words in the Greek. It's 12 words in the English Standard Version and some other translations. But it is a brief, succinct, clear summary of the entire Bible It's been well said that the Old Testament is an anticipation of the person and work of Jesus Christ. The Gospels are an explanation of the person and work of Jesus Christ, a recounting of it, and the epistles are an explanation of the significance and the meaning of the person and work of Jesus Christ. And we have all of those realities tightly wrapped up in these words of Romans 4, 25. More than that, it is not just a historical look in the past, it is an intensely personal statement Romans 4. 25 summarizes the Bible by explaining how the life, death, and resurrection pertain to you and me if we are believing in Jesus. Here are the words. Who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification? Well, as accurate of a summary as that may be, it begs to be expanded on and explained. So let's do that. We'll unpack this twelve-word summary by considering the life. The death and the resurrection of Jesus, so that you would know him and be known by him now and forever Let's begin with the life of Jesus. Well, if you look at Romans 4. 25 right away, you can see it's not a complete sentence. It begins with the relative pronoun who. Depending on your translation, the sentence begins back in verse 23, perhaps verse 24, and verse 25 is a dependent clause for uh defining who this Jesus is, of whom verse 24 speaks So to understand the context and the person defined by verse 25, let's look at this passage starting in verse 22. He says, this is why, by the way, this is Paul is writing about Abraham and how his faith was counted to him as righteousness. Verse 22, this is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. In a larger context, Paul gives his defense for justification by faith apart from works of the law. In chapter 3, he makes it clear that all people without exception are under condemnation due to our sin against God He wrote in chapter 3, verse 23, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And because God is the perfect judge, we all stand condemned and sentenced to everlasting hell, which is the just punishment of our endless sin against an infinite and holy God. Left to ourselves, we are incapable of escaping punishment. We understand that once a judge confirms that the law has been broken and renders the guilty verdict There is no amount of law-keeping that can reverse that verdict. After guilt has been established, one cannot do works to overturn the verdict The question then becomes in Paul's thinking here: how can anyone be right with God if personal effort to restore that relationship is impossible And the answer is that God, who is not only the judge, but also the lawmaker, God has made a law that anyone who acknowledges their sin and believes in him will be forgiven of their sin, will have their guilt wiped away, and they will be declared righteous. Now we'll come back to that later, but as an example that faith and not works is what's required, Paul brings up Abraham earlier here in chapter 3 and chapter 4. When the Lord promised Abraham that he would use him to bless uh the nations of the world through his descendants The scripture says that Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. Abraham then is put forward as a model of that when a person believes in the promises of God God declares that person no longer guilty, but righteous. That is what justification means, to be declared righteous. And so in verse 24, Paul concludes that the righteousness will be accounted to us who believe in him, that is God the Father, who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. Verse 25 then tells us who this Jesus is. He is the one who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. What we need to unpack at this point is what qualifies Jesus to do these things Why was it him who was delivered up and raised and not someone else? Why did God the Father choose to send his Son Well, we could begin to say that no man can uh no mere man that rather could uh can be delivered up for our trespasses. Anyone who is a sinner just like you and I can do no more than pay for his own sins. Even a perfect man, if there could be such a thing, a perfect man could pay no more than for one other person's sins, because his finiteness only enables him to pay for the sins of one other person if that were even possible. The reason Jesus can be delivered up for the trespasses of many is because he is truly man and truly God. Perfect in righteousness and infinite in holiness. He not only has his own guilt to pay. But his being as an infinite being is capable of paying the full penalty for any number of finite individuals whom he chooses to rescue. And thinking about thinking about the life of Jesus, Philippians 2, 6 to 7, or rather 6 to 11, takes us from the heights of glory where Jesus has dwelled for all eternity, to the dust of earth. to his life exalted once again in heaven. It says, though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him And bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Now, though Jesus left the glories of heaven to come to earth, he did not leave his glory behind. John 1. 14 says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only God. Full of grace and truth. In other words, his glory was seen in the way that he lived Jesus showed us the perfect character of God. He modeled how it is that we are designed to live He did what the first Adam and we could not do. He loved God with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength, and he loved his neighbor perfectly as himself. Like his father, Jesus loved his enemies. He never had a thought, he never spoke a word, he never took an action that in any way was contaminated by the curse of sin. In the words of Hebrews 7. 26, Jesus is holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, exalted above the heavens. Someone might say, well, how can a man do that? How can a man be like that? Well, the answer of Colossians 1 is that he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, and in him All the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. So Jesus was no mere man. He was truly man, and he was truly This is the mystery defined as a human nature dwelling alongside a divine nature simultaneously. That is a reality that we cannot explain, but it is a reality that Jesus proved through his life Such a man deserves nothing but and this praise and worship and honor and glory. To him all creation must bow in submission by virtue of his being he has all authority and he has the right to rule over his creation. He owes no one anything And everyone owes him everything. This is why verse 24 calls him Jesus our Lord, our master. Our king. And you might be sitting there thinking, well, that might be good for you, but Jesus isn't my Lord Well, the Bible also says that Jesus is the King of kings and the Lord of Lords. Which means that whoever it is you think is your Lord, Jesus is the Lord of that Lord. Whether that's you yourself or someone else or something else. As Lord of all, you don't need to acknowledge him as Lord to be Lord You simply have the opportunity to decide is he going to be your Lord and Judge or your Lord and Savior? All those who believe in him bow the knee and say, because of his life He was delivered up for my trespasses, and he was raised for my justification. Well, consider the death of Jesus. Notice the words here in verse 25, who was delivered up for our trespasses. Jesus, our Lord, was delivered up for our trespasses. This is just another way of saying that Jesus was given up to death Because of our sin. We have to think about that because Jesus says in John 10, I lay down my life, no one takes it from me. But I lay it down of my own accord. Jesus there affirms that he was not a victim of his circumstances. He was not at the mercy of forces more powerful than him. And yet here Paul writes that someone else delivered him up. And so to whom does Paul refer here? Well, the word div delivered up is paradidomy in the Greek, and it in various contexts has been translated betrayed, delivered up, handed over, committed, entrusted, arrested. It's the word used for Judas betraying Jesus. It's also used in saying that Judas delivered Jesus over to the religious leaders, and the religious leaders delivered up Jesus over to the Gentiles. And in Romans 8. 32, it's the word that is used of God who gave up his own son for us all. So we need to ask, to whom is Paul pointing the finger here? Who delivered up Jesus? Was it Judas Was it the religious leaders or was it God? Because the reality is all three of them did it in various ways. So who was it here that Paul speaks of? Well, I think the context demands that he is speaking of God, and I think the clue is in the phrase for our trespasses. Judas betrayed Jesus because of his covetousness and his desire for money. The religious leaders delivered up Jesus because of their envy and jealousy and hatred. But God gave up Jesus because our sin requires justice Romans 3. 25 says that God put Jesus forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. In other words, God the Father delivered up Jesus, his son, to pay the price that would satisfy his justice and open the floodgates to forgiveness. So God the Father delivered up his Son, Jesus, our Lord. Why did he do it? Well, it says here, for our trespasses. For our trespasses. Let's dig into that even further. The preposition for means because of here, this is the reason that God the Father delivered up Jesus' death cannot simply be explained as a result of political and military forces that were all at work two thousand years ago, nor can it be explained as a solution to one man's sins many thousands of years ago. No, Jesus' death here involves You and me. When he says here our trespasses He's writing not only to the church at Rome, but by inspiration of the Spirit, he's speaking of all those throughout time who would put their faith in Jesus Christ. And thus here he refers to the sins of all those who have believed in Jesus in history. Now, friend, if that's not you, if if you are sitting here, you've come this morning for whatever reason and you are not trusting in Jesus Christ, I would plead with you not to tune out. Because this will help you understand why it is that we who do believe love Jesus and love to gather with the people who love Jesus. And who knows? Maybe today the Lord will open your eyes to how you fit into all of this. Well, Jesus was delivered up for our trespasses. What are trespasses? Trespasses is a word that we don't use very much in this particular context. We're certainly familiar with those signs. No trespassing, right? And we know exactly what that means. Don't cross the line. Don't go where you're not supposed to go. The word trespass here translates a word that in physical terms means to fall to the wayside. Or to go astray, or to take a false step. In moral terms, it means to err. It's essentially another word for sin And just as trespassing is impossible where there are no boundary lines, trespass is cannot exist where there is no objective moral standard. Those who say that all truth is relative, that there's no right and wrong They seek to absolve themselves of guilt, but the problem is pedestrians are not the ones that decide where the lines go. Owners decide where the lines go. Friends, this world doesn't belong to us such that we can determine what is the right way to live. I don't know all of you, but I'm pretty sure each one of us got on the scene here less than a hundred years ago. Who are we to say this is how life should be lived? The hubris of people in this regard is like Charlotte weaving a web in your kitchen with signs, messages telling you how you should run your home. It's just silly. There really is only one person who can set the boundaries of life, and that is the creator of the world, the author of life, the king of the universe ACTS seventeen says, And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling places, that they should seek God and perhaps find their way toward him. and find him. In other words, God created us and all things in such a way that we would know that he exists and that we would seek after him and know him Romans 1 20-23 says, For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they or we are ex without excuse. When you walk on the beach or when you walk on a trail and you come across an empty water bottle that's been thrown by the way You intuitively know that that water bottle was made by a person. Somebody invented plastic Somebody thought plastic would be a good means to hold water. Somebody designed the plastic water bottle. Somebody designed the label that goes on that bottle Such things are the result of intelligent minds. But many then look at the tree, or the plants, or the tiny little sand bugs. They look at the infinite variety of complexity and beauty and wonder of creation and say, nope, that's just a cosmic accident Well, Roman goes on, Romans 1 goes on to say: For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. We understand very well that people throughout history and around the world, even today, worship the sun and the moon and animals and ancestors and leaders. We Westerners know that that's quite silly, so we worship money. Success. Cars, education, social media influencers And you know someone worships something when they sacrifice their money, when they give of their time, when they sacrifice their relationships And they're willing to do anything that it takes to achieve and accomplish the object of their desire. God designed us to worship him They even told us in the first of the Ten Commandments, have no other gods before me The greatest commandment according to Jesus is to love the Lord your God with all of your heart and with all of your soul and with all your mind and with all of your strength, which is to say, with all of your being Friends, that's the very line that every single one of us has crossed. We have not loved the one and only true and living God. We have worshipped anything and everything else. But that's not the only line we've crossed. Jesus also said that the second greatest commandment is that we love our neighbor as ourselves. This means that we are to care for others with the same level of care that we would provide for ourselves. God designed our mouths that we would encourage and comfort and bless others. He designed our ears so that we would listen. To what other people have to say and have compassion and understanding. He designed our bodies so that we would work and serve and minister and do good to others He designed our minds so that we would strategize how to effectively care for the needs and improve the lives of others. All of this ultimately, so that we could love one another, so we could know each other in a way that demonstrates God's kind of love, and then ultimately love God through that. He who is loving and gracious and good. But what have we done with those things? Have we lived within those boundaries? No, not even close. We have divided up the world by those who we deem to be our friends and allies, and those we deem to be our enemies And we categorize people in different ways, d different superficial ways depending on our personal preferences of skin color or ethnicity or culture or politics or hairstyle or clothing choices or educational level, any way that we prefer, we will divide up the world between friends and enemies We use our our tongues to lie, to lash out, to curse out, to beat down, demean, and destroy We use our bodies to strike or kick or kill. We use our fingers to type out messages and destroy people online. We close our ear, our ears to the cries of the hurting, and we only listen to what we agree with. In unspeakable ways we use our bodies to oppress and mistreat and abuse and dehumanize others. As it relates to our relationships with people, Romans 3:13 to 17, quoting the Old Testament, describes all of the trespasses sorry, describes the trespasses of all of humanity this way. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. Most people would describe themselves as a loving person, but put their enemy in front of them and see what kind of love they show. People live by Lex Talionis, the law of retribution, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. We are experts at repaying evil for evil. At the end of Romans 1, Paul lists no less than 21 ways in which we fail to love God and love others. It says they are filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, and malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. We were created for the purpose of loving God and loving one another, and we were designed with the incredible capacity to do those very things. But we've taken God's design, we've twisted it, and we have worshipped everything but God and loved ourselves more than others to the destruction of others. This is the line that you and I have crossed time and time again in a multitude of ways throughout our entire life, from the earliest years even down to today. No matter what good you've done, no matter how much money you've given to charity or how much time you've devoted to improving society You cannot erase the rap sheet of all of the times you've crossed the lines that God has set And unlike trespasses or trespassing someone's property, which most people get away with because there's no way to enforce that law in many cases, your trespasses against God Never go unnoticed. He not only knows the things that you say and do, but he knows your heart's motivations and desires and intentions. He knows when you really want to do something, but for fear of consequences you choose not to do it. You can walk around not doing all kinds of evil things, and everyone will think good of you. But in your heart, you're walking around wanting to do things, wanting to say things, that if anyone ever knew, they would hate you God knows all of that. And God keeps an account of all of our trespasses because God is just, and he must ensure that no trespass goes unpunished And that should make you both glad and terrified. You should be glad because there's no wrong done against you or someone you love. No matter how big or how small that escapes God's notice, no evil done to you or those you love will go unpunished. Unlike our legal system, which doesn't criminalize most acts of wickedness, nor does it know about most crimes that are actually committed Nor can it satisfy justice on those crimes it does know about God knows all wrongs and all wickedness and all crimes and He will have satisfaction for every wrong. Ecclesiastes 12, 14 says, For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or evil. And that's why you should be terrified. Romans 2, 3-5 says, Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your heart and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. God's judgment is certain. And left to ourselves, there is no way of escape God is just, and his justice will be satisfied by his wrath. Since there's no way for us to escape God's wrath on our own. God made a way. You know the verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son Or in the words of Romans 4. 25, Jesus was delivered up for our trespasses If you look down a few verses later, Romans chapter 5, starting in verse 6, it expands on that. It says, for a while we were still sinners. Christ or while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For no one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us Jesus Christ was given by the Father to be offered as a sacrifice in our place because our trespasses, our sin, our wickedness and evil requires justice. That is the reason Jesus died Consider now the resurrection of Jesus. The resurrection of Jesus. Again, Romans 4. 25 says, He was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Here again, for means because of. He was raised because of our justification. Now that's a word we use, but not in this particular way. We commonly use the word justify to mean to prove to be right. Right? When somebody says, or when somebody is justifying their actions, what they're trying to do is prove that the way they behaved is right. When the actions of law enforcement are investigated and determined to be justified That means that, at least in the eyes of those who investigated it, their actions were justified. Their actions were right. That is not what the Bible means with the term justified or justification. You may have heard the memorable saying, definition of justification as just as if I had never sinned. That's memorable, but it's not accurate. Just as if I'd never sinned would be the definition of innocence Innocence is the verdict you want to hear from the judge, but it is not good enough for God. And the reason innocence isn't good enough is because God's law is not merely a set of boundaries to stay within. God's design for life is not some form of libertarian freedom that you just live however you want as long as you don't cross certain boundaries No, God's law is a way of life. Therefore, to keep God's law, there has to be positive righteousness. That is Active obedience to the law moment by moment and day by day. Think of it this way: God's law is not negative Don't hate God. Don't hate your neighbor. It is instead positive. Love God Love your neighbor. So to be right with God, you can't just be innocent of not hating God. You need to have that active obedience of righteousness of loving God and loving your neighbor. This is what we cannot do, but this is what Christ did. We have, to put it in financial terms, in our account, we have trespasses. Christ has righteousness We have violated the law every moment of our lives. Christ has kept the law every moment of his life We don't just need our trespasses removed. We need righteousness deposited into our account And friends, this is the great exchange that takes place on the cross. The Father treated Jesus as if he had lived our life Jesus was delivered up because of our trespasses, because of our endless failures to actively love God and actively love our neighbor. Then the Father treats Jesus or rather treats us as though we had lived Jesus' life He doesn't merely grant us forgiveness and wipe away our sin as great as that is. No, he actually declares us to be righteous. Again, we should not be confused. Jesus was not a sinner, and we are not righteous. But God treated Jesus as our sin deserves, so he could treat us as Christ's righteousness deserves Jesus received on himself the punishment for our sin so that we could be forgiven and receive all of the benefits Of the righteousness of Christ, benefits like reconciliation with God, eternal life, and everlasting glory That's what the Bible claims happened at the cross. It's not because of what you and I did that forgiveness is found. It's because of what Christ did. It's not about you working your way to heaven. It's about looking to Christ, who perfectly obeyed the Father and grants forgiveness and eternal life. Now that's an audacious claim. It's the kind of claim, you might say, that is too good to be true. It even sounds like the kind of claim somebody might make to get you to follow their religion. After all, it's nice to be able to say, you know, every other religion, they make you follow all their rules, go through all their rituals, embrace every last dogma. And then if you do all of that your whole life, maybe you might make it to heaven. To be able to it's it's nice to be able to say, look at that. We just say, you just have to believe in Jesus. That's a great claim to make, but then the question is how do you know it's true? Because what if I haven't done all those things and faith isn't enough? How do I know that what God promises Of justification by faith is true. Well, the answer, very simply, is the resurrection The resurrection proves that Jesus is the Son of God who paid for sin, and the Father accepted his sacrifice and has declared righteous all those who believe. Notice again the language here, as simple as it is, he was raised for or because of our justification. Because Jesus accomplished our justification, there was nothing that could hold Jesus in the grave. Because death is the punishment for sin, and Jesus paid that punishment in full For Jesus to remain in the grave would be like holding a prisoner in his cell past his completion of his sentence It would be unjust. And because God is perfectly just, with justification accomplished, he released Jesus from the prison of the grave. Hebrews 10, 11 and 12 says, every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But when Jesus had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins in the white space, he was raised, and he sat down at the right hand of God. Jesus offered himself as the sacrifice, and because his sacrifice actually took away sin, the Father raised him from the dead and exalted him. That is why Jesus was raised from the dead. Consider Romans chapter 6, which says, For we know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life he lives, he lives to God. Because Jesus paid for sin, death no longer has dominion over him. He conquered sin and death such that they have no power. Remember that in his first letter to the Corinthians, as he wrote about the resurrection, Paul taught that the resurrection is essential to knowing that our sins have been taken away. He writes in 1 Corinthians 15, 17, and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and you are still in your sins. And then he says in verse 20, but in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. So the resurrection proves that our sin has been taken away, that we are no longer in our sin, because uh death could no longer hold him, having completely paid for our sin. But then Paul there in verse 20, when he says that Christ is the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep, he then declares the subsequent reality that not only do we know that our death, or rather that Christ has removed our sin, We also know that his resurrection guarantees that all those who have been justified will also rise from the dead. Jesus, just as Jesus could not be held from the grave once his sacrifice for sin had been completed, so we who believe cannot be held by the grave. Because our sin has been taken away. Later in that chapter, Paul writes in verses fifty-seven, fifty-four to fifty-seven. When the perishable puts on the imperishable and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory, O death, where is your victory? O death where is your sting The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is why Jesus could declare in John 11, 25 and 26, I am the resurrection and the life Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die Why will we never die? Because Christ died taking our sin away. He rose proving that he had accomplished that justice and now our sin is gone and death can no longer hold us either. Now we might die physically We will die physically unless the Lord returns first. But our souls do not die. We we do not experience the the darkness of death, because when our eyes close in death, they open in the glorious presence of our Saviour. And then, of course, one day he will raise our bodies from the grave, and we will dwell with him in glory forever and ever, never to suffer decay or disease or death again. We will be raised because Jesus was raised because the Father accepted his sacrifice, removed our sin from us, and declared us righteous. Jesus is he who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. My friend, if you have not acknowledged to God that you are a sinner in need of forgiveness, if you've not come before the king yet and owned up to the fact that you have violated his law and are justly condemned. You just need to take an honest look at your life and see that whatever good you might see in yourself is drowned out. by the uncountable ways that you have violated God's law, and on your own you have no hope of appeasing God But I would quickly point you to turn to Jesus Christ, who died on behalf of sinners and freely extends forgiveness and reconciliation with God to all who would but believe in Him. It is necessary to consider your plight, but you need not despair. Salvation from the wrath of God is available to you. You need only see the love and the mercy and the grace of Christ, who will cleanse you and forgive you and grant you new life Now, for those of us who believe, let me encourage you to remember the glory of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It's not just a mere fact of history that we celebrate for tradition's sake. It is the most relevant reality of our lives Without it, we would have no certainty of our forgiveness. We would have no power to live for Christ today, and we would have no hope for the future. But because Jesus was raised from the dead, as Paul says in Romans 6, we too have been raised with him. Because he was raised and he ascended us into heaven. And he has given us life in him. He has granted us his Holy Spirit, and he guarantees our everlasting glory. Friends, brothers and sisters, the resurrection of Jesus proves that when you sin You are forgiven. Our guilt and our shame is taken away. Fear of condemnation is replaced with joy in redemption And with our everlasting life secured, we are then freed up to orient our lives around the heart of God, whose law is love. Whose ways are good and whose glory satisfies our souls This is what the Bible is all about. Is it about a God whose holy wrath and holy love redeems sinners through the resurrection? The life, death, and resurrection of Jesus, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Let's pray Or as we contemplate these realities In some ways they are difficult to understand because we don't fully comprehend your mind of justice. There's aspects of our souls yet unredeemed that cause us to question the goodness of wrath. But you have given us such glorious truth. And by your word and your spirit, we can see with clarity that we stand condemned on our own. And we rejoice in the Lord Jesus Christ. Who out of love, not obligation, but out of love, gave himself Submitted to you and being delivered up for our trespasses. Or for we who believe, let us not be those who wallow in guilt and shame. Turn our sorrow over our sin to joy in the forgiveness we have in Christ. Help us to live in the reality of the resurrection of Christ in the past and our future resurrection. Let us live freely, joyfully, radically loving you and loving one another and all those you put in our path. Or for those who do not yet know this forgiveness, open their eyes to see the dreadful Condemnation that is coming. If they do not turn to you, they will experience your everlasting wrath. But the moment they turn from their sin and look to Jesus and plead for mercy, that mercy will flow to them freely. Lord, cause us to be a people who proclaim this truth, not just in the way that we live our lives, but with the words that we say. Help us to be confident and bold in our proclamation. To love others in such a way that we would speak these truths to those who are bound for hell. And may you get the glory As your people are saved and transformed by these glorious truths. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.