Would you open your Bibles to Acts chapter 1 again? I know what you all are thinking that we're only in verses 6, 7, and 8, and it's already like the fourth message. But um there's a lot of groundwork to lay in the early chapters of Acts, and um Lord willing will speed up as we go along. But we're in Acts 1, 6 to 8 again. Um this morning and we're returning to our study of the kingdom of God and the church's witness. That's a connection that I'm hoping everyone gets, that our talk about the future kingdom of God and our present witnessing, they're linked And sometimes people don't see or realize how they are linked, and I'm hoping that your personal witnessing will be linked to this concept of a coming kingdom And you'll be able to maybe get even more excited about your witnessing or understand it at a deeper level. Verses six through eight, I'll go ahead and read it again. So when they had come together, they were asking him, saying, Lord, is it at this time you are restoring the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know times or epochs which the Father has fixed by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest part of the earth. As we began this passage last week, we learned that the church was given its marching orders. That's what these are. What is the church supposed to be doing? Well, we're told right at the beginning of its history, even right before the church is born in Acts 2. Now they know exactly what they're about. That's good. It's not good to be given a great mission and not know what the mission is about. And so here they're actually being told what their mission is. This is our mission, by the way, if you're wondering why do we exist as a church? I mean here it is. You will be my witnesses. We connect that with Matthew 28. Go into all the world, make disciples of all the nations, teaching them, baptizing them This is important, and this is our mission. Christ told his disciples, this is what you're supposed to do. You're to witness concerning him. They were to uh await the arrival of the Holy Spirit. They were going to have to wait longer for the arrival of the full and visible kingdom of God. In the meantime, they were to get busy witnessing This lets us all know. You know, that even though we're not in the kingdom proper now, remember we talked about different aspects of the kingdom. There is the uh overall kingdom of God, God rules over everything in the universe But there is this uh mediatorial kingdom where he chooses a man, the Lord Jesus Christ, to be the king under him and he rules on the earth. And we saw that in the line of David. Uh Adam was supposed to be that in the very beginning, but he forfeited his role in a sense as he was tempted by And God will reign through him in a full and a visible way on earth. But there's also a spiritual kingdom that we're part of now. We've been transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his beloved Son So we're in the kingdom in that spiritual sense, but not in the full and realized sense. That's still coming. And it's not just happening when we die and go to be with the Lord in heaven. It's coming with full power to this earth. The Bible's very clear about that. What does our evangelism do now? It announces that kingdom. It announces that kingdom. Um and it invites people into that kingdom. We witness about the king of that kingdom and tell them all about him. We warn them what that king will do to them when he comes and he finds a person disobedient to what he said. All of that is real part of history. You have to get out of your mind this idea that this is religious truth and Bible truth. This is happening in the world. Things are lining up right now in prophecy to make sure that all of these details happen We are the ambassadors. We get to announce this and it's a great great role. That clarifies our role. It's so simple, really, it's profound. It keeps us on target. It makes sure that when people say, Well the church should be doing more of this and the church should be more doing more of that. No. This is our role. This is what the Lord said to do. This is what we're going to do. We want to make sure we do the master's will, not someone else's. And it sounds like a great and noble cause, but it's not what we're really about. The words are clear. The words are unambiguous. Here we looked at two present actions that define us. One is really not an action, it's what we're anticipating. We talked about that last time. We are allowed to, and we're supposed to be, anticipating the arrival of a future kingdom Some people deny this, but the Bible is so clear about this. There is a kingdom coming. We're even afraid for that. Thy kingdom come on earth Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth, remember, as it is in heaven. It's supposed to come down to earth. God's kingdom is something we should long to be a part of. God's kingdom is something we should be conversant about. What's God's kingdom like? You should be able to talk about that. That should be a subject of study that you know a lot about. You want to know a lot about. You start talking about it, explaining it. Well, the kingdom of God is not like this, but it is like that. In Acts 1:3 it said that Jesus talked about the kingdom of God. That was his main subject after the resurrection. He's been risen from the dead, he's got the disciples in front of him, church is about to start. What does he talk to them about? Answer: Kingdom of God. So we talked about the kingdom of God. In Acts 1 6, the disciples knew it was coming. They thought this was a great time to ask about it. The Spirit was about to descend. That was associated with the kingdom. They were right outside of Jerusalem, the place of the kingdom, the throne of the kingdom. Great great time to ask. Lord, is it at this time you're restoring that Israeli kingdom And he says it's not for you to know. In essence, he says, yes, that kingdom is coming, but it's not for you to know when. You know, there's some guy in the news I noticed this very morning. as I was reading, some guy named David Mead, never heard of him before. He's predicting the end of the world this Saturday when you ladies are at your retreat. He is September I think it's September twenty-third. That's Saturday, right? He claims he's done all this research, he's done careful numerology of the Bible, signs in the sky that we've had, the eclipse and all of that And uh he predicted the date. But I'll see you here next Sunday. And we'll realize that there are a lot of people that don't know how to read simple words. It is not for you to know Anticipation of the kingdom is good. Predicting end time dates is bad. Anticipation of the kingdom is not something that we dropped once Jesus went to heaven and the church started. Some people have this mistaken notion that Jesus talked a lot about the kingdom to the Jews, but then the church started and then everyone stopped talking about that kingdom. It's not what happened. Read your Bibles, read read through Acts Some people think that the church is the kingdom. That's it. That's all that there will be. That's misleading. The church did not stop talking about the future kingdom or getting into the kingdom In fact, they might have amped it up in some way. We'll see this throughout the book of Acts. The disciples keep anticipating, they kept anticipating a future kingdom. They continue to preach the good news of the kingdom. That's what the that's what that is. The gospel of the kingdom. What's that? The good news of the kingdom is coming. It's coming. In Acts chapter 8, for example, that's well into several years there in church history. It says, when they believed Philip preaching the good news about And you might say, Jesus Christ, yes, but what it says there is the good news about the kingdom of God. His witnessing was about the kingdom of God. Then it says they were baptized. So they got baptized believing in Jesus because Philip was preaching about the kingdom of God. That was part of their evangelism. In Acts 14, 22, it says Paul was strengthening the souls of the disciples. These are Christians, encouraging them to continue in the faith. Tard being down here, right? And saying, through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. And not in the kingdom of God yet. You have to go through the tribulations in life before you can enter into the kingdom of God, future-oriented. In Acts 19, it's towards the backside of the book. Acts 19, Luke records that Paul entered the synagogue and continued speaking out boldly for three months reasoning and persuading them about the Now you might say the doctrines of grace. That would have been a wonderful thing to persuade them about. But there it says persuading them about the kingdom of God. That was the topic for Paul, all the way down in Acts 19. Go all the way to Acts 28, last chapter of Acts. And it records Paul was, quote, explaining to them by solemnly testifying about the kingdom of God. And trying to persuade them concerning Jesus from both the law of Moses and from the prophets from morning until evening. Constant persuasion comes into the kingdom of God. The Jews were still being told Jesus was the king, he was their Messiah, the king, the anointed king, and there was a kingdom coming. And guess who would usher then? Jesus Now, from start to finish, the book of Acts is testifying and witnessing about Jesus, who is Messiah. What is Messiah? Anointed king of what? The kingdom. We proclaim Christ as Lord. We're proclaiming him as King. Because He has a kingdom. And we want to be part of that kingdom. This is great news because we look at you know how bad our country gets. Well, which country are you going to flee to? You're gonna go to Australia, where are you gonna go? Which country is gonna be your favorite country to go to? You pick one out and say, Oh, I want to go live in that country. You think their country is great You think things are great there? We're all on earth and we're waiting for a kingdom. We're waiting for it. We don't know the timing of it. We're waiting for it. And we're preaching it In fact, this is really the message of the whole New Testament. In a 2013 Master Seminary Journal article, it points out the importance of the kingdom theme in all the New Testament. I quoted it says There is wide agreement that the kingdom and salvation themes are linked throughout the New Testament. The Gospels display this link in their many statements concerning entrance into the kingdom. There must be repentance and faith in Jesus as Messiah and Savior with a resulting righteousness if one will experience the future kingdom The New Testament epistles reflect this same understanding as they speak of those who will inherit the kingdom. Finally, the Book of Revelation demonstrates that genuine believers who are called overcomers will experience the blessings of the kingdom and the eternal state. Thus the New Testament clearly demonstrates that it is the saved who will enter the mediatorial kingdom when it is established on earth. Looking forward to that. Today we're going to see that witnessing and evangelism that we're commissioned to do is witnessing and evangelizing for the kingdom. Our second action we're coming to today. Would you focus on verse 8 again? But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses. So if you're putting verses six through eight together, Jesus told the disciples, You are not to know when the kingdom is coming. These times are fixed by the Father's own authority. But right now you're to be busy and you're to be busy with one primary thing, be my witnesses. Witness for me and for my kingdom. This should be our great concern. There are a lot of other things we do as a church, but this should be our great concern. Always with everything, how can we witness for Christ? How can we witness for the kingdom? Jesus says, I want you getting out there and I want you telling them about me and what I did and about the kingdom That's our great concern. During the church age, we are not to make the governments of this world more like the kingdom of God. We will not be successful in that task. We're to change the institutions of society so they can be more Christian. You can't have an institution more Christian when the hearts aren't more Christian It doesn't work with God. That's all outward. That's pharisaical. That's not the kind of righteousness that God would be pleased with. You cannot turn the governments of the world into the kingdom of God. It just cannot happen. That's not our purpose. Or some other noble purpose. It's not really the church's purpose. We are to do good to men, and so we may feed them and we may clothe them and we may heal them and you're to be working hard in all your occupations. to bring Christianity and Christian values into your occupation as they see you interact with people and do your work. But it's not the church's role to change the world. The world's not going to change until Christ returns. We're not going to eliminate poverty, and that's not our goal anyways. We're not going to heal all diseases. That's not our objective. We're not social warriors, social justice warriors We're not ending world hunger. We're not ending abortion. Those things are going to go on. Sin is going to continue. That is not what Jesus said the church should be accomplishing. It doesn't matter how noble it is, saving the animals from extinction, whatever it is that you think is a noble cause, that's not the noblest cause. Rather very clearly we are to concentrate on the commission. And the commission is to be Jesus' witnesses. You shall receive power and you shall be my witnesses. Pretty clear, isn't it? Witnesses. Martas means quite literally those who have seen and heard something. And now talk about what they specifically saw and heard They make a public testimony about what they heard. Just like a witness on the stand in the courtroom. What do they ask you in the courtroom when you get to the stand? They don't ask you, what did somebody else hear? No? What did you hear? Where were you when you heard it? What did you see? Are you sure you saw that? That's what a witness is at. That's exactly what Jesus is calling them to. God is the judge. And he's saying, I want you to go in this giant courtroom called the world, and I want you to go, and I want you to tell them exactly what you saw and what you heard, what you felt With your own hands. Don't tell us what you think other people saw or heard. The apostles were literally the eyewitnesses of the life and the death And the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth. They are his chosen witnesses. They saw and heard it all. Witnessing for them is not simply talking to other people about Jesus, as we do, we go and we talk to people about Jesus. We call that witnessing. was literally telling people what they heard and saw because they had been with Jesus from the beginning. In the upper room in John chapter 15, verses 26 and 27, at that last supper, Jesus told the remaining eleven after Judas had gone. He said, When the helper comes whom I will send to you from the Father, that is the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father. He that is the Holy Spirit will bear witness of me, and you, you 11, will bear witness also And then why? Why would they bear witness? He gives the answer there. Because you have been with me from the beginning. Who gets to be a witness for Jesus? Those who have seen Jesus on earth, heard Jesus talk. And seeing him raised from the dead. They're literally witnesses. It was the apostles, specifically, then, who were the witnesses, not even other Christians at that time who had not seen Christ. By the way, Peter makes this crystal clear in Acts chapter 10, verses 40 to 42. There he's preaching in Acts 10, and he says, God raised Jesus up on the third day and granted that Jesus should become visible, not to all the people. But to witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God. That is to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. And he ordered us to preach to the people. They were the witnesses, you see. Someone else can't be a witness if they didn't see and hear. So please understand, in this primary sense, you and I are not witnesses. We didn't see. If someone says today, I saw Christ risen from the dead, write them off. Nor were the other Christians in the first century who were outside of that apostolic circle. There were some, of course, mixed in there who had seen it as well, but nor can anybody today be a witness in that sense Our evangelism, our witnessing, listen, is a derived witness. We're taking their primary witness and we're passing on their witness. What is their witness? Their witness was spoken, and after they spoke their witness, they then wrote it down. And so the New Testament is the witness of the apostles. So when we go out witnessing, we have to take the witness of the apostles and defend it and pass it on and explain it accurately because they are the ones who saw and hurt. Ours is derived witnessing. That doesn't mean it's unimportant. I mean after all the apostles are not in the world today. They're not talking. We have to take their witness and we have to spread it. It's absolutely crucial that we do that. We have our part. We just need to understand. We're not talking about We're not telling them about our experience with Jesus. We're telling them what Jesus Christ did on earth, what he accomplished And we need to use the New Testament and use it well. The integrity of their witness needs to be ardently defended as well. For if people are going to come to salvation, they have to believe this book. This book and its integrity to apologetics must be defended. It's historical, it's accurate. It is not second century or third century rubbish that people coming along later wrote extra gospels that knew nothing about the life of Jesus. This is first century eyewitness testimony. We need to defend it. The apostles were the actual eyewitnesses, and the Holy Spirit did actually empower them to bear that witness. In Acts 5. 32, Peter was preaching to the Jewish leaders, and with great boldness he said We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him The apostles' witness to the Jews was largely carried out in their public preaching ministries. And that's recorded for us in the New Testament. The New Testament is the only record, the only record we have of the apostles' witness. And so that New Testament today is particularly important to us. What Jesus told those apostles in secret, they were to proclaim to the entire world. The entire world. Christ chose them. And then he charged them. You will be, you shall be my witnesses. Don't read that as a prophecy. Don't read that as a prediction. That was a commandment. In Acts chapter 10 verse 42, it labels it a command. Jesus ordered the apostles to preach to the people. You must do this. In fact, this concept and theme of witnessing or witness is so dominant in the book of Acts that everything really in the book of Acts can be placed under it. Witnessing was the commission, and witnessing is what they did, and witnessing is what Luke recorded in this book. That's what the apostolic sermons are about. When you read Acts chapter 2 and the sermon by Peter there, Acts 3, Acts 4, Acts 13, 14, 17, and so on, the Holy Spirit was empowering these apostles to witness concerning what they saw. Acts 4. 8, just for example, Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit and said to them, and off he went to give his witness. Acts 4. 31, it says, When they had prayed, the place where they had gathered together was shaken And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of God with boldness. I was witnessing. That's what the miracles Recorded are about. They were to confirm that these apostles really were the witnesses People say, why aren't people having the gift of miracles and spreading? Because the miracles were tied to the witnesses. The miracles were there to demonstrate the power of the Holy Spirit working through them to give a primary first century eye-and-ear witness. It was for them. In Acts 14, 3 it says, Therefore they spent a long time there speaking boldly with reliance upon the Lord who was testifying. Listen, who the Lord was testifying to the word of his grace. Granting that signs and wonders, miracles, be done by their hands. The apostles That's what the historical narrative affirms. The apostles performed miracles. Those around the apostles performed miracles because they laid their hands on them and commissioned them as well. And the Holy Spirit did particular miracles to them to bring testimony to their primary witness. That's why it was so believable. That's why it was so powerful. That's why Christianity was born. Why are there why are there a couple of billion people, supposedly following a crucified Jew in the world today? And the answer is because of this powerful witness. It was undeniable. It was true. Jesus commissioned them to do this. Remember what Jesus said, it's to your advantage that I go away. If I don't go away, the helper won't come to you. But when he comes, you're going to do greater works even than I have done. Just change the world with this message. Notice Jesus not only told them what to do, but he told them where to do it. I like instructions, you know, I was trying to put together this This uh this power blower we got, I got through Amazon. I bought this power blower and it comes and I'm like, they should have a fourth grade teacher write these instructions how to put this together. I cannot even look I can't even understand what they're saying I can't even see the diagrams. I want things simple. I want to understand. Anyways, this is a very important task. Things are simple. You will be my witnesses where? In Jerusalem No brainer. It's not like there were five Jerusalems right. But don't stop there. Jerusalem is important. Jerusalem is where it has to begin. Jerusalem is where David was the king. Jerusalem is where the good news needs to go out. Jerusalem is where Jesus was crucified. Jerusalem is where Jesus was bodily raised from the dead. But Jerusalem is not the whole mission. Then go on out. Go into the districts surrounding Jerusalem, Judea, and then a little further to Samaria. Make sure all the Jews hear about their kingdom first. It's their kingdom. But don't stop witnessing until you reach the ends of the earth, all the Gentiles. And they did. By the time you get to Acts 28, they're all the way to the greatest city, Gentile city in the world, Rome. And it speaks of them going all the way to Spain, even further west. Church history tells us that other apostles that are not written about in the book of Acts took the gospel to India, took the gospel to northern Africa. Took the gospel to Armenia to the north. I had to throw that in because I'm Armenian. That verse maps out the master plan for the spread of the testimony there's going to be a king in Israel. He's going to rule over all the world. Why do you think the Muslim nations hate Israel so much? In fact, the book of Acts is laid out really to follow the apostolic witness from Jerusalem to Rome. Acts chapter 2 through 8 is primarily about the apostles' witness in Jerusalem. They filled the whole city with teaching about Jesus, it says. In Acts 8-12, it's primarily about the spread of the witness to Jesus. Judea and Samaria. And then for the rest of the book, chapter thirteen to twenty, it's mostly about how it just kept going into what we call Turkey today and the islands in the Mediterranean, and then going to Greece and going on to Italy, and it just spread. They accomplished this in one generation. They did it. They got the witness out. You know, some have found Roman coins in Japan. Roman coins found in archaeology in Japan, which shows trade routes all the way to Japan through China. And then who knows how far that apostolic witness went, even in the first century. It's pretty amazing. In Acts 17, 6 it says, these Men who have upset the whole world have come here also. They've upset the whole world. That's what I'm talking about. Don't you wish you had that kind of boldness? In particular, the book of Acts traces the lives of two Great apostles. Chapters 1 to 12, the leadership and preaching of Peter in Jerusalem, then Judea and Samaria, and then chapters 13 to 28, the missionary activity of Paul to the ends of the earth, to the Gentiles. And what a witness these apostles bore. Scripture and church history tell us that most of the apostles sealed their witness with their own blood. Now that's believable. When you die for something, you know at least that person believed it was true. They were stoned, they were beheaded, they were crucified upside down, they became known as martyrs Martus as witness. Martyrs are those who die for their witness, you see. And that's What they were to do, and that is where they were to do it. Did you notice that Jesus didn't tell them here why they were to do it? There's not really a why here, but I don't think the why is too hard to figure out Why were they to be witnesses to the end of the earth? The simple answer is that God wanted his word spread everywhere. He wanted everybody to know He wants everybody to know. You see, but Pastor, I thought our church teaches that there are elect out there. There are. It's not that we teach. It's in the Bible. Just read it. There's elect out there. Now do you know who all the elect are? Because if you do, you can give me a list, we'll just witness to them. Otherwise, what I suggest is we get the word out everywhere. We make the word of God pervasive and ubiquitous and worldwide and global and get it out there, right? There's not a containment. Well, it's not supposed to be like that. When the witness spreads, the word of God spreads. And that honors God. Would you agree? God wanted the word about Jesus' kingdom spread to all the nations of the world. Why? Because they've got to make up their mind whether they're going to follow the king or not. I mean, God's very patient. We read in Romans 2 that He's patient and He's tolerant and people, you know, like Bill Maury stands up, he says, There's no God. Well in a little bit of time, Bill, you're gonna meet him. And God's so patient with these tools. And uh but he's not gonna be patient forever. And they take advantage of his mercy and his tolerance. And he says there's going to be a kingdom This desire to have the Word of God get out and have people compelled to come into the kingdom. Hear about the king. Come on in. Come on in to the party. Come on in to the joy. Is uh highlighted in one of Jesus' parables called the parable of the Great Supper. Would you keep your finger in Acts 1 and turn to Luke chapter 14? Luke 14 And verse fifteen, starting at verse fifteen. Luke chapter fourteen and verse fifteen. I'll start reading there. Says when one of those who were reclining at the table with him heard this, he said to Jesus, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. Notice that the assumption is the kingdom is on earth, by the way. Verse 16, but Jesus said to him, A man was giving a big dinner, and he invited many. And at the dinner hour he sent his slave to say to those who had been invited, Come, for everything is ready now. But they all alike began to make excuses. This is this is just so typical. The first one said to him, I have bought a piece of land and I need to go out and look at it. Please consider me excused. Another one said, I have bought five yoke of oxen and I'm going to try them out. Please consider me excused. Another one said, I have married a wife, and for that reason I cannot come. And the slave came back and reported this to the master. Then the head of the household became angry And said to his slave, Go out at once into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and crippled and blind and lame. And the slaves said, Master, what you command has been done, and still there is room And the master said to the slave, Go out into the highways and along the hedges and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled. For I tell you, none of those men who are invited shall taste of my dinner. Does God want his word getting out? Yes. Why? Because he wants his house filled. He has a party. He has joy in the kingdom. He wants them to come in. The Jewish leaders and the more established people in Israel rejected the message of Jesus. And he said, Go. Go give the gospel to the underprivileged, give it to the poor. And they did that, and they came in, but there was still room. Go out into the highways then. Go far away and proclaim the world. That's a hint of the message going out to the Gentiles and the work of the apostles. In fact, that prophetic parable is played out in Acts 13. Would you go forward to Acts 13 and read a section here where you can see how this is being played out with the Jews rejecting the gospel and the Gentiles accepting it? And even the anger of the apostles is there. This is Acts chapter 13. We'll start at verse 44. Acts 13, verse 44. This is on Paul's first missionary journey. He says, the next Sabbath nearly the whole city assembled to hear the word of the Lord But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began contradicting the things spoken by Paul and were blaspheming. Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, it was necessary that the Word of God be spoken to you first. He's talking to these Jews that are not believing. Since you repudiate it and judge yourself unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us. I have placed you as a light for the Gentiles that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And look at the reaction in verse 48. When the Gentiles heard this they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life, did what? They believed. Let God worry about who's appointed to eternal life Those who end up believing, they're the ones that are appointed to eternal life. And then verse 49 kind of punctuates it, and the word of the Lord was being spread Through the whole region. Of course, the Jews go on to persecute them. But the point is there that the Jews were not responding either to Christ's ministry or the apostles' ministry, so go out and compel the rest to come And come in. Now. That's what that's the why. Why do we go out and witness? So the Father will be honored with a full house. And so the people can enter into the joy of the Master. It's really a great task we have. It's a wonderful task. Luke throughout the book of Acts makes careful note how the Word of God kept spreading. The gospel of the kingdom is being preached and it spread into this region and it multiplied. Then it spread here and it multiplied. And Luke keeps making these punctuation marks to make sure that you know that's what was happening. Some examples are in Acts 6. 7, starting in Jerusalem. It says the Word of God kept on spreading and the number of the disciples continued to increase. greatly in Jerusalem. And a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith. Wow. Acts 12, 24, the word of God continued to grow And to be multiplied. That's what God wanted. That's the why. Acts thirteen five, when they reached Salamis, they began to proclaim the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews, and it kept spreading Acts 1920. So the word of the Lord was growing mightily and prevailing. Victorious, you see. We noted that it was particularly spread by the apostles, but it was also spread by everybody. Everybody spread the word. They may not have been a direct eyewitness, but they passed on the testimony of the apostles. Even in the first century they had to do that. That great commission was for all of the disciples. In Acts 8:4, it makes it very clear that when persecution broke out in Jerusalem, it says all the disciples spread. And as they spread, they went about preaching the word. Everybody, every disciple, men, women, young, old, they were all to be witnesses This is how Jesus is made known in the world. Quit worrying about whether someone's gonna sign on the dotted line and you can close the sale, and now we know you're an effective evangelist because they repented And they got saved. No, don't worry about that. It's not about your salesmanship. The power is in the gospel, right? You just make Christ known. God is pleased when you speak up and speak about Christ as King of kings. Say something. Get out there and say something. If no one gets saved, it doesn't matter. At least you said something. This is the preaching of the Word of God, and it honors Him. The apostles in time would die out, they'd fade away from the picture. What was left? The local churches they started. What were they supposed to do? Preach! And all of this was to be done by the Holy Spirit's design and power. Now let's go back to Acts 1 and look at verse 8 again, that first statement. The power is summed up. You shall receive power. By the way, if you caught the enormity of the task, you know that they're going to need a little bit of power. This is no small mission. Jesus did not give the disciples a worldwide task without giving them power and ability This is similar to the promise made at the end of the Gospel of Luke in Luke 24. He says, Behold, I am sending forth the promise of my Father upon you, but you are to stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. You know, you ever you know put on a football helmet and football pads and you feel like you're invincible, you know I've got I'm equipped. I'm clothed with something. I want to go hit something. Then you remember you're fifty-six and you kinda small. But here we're clothed with power from on high. You have the right equipment. The Holy Spirit is the equipment, and you already have it. Him. Power is the word dunamis. Sounds like dynamite. Please don't think of dynamite when you think of the Holy Spirit. Dynamite blows stuff up. The Holy Spirit's not blowing things up. Okay? People are like, oh, it's dynamite. Holy Spirit's dynamite. That's not what is intended. The Holy Spirit is power. He gave power in the miracles, but he gives power in changing people's lives. He gives power in giving you boldness. His power works quietly a lot of times, but it wells up within, and then there it is. I can't believe I said that to that person Well, I can. You have power. Matthew 25, 15 translates the same word dunamis as ability. The apostles' miracles were, or actions could literally be called powers. Similar word. In Acts 4. 7, when they were doing miracles and proclaiming Jesus, the Jewish authorities said, By what power have you done this? They wanted to know, where does the power come from? Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 2 4, my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and the power. Spirit and power. The witness and mission of the church is ignited by the empowering of the Holy Spirit, the clothing of the Holy Spirit. That's very important for you to understand, beloved. The mission of the church is not a human invention. It's not a mere human task It's a divine mandate with a divine impulse running inside of it and granting the church, every church, power. The Spirit's coming is for the new age. The church is for the new age. The mission is for the new age. The power is for the new age. Notice that Jesus shared his power when the Holy Spirit will come upon them. The Holy Spirit would come down upon them and clothe them. The Holy Spirit of God would be poured out by Jesus and the Father from above and descend down upon them, and they would be baptized, drenched, dunked in the Holy Spirit. That then would be the power they were to rely on. You say I'm Timothy. So is Timothy. And Paul wrote to Timothy in 2 Timothy 1, 7, God has not given us a spirit of timidity, Timothy, but of what? Power and love and discipline. You can have power and you can love others and have discipline. That's why Paul could write Timothy a little later there, actually verse 8, in that same letter, and said, Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, or of me his prisoner. But join with me in suffering for the gospel according to the power of God. The beautiful thing about the power of God is that you don't actually have to be a strong person to use the power of God. Did you know that? You don't have to have a certain personality. You don't have to have you don't have to feel like you're a strong individual or highly educated or anything like that. You don't really you can't use that as an excuse. You don't understand I don't talk all that way. You don't understand I'm counting on. You don't understand. None of that matters with God's power You know, when you plug something in in the wall, it works for a guy who can bench press five hundred pounds. Is there anybody that can bench press five hundred pounds? And it works for someone who can't bench press ten pounds. Just plug it in, the power's there. Check Truth be told, when someone is powerful, it kind of messes up God's power. God would rather work in weak instruments. See, this is where all your excuses just went tumbling down like dominoes. Sorry. My grace is sufficient for you, Jesus said, for power is perfected in weakness. So if you're weak, boast in your weaknesses, power of God will be used in you. So I'm sickly, I'm weak, uh tired all the time, then you're a good candidate for the power of God. Very good You just raise your hand, you just volunteer. Second Corinthians 4 7. We have this treasure in earthen vessels so that the surpassing greatness of the power will be of God and not from ourselves. What could be clearer But the power comes from the Holy Spirit. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing so that you will abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit Paul prayed believers would understand their power. Ephesians 1. 18. What is the surpassing greatness of God's power toward us who believe? He prayed in Ephesians 3. 16 that God would grant you, believers. according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with power through his Holy Spirit in the inner man. He'll strengthen you inside there, you see. We as believers, like the apostles and the early Christians, must learn to rely on the power of the Holy Spirit. If He is the energy and He is the force at work in the church, we must not grieve Him with our sin. We must not quench him with our unbelief. We must not resist him with our willfulness We must be filled with the Holy Spirit and walk by the Spirit and yield to the Spirit. Then you will sense the power of the Spirit moving you along. May I ask you, do you actively seek to yield to the power of the Holy Spirit inside of you? We're a church that has solid doctrine, would you agree? We know the doctrines of grace, would you agree? We have Bible conferences, we have Bible retreats, we have expositional sermons, and we talk a lot. But do you experience the power of God in your life? Spurgeon, 150 years ago or so, when he was speaking to his congregation, had a similar kind of a congregation, well taught, but they lacked understanding about the Holy Spirit. And in a 1858 sermon entitled The Work of the Holy Spirit, he said this: I find, however, that the greatest efficiency of his congregation lies in this point Forgetfulness of the work of the Holy Spirit. I find them very easily remembering the work of God the Father They do not deny the great doctrine of election. They can see clearly the great sentence of justification passed by the Father upon the left through the vicarious sacrifice and perfect righteousness of Jesus. That was a mouthful. And they are not backward in understanding the work of Jesus either. They can see how Christ was the substitute for his people and stood in their room, place, and stand. Nor do they for one moment impugn any doctrine concerning God's Spirit, but they are not clear upon the point. They can talk upon the other points better than they can upon those which more particularly concern the blessed work of that all-adorable person of the Godhead, God, the Holy Spirit. Brothers and sisters, we must learn the work of the Holy Spirit and the power in our own lives as well. Do not overreact. to the Pentecostal and Charismatic and Third Wave movements that you don't talk about the power of the Holy Spirit in your life. I was surprised. I got a lot of my books out, charismatic and non-charismatic. My books were moved this past week. So I was trying to find them and got them together. It's okay, I got the Holy Spirit section. Table of context, indices, looking for the chapter, or just the paragraph, section, anything on the power of the Holy Spirit. They waxed eloquent about everything. The indwelling, you name it, the ceiling, walking. Wasn't one section in any of those books on the Holy Spirit, on the power of the Holy Spirit. I said, you're kidding me. I gotta preach on this Yet here it is, in one word, Jesus could have said, When the Holy Spirit comes upon you, you will have comfort. He could have said that. That's true. He's the comforter, right? He could have said, You're going to be taught, you're going to be guided, you're going to be indwelt, you're going to become a temple of the Holy Spirit. All of those would have been biblical. You would be sealed for eternity. Conviction, guidance. What else does the Holy Spirit do? But the one thing he said them when to them when they're about to start their mission is, you will be clothed with power Listen, brothers and sisters, the church is not ill equipped for its mission. Sometimes we think, but we don't have this, and we don't have that in place, and we don't have enough of the workers here. And when I show up to ministry, nobody shows up to help me. You know, I s I saw Brother Steve Kirschhner, he was here at the men's breakfast all by himself early in the morning. I showed up there's only one car in the parking lot. I said, What happened? The men's breakfast got moved? No, this faithful Steve is in there working. Sometimes you're like Steve, you're doing your service. Nobody else is there, and you wonder, I don't have any power, I don't have any strength. My tongue's on the ground. The church is well equipped. Jesus said so. We don't have to wait for anything. You don't have to wait for anything to start. You don't have to try to control what the Holy Spirit is going to do with his power unleashed That's not your job. You get out, you witness, and you leave. Whatever happens after that, whatever ministry is needed, you leave that up to God the Holy Spirit. He's the real leader of the church. Amen? And you are witnesses too. You take that apostolic witness and you start spreading it. Someone doesn't want to hear? Fine. Fine. Find someone who does. If the rich, the upper middle class, don't want to listen, go to the lower middle class in the lower class. Find somebody who will listen and talk to them. Tell them Jesus is King. And you're not getting much in this world, and it's not fair for you. I agree, but guess what? There's a kingdom coming. Want to be part of it? Here's what you've got to do: repent of your sin. Lower yourself, and God will exalt you. Amen. Father in heaven, please give us boldness and faith and confidence that we would recognize whatever weak vessels we are. Your power is not hindered or limited by that. May we have a greater confidence in you and may you use the lives and the mouths Of these dear people called your saints in their world, wherever they are, this very week, to open their mouth and see how your Holy Spirit regenerates and how your Holy Spirit convicts. And Lord, even if they reject that gospel as so often they do here, that they will have joy that they were faithful to the King of Kings. that they were a faithful ambassador for that king in in enemy territory, so to say, announcing to the kingdoms of this world, to the nations of this world. to the peoples of this world that they better repent because the King of Kings is coming back to claim what is his, and they will be destroyed in that day. Remind them to be bold. Remind them to speak the full truth and not just part of it. We pray it all in the blessed name of our King, the Anointed One, Jesus Christ. Amen.