All right. Well, um we've called this class a Bible teaching lab. Um Bible because that's our focus. Teaching because um that's what a lot of you are already doing or are pr being prepared to do or to um um gain greater skill and experience and so on in doing that. And we call it a lab because It's going to be very interactive. There aren't any test tubes or anything. Sorry, Jeff. But it's a lab in the sense that each of you or each of you who either have been told or have volunteered to practice teaching in the class, we have two major assignments that you'll teach A 10-minute segment to the rest of the class on two different occasions. One of them would be on a Bible passage, and the other would be on a Bible topic. And Um there may be some here who are just taking the class um to gain insight and um uh growth but who aren't here necessarily to do the teaching part of it and that's okay uh we as long as we have enough room Um but I want to find out now if there's anybody here like that who is taking this just for their edification and growth, but not necessarily to do the teaching part. Is there anybody in that category? number to like a later one if I um I had them already random randomly. So it's currently everybody has a number? Not everybody. Some let me know that they were I see, okay. So it's really your uh uh unless you get orders from Karen. Um we had an option or that's what I'm saying. I I think I think for the ladies, some people did not have an option. And I think that includes fans. Um so I just want to make sure everybody was clear on that. Um if you have a number That number, if you look on page three of the notebook, there are a listing of Bible passages and topics And your number, uh we've got your number. Uh that dictates which Bible passage and which topic you'll be teaching on. And the times we'll do be doing that would be starting with week I think it's week six Uh yes, week six. So we're going to be preparing for that and you'll have some opportunity in the in the up in the next uh five weeks to Prepare your first one and then switch to the second one. Um and that'll be fun, right? Uh no. No. No. No negotiation. You were randomly given it and let's let's do it that way. Okay? I got number eighteen, so I got a high I gotta I gotta juicy uh number. Sarah, Oh let me ask you this. Can I would I hear can I gear it to my parents who I teach. Absolutely. So would would you be teaching here with the idea that what you're actually teaching is your students? Yeah. That would be good, uh, but you need to use the Bible passage and the topic that are here. And make it make it accessible to Your target audience. That is best I can of what I'm going to do. Um I will be teaching to a dealt with normal Italian how we can So you're gonna teach us as though we were those adults with learning problems problem. That would be fine. That would be excellent if you could do that. Okay. Yeah. So that's one of the things we're going to be talking about is you need to know your audience. You need to know your students, right? What their what their uh context is, what their understanding is likely to be and and so on. And so definitely, you know Um well I think most of these people would probably admit that they have disabilities, right? And they're they're not really altogether up here and whatever. But but no, no. And that would be a good example really for other people. Most of you in if in fact that's a good segue. Um we designed this first and foremost because Karen was looking for this kind of teaching for the ladies who are preparing to be teachers in the women's ministry. And then we realized Wow, there's probably a lot of men who would benefit from the same kind of thing and are maybe in a similar situation. So let's open it up to men as well. Um, but when the women are teaching, they're just gonna be teaching women, right? And we've got men here in the class. Just pretend that they're not here. Okay? In fact, on days when women are teaching, or probably that means any day that anybody's teaching, let's separate the men from the women, and the women can actually speak directly to the women Okay. And the men can participate after the fact in any evaluation. You know, um I or one of the other elders will be primarily responding and offering suggestions and encouragement, but we'll open it up if we have time for any in the audience to also supplement that. And the men can participate in that, but The women need to be addressing the women. Okay? Um and the men are just a little church mouse over here. Or whichever side it is. Okay, that makes sense? And so that's very similar to what Sarah's thinking about. She's thinking about how she would use this in her ministry. And she's uh going to be thinking of the people as some of her students in her classes. And that's good. That's good. Any other questions? It it says five tennis, so the people that have in one step five would most likely be going. That's right. So one through five would be in fact if you look um Starting on page lost it. Starting on page forty eight. There's a place where you can take notes when someone else is teaching. And so the presentations are numbered. One, two, three, four, five. on week six, and then six through ten on week seven and so on. Make sense? So that's the schedule. Um how many numbers have you given out, Karen? You have how many left? Three. Okay. So I think we'll stick with with five per week, and then the later weeks may end up being shorter unless we get someone else new coming into the class. Yeah, Korean. So five Um I'm not gonna be here. Well, I'm gonna be traveling with H D and I'll be in Texas for a little bit. So the twelfth is possible the twelfth is the sixth. Okay. So I think your presentation Yes, that presentation two would be if you drew the number two, that would be your presentation. So if you know you're not going to be here on the week when you're scheduled to do it, work with Karen and we'll reschedule which number is on which day. But otherwise we'll stick with this order. Okay. So work with Karen to schedule that. Thank you. Karen is our class assistant and vice principal and uh whatever. But how do you know which numbers are making Because we might have the guy of eleven, but if somebody hit the numbers that weren't taken are like eight and seven or something, then that was all it's not everybody's numbers or Could you send that around? I have the right number written down already. But I mean uh could you send it out electronically this week through the group? Uh we do have a group for the class in Hope Book. Um And there's a uh uh reading assignment that's in the files portion of that group we'll talk a little bit about today. Okay, any other logistical questions at this point Um maybe just a lot. I'm just looking at at my number there's on that little card, there's three books to put in here, two are switches to it. Yeah, I think um what's printed on the notebook is what we go with or go with that. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Um we think in ten minutes. um talk we'll get both of them over to zone one and then you're going to do two different talks on two different days. So the first one is all all we're going to work through all the Bible passages that people have been assigned Then we'll go through the order again and do the Bible topics. Two separate days. Okay. Good questions. Any other I was wondering how I was I was going to bring those two together too. Any other questions? For what it's worth, these Bible passages are taken from uh the verses in our doctrinal statements in all ten of the doctrinal areas. And the Bible topics, they probably look pretty familiar. They're all from Galatians five, talking about the fruit of the Spirit and the opposite as well. Okay. Um good. Any other questions? Um I don't think it'll take too long. I see it's not the asking that's gonna take a long time. That's the answering. Okay. And if it seems like it's an important thing, we can pass the same information on to everybody. Okay. Well let's turn um well maybe you're already there, but on page two, just an outline of where we're headed. Today and next week we're focusing on just Bible study methods and tools and so on. Much of that, I'm hoping for most of you would be review But it helps to kind of put it all together and focus on um uh preparing for your actual teaching here in the class. And then we have a group of three sessions on teaching itself, teaching fundamentals, things to keep in mind, do's and don'ts. suggestions, that kind of thing. And we'll introduce both how to go about teaching a passage of Scripture and also how to go about teaching a topic. Now I know a lot of times for the women particularly what you're going to be teaching on would be some kind of topic that's maybe chosen for you or you volunteered and so For what it's worth, I think teaching a topic and prepare well preparing to teach a topic is a bit harder than preparing to teach a specific passage. Um with passage and you know what it is, you've got something to work with. But with a topic, you may have to draw from lots of places, and you need to be sure you're not drawing those things out of context Right? So we're gonna talk about teaching from scripture first and then teaching a topic second. Yes sir? Yeah, your two assignments are not at all intended to be related. Now they may have some overlap, but um just focus on the one and then focus on the other. Okay? Okay, and so then the last eight weeks of the quarter will be um you all teaching. And um It'll be edifying, I assume, for everybody, but also an opportunity for you to learn from others, not just this content, but also the the teaching styles and and so on. And opportunity for all of us to offer constructive feedback, right? And encouragement. Um I like anything in life, the more you do something, the better at you get, right? And so the opportunity here in the lab experience is to give you experience Maybe a lot of you have had substantial experience, others maybe have no experience, and others somewhere in between. And that's all fine. Okay. Some of my best lessons have come from bad experience. Okay, I'm on page four. The basic basics of Bible study methods. This is not everything to be known, but it's it's let's get our mindset right here On using the scriptures for our teaching. So I think first and foremost you need to start with what is our understanding of Scripture itself. And so the doctrines and significance of both inspiration of Scripture and the inerrancy of Scripture are crucial. So when we speak of inspiration we think we we say all scripture is um Verbal and plenary inspiration. The verbal part doesn't mean audible, it means it's spoken in human language, in words, right? Plenary. Maybe the only time you've ever used that word is like a conference. You go to a plenary session. What's that mean? Everybody. And so plenary in the case of inspiration of scripture means that all scripture is inspired. And you might know some verses to speak of that. We'll talk about them here. So the Bible is verbally inspired. So God inspired the words themselves. He didn't dictate it in all cases. Sometimes he says, go tell the so-and-so, such and such. But For the most part, it's not dictation, and yet he inspired the actual words. It's important how it's worded. And then every word of scripture Is God breathed? That's the plenary thing. It's every verse but also every word is inspired by God The Bible does not simply contain the Word of God. It is the inspired Word of God. Right? And the Bible does not convey to us simply inspired thoughts, but actual inspired words from the breath of God. Therefore it is a perfect treasure of heavenly instruction. Now that wording may sound familiar to you. It's basically taken right from our doctrine statement. And your So let's look at 2 Timothy 3. 16, for example. I'm sure you're familiar with that. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness. So you see that word all, right? All scripture. This is true of all scripture. And how is it um profitable? Four things. You see teaching, reproof, correction, and training in righteousness. The way I like to think about it is um teaching is What we need to know, what we need to do, particularly, God's instruction to us, right? What is reproof? No, it's not correction. What is it? No, that that comes later. It it it's rebuke. It's reproof. It's pointing out w how you've fallen short, right? So here's where you should be. Reproof is saying you're not there. Right? So teaching reproof what about what's correction do? Show the right way. Gets you back to where you need to be, right? It's the correcting, the course correction from where you are to where you need to be, and what's training in righteousness? What what is righteousness? Do what's right. Do the right thing. Doing the right thing. And so training in righteousness is Learning how to do it. So it's it's where you need to be, pointing out that you're not there, helping you to get from here to where you need to be, and then how to stay there, right? How to walk in righteousness. And all of Scripture is given to us for that purpose. Those are not just random things, those are all connected Uh things that God is doing with scripture. Yeah. Could could create and righteousness be practiced a continual practice That's yes. The question is, is training and righteousness connected with practice? Very much so. Very much so. Um because it's not the whole point here is it's not just to be in our head, but we're being trained to do the right thing on an ongoing basis, and that takes practice, right? And it may be cyclical. You may be doing that, and then you get repro reproved and corrected, and so you can go back to continually practicing righteousness. Doing the right thing. All scripture, certainly taken together, but anything that God breathes is there for a purpose. And it fits into this fourfold purpose. Secondly, God spoke his written word. By a process of dual authorship. Both God and man are the authors of Scripture. The Holy Spirit so superintended the writing through the individual personalities and different styles of writing and the historical context even of the human authors, that they composed and recorded God's word to man without error in the whole or in the part. I don't know about you, but I can't fully get my hands of head around that concept that They're God's words and yet he worked through the personality, the writing style, the historical context of many human authors. You can tell that you know the writing of Paul is different from the writing of Luke, let's say. Right? Uh the there's a lot of personality there, but God so superintended it that every word wasn't dictated necessarily, some words were, but he inspired the words of the human authors to accomplish not only his purposes, but what he wanted to be revealed. And it's all inspired. God breathed. Okay. Um you're probably familiar with most of these passages. Look at the Second Peter one passage especially. But notice first of all that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke for God No, they spoke from God, moved by the Holy Spirit to speak what God wanted recorded. I find it fascinating that even Peter recognizes some of Paul's writings already as scripture Second Peter three. Okay. That's verbal plenary inspiration. Jesus Christ is truly God and truly man at the same time. How can you get your mind around that? And it's the same thing with scripture. The written word of God and um the the eternal second person of the Trinity word of God are both a mystery and yet uh we see clearly from Scripture that it's true. Okay, inerrancy, meaning no error, right? The Bible is absolutely inerrant in the original documents. It is true without any mixture of error in the whole or in the part. Jesus spoke uh in Matthew in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, Truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law until all is accomplished. And in John ten he emphasized that scripture cannot be broken. So there's no there's no um error, there's no um unfulfilled prophecy uh when all is said is done. Now some are unfulfilled, still yet to come. But if God said it's going to happen, there's no question it's going to happen. Right? And a related uh part of that doctrine, number two, here is that the Bible is completely true in all it asserts including matters of doctrine, of course, and Christian living and ministry, but also facts about history, geography, and science. And It's not intended to be a thorough treatment of history, geography, or science in particular. But when it speaks to any of those areas, what it says is true. That's the point. And what I find interesting here in uh several of these passages is that Jesus depended on the veracity of the Old Testament when making his points. He kept his finger on the text when he was teaching people. So For example, in Matthew 19, he was asked about divorce, and he engages the Pharisees here, and he says Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said for this cause a man shall leave his father and his mother and cleave to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh? What was he doing? Quoting from Genesis two, right? Um and one actually. And then in Matthew twenty-two, uh again he's interacting with the religious leaders. And says Jesus answered them again and said to them, You are mistaken in not understanding the scriptures. What's he referring to? The Old Testament is all they had at that point, right? And then he quotes Um of course in the numerical standard, which these are all from, uh direct quotes from the Old Testament are in all caps. It makes it easy to see. But he he says um Quoting the Old Testament, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And the point he's making there is he's saying, I am, this is what he was saying to Moses. long after Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob lived. And so Jesus said, you should understand from that that not only is God eternal, but um uh he's living And that these guys are not just gone and forgotten, they have an eternal relationship with God as well. His point was there is a resurrection, right? Um okay, number three. The inerrancy of the original manuscripts of scripture written in Greek and Hebrew and a little bit of Aramaic is not an irrelevant doctrine but ensures the accuracy of all careful copies and transit translations of the Bible from the originals. So um we don't have the original manuscripts of any of the Bible, even the New Testament But we do have a boatload of manuscripts that are very early close connected to the original. manuscripts, particularly for the New Testament, but even nowadays uh from the Old Testament. And why do you suppose God wouldn't have preserved the original manuscript so we can know for sure what was actually written down by Isaiah. Probably. Yeah, they probably would have. People's propensity to worship the Shroud of Turin. Who knows what that is, right? Um I think if they ever found the Ark Noah's Ark? They build a church on it and and and worship it rather than God, right? That's probably why. But what he did leave us is a boatload of very early manuscripts. that can be compared with each other and see very clearly what the original must have said and the best translations of scripture currently um use all those resources and um it's fascinating. And then the Dead Sea Scrolls, um man, the significance of them is just fantastic. Prior to their discovery in nineteen forty eight, the earliest manuscript we had of anything in the Old Testament Was dated around 900 or so A. D. , still pretty close, but those Dead Sea scrolls that contain almost all of the Old Testament when all taken together Everyone understands, and there's no dispute, the fact that those are dated around 100 BC. That's a thousand years. earlier and the obvious question is what? How do they compare? N uh 100 BC and 900 AD. How do those books compare? Very, very good. They weren't photocopies But there's absolutely zero that has any impact on any kind of doctrine. And who do you suppose superintended that? God Only God could do that. And there are ways he used very zealous, God fearing scribes. to make the copies and the the tricks that they made to make sure they didn't make an error uh were fantastic. Anyway, God superintended all that so that we would have a faithful understanding of what the original manuscripts actually said. Okay. Bottom of page five. What are some implications of inspiration and the inerrancy of scripture? First, we need to study every word and their grammatical characteristics and connections with each other in order to understand fully what God is saying to us. There's nothing random thrown in. Some of it's going to be very obvious and you're experienced with that. Some of it may have some nuances that we need to plumb the depths of, and that's all good. Right? Secondly, the Bible is the best commentary on the Bible. Why is that? Exactly. How can you get any better than that? You know, if if you read commentaries written by men, they could be extremely helpful, but before you've read several you realize they're not necessarily agreeing with each other. Which isn't necessarily a bad thing if you've got your thinking cap on, you know, which arguments are stronger and and so on. But when you know the Word of God is commenting on it, you know that's without error Right? The word of God is the best commentary on the Bible. And then Romans topic of salvation and justification. And so you could say, well, there those two auth authors, human authors, may not be in agreement. agreement but if you realize that there's one author who is thinking superintendent both both books, then they're then it's hard enough to kind of seek out the agreement to help That's a great example, um particularly in the topic of faith and works, the relationship of faith and works, right? James and Romans. And you realize that God's saying the same thing, um, but there are nuances here that there are applications and implications that that are Key. Anyway, uh three. Only the original manuscripts were inerrant, but the Holy Spirit also superintended superintended the accurate transmission over time of the inspired text over thousands of years such that the oldest, that is the earliest manuscripts we have taken together provide us a faithful record of the inspired text. And uh fortunately we have Bibles in English, several good ones, good translations, that all are based on those earliest Manuscripts. For God did not choose to reveal every possible thing to us, because much of it we wouldn't be able to understand anyway, let alone Put into practice. So are there some mysteries about God that you don't haven't quite figured out? Well he's let you know as much as you need to know. And the rest is what? By faith, right? Yes, ma'am. The most common thing uh about um the early manuscripts is things like um well in in modern terminology you think of typos, right? Um is it possible in anything you write to avoid having some kind of typo. It's I mean you could take precautions and so on, but the possibility of having a typo. Now when someone looks at a typo, um ninety-nine times out of a hundred these days, you know immediately what they intended because of the context and and whatever. And so that's the major kind of of thing. It may not just be spelling, it may be a word left out or something like that. But as you read it, you know exactly what the original must have said. That's the point. Okay, uh four. Yeah, God did not choose to reveal every possible thing. Um so we should not treat our speculation about what he didn't reveal, we shouldn't be treating that speculation as true. So it God has revealed this, this, and this, therefore this must be true Uh that's that's a little dangerous branch to be treading out on. We can have speculations, we can think it through, see what scripture might say about it, but Don't expect that our speculations are on a par with inspired Word of God, right? I mentioned good Bible translations around page six Um so I don't think I'm gonna need to read all of that for you. Um but the let me look mostly at Translation from Hebrew and Greek, or really any other language, into English is not typically a simple mechanical matter of word-for-word translation. Now if any of you know other languages and you've tried to translate either from English to that language or the other way around, you realize it's not Other languages aren't necessarily structured the same way English is, thank God. And so translators have to understand the meaning of every word and make sure that same meaning of every word is in the translation. Sometimes that's super simple. A lot of times it can be a challenge because of the idiosyncrasies of either the language You're coming from the language you're going to. As it turns out, English has some strengths that I've become regrudgingly aware of. Um but other languages have strengths too that we don't have. Ways to distinguish things. And um we have to accommodate the limitations of each language. So uh although the original words themselves are inspired, they need to be translated carefully So that any translation used for serious Bible study is faithful to both the inspired word and grammar usage of and the true meaning, even if to do so the translation doesn't always conform to modern ways of speaking. Now there are some Bibles that have been written to make it easy for English readers to just read through, and they compromise a little bit on the spacefulness to the originals in order to do that Um so at the end of that paragraph in number three, that is, it should not be a paraphrase, in other words, having the the object objective to reflect the main meaning of the modern English. And so trans Translations, they're not really translations, they're paraphrases. You know, the Living Bible, uh, the Message, New Living Translation, they're all one way or another paraphrases. Which may have some value, but not really for serious Bible study. Make sense? Because they're not focused on the the the words in the originals. Or they ought not to be what's been called a dynamic equivalent translation. In other words, seeking to translate not word for word, but thought for thought. Now that may sound um like a better way to overcome the hurdles of of the idiosyncrasies of various languages. But Inevitably, you're going to be inserting a lot of interpretation into that translation. And that's the whole point of the NIV It's a thought-for-thought translation, not a careful translation of the original wording. So the NIV has some advantages, but not really for serious Bible study. The New King James, which is and I think there may even be a version after 84, um, but the New King James, like the original King James, the authorized version, does not take advantage of the earliest manuscripts. Basically, as far as I'm aware, the New King James is based on the same biblical texts that were available when the original New King James was um But I'm pretty sure uh that had those earlier manuscripts had been discovered when the King James was put together, at least some of them would have been incorporated into the King James. So, you know, one of the reasons modern Americans shy away from the King James is that we don't speak that way anymore, you know, these and thou's and mitest and Whatever. Uh the New King James softens that a lot, but it doesn't expand the scope of the biblical manuscripts that are that have become available since the original. And so while it's Yeah, I might call it a good translation. It's not as good as it could be, given the extra biblical evidence, manuscript evidence. So um Number four, although it is best for someone who preaches regularly to become proficient in Hebrew and Greek and to use that skill in his study to draw out the meaning well, most of us, myself included, will never attain that proficiency. But the good news is we're blessed to have relatively easy access to very good study Bibles that are faithful translations from the original languages And as we'll see next week, uh not only good study Bibles, but a lot of other tools that are available for us novices to really dig into uh and make use of those original languages. So the three that I would recommend, I think all of our pastors would recommend would be either the NASBEA, the New American Standard Uh the ninety-five version I think is better than the recent. I think there's one in two thousand. But what's that? I I hope we Right album. Yeah. And the only way you go there. Don't want to go there. Yeah. The ninety five version though is is is quite good. And it's been a standard for quite a while. Um the ESV is also good. It has that same translation philosophy and and the wording is a little bit um different in many cases from the NASB, but it it's also excellent. And you make um well let me explain the third one here. The legacy standard bile. Anybody hear of that LSB. Yeah. Basically sorry? Okay, good. Um that's Basically the NASBY, the Master Seminary, uh had permission to tweak to make it even more accurate in the translation And um its use is probably going to be mostly for serious study. Um I use it all the time when I when when somebody's reading the scriptures from in the worship center uh using the ESV, I'm following along in the LSB to gain insight as to the differences and so on. I don't necessarily recommend that, but I find it helpful. So those three, each of them on their own, would be an excellent basis for your Bible study. An even better basis would be to have Two or three of these three. Uh you can get added insight by looking at other excellent translations. We'll talk more about that next week. Pastor Ellen, would you go for so far as to say that as we're My argument would be to that there's maybe sometimes a flavor in the rendering of I ideas. But is that you say that's just confusing to get those flavors? Um yeah the question is with some of these other Translations or paraphrases be helpful in addition to one of these three Um I won't say that they would necessarily be harmful, but I think if if you're developing skills in Bible study and in teaching from that Bible study, it's probably best to begin more narrowly. And then as you gain more experience, it's it's like, you know, do you start with somebody's commentary? No. You don't start with somebody else's commentary You start with your own commentary, your own understanding of what the Bible is saying. Those commentaries might be helpful after you've already done the study and you've got you're armed to say When you read something, um, oh I know that's not right because of X, Y, and Z. I've already studied that. Right? If you start with that, um you're gonna more easily be led astray. Right. I understand. But if if you're more seasoned in drawing out from scripture what's there, whether it's commentaries or other translations, may you'll be in a better position to evaluate its value. Does that make sense? Um Pastor, given what we started this session with in that God of uh words in Aaron and everything you just said, how would you respond to Someone who said, What about all these different translations? What about all this quote tweaking of God's word? If it's an errand, why are we looking at your or different quote versions. Yeah. Well again remember what's inerrant is the original manuscripts. Right. And what's being tweaked are um translations of that to be as faithful as possible to the original and yet using our language in a way that communicates well. And that last step, there are different ways to do that. There are different words you could choose. to represent the original words and concepts. Um even not just nouns and and and so on, but uh tenses and you gotta be careful. Verbs One of the advantages of English is that there are whole lots of synonyms. One of the disadvantages of English is that there are a whole lot of synonyms. And so let me give you an example. Nasby can t um consistently when it speaks of God The word Yahweh in the Old Testament is is translated in Asbi as Lord, capital L, capital O R and D. In the uh LSB, Legacy Standard Bible, it uses that same word Yahweh and translate it as Yahweh. Um and just so it's clear who we're talking about, that's his name, right? And so that's that's sort of a preference, but it's also being more faithful to the original as long as people understand what what HWH means. Um and so that's why it's maybe better for serious Bible study rather than just casual reading. Another example would be typically in in the New Testament, you see Paul referring to himself and others as a bondservant or a servant of Christ or whatever. Almost all those cases, the the Greek word is doulos. Doulos is slave. And we tend to think of bondservant as sort of a um What, a more endangered servant? Yeah, uh more of a congenial uh relationship kind of a thing. But the word is really slave. Yeah. And so it uses the word slave. So that's that's the tweaking. It's it's word choice without um inserting interpretation. is one example of it. Yeah. Does that make sense? So what's what's inspired and inerrant is the original. But the unfortunately, that original is not in English. It was not in Spanish. It was not in Arabic. You know, it's got to be translated. And um yeah, so that's where that comes in. Okay. Um I'm on page seven. You're gonna have to listen fast. What we have here in the second part is probably a review for many of you. What steps should you follow in your study of the scriptures? Think of observation, interpretation, application. Okay? Which of those three is the hardest, do you think? Go ahead Margo. I think it's observation. Yeah. I think to a large degree observation is the hardest one for us to to be disciplined about. It's easy to gloss over things and not pay attention to detail. Those details are often very instructive, right? Um yes, it does take skill to interpret correctly and Often the hardest thing to actually do is the application, rather than just store it in our minds, right? So it all three important, but don't overlook. Any of them. Observation particularly. And so uh observation is all about answering the question, what has God actually said? What does it say? Right? And so you get into grammar, you get into um uh the words themselves. The the grammar of course is how the words are connected and what use they have in the sentence, and then the words How many of you have ever practiced hermeneutics? Well, I got news for you. You all have. All it means is interpretation. So when you pick up the newspaper actually I wouldn't recommend you pick up a newspaper, when you pick up what's that? The Wall Street Journal is okay. Oh it is? Okay. Um but when you when you look even at these notes you're interpreting. What does the sentence say? Is it what's the meaning here, right? You're doing it all the time. And you're already probably familiar and just without thinking about it, that you're you're taking advantage of the knowledge of how the English language is structured um nuances of meaning, idioms, um, and you do it all the time. And interpreting scripture is not fundamentally different from that. You need to be careful because now there are um nuances and and uh context. Well you're always working with context anytime you read something, right? Usually in your case it's when you're reading something it's the immediate context, but in scripture of course you've got the broader context of all of scripture. And that comes into play sometimes when you're reading maybe technical journals and that kind of thing. But yeah, Sean. Just real quick, that's why that's why observation is so much harder because observation should be more objective. And if our observation is colored by our own bias, our own pre-interpretation of scripture, then this interpretation Going down the wrong path. Exactly. Yeah. Good way to put it. Okay. So um You're asking questions here. I'm on the top of page eight. What does it mean? What does the author intend for the reader to understand? What does God want us personally to understand? You've probably heard the word exegesis or exegetical. It's all about drawing out from the words and the sentence and the text the meaning, drawing it out from the text itself. The ex is from. coming out of the text. The opposite is isegesis, which is um reading into the text something that's not there. Another way of thinking about it is interpreting the text and treating your presumptions as true and then evaluating what the text says given your presumptions. We all do that more than we want to admit. It's too easy. We need to be disciplined not to, right? Um so Basically, what we're looking at is normal interpretation. It's what you do all the time. So normally when you read something, you expect that it's it's meant to be read literally Right? That it's it's saying what it's obviously saying. You're not making things up. You're not reading into it. You interpret it literally, unless it's obvious from the context and the wording that there's something figurative going on here. And Generally when you're in normal conversation or reading something you would read throughout the week, it's pretty obvious when something is figurative or figure of speech, right? And we'll do some examples here um of that. But the other thing is historical, you interpret it in light of the historical and cultural context. How would the original audience have interpreted the message? Don't read into it something that's Driven by your own assumptions. And then grammatical. You interpret it in light of the rules of grammar and how words are connected and what how what words mean. This is not you. You do this all the time, right? Now the fact that you're dealing with originals that were in another language adds a layer of sophistication, but uh it's basically the same process. And fortunately we have good tools, good translations, and good supplementary tools to allow us to do it even better. Okay, I'm going to have to probably call it quiz here, but I would urge you, in fact require you, to continue reading here just so that you don't Miss anything. I will say one thing about application. Um on page ten. First question is Why end your teaching with application? Secondly, what kind of application would be appropriate? And so that brings into play uh the fact that scripture gives us very direct commands. It also gives us key principles that are not commands, but they're guidance for us, right? And then apart from those, we've got lots of freedom in terms of our application of something scripture says. But if we violate the commands, then outside that is sin. Alright? So I hope that makes sense. Okay. Hopefully you'll be able to exercise your powers of interpretation by reading and interpreting all that we didn't cover today. Do we need one more? Yes, look at the homework. Read chapters one through five of the PDF book Expository Studying. Uh that's If you haven't downloaded it already, it's on the files tab of the group for this class, the teaching lab class. And it's easy reading. It's very helpful Um and I think you'll find it very, very good. Some of it um maybe is old hat for you, others of it is going to be a real helpful new way of Um disciplining yourself. So yeah. I do a lot of drive, so out of curiosity, uh is it possible to have a click I can click on it and it's talking Maybe your voice after that. Is it possible I think what you mean is it possible like tomorrow? No. No, but it's easy reading. And and read read the rest of the um the uh assignment here for next week. So there's an appendix one in the notebook, English grammar rules. That will that won't take you long. You just kind of, okay, right, right, right, right. Oh, okay You can just read through it pretty quickly. It's a good resource. And then you can begin, armed with these things, you can begin your study and and understanding of the Bible text you've been assigned. for your first teaching lesson. Okay? Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word that it is indeed um powerful and useful, practical for not only teaching us but r reproving us, correcting us, and training us in godly living. We pray that we would be Faithful handlers of your word for your glory and for the building up of your church. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen