Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day which you have made. We thank you for the wonderful opportunity we have to gather together as the body of Christ and worship you. We thank you for this particular time we have to gather around your word and we're going to be able to do it. worship you through the study of your word. We thank you, Lord, for your word where you re reveal yourself and your great plan of redemption throughout history, and in particular this part of Scripture where you tell us about the end times. with uh terrible warnings and wonderful blessings and we pray, Lord, that it would motivate us uh to reach out with the gospel of Jesus Christ to those that are perishing. Uh we see these things that are coming, Lord, in your word, and we pray that it would help us to um uh to be to be motivated to reach out to unbelieving neighbors and co-workers and family members and friends with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious Okay, so part thirty-two. Um so for those of you who have been with me from the beginning. We've uh we started uh uh seven and a half months ago uh with the beginning of Revelation and uh this nine month course, thirty nine parts uh to walk through the book of Revelation and we're coming new Near to the end of our time in Revelation. So today's lesson is called Babylon is fallen. So we're gonna go all the way through chapter eighteen Um in terms of number of verses, this is the most verses that we're gonna pack into one lesson uh today, uh talking about the fall of um mostly the commercial system, uh the worldwide commercial system of the Antichrist. So Babylon is fallen. We'll talk about judgment pronounced, judgment avoided Judgment defined, judgment lamented, judgment enjoyed, judgment completed, and judgment justified. So we're going to look at this judgment that God brings on Babylon. From all these different aspects. But first, let's take a look back at what we did last week. So last week we did chapter 17. It was the final destruction of the world religious system. So we talked about the fact that the antichrist Christ has this uh world system which involves not just political and economic system but a religious system as well. And chapter seventeen talked about the destruction of that part of it. Uh chapter eighteen we'll have the destruction of the commercial. system. So last time uh we talked about this uh the fact that uh chapter seventeen and eighteen are stepping out of the the chronology uh and going back to just look at this world empire of the antichrist and how the lord targets that empire with judgment. Um so other than Babylon there are other cities that are designated as harlot cities, so if there's a comparison of uh harlotry, especially with false religion and that's what we see throughout chapter 17. But the as I've mentioned before, many of these images are drawn from the Old Testament. And the Old Testament uses this imagery of uh religious, uh rel religious idolatry. and false religion compared to harlotry, with Nineveh, for example, in Nahum chapter 3 and Tyre in Isaiah 23, and also Jerusalem in Isaiah chapter 1. Uh so the m and then the the image the the the vision that John sees of this harlot sitting on a beast and uh th at first the harlot is um s is who sits on many waters and we get an explanation of that later that the waters are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues. And so we have this false religious system. Um so the rulers of the world are obsessed with this uh false religion uh and all those who dwell on the earth So that's all the unbelievers. So the unredeemed are caught up in this final false religion, and they give their hearts and souls to this Babylonian harlot. Um which is an image of false religion. Then in the vision that we saw last week Um the uh John is taken away into this into the wilderness and he sees this harlot sitting on the beast. And the beast, of course, we've seen this description previously, uh, and the beast is the Antichrist. And so the fact that the woman is sitting on the beast signifies that the Antichrist is supporting her, supporting this false religious system. And then we've also got um the uh the description of the beast with seven heads and ten horns. And the seven heads are seven mountains, but they're also seven kingdoms, and we get an explanation of that. And the ten horns are ten kings. And so this uh Babylonian harlot, which rec which symbolizes False religion is pictured as drunk with the blood of the saints. Um and this is the blood of God's people. The fact that this false religion will persecute uh true believers in the true God. And John is appalled and shocked by this vision. Um and of course then the uh the angel gives him an explanation of what it means. Um and we get this description of the beast, the angel Antichrist who was and is not and will come, and that's a reference back to Revelation chapter thirteen of the the fake resurrection of the Antichrist. He seemed to have a fatal wound but recovered. That's a that's a re reference back to that same thing. We we talked a a little bit about these seven mountains and how people have gone astray thinking that this means it's Rome, even though the text uh clearly says that it's seven kingdoms. Uh there's many things in Revelation that we have to wonder about, but this is not one of those. Uh the text comes right out and tells us that the seven mountains are seven kings. kingdoms, not seven hills around Rome. Um so the five Gentile empires empires that had fallen by the time of John's vision, um Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Meteor Persia, and Greece. The one that existed during the time of John's vision was Rome, and the one yet to come is the Antichrist, which will be only for a short time, uh forty two months, as we saw in Revelation chapter thirty. thirteen. So the ten kings have one agenda, and that's to make war against the lamb. The lamb overcomes. We'll see details of how that happens in chapter nineteen. Let's see the ten horns are. ten kings that rule under the um uh antichrist and then they use this false religion to rise to power and then they turn on her uh they hate her, um they d destroy her, burn her flesh with fire, uh violently over uh get rid of this false religious um system that they use to rise to power and of course set up anti Christ as the one and only object of worship. Um and of course all of this is in accordance with God's sovereign plan Uh so at the very end of that passage of scripture, it says that God has put it into their hearts. And so in spite of these um the Antichrist who's uh an agent of Satan, uh the false. False prophet, all the things that they do um they think are of their own accord for their own purposes, and and Perhaps they are, but ultimately they serve the sovereign purposes of God. And we see that at the end of the chapter from last week. So any questions about what we did last week to set up this week? Okay, let's dive into Revelation chapter 18. Babylon is fallen. So if you'll take out your Bibles and turn with me to Revelation chapter eighteen. So we're going to read the entire chapter. So Revelation chapter eighteen starting in verse one So we've just had all the events of chapter 17 with the fall of the false religious system. After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was illumined with his glory. And he cried out with a mighty voice, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a dwelling place of demons and a prison of every unclean spirit. and a prison of every unclean and hateful bird. For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the passion of her immorality And the kings of the earth have committed acts of immorality with her. And the merchants of the earth have become rich by the wealth of her sensuality. I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, so that you will not participate in her sins and receive of her plagues. For her sins have piled up as high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. Pay her back even as she has paid, and give back to her double according to her deeds. In the cup which she mixed, mixed twice as much for her. To the degree that she glorified herself and lived sensuously, to the same degree, give her torment And mourning. For she says in her heart, I sit as queen, and I am not a widow, and will never see mourning. For this reason, in one day her plagues will come, pestilence and mourning and famine, and she will be burned up with fire. For the Lord God who judges her is strong. And the kings of the earth who committed acts of immorality and live sensuously with her will weep and lament over her when they see the smoke of her burning, standing at a distance because of the fear of her torment, saying, Whoa, woe, the great city Babylon, the strong city For in one hour her your judgment has come, and the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargoes anymore cargoes of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet and every kind of citron wood and every article of ivory and every article made from very costly wood Wood and bronze and iron and marble, and cinnamon and spice and incense and perfume and frankincense and wine and olive oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep and cargoes of horses and chariots and slaves in human lives. The fruit you long For has gone from you, and all things that were luxurious and splendid have passed away from you, and men will no longer find them. The merchants of these things who became rich from her will stand at a distance because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning and saying, Woe! Woe the great city She who has clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, for in one hour such great wealth has been laid waste And every shipmaster and every passenger and sailor, and as many as make their living by the sea, stood at a distance, and were crying out as they saw the smoke of her burning, saying What city is like the great city? And they threw dust on their heads, and were crying out, weeping and mourning, and saying, Woe, woe, the great city, in which all who had ships at sea became rich by her wealth, for in one hour she has been laid waste. Rejoice over her, O heaven, and you saints and apostles and prophets, because God has pronounced judgment for you against her. Then a strong angel took up a stone, like a great millstone, and threw it into the sea, saying, So will Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence, and will not be found any longer. And the sound of harpists and musicians and flute players and trumpeters will not be heard in you any longer, and no craftsman of any craft will be found in you any longer, and the sound of a mill will not be heard in you any longer. And the light of a lamp will not shine in you any longer, and the voice of the bridegroom and bride will not be heard in you any longer. For your merchants were the great men of the earth Because all the nations were deceived by your sorcery. And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain On the earth. So that's our passage, a passage of profound judgment Of God's wrath being poured out in judgment. And so uh as we've done with each of these lessons, I'll start out with with um a few paragraphs from John MacArthur's commentary on this section of scripture. And so uh here's what John MacArthur has to to say to introduce Chapter 18. He says, throughout the history of the petty kingdoms and empires built by proud, arrogant, God-rejecting rebels have come and gone. The spirit of humanism first expressed at Babel has permeated human history ever since. Unshakably optimistic, despite centuries of war, slaughter, injustice, and cruelty, people still seek a utopia to be brought about by humanity's upward scientific progress. Having taken control, so they think, of their own destiny through science, sinners have no use for God and haughtily replace him as self-styled gods devoted to their own sovereignty. From beginning to end, the Bible warns of coming judgment on sinners who reject God and blaspheme his holy name Job declared that the wicked is reserved for the day of calamity. They will be led forth at the day of fury. David noted that the Lord has established his throne for judgment and he will judge the world in righteousness. Psalm 96, 13 warns that God is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness. and the peoples in his faithfulness. Isaiah wrote according to their deeds, so he will repay wrath to his adversaries, repent recompense to his enemies, to the coastlands he will make recompense. In his kingdom parables, Jesus also described the coming time of judgment in Matthew 13. But nowhere in Scripture is there a more detailed description of the coming judgment than in Revelation 6 to 18. Although those judgments will be worldwide in scope. They will focus particularly on Antichrist's World Empire of Babylon. That empire will involve both a religious and a commercial aspect At the midpoint of the tribulation, Antichrist will destroy the false Babylonian religious system, which will be absorbed into commercial Babylon. Religion will not cease to exist but will be restricted to the worship of Antichrist. The Babylonian view in chapter 18 is Antichrist's worldwide commercial empire, which will rule the world during the last three and a half years of the tribulation. God's destruction of commercial Babylon is the theme of chapter 18. Though some commentators view it as a symbol for Antichrist's whole godless system, the Babylon described in Chapter 18 is most likely an actual city. It is called a city five times in the chapter, and other features in the text imply that a literal city is in view. Babylon will have received plenty of warnings of its impending doom by the occurrence of the events in chapter eighteen. The hundred and forty four thousand Jewish evangelists, the two witnesses, the rest of the redeemed, and an angel flying in the heavens will have proclaimed the gospel message. That message includes the truth that God will judge those who refuse to repent. But despite the repeated warnings, the people of the world will refuse to repent and God's judgment will fall on Babylon. Thus John MacArthur setting up the uh uh the events in chapter eighteen. So let's take a look at uh these verses verse by verse. So uh starting with verse one and two. So after these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven having great authority And the earth was illumined with his glory. And he cried out with a mighty voice, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon. the greats. So uh as we've seen before, um there's these markers in revelation of a new um a new vision and uh this phrase after these things is one of the common markers in Revelation to say here comes a new vision. So after these things, what we saw in chapter 17, here comes a new vision in chapter 18. Um and so we're still in the general Theme of Antichrist World Emp Empire. In chapter 17, we were talking about uh the the world religious system The the to accompanied um Antichrist rise to power, now we're gonna talk about uh his commercial Empire. And so John sees another angel, and this is distinct from the one that he saw in chapter 17. um because of this word another. Uh alos is the word that um the Greek word means another of the same kind, so the same kind of angel you saw before. Uh if it was some different it would be eteros, which is another uh uh of a different kind. But this is another of the same kind. So it's the same kind of angel he saw in chapter seventeen, but a different one. Uh this is the same type. Uh may well have been the same angel that predicted Babylon's downfall in Revelation chapter fourteen. We saw that. And we're gonna go he's we're gonna see that the angel reveals three features of uh his uh the text reveals three features about the angel, his power, and his importance. Uh so first he comes down from heaven with great authority. Um so he left the presence of God with delegated authority to act on God's behalf. Uh when he arrives on earth he illuminates it with his glory, he illumined it with his glory. So remember the Fifth bowl brought darkness. Well here comes an angel with with great light. He illumines uh the earth. Uh an awe-inspiring sight for the the world people of the world that have been through this uh uh this terrible time of darkness. So the angel cries out with a mighty voice. And so no one's able to ignore him. Everyone can hear him and his message causes fear. So he brings words of woe, particularly to the Antichrist and his followers, by announcing fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. And so this judgment was predicted, we saw in Revelation chapter 14, and now here it is in Revelation chapter 18. And so this is a there are many Old Testament references to the destruction of Babylon. And in fact there was a a partial destruction of Babylon in the Old Testament, kind of a gradual destruction. Uh the city wasn't destroyed all at once, and so this is different. It's going to be destroyed all at once, but it was it it did fall in a s to a certain extent uh in the Old Testament, and so Isaiah chapter twenty-one, for example, talks about uh pronounces the the fall of Babylon. Um and so um most likely the this is talking about events that will accompany most likely the seventh pole. Uh so he cries out with this mighty voice. Voice um and she has become a dwelling place of demons and a prison of every unclean spirit and a prison of every unclean and hateful bird. So unclean spirits, demons and unclean spirits, two ways of saying the same thing. Um so the first cause of the destruction is there's this tremendous gathering of demons there. Um remember in Revelation chapter nine we saw That it was in the vicinity of Babylon that 200 million formerly bound demons were released at the sound of the sixth trumpet And so demons have demons present. We have these those demons, those 200 million demons, along with uh demons that were released from the abyss at the sounding of the fifth trumpet, also those cast down from heaven with Satan And chapter 12 and those previously on earth, and we have them all confined. It's become the prison for these demons. And so we have them all confined there Uh pr uh also a prison of every unclean and hateful bird. Uh that phrase symbolizes the city's total destruction. Similar Um imagery and language is used in Isaiah chapter thirty four. Um the description of carrying birds. Uh that's what this is talking about. Um so birds flying over the dead corpses is the picture. Depiction of demons as unclean and hateful reflects heaven's view of them. So we have unclean spirits and we have unclean birds. And then verse 3, for all the nations have drunk of the wine of the passion of her immorality, and the kings of the earth have committed acts of immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth have come become rich by the wealth of her sensuality. So these are the descriptions of why Babylon is being destroyed. Because the uh b the Babylon has been uh the head of this uh commercial system, um this worldwide system that has led the nations astray. Uh so his evil religious and commercial empire spreads its influence to all the nations of the world. And this has been the recurring theme. We've seen this over and over again, that this is a worldwide empire. And it's consistent here as well. And so the people of the world will fall into um uh not only a religious stupor which you saw in chapter 17 but a materialistic stupor as well um in chapter eighteen. Um so this universe the there's universal terms here uh all the nations, all the kings of the earth, all the merchants of the earth, um reveal that this is the once again, this is the worldwide empire that we're talking about. And this destruction of Babylon is because Babylon is um the symbol, the head of this worldwide empire. And so the unredeemed, unregenerate people of the world will um will will rush headlong into these acts of spiritual immorality with her And the merchants of the earth will have become rich by the wealth that's accumulated because of this uh system, this world system. So, any any questions or comments so far? with what we see here. These first three verses. Okay. Verse number four. I heard another voice from heaven, so separate from the angel, that It's been speaking, I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, so that you will not participate in her sins and receive her plagues. For her sins have piled up as high as heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. So um this there's a way to avoid the judgment that's coming. Uh but the only way to enjoy uh to avoid that is to be one of God's people and to come out of her. So uh the the the the voice now is speaking to um God's people uh to come out of this system. Um and so once again another uh this Greek word alas means another of the same kind, so it's another voice like the voice of the powerful angel. Uh suggests that the speaker is an angel like the one in verse one. And the message has come out of her my people. It's a call to God's people to disentangle themselves from the world system. So what this implies is that all this has gone along And there are um some of God's people are um entangled in this commercial system. Um let me put it that way. Um and this is a call to disentangle themselves. from that system. Yes. Because those people they haven't received the law of the disease. Correct. Yeah, so um I don't know how that works. How how is it that God's people can be entangled? Uh is it black market? Um that the black market that is somehow an offshoot of this system. Uh that's the first thing that I thought of. That th that there there's There's never been any such thing as um a command economy that didn't grow a black market. Um and no matter how clever the government is it's impossible to shut down all black markets. Um and so that's my guess, is that there's some uh kind of black market that's um uh that's also entwined with this this system. Um that that's just my guess. Uh but somehow there there is a danger to God's people of being entangled in this system and and the uh the angel is saying, Hey Don't be entangled in this system. Um and so there is there are once again parallels with Old Testament prophets' warnings uh to flee ancient Babylon. Uh Isaiah forty-eight, Jeremiah fifty, Jeremiah fifty-one, uh God God's people were n were to flee Babylon. Um to not become entangled with Babylon. Uh and of course we today this is there's a there's a message for us as well. So there's a message to first century Christians, there's a message that will will flow all the way out to The end times, and there's a message for us today to avoid the temptation to get sucked into the world system. Paul in Romans chapter 12 said, Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. mind so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Do not be conformed to this world. And so that's a warning for us. So believers are to flee Babylon so that they will not participate in her sins. That's the particular warning. Um and thereby not receive her plagues. Um and so we've got a materialistic demon infested And it will evidently exert an almost irresistible influence even on believers to participate in her sins. So they must flee to avoid succumbing to the lust of the flesh. lust of the eyes and the boastful pride of life that we see in first John chapter two that describes all sin, uh all the way back to uh Adam and Eve in the garden. Um so this is a warning. This is a warning that was given to God God's people in the Old Testament. This is a a warning that's given in the New Testament by the Apostle Paul. This is a warning that's being given by the angel. to believers in the end times. Um don't be conformed uh to the world. Uh so God's people must flee Babylon so that they don't receive her plagues. So the plagues are coming. So the plagues, of course, the bold judgments were specifically described as plagues in Revelation chapter 15 and chapter 16. Um the bold judgments, however, themselves are worldwide, and these appear to be specific judgments just on Babylon. Um and so these plagues are uh specific manifestations perhaps of the worldwide plagues that will be in the in the bold judgments. Um and so uh and the final reason that people are supposed to uh uh God's people are supposed to flee Is because her sins have piled up as high as heaven. That language reminiscent of Genesis chapter 11. They were trying to build a tower up to heaven. And of course that Tower never reached anywhere near heaven, but these sins are piled up as high as heaven. Um and so it's a a word picture that's similar to the Tower of Babel, but worse somehow. Um and so God God has remembered her iniquities. Uh just as God took note of the rebellion at Babel, he's taken note of this uh rebellion, this rebellious, godless, uh god hating. uh system. And so therefore he's saying, I've taken note of this. The judgment is coming. Uh this is a warning to God's people. that are there at the time. Continuing along, the angel says, pay her back even as she has paid, and give back to her double according to her deeds. And so remember that she was holding a cup which was mixed with her uh the wine of her adulteries. Uh in the cup which she has mixed, mixed twice as much for her to the degree that she glorified herself and lived sensuously, to the same degree, give her torment and mourning. For she says in her heart, I sit as a queen, and I am not a widow, and will never see mourning. So the the angel um now speaks not to John but to God. So he he he He's he's speaking on behalf of God and then he speaks back to God saying, pay her back. So the one that's going to be doing the paying the judgment, the wrath is God. Um and so defining Babylon's judgment, pay her back even as she has paid. Um and so this angel's plea is similar to Old Testament Saints pleas for judgment and vengeance on ancient Babylon. So we saw we this is a a repeat uh of what we see in Psalm chapter 137, Jeremiah 50, Jeremiah 51, uh these Old Testament prophets pleaing to God to avenge himself on ancient Babylon. And it's very similar word pictures here that this angel is using to to plea with God essentially to take his vengeance on the new Babylon. Um and so we see this uh over and over again, uh not direct quotes from the Old Testament, but imagery from the Old Testament used here in this book of Revelation. And the angels doing the same thing. So it's also important to remember and to take note that retaliation belongs to God alone. Vengeance is mine, says the Lord. I will repay. Christians are to see that no one repays another evil for evil. But always seek after that which is good for one another and for all people, 1 Thessalonians 5. Not returning evil for evil, or insult for insult, but giving a blessing instead, 1 Peter 3. And so um this is God taking his vengeance. Um and so and and we'll as we'll see we can rejoice in that But the but it is definitely not our business to take vengeance. Uh and the the word's really clear about that. And then but of course those commands don't preclude a holy God uh from exercising his righteous judgment on sinners. Um commands to us are not commands or constraints for God. But it is important to remember that vengeance belongs to the Lord and not to us. As much as that may be a temptation Sometimes when somebody has wronged us, somebody has frustrated us, somebody has done something that harms our ministry. But but what does the word say? The word says, see that no one repays another evil for evil. It says not returning evil for evil or insult for insult, but giving a blessing instead And so this is a very difficult command that the Lord has given. But it is in fact a command. Yes. So what do you mean more of um persecu you know, like would be being persecuted for the sake of God? Right. Yeah, well so it could be anything, uh you you know, any anything that is somebody has done evil to you and your natural inclination is one to get 'em back. I want to get 'em back. And and our culture tells us that that's good, that we you should you know, uh an eye for an eye, justice justice you know, an eye for an eye, that's in the Bible, right? So yeah, so we're we're there's kind of this egging on, if somebody's done something to you, you should get them back And that's not what the scripture says we're supposed to do as followers of Christ. And so there I mean there's interesting connections here And so what has God instituted among men for um for retributive justice like that? Government, right? For for that purpose he's instituted uh uh government, uh civil government is to punish uh evildoers. So mm we're not supposed to do that. The government's supposed to do that, right? You know, if a guy breaks into your car, the police should come and y you know, you shouldn't take you know, the retribution into your own hands. That's a that's a function of government. Okay. Uh any other questions, comments? Yeah, so self self defense is different and self defense of your defense of your family for example, you know, if somebody uh you know attacks your wife and kid, you defend your wife and kid. Um so uh that's different. Self defense is not retaliation, right? It's it's it's preventing harm to yourself. and others, um that's not retaliation. Yeah, that's that's good. Okay. Um so let's see, where are we? Um we are in chapter verse six. So uh so then further stating the the angel then goes on to to uh to request that God fully punish Babylon uh by saying in the cup which she has mixed uh God would mix twice as much for her Um so that's uh the same cop uh or the s uh imagery using the same kind of imagery of a cop that she that we saw of her uh in the in the past in uh verse uh chapter 14, chapter 17. Uh but also going back to Jeremiah 51, uh we see Babylon depicted as a harlot holding a gold cop. All the way back in Jeremiah chapter fifty one. And she has to receive a double portion of God's wrath. And so using the same Cup imagery. And so the then the angel calls a third time to exact complete just uh vengeance on Babylon and says to the degree that she glorified herself To the same degree give for her torment and mourning. And so this to the degree is a call to match the punishment to the crime, and that fitting the punishment to a crime is a biblical principle. We see that in Isaiah chapter three, Proverbs twenty nine. Luke chapter one and fourteen, that the punishment should fit the crime. Uh we see that in uh in in secular justice systems, but it's rooted in scriptural principles. And we see it here in in Revelation as well. Okay. And so there's three sins that uh call for Babylon's judgment that are listed here. First, she glorified herself And so God said, I will not give my glory to another. Isaiah 42. God hates pride, Proverbs 6, James 4. Um and so she is guilty of the sin of pride, of glorifying herself. Second, she pursues self-gratification. She lives sensuously. And so the Bible pronounces those who do so to be dead even while they're alive. First Timothy chapter five. And thirdly, she's guilty of self-sufficiency and overestimating her own power. She says, I will I sit as queen and I am not a widow and will never see mourning. And that proud boast is very similar to the same boast that uh um is is prophesied of Babylon in the Old Testament. And so, for example, Isaiah 47, Babylon said, I will be a queen forever, I will not sit as a widowed, nor know loss of children. It's exactly the same. It's the exact same imagery of ancient Babylon in the Old Testament that we see here in the Book of Revelation. It is amazing. Yeah, it is really is amazing how much Old Testament imagery is here in the book of Revelation. Um and and almost never as a direct quote, but the imagery is always the same. Um and so for those three sins Babylon will receive torment and mourning. That's what the angel's cry is for. And then the angel continues, For this reason, in one day her plagues will come. So for this reason For the reason of all these sins. In one day her plagues will come, pestilence and mourning and famine, and she will be burned up with fire. For the Lord God who judges her is Strong. That's an understatement. So the angel notes for this reason the sins cataloged before in one day, so in it's a very swift judgment. It's not progressive, it's not drawn out over a long long time. Like it like the first judgment of Babylon was. Babylon kind of um I mean the um there was a there was in one sense there was a swift judgment and the the Babylonian kingdom fell right away in one night in Daniel chapter five. But the city of Babylon actually fell over a long period of time. So Daniel five, of course, the handwriting on the wall, it was that very night that the Babylonian kingdom fell to the Medes and the Persians. But the city itself, it it persisted for quite some time after that. But not this that but not in this case. The city is not going to persist. It's gonna fall in a big hurry, um, when the when this uh future Babylon falls. Uh so the plagues that will destroy Babylon are specific judgments on that city. and probably in connection with the the plagues of the Seventh Bowl, but very specific ones just for the city of Babylon. Um and so the the three plagues are listed as pestilence and mourning and famine And um this is heaven's answer to the proud boast of Babylon. Um and so a and even after those three plagues then uh Babylon would be burned up with fire Um so and this doom is certain. The Lord God who judges her is strong and so no one can frustrate God's plans. God has determined that this will happen and there's no way that it can possibly be avoided. Uh everything that he proposes comes to pass. Then verse nine, and the kings of the earth who committed acts. So after this we get the mourning. So there's a big long passage of scripture about all these unbelievers that were s so invested into this system and thought it was the greatest thing in the world, well now it's all come crashing down and they're they're lamenting and mourning over it. So the kings of the earth first Committed acts of immorality and live sensuously with her under the system, weep and lament over her as they see the smoke of her burning. Um standing at a distance because they're terrified of this calamity that's fallen on uh this great city, they stand at the distance and say, whoa, whoa the great city. Um and so the glorious centerpiece of this an Antichrist Worldwide Empire gets Jeds destroyed. uh there's there's lamenting and mourning. Um so the first ones are the kings of the earth. Uh that uh would it probably include the ten kings and then others that ruled under them And these le leaders are the ones who committed acts of immorality and lived sensuously with her. In other words, they were all in uh to this uh world empire. Um and so um the the these those that were f fully invested into the empire are leaders of this empire, they're weeping. And of course we see Saul in chapter sixteen, um the way being opened, um the Euphrates dried up so that the armies of the East could come over. Um now if that is happening at the same time as the destruction of um Babylon, of course Those wo those would see, most likely, at least some of them would see the smoke rising from the city of Babylon, which is right there on the Euphrates. As they watch her burn, the leaders will cry out in anguish, Woe, woe, the great sea. The strong city. And they continue, for in one hour your judgment has come. So this is a rapid uh very rapid destruction of the city. And then we get the merchants of the earth weeping and mourning because no one buys their cargoes anymore, because the this commercial system has been destroyed. They're shocked and amazed at the swiftness of the fall. Um so this empire only lasted a short time, and boy, it fell in a big hurry. So rapid judgment, uh just as predicted in verse. And so the next mourners that appear on the scene after the kings and rulers is the merchants. They're weeping because nobody's buying their cargo. So they had a great thing going. They were making money hand over fist. And now it's all gone. And that's what they care about. And so the only thing they care about is their their wealth and now their wealth has been taken away from them and now their they're whining and complaining about that. Um so whate whatever acti so of course we've had all these judgments and so whatever activity was left Um this catastrophe has brought it to a screeching halt. Um and then in the text there's a list uh twenty eight items or categories of merchandise. And so this is a s uh it's it's it's meant to be a a big long list to see that there was lots and lots and lots and lots of stuff in this commercial system and now it's all uh now it's all gone. Uh it starts with gold and silver and it's and it ends with bodies and souls of men. Um it it says uh the the translation I'm using here is NASB and it says slaves and and uh people um the it's literally bodies and souls of men um is listed as one of the cargos bodies and souls of men um so it's uh it's quite a list of things that the commercial system has been engaged engaged in, up to and including bodies and souls of men. And so these are of course representative of the great wealth of the Antichrist future commercial empire. And the fact that it's come crashing down has caused the weeping of the merchants. Uh and then it continues, the fruit you long for has gone from you and all things that were luxurious and splendid have passed away from you, and men will no longer find them. The merchants of these things who became rich from her will stand at a distance because of the fear of her torment weeping and mourning. So you'll notice that each one of these groups that's weeping and mourning They're standing they're they're keeping their distance because they just saw whatever it was that destroyed this city, they don't want to get too close to it. They're sad that it's gone, but they don't want to get Whate whatever it was that just fell on that city, uh they don't want any part of it. Uh so the the merchants continue their their lament. Um then men will no longer find these lux luxurious items. Uh luxurious and splendid possessions have passed away and men will no longer have them or find them Gone forever, as God has destroyed this system. Um so uh the in the Greek is the the the English here says no longer It's actually a really um a really strident Greek phrase. It's a double, double negative, uh in the Greek, uh which is the strongest form of neg negation in the Greek language. So nobody's ever gonna Fine th this is Babylon's done and it's not coming back. Uh is what the Greek is telling us here. Uh these items will never be found again. Never, never, never, never, never, never. Never never never. Um that's what the Greek says. Um and so there's of course these merchants are joining the the leaders that have previously lamented, um and they've they were rich and they're weeping over their lost profits Seeing an end to their lucrative trade. So what is it that they care about? They don't care about hundreds of thousands of dead people over there. What they care about is their money, the source of their cash is now dried up. That's what they care about. Um and then we get another group. Uh and every shipmaster and every passenger and sailor and as many as make They're living by the sea, stood at a distance. Once again, they're not getting they don't want to be too close to where it is that God's wrath has just poured down. So they stayed a distance and were crying out as they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like the great city. So this is the third group that joins the Lament. The shipmasters, those that uh that uh had commerce at sea And so Babylon will evidently be an important distribution center for goods that are coming from overseas as well. And with the destruction of Babylon now there's no more uh there's no more market for the goods that are coming by sea. Um and so those who made their living by bringing goods across the sea to Babylon They're also sad and lamenting. And so notice that once again they're careful to stay at a safe distance. Um they gaze on this ru ruined city and they lament, What city is like the great city? It was so wonderful. Uh and it was seemingly indestructible. And they had a seemingly invincible ruler. And we're going to see his fall in chapter 19. So we've seen the destruction of the Religious system, chapter seventeen, commercial system, chapter eighteen. Chapter nineteen we'll see the fall uh final fall of the political system as well. And then we get a totally different reaction. So we've These groups that are lamenting, oh no, the great city has fallen. And then in chapter 20 we got we get rejoicing instead. So what group is rejoicing? So uh chapter verse twenty. Rejoice over her, O heaven. And you saints and apostles and prophets, because God has pronounced judgment for you against her. So for you. So who's taken uh judgment, who's pronounced judgment, who's taken vengeance is the Lord on the behalf of Saints and apostles and prophets who have called for judgment all this time, and here it is. That's what the angel is saying here. And so it's time to rejoice over that. Your prayers have been answered. So heaven will have quite a different perspective on Babylon. Judgment than an Christ's followers. They see it as a sad and devastating turn of events, and heaven sees it as an uh occasion for rejoicing. So um uh the angel who began speaking in verse 4 addressed the redeemed in heaven uh the saints, which is a general term for all believers, apostles and prophets, a special class of saints given to the church, as we see in Ephesians chapter two and Ephesians chapter four. Um he calls on them to rejoice over Babylon's fall. Because it's God who has made a righteous judgment, and we're to rejoice over God's righteous judgments. And so this is, of course, a long-awaited moment of vindication. Uh we saw the uh the tribulation saints under the altar in Revelation chapter six. They had prayed for this event, and now here it is. Uh God's judgment. And of course heaven rejoices not over the damnation of sinners, but because of the triumph of righteousness, the exaltation of Jesus Christ, the elimination of his enemies, and the arrival of his kingdom on earth. That's what's being celebrated here. Um That this is this is all coming to uh fruition. God's plan uh for the end times is uh coming about, including his judgment um is is now taking place and that's a matter for uh saints to rejoice. And then we get a different, a new scene, uh a new s a new angel. A strong angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, So will Babylon the great city be thrown down with violence and will not be found any longer. So we get another uh uh uh angel. Um we get we have uh depicted as a strong angel and we've seen that phrase before in chapter five and chapter ten that a strong angel comes and we get this dramatic uh picture, another vision, another word picture picture of Babylon's destruction. He takes up a uh a stone like a great millstone. And so uh great millstones were used to grind uh grain and they were typically the big ones were four or five feet in diameter, a foot thick, and hundreds or thousands of pounds. Um and so this is a huge stone And it's thrown into the sea. And the angel explains that so will Babylon, the great city, be thrown down, just like this millstone is thrown down into the sea. Um and so in one moment, as the stone disappears in the sea, Babylon will disappear. So uh a gigantic heavy stone will sink very quickly into the ocean, and that's how quick Babylon's going to be destroyed. Uh interestingly enough, Once again, we get a very similar word picture in the Old Testament of a predicted doom of ancient Babylon. In Jeremiah chapter fifty-one, it says this: You O Lord have promised concerning this place to cut it off, talking of Babylon, so that there will be nothing dwelling in it, whether man or beast. But it will be a perpetual desolation. And it will come about, as soon as you finish reading the scroll, you will tie a stone to it And throw it into the middle of the Euphrates and say, Just so shall Babylon sink down and not rise again because of the calamity that I am going to bring upon her. That's Jeremiah fifty one. Same thing, a stone thrown into water is a symbol of Babylon's being destroyed. Now in the Old Testament it was a little stone tied to a scroll. In the New Testament it's a giant millstone, thousands of pounds, thrown into the ocean. And so what does that tell ya? Th there's a there's a level here of of destruction and judgment um that's uh that's another level here in this dis destruction of the final Babylon. Alright, let's continue on to uh Uh verse twenty-two and uh so a description of the things that are no longer in Babylon. And the sound of the harpists and musicians and flute players and trumpeters will not be heard in you any longer, and no craftsman or any craft will be found in you any longer and the sound of a So the Babylon's destruction is complete, that's what it's saying here. There's no or normal activities of human life. Um there's no music, uh there's no work, no craftsmen of any kind, uh there's no one prepared. There's not even any uh lamplight uh any longer. Um there's no more falling in love, the voice of the bride and bridegroom is not heard. So Babylon is so thoroughly destroyed that it will never rise again, as predicted by the Old Testament prophets. We saw that in Isaiah thirteen and fourteen and Jeremiah fifty and fifty one as we just saw. That eventually Babylon will be destroyed very completely. And so that's the description here in Revelation is showing that this d destruction is very, very complete. No normal human activity uh occurring. And then there at the very end there's a uh another added uh justification, if you will, for this judgment. For your merchants were the great men of the earth, because all the nations were deceived by your sorcery, and in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who have been slain on the earth. So d uh a very at the very end, justification for this very severe judgment. So there's three final reasons given for Babylon's judgment. First the merchants were the great men of the earth, using their wealth to ascend to positions of power and prominence in Antichrist, Anti-God Empire. Uh and the second reason is that all the nations were deceived by her sorcery. Uh sor sorcery is pharmacaea. Uh it's a word used in the New Testament to refer to magic and occult practices. And so magic and occult practices were part of daily life in Babylon. And then the final reason was uh because of her murderous slaughter of God's people. So in her was found the blood of the prophets and the saints. And so uh th they were persecuting and martyring, uh murdering God's people. And so that was the final reason for the judgment given here. Any questions? All right, let me close us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for uh your love and mercy and grace in each and every one of our lives. We thank you for your sovereign control over every inch of your creation and every second of world history, from beginning in your creation all the way to the end with the creation of a new heavens and a new earth We thank you for uh this particular passage which we got to see today. We thank you that um that you are a just judge and that you will judge um and that you will avenge. uh anything that's uh any kind of wrongdoing and especially any anything that's done to your people, that you will take vengeance, that vengeance is not ours, but vengeance is yours, and that you will perfectly repay everything. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that we have today to worship you as a body of Christ here at Hope Bible Church. And we pray that the worship that we offer you here soon will be acceptable in your sight. Uh we thank you, Lord, for your great plan of redemption in Jesus Christ. And we pray, Lord, that you would give us opportunities to share this good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ with our uh unbelievers. Friends and family members and neighbors and co-workers who so desperately need the hope that is found only in Christ. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen.