Humor. I understand that Daniel did a great job last week. I know that because uh Pastor Gabe stopped me on Friday and uh provided two two pieces of information. One, he uh implied that I am too bombastic regularly We had a little text exchange about. And then he also hinted at the fact that he was considering replacing me with Daniel. So I know that Daniel did a really good job. I know you pick on people I really like too. What a golden opportunity. I mean how often you get to pick on your pastor publicly. In all seriousness, um I am really bad at administrative things. I know many of the women in the room are like, of course you are, you're a guy. Um I I rarely give dinner more than about a week and a half notice. Um and then because I am Creating the material for the class, there's very little that I can hand them. I can't like throw a book at it as they do the next chapter or uh sorry, I didn't see it sitting there. Um Or, you know, the the next section in the in the book of the Bible that we're studying. So I'm working on my material often up until about the last minute and so he really gets uh let's say a full twenty-four hours to digest the final notes that I send him. So I am so grateful that he is willing to take that on and and stand here and do his best with my notes to uh help out. And so I just wanted to publicly embarrass him or publicly thinking, depending on how it looks. Um so I'm really grateful for that. Um with that, I'm gonna pray. I'm gonna give you an opportunity actually I'm gonna make a few comments about last week's notes. We have a strange transition section I want to do at the beginning of the notes this week, and then we will get into our uh main topic which I guess is going to occupy us for the next few weeks. I thought it would only be two weeks, but based on how far I got in today's notes, we're going to be here a little bit longer. So we'll be here on this topic of reclaiming science For a few weeks. So let's pray. The word as I spent many hours this week And last week, actually, uh just studying you throughout history I am so impressed with the testimony that you have written in history and in science and in the written word of who you are and what you intend. And your patience and condescension to communicate yourself with your people, to remain close to us, to enable us And in that enablement to forgive us that we would be able to be reclaimed by you. And the resurrection is a pinnacle. um in that. That second coming, whatever that's going to look like, will be the pinnacle I think. But certainly the resurrection is a foretaste of that. Not only what you will do with us one day, what our hope is in you, but your full control over life and death and all things And I pray that we would not look at that abstractly this morning, that we would be encouraged, that this would be an Ebenezer in our life. A set of stones, a monument to who you are, that we might remember, that we would remember in a way that challenges us to communicate it to others And that it would be life and health and peace and joy. So I pray that you would be with us this morning as we study your word. It is academic at best this morning. Boring at worst, and I hope to avoid the latter, but in all these things, Lord, I mostly hope to point to you. in a way that would refresh people's minds and hearts, would encourage them, would uh convict, uh rebuke, challenge, motivate, inspire, whatever is the right word For people that are sitting in the dust of this life to get up and rush it off and run to Christ, run to the cross, run to all that the cross means for enabling our lives. in a way that cannot be had outside of Christ. And so I pray that you may be pleased to do at least some part of those grand hopes, grand prayers, grand wishes, whatever you want to call it. that you would be pleased to do some small part in our lives toward those ends this morning. These things I pray in your name. Amen. Um so veracity of scripture was last week. I titled it The Illuminating Word. We were going to study that from four different perspectives and I realized I just couldn't fit one of them in there. uh which is the one on science. And I guess I could have thrown in a couple of um lines, but you're already five or six pages in notes. Um And there was just no point because we were going to spend the next couple weeks on the topic of science. So we studied the veracity of scripture from a historical perspective, uh basically the written record um of Uh things that had been done and really how it testifies to the truth of Scripture We studied it from an archaeological perspective, the evidence uh of the truth of the things written in Scripture. Um and then a stematological perspective, and I know that's an obtuse word, but um, you know And one of the major struggles I have with this is many of the things we study in here have a huge body of knowledge that that goes along with the topic. And you have been introduced to them superficially over the years in various studies that you've done. Even the book that we use is a superficial study in many senses of apologetics and all that belongs to it And at some point in time, I want, even if it's just to give you the right keywords, since you can go research yourself, I want to be able to give you something other than the superficiality of a single book. And it turns out there's a field of study that was started a a long time ago that's accepted by uh proponents and opponents of the scriptures and it's called stematology and it eventually became un unbeknownst to as near as I can tell from the person that uh came up with uh discipline of uh sematology It's been used in textual criticism to completely neuter the scriptures of their power and inspiration. And I I want you to see some of these terms and I want you to have them available, even if it's only later on to go back when somebody challenges your faith and you're sitting at home and you're feeling Uncertain about the foundation that you have in Christ. I want you to be able to pull out the notes and realize that there's more to it. Somebody at some point in time Told you that there were roots in this, in philosophy, in rhetoric, in textual criticism. That there's a discipline that you can bring to bear That you do not have to believe an expert because they claim to be an expert. You can be your own thinker. You can chew the food for yourself. And so I used the terms, and I'll I'll use others today. As a matter of fact, today is is largely built on that same premise. I debated not doing today's lesson for that very reason and decided, nope, I'm gonna do it And so stematology is really that idea that you there's a discipline, a science, if you will, to tracing the manuscript evidence. I'm in a in a a similar analogy would be I'm in a courtroom and there has been testimony given and I want to evaluate the efficacy, the the veracity, the value of that testimony. Well there are rules for that. Well, there's rules for that rules for that in every country, actually, uh it turns out I did a little homework on this for today's lesson. It turns out there's rules of evidence that differ among cultures and societies, but we always write them down Because we want them to be fair. We want them to be able to be practiced. We want a discipline of evidence. And this idea of evaluating textual manuscripts as they go in order to understand their veracity is an important part of that. And it's strange to me, it's ironic. This happens in so many places. It will happen in science again as we study through that. It's really strange to me. The study of stematology Establishes our scriptures, Old and New Testament, as the most supported Written document of all time. Of all time. If I wrote something today and you watched me do it and I gave it to you, it would still not be as well supported. Because you would be subject to my ability to convey real things to you, real truths about real situations or real thoughts or real philosophies or whatever those other things are, they would be subject to me And so you would have to evaluate me. Please don't. Can't take it. But it still would not have the substance And and the essence of veracity in the way the scriptures do. Because they've been ripped upside one side and down the other. They've been scrutinized, evaluated, criticized People have dedicated their lives to disprove the things in the scripture. And they've failed. And many of those same people, and I don't get this at all, I'll I'll quote one of them today actually, but there's a lot of them by the way. A lot of them. Many of them that remain skeptics, remain atheists, remain antagonists to the Lord, eventually write something to the effect The evidence is overwhelming. And they still shake their fists at God. But they say something to the effect that the historicity of the scriptures, the veracity of the scriptures, The archaeology that's proven by them, the historical things that are proven by it, the cosmological things that are proven by it are beyond reproach. That it's the best evidence we have for how things work. It's overly simplistic, but you get the idea. But you shouldn't take my word for it, because I'm just another guy in a suit that nobody ever wears to church anymore. With a tie that nobody actually ever ties anymore. With a haircut that's been outdated for 35 years. I I'm I'm a churchite, right? So don't trust me. Study it Study it for yourself. There is some of the grammar of it. Go look it up. There's a history to it, and it's not that old. So you studied that for a while? A couple of the evidences that I'd really like you to pick up on. By the way, I did embellish last week's notes I was a little under the gun getting those notes out. There's another half page of notes, but I didn't just add it to the end. I embellished some of what I wrote. re-download the notes, um take a look at them. You should get a copy of a soft copy of the notes because I embedded it with links. Everything about this study is meant for you to verify. Wow. Again, I only pick on the people I I like a lot. So uh yeah, there's a lot of links Uh referencing them. So places on the notes to print out in a colored font or something, almost every one of those is a link that you can click on and do some of your own homework. So please grab soft copies of all the notes. If anybody has their notes from last week on page two, just as a support for that idea of stematology. There is a historian from AD fifty two, his name is Tallus, or Thallus, I guess I don't know how to say his name. Doesn't matter. Long dead. Um He is cited all the time. He was a great historian. At least we think he was. And he is cited all the time. Nobody doubts. That he was a great historian. And nobody flinches at citing him. Do you know that we don't have a single copy of any of his manuscripts? You have to cite Africanus, who was a Roman historian that quoted him frequently, didn't copy his work, just quoted him frequently, sometimes to support him, sometimes to criticize him. But I love that in any it i indisputed, by the way. You you can read arguments, Jesus wasn't historical. Jesus was historical, and while they're throwing stones at each other, these ten historical evidences for Jesus are not debated. Yes, that guy mentioned Jesus. Nobody debates that, right? Nobody debates that that Thallus or Thallus discussed this eclipse that happened at the death of Jesus, which was impossible because Passover happened at the time of the full moon. You can't have an eclipse storing a full moon. And as a matter of fact, Africanus, the guy that who we know, who wrote about Talos's work, So that we know what Talos said. Notice that wasn't a first connection with the Bible. We get all these first connections. Here you don't, and for some reason the Bible's heavily debated, and the people debating him are quoting Talos, who we have not a single manuscript from. Or a copy of a manuscript. So it's the irony. Africanus was criticizing him. He's like, clearly the guy's off his rocker. You cannot have an eclipse during the full moon and we all know that there was a full moon over the Passover. I'll let you read most of the rest. Again, I did embellish that section in particular more heavily than some of the other ones. Archaeological evidence? I really want to put a plug in here. I I've known this for some years, but for whatever reason I was very impressed with very impressed with this during my study. We talked a little bit about logic or from logic about the idea of essence. I have to have an essence of a thing. I want to know what it is. I don't want to just see it and have a cursory knowledge of it, an apprehension of it. I want to know what it is And that has been universally uh a domain of bear with me, I'll defend this way. That has universally been the domain of philosophy and science together, and that's mostly because there didn't used to be the distinction that there is today. There wasn't the distinction that we have today until only about a hundred years ago, quite so binary, seventeenth century that division began. That is actually the substance of what I hope to reach today. But science and philosophy were not different. They both wanted to know. They they wanted to understand. They wanted to go beyond just being shuffled through space on some stone and they wanted to understand things. And there was an underlying presupposition of purpose. We have a purpose here. And we need to understand what that purpose is by understanding the world around us. Where was I going with that? You cannot describe essence Without terms and again I made the distinction two weeks ago. Terms don't mean words. You use words to try to flesh out terms, but terms have more to do with the idea, the essence. No, not more. They do have to do with the idea, the essence of a thing that we're trying to describe with describe with words. But notice the importance of language. If I can't say it, I can't make it concrete I can have abstract ideas about it, but not concrete ideas about it. And let's face it, abstract ideas, as it pertains to a Christian, abstract ideas don't change lives Concrete ideas do. I'll come back to that several times as we continue our study of science. And I was just so impressed that several of the archaeological discoveries had to do with language. Can I translate hieroglyphics into whatever the common language is, right? For us that's English, obviously, but whatever the common language was. Even uh and I I put it in there, um what could I put it in there? I don't remember where, I don't want to waste the time right now, but I did mention in here someplace that there is a a heavily argued but very interesting case to be made that Hebrew was the first alphabet. Now I wanna I've had people fire back at me when I say that quite frequently. Oh no, we all learn in school Sumerian cuneiform, right? That's not an alphabet. Right? Those are like hieroglyphics. Those are pictograms that mean something And the problem with a pictogram, and we asked what's a modern language that uses pictograms? I didn't hear what you said. Thank you, Andrew. There's a Doctor Who episode about that, just so you know. Uh for those of you that watch Doctor Who. Um not recommending it, just saying if you watch it. Um Come on, what's modern language that uses pictograms? Chinese. They two versions. Two versions. They have a version that's pictogram-based. They also have an alphabet. Um Yeah, Chinese, right? It it's a thing. And uh if I remember correctly, uh high school student has an average of four to five thousand symbols that they have memorized over the time The problem with that is, and and by the way, who just did this? Um Thank you. Tina just gave us a really cool track. It was on Chinese pictograms. And what she was explaining is there's so much more in in a symbol than in an alphabet, right? It conveys a whole idea. An alphabet, you know, hey, what what do they convey? Well I don't know, maybe first. But you know, I don't know. Like it's kind of Wimp compared to some of the symbols that are available in the Chinese language. And she was going through some inherently Christian concepts In the Chinese don't look at me. I'm quoting her, so you can't you can't infuse me. Wait, wait, Minji's like, oh, I don't think so. That's that's Minji's like you fall on your head. I know you. Um It it was fantastic. I loved it. It's this full idea. My point to that is It's difficult to convey the totality of an essence to a symbol, because it's complicated You have to be mature enough to appreciate it. You have to have some sense of other concepts that you can build it on. Right? So it requires a lot. When do we start teaching children an alphabet? Come on, we're not mumbling. I know you're all more vocal than that. Three. Yeah. Very reasonable. I've heard of people being able to do their whole alphabet at two and be able to read at three. But I've heard that that's the case. It's simple. And then to construct small words which convey concepts from that alphabet is easily conveyable. And even if I can't understand the full concept, I can read a word. I could write the word suspopedalian. On the board. And you all look at me just like that you did. But you could read the word. Sematological. How many of you had run into that word before you saw it in the notes last week? Gabe Smirkin. Maybe he passed for Gabe Bad. I can't tell. But right? But you can read the word. And it was a mental hanger, if you will. It was a an anchor on which you could put additional thoughts fairly quickly as they were conveyed to you. Right? So this idea that God worked in the Hebrew which I can't prove, so don't ask me that But I am impressed with this idea of language, how the Lord has used language. That's really my point to this. The idea that the Lord used an alphabet or conveyed an alphabet to his people so that he could begin systematically codifying his essence or at least aspects of his essence in the written word to make it conveyable is amazing. It's just amazing to me. And you know what you know what modern scholars love to do? Oh the Hebrews were literally Really? Really? Interesting. How do they get that? Bias and arrogance, by the way. Everything modern is literate and intelligent, and everything ancient is backwards and illiterate It's called the arrogance of modernity. So the alphabet part, I really wanted you get that. I want to move on now to other things, with one exception, on page Three of my notes from last week, archaeological evidence. I I I have a confession to make. I love the study. It is absorbing a tremendous amount of my time to create the material for it. It's probably too dense what I'm trying to accomplish in any week, and I recognize that all of that means that you will get only a very little out of this class. And I've thought about that a lot. That bothers me a lot. Um But it's not my point here in this class. My point is to expose you to a body of knowledge to give you enough landmarks, enough uh cairns, any of you hikers out there, right? Enough cairns along the trail to not get lost And to excite you about the fact that you can and you must endeavor upon this study on your own. That to be a Christian is synonymous with seeking God. Look at the title of today's lesson. For the subtitle for today's lesson. Seeking or seeing God everywhere at all times. That's what he can do. And your abdication of a Christian mindset in in the biblical sense of the word to pursue him With your mind and your heart and your soul, your abdication of that costs you everything And your loved ones, and those around you that you're hoping to bring to Christ. It costs you everything. And so these notes and even these references I'm about to give you are really just meant to equip you in that. I can't, I wish I could. I would if I could, by the way force you to endeavor upon the study. The study of who God is. Pick the areas of your life that matter most right now and study those out. Don't do them all. Be useful. And so these are a couple really accessible ones. They're entertaining, they're applicable, they're family-oriented. You can engage Young people with them? There many of them are for young people, but I relisten to them now that my kids are grown. Patterns of evidence is an easy one. Some of you have seen the movies about Exodus and Genesis. They've actually got a great video. Um talking about the uh paleolinguistics, the idea that the Hebrew alphabet may have been the earliest alphabet. Um And even there, right, there's just some really good evidences of that. Did you know some of the earliest Hebrew manuscript I'm sorry, I can't bear it. Did you know some of the earliest Hebrew manuscripts actually show evidence of Hebrew cursive? Do you know why that's Important? Do you teach a three-year-old cursive? No. No. You teach them the alphabet first and when they mature, they begin to write a cursive. The presence of a cursive or an ornamented version of a language is a sign of its maturity. So why do we find some of our earliest Hebrew manuscripts using a form, a rudimentary form, a childish form, you might say. but a rudimentary form of a Hebrew cursive. Patterns of Evidence has got a great video on that. Walks you through it. I think it's very balanced. I I really enjoyed it. Again, I I couldn't prove it. I'm not telling you you can prove it. I think the idea is really interesting, how the the Lord worked in that. And it wouldn't surprise me at all based on God's nature. It's just his character and his nature to have said, look what I'm going to do. I'm not only going to show you something, I'm going to give you a way to codify it, communicate it, and possess it wholly. Because we cannot get in an essence of a thing until we concretize it in those terms using words that then become propositions which transform lives. You see how that all goes together, by the way. And not in religion. I mean it does in religion too, but that's not where I'm getting it from. I'm getting it from logic. From the study of logic Hey Scott, this is a crazy question and if you don't want to answer it, that's fine. Then there's uh it's potentially some of what you're seeing Very very possible. Okay. Very possible. Okay. I would argue that whatever he wrote on the tablet though was conveyable. It wasn't funny symbols from Places we don't understand or things we can't comprehend, right? That God said, I will communicate myself to you. That was his point on Mount Sinai, right? Hadn't thought of that, wouldn't argue it, wouldn't surprise me based on the nature of God Um patterns of evidence is a great one. They've got a bunch of material there. I've most recently watched uh Tim Mahoney's testimony on there really worth watching. I mean if you're going to listen to a guy give evidence about things that we really care about and want to know are true, I'd kind of like to know what kind of man he is. And uh watching his testimony was just was just really tremendous. So please look as patterns of evidence when you can. They have a thinker update, some sort of a blog you can get emails for. I I'm not a blog guy, so I know that the emails come out but I don't ever read 'em. Um really good stuff. He actually keeps pace with a lot of current archaeological discoveries and their implications for the veracity of scripture. So if you just want a steady flow of that, sign up for I think he calls them thinker updates or thinker alerts or thinker men updates or something like that. But anyway, take a look. Um Biblical archaeology, I I actually don't know what the doctrinal statement of that guy is, but the site is wonderful. I use it all the time. Um there's bib biblical archaeology and biblical archaeology or bible archaeology um report. Both are very good. Um drive-thru history. That's what I wanted to touch on. They're a little expensive now when we got them. They weren't Uh you can still get several of the DVDs fairly cheaply off of Amazon, but he has a a number of what he calls courses on their website and you license them effectively. We license them effectively and I'm welcome. Angela is the frugal one. I'm not. And I still thought they were a little expensive. But um They're amazing. They're really good. And it's all about the historical and archaeological evidence for the veracity of the scriptures. And uh they're funny, they're entertaining, they're well done, they're significant, um, and at least uh licensed material. Um comes with like uh printouts and handbooks and things like that that you can use with younger people as well. I love them. So I'm telling you to use them for young people. I think you should use them for young people But if you uh uh Drew and I just did that. Angela's out of the house, uh when uh the when the woman's out of the house, I view that as a dangerous house because there's less accountability there to be rational, reasonable, respectable Everything else that you should be? And uh so I'm particularly careful about what comes across a computer or a TV screen. And so Drew and I dug out the Drag Through History things, because I was studying for this lesson anyway, and we just watched a few of them. And it was it was fun. It was really great. Um and then I actually licensed a couple that I didn't have. That's how I know what their prices are now, and I was really enjoying them. So I can't can't recommend that enough. Uh take take a look at that. And if you don't want to spend the money and you'd like a little bit of fellowship, I own them all. And any of them I don't own, I'll buy if you tell me you want to watch them and I'll watch them with them. So um I don't know where we'll do it, but uh I've got uh I don't know what size screen this is. We just bought ninety-five inch screens for work. I own uh I own the business, I can do whatever I want there. So I'll stick you on a conference room and watch them, or you can come over to the house if it's a small group, uh, or you know, we'll do it here or whatever, but come watch them with me. It would be great to watch them and have the discussion Bring your kids. It'd be a great time. Same with Jonathan Park. That's an audio series. I can't remember when we started that, but we couldn't wait for the next episode. I mean like none of us. When's the next one? When's the next one? We would make time to listen to those. And uh it's the same kind of thing. It's uh a a fictional uh scenario with a scientist and his family that are involved in basically uh you know once against God, all naturalistic, all science, all mechanistic. And eventually the Lord got a hold of his heart and uh they opened a museum and tied in archaeology and fossil record and flood record and all this other stuff. But over the course of the various series, they cover a tremendous amount. of biblical history and biblical archaeology. And I mean we would have been listening to these within the last decade. I'll be fifty-two this year. So I'm in my forties listening to these kids things and I'm learning stuff Like I'm really learning stuff. Um so super good. Um and then the only caveat I have for that is Uh it was originally kind of uh like a garage type affair, like a bunch of guys in the garage making recordings on the cheat. Uh they got some money from Antis and Genesis to keep that going. Um At some point in time, I'm not exactly sure why, but oh it wasn't answers in Genesis. It was that other ministry that fell apart It was that other ministry that fell apart. Um they were part of another ministry that was funding them. Um the leader of that uh decided he was gonna not behave himself. And And so his ministry was rightly done away with. And this was a casualty. It got bought by another group, which originally we were supporting And then I had to withdraw support. It wasn't that they did anything wrong. I just felt that they lost the mark. The original one was ministry focused, glorified God. The new one was like, this is really cool and people love it and we can make money And uh so I I will, if you get that sense when you're on the website, I warned you, but the material is the same. I have bought some of their new discs. to replace old DVDs that you know got scratched up because we used them so much in the car. Um it's the same material unedited So I cannot recommend some of that enough. They used to, I don't know if they still do it, but they used to actually come with fairly significant PDF books that would help you do additional research that was like the background research. for what they talked about in the episodes. So again, very engageable, very entertaining, very significant ways for you to engage in this topic of historical and archaeological veracity of the scriptures. Oh fantastic. Okay. I think I'm done with last week's notes. Are there any questions anybody would like to ask about last week's notes? Okay. Two things that are important to say next. One, this is Grutum's systematic theology book. I own two hard copies of it, plus previous editions. I own soft copies of it on DVDs, Kindle, a couple different places. And I'm actually the guy that used to give this to my kids in youth group when they graduated from high school There is nothing about this book that I do not love. It is a codification of the Christian doctrines that I think is ninety-eight, ninety-nine, consistent with our church's doctrines? Ninety-five? Okay. Well if you don't want three percent heresy I'm believing. Oh fair enough. Fair enough. Um fair enough. Um At some point when we're if we if I get to Galileo today, uh at some point around Galileo I'm going to stop and make a couple of remarks. And those remarks may nettle a few of you or confuse you or just full out, make you angry. I want you to give me a second to get through my whole point before you run off half cocked. And I want you to if I don't If I'm not able to answer a reasonable question in a reasonable amount of time, to your satisfaction, I need you to come ask me about it, okay? So that's a caveat. I don't intend to say anything heretical. But just as an illustration of that, I have a lot of uh really good dialogue with the men in the SLP class. And um Although it has never come up in the context of our church, so I'm not even it don't even hint at that, right? It has never come up in the context of our church But I joke with a a number of the guys in the SLP class about, oh, do you have that book? It's kind of heretical. Like, you know, it's the dirty book list, you know. And and all we mean by that is you're not supposed to be reading books that have ideas, contrary to Fill-in-the-blank standard, right? And I'm going to take a poke at that when I get to Galileo. That kind of thinking costs us more than it gains us. And uh again I need you to just hold off. Hold off, right? I'm still the I'm still me. I can put horns on for Easter. Um so just Just give me a minute to explain that when we get there, but I just wanted to let you know it's coming so that you feel prepared for it when it gets here. The second thing I need to tell you is I'm about to approach this topic of science, and I'm gonna dive in as deeply as I need to, and I'll do as much homework as I can, um, and I'll rely on other people in the room. Uh But there's something important for you to understand. I am not an expert. And it's important because we have abdicated the field of science to experts, people with particular training and somehow they have minds that are shaped in a certain way and eyes that see things that the rest of us don't see. I am not that guy. I don't know what you think of me, but let me tell you what I am. I'm extremely average. I'm mostly lazy. That means I'm disciplined in a lot of ways. My schmal group will tell you I have to confess my sins every single week during small groups. I'm like, I'm teaching you this thing, but I struggled with it this week. I'm a horrible sinner. Thursday I was we had a a rough week. Uh Andrew and I did. My younger son and I did uh in about some issues. Thursday, I was trying to get to some resolution there with him, and I have to just confess to him, Drew. I know I know that these truths are undeniable and infinitely valuable, and I can't not lay all my passion on the line when it comes to conveying these truths from you or to you and demanding your conformance to them. I just can't. They're that good. And then in the very next breath I had to say to him, and I was struggling with this in my own life on the way home. My heart and my emotions are screaming in one direction while my mind is going, this is the truth. I study because I don't know anything. I take lots of notes because I can't remember anything There's nothing about me that's an expert or particularly insightful. There's nothing about me that equips me uniquely to be able to evaluate scientific claims and scientific philosophies over centuries. Or at least nothing more that equips me to do that than you. That's really the point I want to get to. If you stand there and you look at me as somebody that has some particular equipment in this area, you have missed the point, you have stolen from me the very value of the presentation I'm asking Every one of you is capable of doing what I do. Every one of you is capable of opening your mind to the truths that God has written about himself. in everything for all time. And from that getting freedom Freedom from deceit, freedom from hurt, freedom from confusion, freedom from fear, freedom to peace Durable comfort in the midst of the problem of pain, which eventually we'll get to a lesson that's called the problem of pain. I just can't can't can't get there yet. Every one of you has to pick this up. Every one of you can pick this up. It is given you in Christ. To pursue knowledge and to continually add that to your faith, that you would not be useless. What am I paraphrasing? Oh come on, it's important. What am I paraphrasing? Uh that's one. I was literally paraphrasing a first chapter of a book of the Bible. I think it's actually 2 Peter chapter 1, but um calls you to do that. Alright, that's my transition to the next one. Strangely though, I gotta talk to you about um where we are in our book. Uh Carrie asked me to teach out of a book. I'm feeling slightly guilty that I really haven't used the book that much. I am tracking through it And I just want to make clear that we have covered chapters 1 through 3 in the book, as well as chapters 9 and 10 last week. That was the whole thing that we just did with historicity, veracity of scripture from history and archaeology. That's chapters nine and ten. There's a chapter eleven, which I think has some interesting points, one in particular that I want to draw your attention to. And all of chapter eleven is really these ten reasons. Why the scriptures do not read like a legend or myth the way everybody says they do. So meaning they a lot of uh modern critics basically say that uh we don't need to talk about the historicity or the archaeological veracity. the evidence for the veracity of scripture because it's really just a myth and who talks about the veracity of a myth or a legend? Well there's these ten reasons that that just doesn't fly. There is nothing about the scriptures that make it look like legend or myth Now what they don't do, Geisler and Turek, the authors of the book, they don't tell you what problem specifically they're trying to address, and it's the claim that a bunch of men who had their own agendas, interests, and biases wrote the scriptures For their own reasons, for their own purposes. And there are variations on that question that skeptics or claim that state uh skeptics make But ultimately it always distills down to the idea that this is only the writing resulting from human agency. With all of its rightfully imposed negative implications, right? If it only came from a man, how much should I care about it? I gave you the illustration at the beginning. If I wrote something right here in front of you, you watched me do it, it still would not have the authority of Scriptures or the testimony for the authority of Scriptures, because who am I And so uh Geisler and Turk give these ten reasons why human agency alone does not describe the story we see in the Bible. The New Testament writers included these ten things. Embarrassing details about themselves. What person writing a myth or a legend would tell you they were a stinking traitor? of their master's greatest need, denied them three times because a handmaiden in a garden around a fire questioned them on the topic Who writes that? And how about all the other ones that make them look so bad? When's the last time a blogger wrote a confession like that? They include embarrassing details and antagonistic claims about the difficult sayings of Jesus They didn't just make him sound like the greatest thing ever, right? They they showed what people that supported him said, and they showed what people that hated him said, and they wrote it all down. And in a lot of cases they spend more time on a lot of the antagonistic parts of it than they do on whatever the non-ag ne ag uh whatever the non-antagonistic parts would be called. They write down demanding sayings of Jesus. When's the last time uh Brothers Grimm story said you should eat children? Right? You get the reference, right? Yeah. Okay, Angel and Reddle, just to be clear. Who when's the last time a story about myth actually imposed a demand on your life? And yet the scriptures do it over and over again with the most extreme consequences if you decide otherwise. And calls to verify the promises that are given for good There's a careful they include a careful distinction between Jesus' words from their own words. Meaning they don't Throw in a soundbite of something Jesus said and then run off with it as though, yeah, and we think that he's right because of these things and therefore you should do that stuff. They just say what we said was this But what God says is this. Favorite example of that, I'm not exactly sure I like the example, but a favorite example of that is Paul when he's talking about divorce. There are other examples in the scripture which maybe are not so concrete, but I actually think support the case a little bit better, but it doesn't matter. Whenever an author separates himself or writer separates themselves from the quotation of the person, there's a an inherent uh truthfulness, evidentiary nature to it, in a way that a myth or a legend or a story doesn't accomplish. It includes events related to the resurrection that they would not have invented because it didn't further their own expected biases. Why did women first discover it? Why did a Pharisee be the one to come and claim the body? He had to go stand in front of the very people that crucified Christ. To say, can I have the body? Right? It didn't suit their model. Again, they they cast shade on themselves in many of the evidences they gave surrounding this most important event in the testimony of their story or in the in the plot line of their story, if you just call it a myth or a legend. Doesn't fit. Right, the whole claim is people wrote things to accommodate their own biases, and then here you get them like working counter to their own cultural biases. More than 40 30 historically confirmed people are included in the New Testament. That's significant because they wrote early. Right? There was writings between 60 and 100 ADs. So they wrote these things down, they named public figures, they named living, verifiable figures. If I don't like what you wrote and I think it's untrue, what's going to happen? Particularly if I'm a Roman governor, right? Or the son of a Jewish king. Or fill in the blank. Those don't fit with the storyline, right? Meaning the idea that it is a story. These are verifiable figures. The testimony was written during their lifetime. In many cases, it was not a positive testimony. There would have been rebuttal. There is none. There are divergent details. Matthew, Mark, and Luke called the synoptics. Right? We were just doing a transfiguration in Luke. And we talked about some very significant differences between it. One of them is that Matthew and Mark both say, in about 8D And then they go up on the mountain. Luke says six. Done. He doesn't say about. He says six. Why were those recorded? Don't panic. There's a perfectly good explanation. Ask me about it later if you're worried for some reason. Which you shouldn't be, but ask me later. Why include divergent details? Challenges, they include challenges of the readers to check out verifiable facts, even facts about miracles. Go get testimony. Go ask. Again, it happened during their lifetimes. It was written during their lifetimes. There were too many things that were able to be verified factually. And we don't see people writing, you know, oh uh rebuttals. Um It includes descriptions of miracles with simple, unembellished accounts. They're not like fairy tales where the miracle is the thing. It's the turning point of the plot line. As a matter of fact, this one impressed me. You'll see in the marginal note, this is so true, this idea that they recorded these amazing, and by the way, numerous Miracles in such unembellished form, so simply, so undressed, if you will. This is so true that I have underappreciated the preponderance of miracles related to demons. And the lavishness with which Christ and his disciples evidenced the kingdom of God, the unembellished, supernatural, meaning miracles, has allowed And I might have to explain the sentence, so bear with me. The unembellished supernatural has allowed the zeitgeist of pure naturalism in my own life. Meaning the authors of the scripture did so little to draw attention to the miraculous nature of the miracles of Christ and his disciples. And I am so immersed in the pervasive thinking of pure naturalism. Zeitgeist means the the literally the time ghost, right? Or spirit of the time. We live so entrenched in a in a period of time because of the science revolution that I'm trying to get to, which apparently I'm not having any luck at We are so immersed in that that it's difficult for us to even see what a world would look like that's not entirely naturalistic or mechanistic in its thinking. And because I am so surrounded by that, and because the authors of the scriptures so simply adorned the miracles, for years I have underappreciated dramatically, and I think to my hurt, or I would argue to my hurt, the number of miracles performed the latest of Eves I don't have too much time to develop that, but I'm going to ask you a question. And I just want you to think about it. Is there a time when either directly or indirectly you are not being influenced by some This is a heavy phrase, by some demonic influence. Many of you, I know where you went, you're like, yeah, absolutely, we're Christians. Ephesians 6, about the armor of God, and then come back to me. Talk to me again. I did not ask you if you were unarmored in your battle against demonic influences. I did not ask you if you are not empowered to entirely overcome them at all points and in every instance in your life. I did not ask you that. I simply asked you: is there a time When you are not being influenced by demonic influences And when the scriptures are as clear as they are about that answer, by the way, see Ephesians 6 and all the miracles of Christ-related demons. And the sending of the disciples, even in the Great Commission, why are we not more on guard? Why are we not studying these things that we have been talking about over the weeks and we'll continue this talk so that we are better defended And what you're going to do, many of you, I'm sorry, I'm just going to say this and hopefully it won't be too offensive to you, many of you are going to punt Because I just made an argument that requires you to bring together the natural and the supernatural world. You've already advocated the natural world. Science won. We lost. We're not going to have that argument, Scott Clearly there's something mystical that happens and it's all supernatural and we just win. Boom. I can't see it, I can't codify it, I can't rationally think about it. There's no system of study that I can engage in or endeavor there, but you know God. God, God answered it. Well yeah, he did, clearly. But you just quit. You didn't engage in an argument, and you certainly didn't win anything. And I don't mean win anything for me or against an opponent. He didn't win anything for you. You know intellectually that you are standing on nothing when you drive your flag into that world. Who do you just got And yet God gives so much rational, logical argumentation in the scriptures for why that's true and how He has utterly defended you against that through the work of Christ. Because Christ died, because Christ is risen, because the Spirit is sent. There is no influence that you're a subject to in Christ. When I say subject, you say, didn't you just hammer yourself? No. I asked you if there's ever a time when you are not influenced by demonic influence. Influence and demand, or subject to, are two different statements. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as a common demand. And God is faithful. There it is. God, yes, he's the answer. But how and why? And in what way? And how does that play out in my life? And how do I deal with this particular work problem? How do I deal with this child problem? How do I deal with this ethical problem? How do I deal with this marriage problem? How do I deal with this school problem how we deal with this church problem. How do I deal with this social construct? God is faithful. He will not suffer you to be tempted above the ye are able, but will with the temptation, meaning it's there. The influence is there. But we'll with the temptation also make a way to escape. Again, Ephesians 6 is so powerful. Ephesians 6 falls flat until you understand what it means to be armored in Christ. The demonic influence doesn't put you at risk. Not in the way that I mean, at least here. I'm running out of time. I've got to be short. Understanding the pervasive influence, demonic influence that's in this world as a result of these unembellished miracles that are recorded in the scriptures Helps you find gold in Ephesians 6. You really do have something Not some stupid metaphor. My kids dress up in plastic armor when we talk about the warrior of Christ. It was just plastic armor for heaven's sake. You have something real. Something that defends you against all that you experience in life. The soul of our current age, the zeitgeist. So much treasure. Oh he gets so excited about it, I'm sorry. I mean I'm not sorry, but you get the point And then the tenth thing, testimony that they abandoned their long-held sacred beliefs and practices, that they adopted new ones. And then they did not deny their testimony under persecution of threat or of death, as opposed to Galileo, whom we will look at shortly. I know that that section felt like a distraction from my lesson. I did lesson two. I should have moved into science. And I was gonna skip it. I really was. I was working on these notes yesterday at at the the where I work it's a breakfast party. Anybody that's been to my house and knows where I sit. I was working on it and this was not in my notes. This was not in my homework. This was not in my notes. I was feeling guilty because I wasn't using the book. I picked it up and I was like okay the book You know, who cares about the book? And I got to this and I was like, You didn't even tell anybody what you're arguing about here. Like you gave an answer and you didn't tell them what the question was. I was so annoyed. And I got to these last two. And I realized these last two were so influential So much a part of the core of what we're studying when we talk about reclaiming science You need to see the world as it is. And the world as it is puts you in a in a situation because of the fall where you are under constant demonic influence and Christ is the answer. But that answer is like God. Unless you understand what it is he's the answer to, you gotta go all the way down. to the bottom to be able to see the brightness of the light at the top. Don't take that too far. I don't mean you have to enjoy every sin. Enjoy every sin to be able to see the light of Christ. That's not what I say. But man, you don't see the goals until you understand your need of it. You're like a child playing with fake things. And you don't want the evil one offset. Give them a bauble Watch them play with it. Yeah, you know bauble is, right? Something cute and shiny that a kid plays with that distracts him. Give them a bauble Just don't let them think. Don't let them think. If they start thinking and observing, they'll see God because He's everywhere. And once they see him, they're going to start investigating. And once they investigate, they're going to start wanting. And once they w actually want something good and real Satan's got nothing left. All he's got is counterfeits. There's nothing real, nothing valuable in Satan. Only in God. Once you really turn your heart to have an appetite for the precious God is the only answer. And then the problem of pain that we're going to discuss, right, is not answerable any other way than through supernatural mechanisms. Those supernatural mechanisms completely text themselves into the natural realm in so many ways. So I don't mean that it's only spiritual and out there. It's here too. But the source of all of the problem answers to the problem of pain is Supernatural. And I can't get you to a place where you at least begin to question your own brainwashing about pure naturalism and pure mechanistic approach to God, then we failed. You have no apology. You can't be an apologist. To be an apologist is to appreciate the enormous beauty of God, who is supernatural in all of his nature, all of his essence. If I cannot get you broken out of the stolifying naturalism that you live in, I'm in trouble. You're in trouble, maybe more to the point. And then the other one is your call is persecution. And you cannot give up when you're called to the midst of the persecute that persecution. Galileo, who is considered the singular turning point on which Science, the human mind, finally won victory over the dark ages of religion. I'm not making that up. Like just Google that. Google scientific revolutions Yes, sorry. Mustn't sure said that right. You'll spend the next 50 years reading the articles that come up, and every last one of them puts the hinge Galileo. They talk about Copernicus, the Copernican Revolution, but the hinge is Galileo. And when Galileo had truth revealed to him In a very small way, by the way. It's a bit overdone on the internet. But when Galileo had truth revealed to him, and he was persecuted by the church, by the way Made to live in a comfortable house for the rest of his life under house arrest. He was really persecuted. Even that persecution, he recanted I love about the testimony of Peter as I discovered it in Luke this year. I just thought it was wonderful. Peter, you will deny me, but I have prayed for you. And when you have turned, he immediately sends him out into usefulness for the glory of God. the Lord. And I just loved that. Wasn't this long journey back? You are gonna deny me. You were gonna you were gonna act like Satan You are going to tell lies and spread demonic influence through your character and through your testimony and through your words. But I have prayed for you. And when you turn, immediately go and be useful for the glory of the Lord. That's the testimony that we see in Scripture. And then never turn back. Suffer whatever persecution the Lord sees fit to draw you into. And don't anticipate it. Don't anticipate it and fear it. Value only each day's step in Christ. Value it. And you will find that when the persecution comes, I don't think it's going to measure up. to the value of each day's step in Christ. These men discovered something that was valuable. These men discovered something that was true. These men codified it or testified to it in a book that's called The Scriptures. or the Bible. Galileo stands as the linchpin of all modern science and rationalistic thinking, mechanistic, naturalistic, skeptic, agnostic. Or downright atheistic. He stands at the center of it. And he was a weak, prattling man that lacks conviction. in his own thesis and is somehow heralded as his hero of modernity. Do you lack conviction? Are things so naturalistic to you that the idea of defending The truth, which is an idea, ultimately, I don't mean to diminish it by that, but truth is an ideal. In the best sense of that word, it's an ideal. Do you lack a value of the ideal that is truth so much that in your everyday life, in a thousand little ways, you abdicate that truth? He's not really good enough. He's not really here. He's not really winning the victory for me. He's not really going to see me through Each day's steps that he calls me to, and this one in particular is intolerable. This particular step I can't bear. I can't do it. I I won't do it. Do you have a Christian mind? As you think about your life? Or is it purely naturalistic, mechanistic? Do you understand the naturalistic? And this is not close, but Do you understand that in a naturalistic mechanistic world, there's just youth. There's just you and what you can get for yourself. It's all natural. It's all ideal. Whatever I can do or get or the guy next to me can do, I'm completely limited by the scope of my own abilities or the abilities of the people around me. That's a naturalistic view. Naturalistic mechanism. And it would keep going like this for forever. You want to know why the suicide rate globally is on a on a a climb, a chart climb like this? And why we don't ever talk about it by the way, you ever notice that? It never makes the news for some reason. You wanna know? Well, listen to what we just talked about. I would give up too Quick place to end today is our God to not die on the cutting floor of textual criticism or redaction. He did not die when Galileo abdicated the truth. He did not die when the church made the wrong decision about how to deal with Galileo's ideas. He is risen, and he is supreme, and he is in heaven, unconcerned about the turmoil on this earth, in the sense that it does not in any way perturb his sovereignty. And on the flip side of the coin, he is all through history, right? All of history is a testimony of him communicating himself to us. Us. I want you to be with me, to know me. I created you for that, you screwed it up, and I'm gonna fix it. We serve a risen, real, supernatural God who superintends all parts of the natural world that we live in and will one day open those doors wide. And show us the beautiful reunification of supernatural and natural. Us and Him. And I hope that that encourages your hearts. I just hope it feeds your mind. you know, rest and satisfaction. That it goes all the way down. There is no dirty corner of Christianity that you are not free to look into and find his light, his truth speaking back to you And any suggestion that there is is just a lie. He is sufficient for all Duke prank for instructors, Pessary? Sure.