Well there's a lot that we could say about the cell the culture's celebration of Christmas. But there is no doubt that this season of the year every year is a prime opportunity to speak openly about Christ. At no other time is the secular culture willing to listen to and even sing songs about Jesus. At no other time can you find images portraying an event of the life of Christ in cards, in posters, in magazines, uh in all kinds of decorations At no other time will you see an event of the life of Christ so pervasively represented in TV shows and in movies. At no other time will you find people decorating their lawn and their homes with various aspects of the birth of Christ. Whatever concerns we might have, legitimately so, about the history, about the myths, about the commercialism, and whatever else makes Christmas uh celebrations in the secular culture anything but Christian? The reality is there is never a greater opportunity to speak openly about Christ There's never such open opportunities to ask questions and start conversations to see what people think about Jesus. And as we have opportunity, that's exactly what we should do. Because as much as the things pertaining to the birth of Christ are pervasive in our culture at this time of the year The reality is most people are utterly ignorant about who Jesus is. Because we live in a post Christian culture. And what that means is most people in our society have not grown up in homes where they were raised with stories, with books, with uh parents who took them to church to learn about Christ. Most people did not grow up going to church where they went through Sunday school learning about the stories of Christ or where they heard sermons from the gospels teaching them about Christ. And yet despite the massive ignorance that exists in our culture, most people are still willing to say things like Jesus was a good man. Jesus was a good teacher. Jesus was a good moral example. Actually, is that despite their ignorance? No, actually, it is because of their ignorance that he said, of what he said and did, that they say such things. Because the reality is if they knew what he said and what he did, they wouldn't say those things about him. Such benign and ordinary views that he's just a good man, a good teacher. Those views are not possible to maintain when you read his own words and when you read of his works. Nor, of course, do views like that explain why 2,000 years later we celebrate his birth. In fact, even to call Jesus a prophet as some cults and religions do does not do justice to the record. There really is only one possible view of Jesus That takes into account what he said and what he did. And so our passage today challenges any view of Jesus that says that he is anything less than God in the flesh. And it challenges those who hear his words and see his words, even if it's written on a page. It challenges them to believe in him And ultimately, it challenges those of us who do believe in him to live under the reality of who he is. Now, if you haven't already, turn in your Bible to John chapter 10 for our study here of verses 22 to 42. Many of you remember that we studied verses 22 to 30 last week. Focusing on really on the meaning of Jesus' words today. We'll kind of go back through that in the larger context to see what how what he said led to the response of the Jews And then of course work through the rest of the passage and complete the chapter this morning. We'll follow more of a narrative outline and kind of step through this passage step by step, unpacking the confrontation. The claim, the charge, the challenge, and the circumvention. It was really hard to find a last C word Well, let's begin with a confrontation. Look at verses twenty-two to twenty-four. The Apostle John writes, At that time the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. The Feast of Dedication, as we saw last week, also known more commonly in our day as Hanukkah, also has another ancient name, which is the Feast of Light. Which is why the symbol for Hanukkah is a menorah. There's no certainty actually as to why it's called the Feast of Lights, but Josephus, that first century historian, guesses that it's from the fact that the right to worship, he says, appeared to us at a time when we hardly dared for it And the word appeared in the Greek, which of course he wrote, uh, is the word for illumination or shine. And so he kind of made a correlation between their experience. uh of the restoration of the temple, as we talked about last week, and the name Feast of Lights. This eight day festival begins on the twenty fifth month of Kislev on the Jewish lunar calendar, which this year falls on December 15th, which means it's cold. It's winter as we're experiencing today. And whereas much of the year people who are on the Temple Mount tend to be spread around. uh utilizing the full grounds of the Temple Mount for worship and the teaching of the rabbis for their disciples. Now most people here in the winter are huddled over by the uh the colonnade of Solomon, that eastern side of the temple, which provides a protection from the wind that flows down the valley between the temple and the Mount of Olives. And so Jesus likewise is walking through this area, and whatever his intentions were in doing so, he is uh surrounded by a mob. for a confrontation. And they asked him, as we saw there in verse 24, how long will you keep us in suspense if you are the Christ? Tell us plainly. Whatever they had understood from all of the teaching of Jesus about himself, they hadn't heard those words, I am the Christ. And one of the reasons we know that this is a mob, and that their inquiry is not serious, is that they have seen enough from Jesus to know that He has divine power. And they have heard enough from Jesus to know that at least he claims to have divine approval. And more than approval, even a commission from his father, as he said earlier in chapter 10. They knew that he identified with the Old Testament descriptions of God himself as well as with some of the descriptions in the Old Testament of the promised Messiah. In other words, he said everything and he did everything short of using the words, I am the Christ. And not only did they not believe, but they persecuted him. At times they tried to kill him. This isn't the first time that we'll see today. Other times they tried to arrest him, but each time they failed Because each time they failed, this time they came pre uh prepared. So they surrounded him and tried to get him to say what they wanted to hear so that they could bring charges against him. That's the confrontation. Now look at the claim that Jesus makes in verses 25 to 30. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you did not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. But you do not believe because you are not among my sheep My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand. I and the Father are one It's in response to these words that verse 33 tells us that the Jews accuse him of making himself God. And it would be easy to look at verse 30 where Jesus says, I and the Father are one, and see that particular statement as the reason that they claim that He is making Himself God. But what I want us to see is that it's not just what he says in verse 30, but all of what he says that makes himself God. Again, last week we walked through these verses from the perspective of how they encourage and comfort believers, giving us confidence because of the divine hand behind the accomplishing and the keeping and the securing of our salvation. And so if you weren't here last week, I'd encourage you to go back and listen to that where we really deal with the substance of what Jesus says. But today I want to just walk through this section briefly from the perspective of how the things that Jesus says can only be said if in fact he is God. So if you look at verse 26, remember that at the end of verse 26 he says that you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. Friends, if Jesus is not God, this statement actually makes no sense. Because it is the language that reflects how God speaks of his people in the Old Testament. And there are many places we could turn to see how God speaks of his people in this way, but Perhaps one of the clearest is the book of Hosea. You don't have to turn there, but in Hosea he is the prophet well known for being uh Uh commanded by God to go take a wife who is a prostitute who will ultimately be unfaithful to him after marriage And the Lord did this as an illustration of unfaithful Israel, that despite God's steadfast love, despite God's faithfulness and his care for them, his people kept being unfaithful to him and going after false gods. Not only did Hosea's wife represent unfaithful Israel, but Hosea would represent God's faithfulness by continuing to go back. and take his wife back to himself despite her unfaithfulness, so he would demonstrate God's commitment to his covenant promises. Well, after Hosea married Gomer is her name, Gomer gave birth to two children, and the Lord told them to name the first child the girl, Loruhama, which means no mercy. Then second, they were to name their son Lo Ami, which means not my people. They were to name their children that to represent that God would no longer have mercy on those who rebelled against him, and in fact he was denouncing them as not his people. Their actions, their con uh ongoing rebellion demonstrated that they were not his people. And so through Hosea, as he writes his letters, as he conducted his prophetic ministry, the Lord indicts the people with their idolatry, with their rebellion, and promises judgment. And yet at the same time, the Lord promises to restore his people to himself. And he says in Hosea 2, verse 23, I will sow her for myself in the land. In other words, I will bring the people back. And I will have mercy on no mercy. And I will say to not my people, You are my people. And he shall say, You are my God So through the prophet Hosea, the Lord speaks to the people of Israel, saying, if you are rebelling against me, you are not my people. But there will come a day. When I will take you back and call you my people. Now more directly, using the language of shepherding, we've seen in our study of earlier in uh John chapter ten, the correlation with Ezekiel chapter thirty-four, where the Lord repeatedly uses the language of my sheep, referring to his people After bringing charges against the shepherds of Israel, those leaders who were unfaithful and failed to care for the sheep, the Lord says, I myself will search for my sheep. I will seek out my sheep. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. And so when Jesus says, here in verse 26 and 27, You are not my sheep, and then later referring to those who are his sheep, he is speaking the way that God speaks of his people in Hosea, Ezekiel, and many other places. No one else does or can speak that way. Notice how again in verse 27 he continues with that shepherding language, my sheep hear my voice. and I know them and they follow me. We've seen again in our studies how this reflects the the the hearing and following, reflects the imit the intimate relationship between a shepherd and his sheep. But there's also a theme throughout the Old Testament about his people hearing his voice. It begins in Deuteronomy chapter 4, where Moses is calling the people to remain faithful to the Lord, and he says to them in verse 33, Did any people ever hear the voice of a God speaking out of the midst of a fire as you have done, and still live? Verse 36 of Deuteronomy 4, out of heaven he let you hear his voice. That he might discipline you, and on earth he let you see his great fire, and you have heard his words out of the midst of the fire. One of the core declarations of the people of Israel comes from Deuteronomy 6:4, which says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord is one, the Lord our God. And then he says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. And then by another example, Psalm 95 uses this language of ownership and hearing and following or charge to follow in verses 7 and 8 saying, For he is our God. And we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. And he says, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. So when Jesus says here, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, he speaks the same way that God speaks of his people. No one else can or does speak that way. Next, in verse 28, Jesus speaks of him giving eternal life to his sheep. Now the Old Testament doesn't really use the language of eternal life, but it does speak about life being far more than physical life. For example, in Psalm 119, that like the exaltation of the Word of God, there's 12 times where the author cries out to God with respect to life. Just to give you a couple examples, verse 25, he says, My soul clings to the dust. Give me life according to your word. In verse 50, he says, This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promises, give me life. Verse 154, plead my cause and redeem me. Give me life according to your promises. The psalmist there recognizes that God is the author and the giver of life through his word And then there's Isaiah 55, 3, which we've heard many times, where the Lord says, Incline your ear to me and come to me and hear that your soul may live. And I will make with you an everlasting covenant. It's about as close as you can get to eternal life in the Old Testament. So when Jesus comes and he says, I give my sheep eternal life, he offers what only God can give. No one else does or can speak that way. And then at the end of verse 28, he says, No one will snatch them out of my hand. And then verse 29, he has the Father's hand, so that by two infinitely powerful hands his sheep are protected Well, King David praised God in Psalm 18 after the death of Saul, saying, I love you, O Lord, my strength. O Lord is my rock and my fortress, my deliverer. My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. David would easily be able to say, God has held me in his hand. But more explicitly, the Lord says in Isaiah 41:10, Fear not, for I am with you Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you, I will help you. Listen, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand The strength of men is found in their armies. The strength of God is found in his hand. So when Jesus says that no one will snatch his sheep out of his hand, he speaks of a power that only belongs to God. Again, no one can or does speak that way. And then we come to that simple yet profound statement in verse 30: I and the Father are one. It's critical here to know that the noun, the adjective one, is neuter grammatically. We don't have gender in our um English language, but in many other languages there are. If if the word one was in the masculine form The meaning would have to be something like I and the Father are the same person. Masculine, masculine, masculine. We are one and the same And that's modalism, which is a heresy. It teaches that the three persons of the Trinity, or rather the three members of the Trinity, are one person, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, that they're all just Three manifestations of one person who is God. That's heresy. And it has been understood as heresy throughout the ages of the church. But because the word one is neuter, he can't mean that. He means they are one thing. And what is that one thing? Well, it must be that they are one essence. There are two divine persons having one divine essence. And of course, we would add to the third member of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit also shares in that divine essence, but Jesus is not here teaching the doctrine of the Trinity, he's just speaking of himself and his father. The divine essence is that which makes God God The Father, the Son, and the Spirit are three distinct persons, but they each share in that divine nature. They all have that one divine nature which is holy and infinite and eternal. All that defines God is true of each member of the Trinity And so if Jesus meant anything less than that he and the Father share in that same divine essence, he would have had to say whatever he meant some other way. And how do we know that? Because he would know that saying it this way, combined with everything else he has said, speaking as only God can speak. would open himself up to being understood as be as declaring to be God. And that's exactly what happens. Because that's exactly what he means. This is the claim that he, the Son of God, and God the Father are one. That's his claim. Well consider the charge then in verse starting in verse 31, the charge. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Earlier I called this a mob that surrounded him, and part of the reason for that is that in addition to their obvious antagonism, uh what John says here Now it's interesting that in saying the Jews picked up stones, John doesn't use the normal word that means to pick up. In fact, back in chapter 8, verse 59, after Jesus said, before Abraham was, I am, you know, aligning himself with uh with Yahweh, making himself Yahweh, it says So they picked up stones to throw at him. And there John uses the word, the very basic word that means to pick up. Here, he uses a word that everywhere else in the New Testament and virtually everywhere else in known Greek documents means to carry or to bear. There are rare occasions outside of the Bible where it means to pick up, but it almost always means to carry. And so, with that in mind, I believe it's likely, though not certain, that these Jews were carrying stones in their hand when they asked him: Tell us plainly, are you the Christ? Now, whatever the case, their hearts were so stirred by the claim of what Jesus had been saying that they were prepared to deliver the death penalty without even saying a word. This would have violated Roman law, which gave Rome the exclusive right of capital punishment, but at this point these Jews did not care. Now, because they had surrounded him, you can imagine that either as Jesus was speaking or when he finished that the crowd parted to some degree so that they could throw their stones without hitting each other on the other side So Jesus is seeing the rocks in their hands. He's seeing a parting take place. And so before a stone could be thrown, he responds by asking them to declare their reason for stunning him. Look at verse 32. Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? Now it's somewhat odd that he asks this question. Why would he think that they were going to stone him for a good work that he had done? I mean, wouldn't it be obvious that they're going to stone him for something he had just said rather than something he had done sometime in the past? Well, yes, it is obvious. But as we always say, Jesus isn't asking this question to get information from them. He's asking this question to force them to reveal what he already knows is in their heart. The death penalty is a God-ordained consequence of a number of violations of God's law child sacrifice, sexual immorality, murder, and so on. Most of the time in the old uh covenant in the Mosaic Law, when the death penalty is prescribed, it doesn't tell you how you're supposed to go about carrying out that penalty, but sometimes it does. Leviticus twenty four sixteen says this Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him. The sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the name, he shall be put to death. That's the same penalty given for child sacrifice and other certain other crimes. Now, of course, the death penalty in general, or stoning in particular, was not prescribed for doing good works So why is this something that Jesus would suggest? Well, apart from possibly just trying to throw them off of their plan. It might be that he's connecting Deuteronomy thirteen with their actions. Deuteronomy thirteen does prescribe a the death penalty, stoning specifically for a prophet who does signs and wonders but does it for the purpose of leading people away from the Lord to worship other gods. But even then it's not the sign or the wonder that's the problem. It's the rebellion. Deuteronomy thirteen five says, But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put together. to death because he has taught rebellion against the Lord his God, or your God, to make you leave the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk, you shall purge the evil from your midst. Moses goes on to say there that if if you're if a prophet or your brother or your son or your grandson or your wife or your very best friend which in the text is more significant than your wife entices you to go after other gods, you need to stone them along with the rest of the people. Well, this is the opposite of what Jesus has done. He's done signs and wonders, but he has in no way sought to lead people away. from the Lord. In fact, he has done the works of the Father, as he has said, and he has taught the law of God, and he has pointed people back to the right worship of the Father. Jesus hasn't violated God's law, he hasn't violated God's word. So as a way of getting them to set forth their charge, he really suggests a ridiculous charge for them to deny and then reveal their heart. Look at their response in verse thirty three. The Jews answered him It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you, but for blasphemy Because you, being a man, make yourself God. There it is They have heard everything Jesus said, and while they may not have understood the full meaning of it, they understood enough To know that no one could say what Jesus said unless they were God. The phrase there, make yourself God, is exactly right. They understood that Jesus is not just claiming to be God. He's not going around saying, I am God, I am God. Rather, he spoke and acted as God does. If effectually they're saying you're calling people your sheep? You're saying that you give life You're saying that you can you have the power to protect people with your hand? God does those things. So when you you're so you're making yourself God when you act and talk like that. And if that wasn't enough, you are saying that you and the Father are one. Again, all faithful Jews clung very tightly to that Declaration from Deuteronomy 6 4 Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And they didn't know how else to take that except that there was only one person who is God. Now it's true that the Old Testament teaching on the Trinity is at best veiled, but it's also true that there's enough Teaching about the promised Christ, the promised Messiah, that he could not be a mere man. He would be divine. But they, in their hardness of heart, did not understand that. So in making himself God, they could only conceive of him violating their view of God, leading them to the charge of blasphemy. On that basis, they were prepared to stone him. Now perhaps you've uh r read or heard someone say that Jesus never claimed to be God. In addition to everything else we've seen that proves that false, the reality is the Jews here charged Jesus with making himself God. And guess what? He did not deny it. In fact, when the Jews say you're making yourself God, if indeed that was a gross misrepresentation of what Jesus intended to say, he could easily have said, Whoa, there's a Greek word for that. Whoa, guys I I know I don't know how you got that impression, and I can understand why you would be upset if I was saying that, but that is not at all what I'm trying to say here. He could have denied, he could have clarified, he could have corrected, restated what he actually meant, but he doesn't do that at all That's their charge. Now look at the challenge in verses 34 to thirty-eight. Jesus answered, Is it not written in your law, I said you are gods? If he if he called them gods to whom the word of God came, and scripture cannot be broken, Do you say of him whom the Father has consecrated and sent into the world, you are blaspheming because I said I am the Son of God? If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me. But if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me And I am in the Father. Instead of denying and correcting their charge that he is making himself God, he gives them two reasons to believe it. One negative and one positive. The negative reason challenges their charge of blasphemy, and the positive reason challenges them with evidence. Consider the negative challenge first. He begins there in verse 34 by quoting Scripture. Is it not written in your law? And he's He refers to your law simply to make it clear to them that, hey, you've already said this is your source of authority, the scripture. Let me appeal to that. And specifically, he quotes from Psalm 82. Now, there's a lot of debate in Psalm 82 over whom is the Lord speaking about? The Psalm 82 begins saying, God has taken his place in the divine council. In the midst of the gods, he holds judgment. And so the questions are, is is this speaking of some spiritual beings at a l higher level than angels, or does this refer to angels, some council of angels? Or does this refer to human rulers? Well, as with any interpretation, the first thing you do is you look at the context. And the content of the Psalm reveals that these are human leaders among mankind. And apart from calling them gods, the Lord judges them for their failure as leaders of people. The Lord says to them, How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Give justice to the weak and the fatherless, maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy, deliver them from the hand of the wicked. God is speaking to them as leaders of people and accusing them of failure and charging them with how they ought to lead. And then in verses 6 and 7 of Psalm 82, the Lord says, I said, you are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you. Nevertheless, like men you shall die and fall like any prince In other words, by calling them gods, the Lord mocks these rulers because they act like gods, in the sense that they act like they can do anything with impunity. But judgment is coming, says the Lord. So the content of the psalm indicates that those whom God calls gods are actually human leaders. In addition to that content of the psalm, we have we can have complete confidence that that's exactly what is taking place because Jesus interprets the recipients of that psalm as those to whom the word of God came, as he said there in verse thirty five. To whom the word of God came And so following the basic interpretive principle that Scripture interprets Scripture, Jesus tells us that those Gods are people because it was people who were the recipients of the Word of God. Now, notice how Jesus also says in verse 35. If he called them gods to whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken. Jesus is affirming the Scripture as their source of authority, and he affirms that Scripture as God's word is unbreakable and irrefutable and unchangeable and unmalleable. It stands true forever. And God called these men on earth gods, little G gods. Even though God did it in a mocking way, Jesus is using an argument from the lesser to the greater when he says in verse 36, Do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you are blaspheming because I said I am the Son of God. In other words, if God can call wicked rulers on the earth gods, and God cannot be guilty of blasphemy, Then how can you say that it's blasphemy to call the one that God the Father Himself consecrated and set apart and sent into the world to redeem his people, the Son of God? The word consecrate there or uh in some translations is sanctify, depending on your translation. Uh you may be familiar with the Greek word hagyadozo, which is a verb form of what uh what is holy. And so this is to make holy. And it's simply the idea of to set apart, to make distinct, to prepare for a special purpose. And Jesus is saying that he was set apart, he was consecrated He was prepared by God the Father, and he was sent into the world by God, which means that he existed before he was born And since the scripture does not teach in the pre-existence of the soul, this too points to his deity. He is claiming that he existed before he was born, and he existed in a relationship with God the Father, that God the Father would consecrate him and send him. And so he couldn't have been set apart and sent into the world if he was a mere man. Well, the question by a skeptic would naturally be, well, how do you know that Jesus was consecrated and sent into the world? How can Jesus just say that? Well, he doesn't just say that. He gives the second challenge, the positive challenge. So the negative challenge shows that he isn't the first one to call, uh rather to apply divine title to a person. God's the first one to do that. Secondly, the positive challenge points to the evidence to support his words that make him God. Look again in verses 37 and 38. Jesus says, if I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me. But if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works. That you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father. Jesus declares here the honest truth that if they only had his words He should not be believed. It would be irresponsible and irrational, even idolatrous, to believe someone who claims to be God just because they claim to be God. And of course, we all know of tragic stories of lives and families that have been destroyed by cult leaders and religious leaders who had nothing to show for their claims except for their own words and perhaps their wardrobe that made them appear something different. The devil has used such people to destroy many in this world. Words without works are empty and should not be believed But at the same time, we can't just say that somebody needs to have works. And if somebody has some sign or wonder that they perform, well then believe whatever they say. No, in fact, Revelation 1920 tells us that the false prophet who will be working together with the Antichrist, he will perform signs and wonders to deceive people. And that won't be the first time. Back in the Old Testament, the priests of Egypt performed signs that mirrored and imitated some of the signs of Moses. And that was part of what hardened Pharaoh's heart. The reality is, empowered by the devil and his demons, people can wield spiritual, supernatural power. But that doesn't mean that we should follow them Jesus here specifically says, if I am not doing the works of my father, the works of my father. The devil and his forces can do some of the things that God can do, but not all of them. And so whether it's by limitation of their own nature, which we don't have revelation on Or it's by reason of God's restraining them, there are things that demonic powers cannot do. They can't, for example, call somebody out of the presence of God and resurrect that person. Or they can't call somebody out of hell and resurrect that person because they do not have the power of life. As well, it would seem from our gospel that they do not have the power to give sight to the blind or restore deformed limbs or create food from nothing. And whatever abilities they do have, we would be right to conclude that God would not enable demons to empower Jesus, who claimed to be the Son of God, if in fact he wasn't the Son of God. All that to say, if Jesus wasn't doing the works of God, he should be ignored, if not put on trial for blasphemy. But then he says in verse 38, but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works Say what you want about the words of Christ. His works demand that his words be believed You may not like his words. You may not understand his words. You may not want to submit yourself to his words. You may fear what other people will think of you if you believe his words But the evidence of his works demands that you deal with his words. In other words, that you settle your doubts. that you clear of confusion, and that you embrace the only one who has the power to give eternal life. Yeah, it's a funny thing in our world marketers have figured out how to get people to buy their products. All you have to do is convince people that your product will make their life better. And by sheer force of repetition, they get people to believe their message, despite the mountain of evidence that getting more stuff doesn't actually make us uh make our lives better. And you know this because advertisers don't show you video, uh live video of people's homes and people's lives that, hey, this person has their product and look at how good their life is. No, what do they do? They hire actors and they build sets and they write fun jingles of what your life could be. And we know it's fake. And they know that we know it's fake. And yet it still works. They convince us to buy everything. Well, Jesus not only offers new life He offers living water, he offers the bread of life, he offers forgiveness of sin and everlasting glory. But he proved that he has the power to give such things by doing works possible only. By someone who has the power of God. There's more to consider in these words of Jesus here. The works of Jesus not only prove that he has the power to grant eternal life to all who believe, they also prove that he is the judge of those who do not believe And not believing his works only adds to their judgment. Speaking to cities who experience more of God's or rather more of Christ's works than than many others, Jesus says in Matthew 11. Woe to you, Corzin Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago and sack cloth and ashes But I tell you it will be more bearable on the day of tire, uh on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you And you, Capernaum, which was Jesus' home base during his ministry, will you be exalted to heaven? No, you will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I tell you it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you What's his point? His point is that not only do the works of Jesus prove that he is the Son of God, but his works also stand in condemnation over those who refuse to believe his works. The works of Jesus prove that he is the Christ. The works of Jesus prove that he is the Son of God and that He is the giver of life. The works of Jesus prove that he is the Savior of the world and the judge of all mankind. And so if you reject his works, You place yourself under condemnation. Jesus said in John 3. 18, Whoever believes in the Son is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Notice that Jesus says here in verse 38 Believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father That phrase know and understand is actually the same Greek word twice in different tenses, first in the eros tense, which in this context conveys to come to know The second in the present tense, which in this context conveys continuing to know. So the Legacy Standard Bible translates this so that you may know and keep knowing. This is an ongoing relational knowledge. And what is it that we are to know and keep knowing? That the Father is in me, Jesus says, and I am in the Father. Now this is an unusual way of speaking, and really having another context would help us understand what he means, and that's exactly what we have in chapter 14. Jesus is in the upper room with his disciples, preparing them for his departure. And Philip says to Jesus, Lord, show us the Father, and that is enough for us. And he thinks he's being brilliant. And Jesus says, have I been with you so long, Philip? And you still don't know me? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father How can you say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I cannot speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Now, in that context, Jesus makes clear that the relationship between the Father and the Son is so interwoven that though they remain distinct persons, they are united as one. The power of the Father is carried out by the Son, and the Son imbibes the will and the character of the Father They are not one and the same, but they are so completely united that if you've seen one or known one, you have seen or known the other. Or, in the words of Colossians 1:15, Jesus is the image of the invisible God. According to Hebrews 1:3, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Or in the beginning of this gospel, chapter 1, verse 14, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory is of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So the meaning of this is that when you listen to the words of Jesus and you see the works of Jesus, If you know God as He has revealed Himself throughout the Old Testament, you will come to see that Jesus is the Son of God who exists in perfect unity with the Father. Until friend, if you have not believed in Jesus, this challenge applies to you The call to believe is not a call to take a leap of blind faith. No, the call to believe is a call to believe the truth of what Jesus said because of the wealth of evidence that supports it. And if we add to the miraculous displays of power that he displayed during his life in ministry, the fact that he gave up his life. On the cross, and that he was raised from the dead, and he ascended into heaven, and he sent the Holy Spirit to transform the lives of those who are eyewitnesses, we have all the more evidence to believe in what Jesus said And you might say, well, that was two thousand years ago. I haven't seen any of that Well, the reality is we have been seeing the work of Christ in transforming millions, if not billions, of people for the last two thousand years. The fact that we are here today is a manifestation of the work of Christ in redeeming and saving people who otherwise would have nothing to do with Him. And so believe his words because of his works. And know that if you do not, if you reject, his works will come back to condemn you. Well, church, this is also a challenge for us that we can use with people that we have conversations with. We can ask somebody, especially this season, do you know why we celebrate his birth? Do you know what Jesus did when he grew up? Do you know what Jesus says which would make him insane if anybody else said it? And do you know what he did that showed that he's not insane by saying those things? We can challenge people with the reality of that capstone work of the resurrection that shows that all of his works Together demand that we acknowledge Him as Lord and Saviour. Paul put it this way in Acts 17, verse thirty The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now He commands all people everywhere to repent. Because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and this he has uh of this he has given assurance by raising him from the dead The works of Christ in his life, the work of Christ in his resurrection, prove and demand and extend a command to all people to believe in him. Well, the Jews didn't accept this challenge to believe, but he apparently convinced them not to stone him. Look at the circumvention in verses 39 to 42. Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands. He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained, and many came to him. And they said John did no other sign, did no sign, but everything that Jesus said about this man was true. And many believed in him there You would think that having surrounded Jesus there on the temple, uh the and even if there was some open side by which they were going to stone him in one particular direction, it would be easy for them to grab him. So how did Jesus escape? I have no idea. The security cameras on the Temple Mount, don't go back that far. This is not the first time Jesus has escaped their grasp. There's been many times before where they've tried to either kill him or arrest him, and their efforts were thwarted. And so whether it was miraculously or by some other means, Jesus eluded their attempt to arrest him And notice that verse forty says that he went away again to uh the uh the place across the Jordan by saying Again there, John may simply be saying that this is where Jesus went after the Feast of Booths, where he spent about two months between the Feast of Booths and um Hanukkah or the Feast of Dedication. Or John could be pointing us to the fact that Jesus went back to that place where his ministry began nearly three years ago, kind of giving us a a bookmark end or a um A book ending for his ministry, starting ending in the same place. Or both of those things could be true. And we'll talk more about where Jesus went when we get into chapter 11 because the timing of things is relevant for trying to figure out where he went. John doesn't tell us what Jesus was doing there across the Jordan, only that people came to him, but we can Surmise that the reason people came to him is because he was continuing to teach and continuing to heal And as we've studied John the Baptist early in this gospel, we know that by now he's been killed. He's been beheaded well over a year prior to this. But the memory of his ministry is still fresh. And so people remembered that John was a preaching prophet. He was not a a miracle worker. He was like Elijah in his boldness, in the clarity of his proclamation, in his preaching, to repentance But he was not like Elijah in his uh working of signs and wonders. And actually the scripture records hardly anything of what John proclaimed, other than that, in general, it was a a message of repentance And as it relates to Jesus, John proclaimed that Jesus was the Lamb of God who takes the sin of the world. He proclaimed that Jesus was the one who would um baptize with fire and with the Holy Spirit. And for that reason there must have been more that John proclaimed about Jesus than what is recorded, such that the people would say, everything that John said about this man is true. Because by that point Jesus had not yet died on the cross, saving the world from sin, nor had he baptized anyone with the Holy Spirit. So John must have said much more than what is recorded in Scripture. And so the people saw in the words of Jesus and in the works of Jesus the fulfillment of John the Baptist's prophetic ministry which then led them to believe in Jesus. And there's a contrast Between the Jews in Jerusalem, especially the leaders, the Pharisees and Sadducees who refused to believe, and those who were his sheep who came to him And believed. Well, dear friends, there are many people today who have heard of Jesus. And most of them know next to nothing about him, except that he was born in a manger. They don't know what happened from that time until he died on a cross. And so let us pray for opportunities. Let us look for opportunities. Let us find ways to create opportunities. to talk to people about Jesus who is the Christ, the Son of God. Let's pray. We thank you, Lord, for this word from Jesus, which so clearly and emphatically declares who he is. We thank you, Jesus, for speaking the truth. With clarity. If we would but listen, if we would tune our ears and consider the actual words that you say If we would look to what you did, the impact that they had on lives and have had over the last two thousand years. We would be only rational and right to believe. And not just to believe, but to bow down and worship And in worshiping, to submit our lives and live for your glory. Because you are in fact the one who came to deliver us from our sin. Because you are God, help us to be bold in proclaiming your glory to those around us. We pray these things for His sake. Amen.