Envy the rich. Do you ever do that in your heart? Do you ever envy the rich and the powerful? Even the ungodly rich and the powerful. You've been looking over what Prince left behind and thinking, well who's going to get all of that? Well the thing that you should remember as a godly person is that Prince is not going to get all of that. Right? And that's the warning. You know, Psalm 73 and Psalm 37, they're actually wonderful Psalms, I remember them, because you flip 37, you got 73. And they both kind of talk about the same thing, and that is envying those who are ungodly. And envying the rich who are ungodly, because they have so much. In fact, in Psalm 73, the psalmist makes the point that his foot came very close to slipping He almost stumbled when he was thinking about everything that they have. Here I am, living godly, keeping the law of God, and look what they get. And they're not keeping the law of God and they have no fear of God in their eyes at all, and yet they're prospering. And so it says in Psalm 73 that he almost got to the point where he slipped in his faith. And then he came into the sanctuary of God. Now, what's the sanctuary of God? It's the place where God is worshipped. It's a place where God's power and greatness is perceived, right? It is the place where his glory is seen and his power is reflected upon, where the scriptures are read. And in that sanctuary, in that temple, he then perceived the holiness of God and then, seeing the holiness of God, looked back at those Rich and powerful and influential people on earth. And he said in in his mind, why was I ever envying them? Why was I ever jealous of them? Right He perceived their end. What is the end of the rich and the powerful? That's an important question, I think. It's a question that we all need to ask and we need to answer. And If we answer it correctly, we won't envy them. We won't be jealous of their position. We'll understand that what they have, they have for only a short time, and then it's going to all fade away. They're going to lose it all And we, those that look like we have so little, you know, so little status, so little clout, who are we, what can we do And we feel like at times we're always someone's always over us and they're not always good people and they have power and they have riches and they have influence and they make the decisions for us and then we have to suffer the consequences. Are you with me on that And you feel like we never have any power. Even when we pray, it's like God just wants us to suffer a little longer. God just wants us to have to endure the tribulations of the world a little longer. And so we gather in church And we come here in church and we you know we we we learn that uh the Christian faith is worth it, but we also learn that it's suffering. And we're gonna have to suffer a lot. And we're gonna have to uh endure the the wickedness of evil men. And we we revive ourselves in faith and we learn again the importance of prayer And we go to the Lord and we learn to persevere in our prayers and to give God our trials and take the cares that are on our shoulders and cast them on Him because we hear that He cares for us And so we learn all this, but we feel that we don't have a lot of influence. Would you agree? We don't have a lot of power. We kind of are subject to the winds. They blow this way or they blow that way, and we just kind of have to deal with things like that. Well, the believers in the first century that James was writing to, those believers felt the same way. You have to remember that when the gospel of Jesus Christ went out from Jerusalem and it began to spread, and the the letter of James we said we believe was written somewhere in the forties AD, maybe or even probably the first New Testament document to be written and to be disseminated. And those early believers, most of whom were Jewish. were not really all that influential. They were not rich. Many of them were servants. Many of them had been uh had been uh kind of left behind in terms of things of the world, they've had hard times. And a lot of that is the reasons why they turned to Christ. When you look back at the Roman world and you look back at the Greek world, they had their upper echelons, they had their rich, they had their powerful and influential, but they didn't have a big middle class They had a a big poor class, and that poor class listened to this message of a loving and dying savior on a cross who was there to give riches in a next life that they would endure in this life poverty But in the next life they would gain what they need. They listened to that message and they said, you know, there's a message in which is hope for me Because I have no hope of climbing the ladder here. I have no hope of gaining a better education, of of having friends in high places and achieving things. And so they they heard of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they heard of the resurrection and the life. And they said, now there's a message that I want to listen to. And as they listened to it, many of them became believers, and so the gospel spread among the poor. Well, James is writing this letter, and we are returning to James today. James wrote this letter Mostly for poor believers. And you will find themes throughout James that speak of the rich as the enemy. And we have to be careful in how we interpret that because it doesn't mean all the rich were enemy. Enemies. But I want to comment on that. I want you to open the James 5, and we're going to talk on what he says to us. Surprisingly, today He turns his gaze really off of believers and turns them to unbelievers, unbelievers that the believers were very uh well aware of. And he actually writes to, and I'm going to try to prove this to you, unbelievers in verses 1 through 6 of chapter 5 in James. Now, just as a little bit of background here before I read it, James has already mentioned the rich. If you'll turn back to chapter one, you'll notice that one of the first things he picked up on after he mentioned trials in verse 9, he said Let the brother, that's a Christian brother, that's a believer in Jesus, let the brother of humble circumstances, he is to glory in his high position. I don't know if you were around way back when we were in chapter one. That was a long time ago, wasn't it? But um that brother of humble circumstances means humble circumstances in this world. He doesn't have a lot. He doesn't have status, he doesn't have money, probably doesn't have a lot of properties and things like that So what is he to boast in? What is he to glory in? And the answer is well he can't glory or boast in anything that he has. He's to boast and glory in his high position His high position is his position in Christ. Well, what about the rich man who is a brother? And this is talking about some brothers who are rich. How are they supposed to view their life as a believer? Well, that comes in verse 10 of chapter 1. It says, the rich man is to glory in his humiliation, because like flowering grass he will pass away, for the sun rises with a scorching wind. and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed, then here it is. So too the rich man in the midst of his pursuits will what? Fade away. There it is, just fade away Sometimes it's from old age, sometimes it's a quick death, and you never know when death is going to grip you. So this is instruction reminding the rich believer, just much like we read in our scripture reading today in First Timothy chapter six, that if you're rich in this present world, you've been blessed to have money. Think of that. Think of what you own, your property, your possessions, all of those things. Think of those as a means to really be able to do a lot of Good works in this world. In other words, you have an opportunity to take what you own, and rather than hoarding it for yourselves, you have an opportunity to use that for other people. Now we in America are richer than a lot of other places in the world, so even though if we don't consider ourselves all that rich, our ears really ought to be wide open to this Because um we we are rich compared to most of the world. And so I think that God has something to say to us, you know, about how we use our riches. But since we're doing a little bit of a review, go back to chapter two now. We're a little bit forward to chapter two And just kind of uh bringing back in some of the lessons we've already learned about money and the rich from the book of James, even before we get to our text this morning. He writes in chapter two, verse one My brethren, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism. Now here's what do you mean by that favoritism? Well he brings it up for if a man comes into your assembly with a gold ring. Now you might not think that's not a big deal. All of us have gold rings. You know, there's my wedding band, you have a gold ring. But back then a gold ring was status. You know, people didn't have gold rings that much. So if he comes in with a gold ring, people would notice that. Today we might have to say, you know, several gold rings, diamond rings, you know earrings like this and necklace like that. Well this is a man so I don't know what he'd be wearing. Well these days you never know, I guess you don't know who's gonna be wearing what. But he's coming in and he's rich. It's obvious from the moment that he breaks through the double doors if they had them And he walks in like, whoa, there is a man of status. Look at the attire that he has, the costly garments, look at the jewelry that he has. And immediately the ushers, the deacons, whoever was involved, they started to treat this rich man what? Differently. Special. Priority seating. You know, dust off the front road. You sit here. And then the contrast is made with a poor man who strolls in the back. That's not even good to look at. Alright, alright, we receive anybody. Come sit down here in the aisle maybe. Somewhere over there maybe or back there might be good. You know, and that's fine. And James in that situation said, you know, the way you treat the rich man Who's a sample of the rich? The way you treat the poor man, that reflects on what? Your heart. What your priorities are. So we're coming in here and we we sing the songs I'd rather have Jesus than what Riches are gold, silver or gold. But is that really true? I hope it's true. I believe it's true for many of us. But then that test comes and people like are treating the rich specially. Why? Because they would like to buddy up, they'd like to court the rich, they'd like to date the rich, they'd like to have favor with the rich, right? Maybe they'll get a nice job, maybe they'll be invited over to their home, maybe the church will be helped out a little bit, you know, so they got put a little extra money in the Hey, pass that plate by that guy again, see if anything else comes Maybe he'll drop a little bit more in there or something like that. Talk to him on the way out, give him a nice exit. This reveals what's in our heart. And unfortunately, people don't change. So here we are, 21st century, and it's really the same thing We say we have the priorities of the heaven and the priorities of the gospel, but then the money emerges and money talks, and people are impressed with money and achievement, particularly here in America. Now I'm not saying money is a bad thing. Don't go down that road. I'm not saying money is a bad thing. Just as we read in 1 Timothy chapter 6, it's the love of money that's the root of all sorts of evil, right? Many people misquote that verse and they say money is the root of all sorts of evil. Wrong. That's communistic and uh socialistic. You know, money is the evil. No. Just like people say today, gun is guns are the evil. Guns are not the evil. Money is not the evil. The evil's where It's resident evil. Resident evil. We call it the evil nature, the sin nature that we inherited from Adam. That's where the evil is. Christ said that. He was very clear about that. You don't get uh polluted and contaminated and unclean from the things that are external to the body. You get contaminated and you are unclean because of what comes out of what? Your heart, right? The heart And the mouth speaks from what's inside the heart, and then that's what makes a man unclean. So we ourselves are sinful and it's not money that is sinful, it is the love of money. But I don't love money. It's not like loving The dollar bill, right? When we say the love of money, it's not about loving the gold coin. You understand? I mean maybe some people do. Maybe some people kiss it. Maybe some people treasure it, maybe some people rub it, but that's not really what it's talking about. The love of money is the love of all the things that our assets in this world bring us. Okay? It's all the ease of life. It's the nicer clothing. It's the nicer car. It's the nicer neighborhood you get to live in. It's the nicer schools you get to put your kids in. Do you understand? Loving the money is loving the lifestyle that comes from the money. Are you with me? Do you understand that? So when you understand that, then you ask yourself, do I love money? Because in 1 Timothy 6 it said, the love of money can lead you away from the Christian faith and into the destruction of your soul. See, Pastor, I thought that uh once someone was saved, they were always saved Don't we believe in eternal security? Like I asked Jesus Christ to be my Lord and Savior, and in asking him to be my Lord and Savior, I asked him into my heart, and I thought he saves me and I'm saved and I'm secure now. Well that's true, of course that's true, right? God grants eternal life to any who believe. No one will pluck them out of the Father's hand. Jesus taught that in John chapter ten. But here's the thing, not everyone who comes to church and not everyone who professes to be a believer is actually a believer and is actually saved. And one of the tests that we'll find out is whether or not people actually love money or not, and what they do with that One more statement of introduction here. Do you remember the parable of the soils that Jesus taught in Matthew chapter 13? Remember how he said the sower went out to sow the seeds? And then sowing the seeds, some of the seed fell where? On the bass soil, right? And it kind of laid there. It's kind of like when I've been trying to grow grass, you know, it falls on this hard area, the seed just lays there, it's not going anywhere And then the birds come along and what? They eat it up. But then some of the soil fell on the rocky ground and um it it uh sprung up quickly. It didn't have a lot of depth to it, and so when the sun came out, heat on it it it perished, it fell away. That's kind of like people who listen to the gospel and listen to the Bible and they go, wow, that's that's a powerful message. I think I believe that And they get all excited and start singing the songs and everything. But then the tough stuff of life comes out, sunshining, and they decide this is too hard and they walk away. They're not really, genuinely saved their faith did not endure through the trial But then the third soil comes out. I don't know if you remember that third soil. Sometimes that third soil gets forgotten in the parable because there were four soils. That third soil is very interesting. It says actually it fell there, but it fell among the thorns. And you know, the the vines and all of that. I don't know if you've been out in your yard recently, but they grow fast, don't they? And it's sh sh start going right on up your plant that you planted, and it's choking it out. It's exactly what Christ said It it it started to grow and it looked like it was gonna bear some fruit and everything looks like it's going well, but then the vines just start choking it out and you never find a fruit on that that plant. What did that represent in the parable of the soils? Well if Christ told us. He said there were people that out of their concerns for all of the things in the world Their distraction by all of the money and what they needed to do in the world, and their love of money, and their wanting possessions, all of that choked out their spiritual life. Well, living in a prosperous society like the United States of America in the twenty first century, it's important that we as believers really listen to that and understand that riches and the concern with things and properties and possessions and making sure things are safe for the future and I have to have this insurance and that. All of that can really choke out our fruitfulness Indeed, if we completely give over to that, it shows it chokes out the entire life of the plant. And so the person proves again not to be saved at all or to have eternal life. Rather, it was the fourth soil. That was the one that produced fruit. Some a little bit of fruit, some medium fruit, and some grapefruit. But all kinds of fruit. You guys didn't catch that. But it it shows that all believers are fruitful because in their heart, their heart is good, and they face the same tests that others do, but they continue to walk with Christ and continue to walk with So that's a lot of background there for uh our study on this topic of money. Now turn to chapter five and we'll read this denunciation of the rich Come now, you rich. It's pretty clear he's talking to there. Weep and howl for your miseries which are coming upon you Your riches have rotted and your garments have become moth-eaten. Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a witness against you, and will consume Your flesh like fire. It is in the last days that you have stored up your treasure Behold, the pay of the laborers who mowed your fields and which has been withheld by you cries out against you, and the outcry of those who did the harvesting has reached the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. You have lived luxuriously on the earth, and led a life of wanton pleasure, and have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and put to death the righteous man. He does not resist you Now I've said that this was a passage of Scripture that was written to the unbeliever. Why is that? Because the tone of this passage is different from any of the other paragraphs in James. You'll notice in the other paragraphs in James you'll see certain clues. He'll say something that he's very sharply rebuking them on, something like, My brother, these, my brothers, this should not be this way. Do not do this, my brothers. And so brethren is scattered throughout there. Or when he's dealing with the rich, he mentions that they have faith Or he rebukes them and calls them to repentance. He's striving with them and showing them how they ought to live. In this passage, there's none of that. In this passage, there only is judgment facing these people. This is a scathing denunciation of this group of people, and there's no indication here at all that they're bearing any fruit for God, or that they're living righteously in any capacity at all, or that they even appear at this point in time to have any hope at all before God This is a severe passage of Scripture. I think maybe the most severe in the letter. And I do believe, and many many of the commentators believe that it is written to unbelievers The uh rich businessmen, for example, in the previous passage in verses thirteen through seventeen of chapter of chapter four, those rich businessmen are still called uh how they are to live. They're told instead you ought to say if the Lord wills we'll live and also do this or do that. And they're corrected and they're urged on to proper Christian living, but not here Not really in chapter five in verses one through six. It's a different kind of rich. These are not rich believing businessmen who deserve the rebuke of the previous passage. These are ungodly, unrighteous Rich, who are really landowners, and use their power and influence as landowners to oppress the poor workers who were serving them. And we'll see this in the passage. Really the passage is broken into two parts. There's the warning that is given in verse 1, the warning to the rich, and then there's a case that's made against the rich. You'll see kind of four reasons why uh the the rich, the ungodly, the unrighteous rich are are in trouble with God. And that comes in verses two through six. So you get the warning in verse one, and then you get kind of the case against These ungodly rich in verses 2 through 6. Just look at the warning first with me. It's rather strong. Come now, you rich. What does he tell them to do? Weep and howl for your miseries which are coming upon you. You know, um James probably had in mind the fact that the the rich had caused Many miseries to come upon the poor, and he's speaking here of divine justice, which is always appropriate. On the head of the evildoer will come his own evil is the idea God's justice is always that way. He meets out what is right upon the wicked. You did this, and so you get this. Remember in the law of God, justice? And I for what? And I. A tooth for what? Tooth. It's equal. This is how God's justice is. You created miseries for the poor. Weep and howl for the miseries that are going to come on you. It's really very strong. Miseries is in the plural, by the way. You see it's not just one. Back in chapter one, the God leaves said you have many trials, plural, that you're going to run into. It could be poverty, could be persecution Could be sicknesses, all kinds of things. But now the ungodly rich, they have miseries coming upon them in the future. In fact it says, which are coming upon you. It's quite It's quite impending upon them. It's already in the process. It's like a cloud that's coming over them right now is the picture And I believe what James is doing here in this passage is he's using the prophetic past tense, where he's looking at the future of their judgment that's going to actually happen in the future, but he speaks of it as present and as past. Because it is coming and it is done in the mind of God. And so he warns them, Come now, you rich. What are they supposed to do? Well it's not Repentance here. It's weeping and howling. If you read, if you look up those words in the Old Testament, you'll see there's a lot of weeping and howling that goes on with the the ungodly, the unrighteous who are facing the judgment of God. Isaiah talks about that, and Ezekiel talks about that. And Jeremiah and Joel weep and howl. Weeping, of course, is tears that are coming. They're going to be so sad. Howling, that's actually a word that sounds like what it is in Greek. And it it it it just means they're going to be just Crying out, they're in such distress. It's mindful of the uh the account, I don't call it a parable, the account of the rich man and Lazarus in Luke 16, where The rich man who would not even care for the poor man at his gates. Remember that? This is not the Lazarus who is raised from the dead, but another Lazarus. Dogs were licking his sores. He died. The rich man died. They go off to the next life. What happens? Very instructive account by the Lord Jesus Christ. Everybody wants to know what happens when you die. Well, this tells you. Here's scripture telling you. The poor man who is assumed to be there a believer who trusted in the God of Abraham, he goes into Abraham's bosom and he's comforted. And the rich man though is in the portion of Hades in the afterlife where he's in torture and he says, I'm hot and I'm thirsty, and there's this heat and He cries out across some kind of a chasm, Father Abraham, please send Lazarus to cool my tongue. And Abraham Abraham says, No, no, my child. In your life, you received what? Good things. And in his life, he didn't receive anything good, hardly at all. And so now you are receiving your just punishment, basically, is what he's saying. And the scary thing about that is he extends that account, and the rich man still having some measure of concern for other people says Please let me go back and warn. Let there be a warning sent back to my brethren who are still living in the world that they would not live as I live. And even that is died. You know, Ebenezer Scrooge got visited, you know, the spirit of that guy that was his partner, you know, in in messing the poor up But um according to the the gospel of Luke that's not even not even going to be allowed. No no one's gonna come back from the dead to warn the rich. You shouldn't have lived that way. You should have been caring for the poor Now that you didn't do it, look what you're gonna get. In other words, they the rich can live every day of their life right up to the day they die and not even be aware that they're about To slip into eternity and suffer and be in misery after misery after misery. They may feel great right before their dying breath, but that's not how they're going to feel in eternity. Isn't that scary for them? So weep and howl for these miseries that are coming upon you. Now he builds the case against the rich, part two, starting in verse two through six. six. The first case against them is that they have been hoarders. You know this show hoarders, you know? You look at it, you shake your head. How could anybody hoard all that stuff? Well, there are a lot of hoarders. Some people hoard Junk, other people hoard good stuff, but it's still hoarding. And this is what they're doing here. Your riches have rotted and your garments have become motty. Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a witness against you. Notice the language of being in the courts, the witness against you, and will consume your flesh like fire. And then he adds this ominous statement. It is in the last days that you have stored up your treasure. Wow, what's he saying? Well in the ancient world They measured their wealth by grain that they were able to store away. Remember the other parable, the rich man that said, you know, uh I have so much grain, what am I gonna do with all my grain? I I know what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna tear down my smaller barns and I'm gonna build what? Bigger barns. I'm going to have all this grain that's going to last for years. And I'm going to say to myself, soul, you're satisfied, lean back, take your ease Jesus interrupts in that parable and says, You fool tonight, your soul will be required of you. You didn't know that. You didn't know tonight you were going to die. You didn't know that But that's exactly what's gonna happen. Now who's gonna own all the granary that you have? So they measured their wealth in in grains, but also interestingly in costly garments. And yes, also in gold and in silver like we do today, we have other ways of measuring our wealth. So he's talking to the ancients here and he says, you know Here's your your garments, your your costly garments, those garments that you wear and walk in and people are impressed with, and now they have become Martin. Some people think they interpret this like they had so many clothes they couldn't wear them all and they were sitting around and so they kinda ruined. I don't really think that The context, I think, again he's looking forward to the uh to the judgment of God and he's looking at it from there. What are you going to do with all your garments now? They're of no value to you whatsoever. Because when you go to gold and silver, you realize gold doesn't really rust. That's what it says it's it's rusted. He's looking at it from that prophetic perspective in the future and looking back and saying, What are you going to do with all that gold and that silver that you had? You know, sometimes in church we warn people that your gold and your silver cannot help you. Stocks and bonds, you want to throw that in there. Your gold and silver cannot help you when you stand before God. Is that true? But what we sometimes don't say, what James is saying here in this verse is not only will all of your gold and silver not help you, it'll be a witness against you. Be a witness against you. It's rust, the fact that you kind of hoarded it for yourself and it was used for yourself and is useless, and now there it was in your position. You can almost see on Judgment Day the throne of God You can almost see each person coming up to give their account, and they're thinking they're wonderful people and all this stuff, because everybody thinks they're wonderful people. They stand before God and they don't look so wonderful next to the Lord Jesus Christ and God, right? And they ask, what's all this silver, what's all this gold, what's all this property you had, what are all these homes that you had? What is this with all this stuff that you had? And they're like, well, I I I yeah I I had it. And and all that stuff that they had is now going to be like the evidence presented in court But you didn't give it to the poor. You didn't share with those in need. You didn't help out the missionary. You just added to your own estate over and over And that's going to be the testimony against them. You were a hoarder. So I'm looking up hoarding this past week, you know. What is it with these hoarders? Trying to figure it out. You know, the Mayo Clinic calls it a you know a mental illness, a disorder. I disagree. I think it's an approach towards life which doesn't understand why we're given possessions. You know the hoarder basically finds something, they like what it looks like, they it's useful, maybe it's a tool, maybe they're hoarding tools, maybe they're hoarding cats. I don't know. People hoard all kinds of things right and they hoard stuff and it starts to pile up around the house. Right? If you got a home and stuff is piling up, listen, you know? And then they they they have too much stuff so they want to be organized and they put it into a storage. Having a storage unit is okay, but what are you storing? How are you going to use it And it starts to get cluttered and starts to pile up around the house when they're hoarding things. All of that hoarding, all of that collecting, is for what Well, maybe one day I might be able to use it. That's the problem. Find someone who needs it now and give it to them. You see the difference? That's why he says, or writes here, it is in the last days that you have stored up your treasure. What does that mean? That means that's a big boo-boo. That's a big problem. You didn't realize that it's in your last days. Now people hear last days, they start thinking about last-oh yeah, my last days. That's retirement. That's retirement. That's why I stored up my wealth. Stored my wealth for retirement. So you live your whole life to store it all up and you go to retirement and just live at ease. Kind of the same wrong mentality, isn't it? No, no, last days doesn't mean my last days on earth, as in i. e. old age. Last days means the last days in which the Lord Jesus Christ With that sharp two-edged sword coming out of his mouth, as the vision in Revelation says, that Lord Jesus Christ, He's coming back. And He's coming back with judgment. And it's in these last days that you piled up that treasure. That was not smart. Because all you did is by collecting all of that stuff, you let that testify against you and against Any righteousness that you might have. It shows that you're an unbeliever. It shows that your heart was invested in the things of the world. Sermon on the Mount. And by the way, this sounds a lot like the Sermon on the Mount, doesn't it? Again, we see those parallels. In Matthew chapter six, Jesus preaching the Sermon on the Mount, then he says, store up your treasures where? In heaven, not on earth, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is what? There your heart will be also. See, how do we know where a person's heart is? Well we got a little bit of an indication. There was this thing that was passed down the aisle. Do you remember what it was? It was kind of circular, kind of gold looking, had a little red velvet at the bottom And as it gets passed, it goes back and forth between the aisles. And no, it doesn't really yell at you. It doesn't say, give to the Lord. But it just comes some people they have their regular giving. Once a month they give ten percent, they give eight percent, they give whatever they believe that they they they want to give to the Lord out of their heart, and they're saying thank you to God. Continue the work of the church and do that. But people that just, you know, once they just put a little bit in, just to show they're putting a little bit in. But there's no there's no real practice of giving. There's no real commitment to giving. It's one percent, it's two percent, it's nothing That reveals the heart, right? And it's a testimony against those that don't give because their heart is wrapped up where their treasure is. The mouth says one thing, but in the heart it's like, no, no, no, no. I want the nicer home. I want the nicer vacation. I want, I really want the nicer car. And it might be one thing for you, and one thing for you, and one thing for me, but there it is, and it has a grip on the life This passage is talking about unbelievers, but saying, you look at the way the rich live and the way they make decisions and how they mistreat the righteous. Why is it that way? Because of their love of money. And we could still glean some understanding from that in application for our own lives. It is in the last days that you have stored up your treasure. That was not smart at all It's all going to work as a witness against you. Even consume your own flesh like those riches have become a poison or a fire inside of them, and it's going to lead to their eternal destruction. Terrible, terrible thing. Now, I'm going to back out of this a little bit and make sure you don't misunderstand me. Is it wrong to buy gold as an investment? No. Is it wrong to buy silver as an investment? No. Is it wrong to own a home and take care of it, repair the Air conditioning when it breaks, plumbing, put some nice pictures up on the wall, new coat of paint. No, it's not raw. But we can get carried away with that, can we not? We can get like, well, I need to have it, I need to have it, I need to have it, and the extra money just keeps going for that, and just one year after another year, and what happens? What happens when the appeals for the poor or for the work of the gospel come? There's just not anything there. There's just not much there. Sorry, but I couldn't, but you know I had to fix this and I had to fix that and I had to buy that. But you didn't have to actually. You chose to. That's where Pastor Tony comes up here and he says, you know, we need money for medmission, and the money's in your pocket, and you all laugh at that. Because he's right. The money that they need for the Med mission that's already in your pocket. But the problem is it might not be in your pocket. You might have already spent it. And that's a problem. And it's something we need to evaluate in our own lives. Now, that's just by way of application for us. Don't be a hoarder. Don't be someone who has more and more in their home. You know, I was I was thinking that we really do a pretty good job here at Hope. I I was just thinking about this. With Hope Book we have the uh the sharing of belonging. Does anyone have need of this? And sh five people want it right away, right? Does anyone have need of this? And they're shared back and forth. And it's a wonderful thing. You were letting go of belongings, belongings that we don't need. That's a nice thing. You know what would be even better, can I just say this? You know what would be even better? Is if someone in our congregation would take up the leadership or at least the organization of how we can take our extra belongings. and pass them on to the poor. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Maybe someone maybe the Lord will put that on someone's heart and say, you know what, I think I can do that. I think maybe we could team up with some other churches or some other organization and we could do some collecting. We do a little bit of that at Christmas and all, but How many pairs of shoes do you have right now? Don't even count them. Next week we're going to come in and we're going to raise a card each over our heads. This is how many pairs of shoes I have. Some of you are going to be like, I got 37. I'm not going to church next week, man. I got a cold Alright, if it's not shoes and then you you're like, wow, I only have six pairs of shoes. That's not well some people don't have any pairs of shoes in the world. What are we doing? You know what I mean? How many suits and ties do I have? How many how many blue jeans? You know what I mean? So let's just give this some thought. Let's give this some prayer. Let's think about how can we mobilize as a congregation to make sure that we who are more affluent are getting things out in in some way that really works and and can help the poor. Let's just kind of focus The second witness against them is they withheld pay. Behold, the pay of the laborers who mowed your fields And which has been withheld by you cries out against you. And the outcry of those who did the harvesting has reached the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. Case number two or witness number two withholding pay from workers Now we're really sounding like the socialist here a little bit, right? This sounds like an anti-capitalist rant or something like that. It's not. The Bible's not against capitalism. It's actually against socialism, but it's against the abuse of capitalism, and it should be. The greed that's gone em up. So what's happened here? The landowners in those days, they buy up more and more properties, they put the little guy out of business, he has to sell the farm, he can't keep up with it And then he has no job, so he comes to work for the guy with the bigger farm. The guy says, Yeah, I'd give you a job. You can work with the other workers, and they start working. And they work and they work all day in the noonday sun and it's hot and it's backbreaking work their feet hurt, their hands have calluses on it, right? Then they come into the end of the day. You remember another parable of the Lord Jesus, and and the point of the parable wasn't exactly the pay at the end of the day, but it showed that the workers were paid at the end of the day and they expected to be paid at the end of the day. And so they come and they want to be paid, but here the rich guy says, you know, I don't have to pay today. You know, we'll we'll we'll get it to you. There's actually law in Deuteronomy and Leviticus that forbade the Israelites from withholding the wages for a worker Overnight. It had to be given to them on that day. Why? It's an agrarian society. They're poor. They go from hand to mouth, right? That's how it is. If you don't bring home some money, you don't have dinner. You come home, there's the wife and kids. You work twelve hours in the sun and you're what do you have? Well they didn't pay us today. So I guess we're not eating tonight. You have to look in the eyes of your wife and your kids and This is a this was a a terrible evil. Do you see that? It was very unjust. And that's what these rich guys could do because I'll pay you the next day. And if you were the kind of worker that complained about that, you'd just be blacklisted for the next day, right? No job for you tomorrow. That guy's a troublemaker. And then if you expected your compadres to help out, they'd say, don't talk to me. I don't want you anywhere near me. Yeah, you shouldn't open up your mouth. You'll just be quiet and just, you know, maybe we'll have money tomorrow. Because they had they had no recourse. They have no way to fight the rich. Oh, well why don't they take them to court? They take them to court, fine, go to court. And then the rich get the better lawyers, the rich pay off the judges. That's it They're squeezed out, they're gone. James knows that. James has a righteous indignation and he's fighting for the poor believers in that sense. But really what he's doing is saying, you poor believers, since the since the ungodly rich are probably not even reading this. He's really writing this in the benefit for those that are the poor, saying Don't envy them and don't let your wrath be against them. God will take care of them. Their miseries are coming upon them By the way, I love this. He says the outcry of those who did the harvesting has reached the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. The pay of the laborers cries out against you. Remember when the Lord Jesus came into Jerusalem and the Pharisees and the Sadducees said, Rabbi, rebuke your uh disciples from singing this Hosanna stuff. And Jesus' response, do you remember that? If I'm quiet and they're quiet, if they don't sing, the rocks will cry out. Here the coins are crying out. The coins are saying, we belong to the worker! And that cry, so to say, is going all the way up to the Lord of hosts. Now, that title, Lord of hosts, is a high and powerful title for God. Even in the Old Testament, it means the Lord of the armies. There's the Lord of the armies, and that cry of injustice has now literally it says entered into the ear of the Lord of hosts And what does he have? He has an army, and what would they do? If a king was indignant against the sin of a city, he would ride in with his army and he would slaughter those who had done that which was wrong. That's the picture he You think you're safe? God is about to ride in with his armies and he's about to defend the poor, and you're gonna suffer. And so their withholding of the pay goes against them. The third witness against them is in verse 5. Look at that. You have lived luxuriously on the earth and led a life of wanton pleasure. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. Again, some people view this as they had um kind of been eating a lot and uh fattening their own hearts in this sense, fattening their bodies. But really what it's just saying is the way you lived was like an ox or a sheep that's been fattened getting it ready for the day of slaughter. And who's going to do the slaughtering? God is It's divine judgment. Those two words luxuriously, you know, just with ease is what it means. In every way you lived Having all the comforts that you want. This makes their sin even worse. Not only do they send the poor man home without any money just to get the meal on the table, but in front of them they go back to their house They lay on their couch, they put on their good garments, and they live luxuriously in front of the poor. This just compounds the witness against them. Really, it's getting worse as you go through the passage. You live luxuriously where? On earth, because you're not going to live that way in heaven. And you didn't realize, because it's the last days, all you were doing when you were eating and having your festivities and your parties and going from one wine testing to another and one party to another, you didn't realize this, but you were just fattening yourself for the day of slaughter. What a picture. What rules Many rich have no idea the times in which they live. They laugh, they have a great time. They're out there right now at a great time. I mean what a waste of time to go to church. Why would you go to church? You guys just sit there, what are you doing? You know, you could be cruising, you could be you could be whatever, right? What are you doing wasting your time in here and then and then and then they're asking for money? Are you kidding me? You give your money to them? And then they ask for your time They live for their weekends. And they're trying to make their weekends three-day weekends, right? They live to play. judgment of God. They don't see anything to be afraid of, right? There's nothing to be afraid of as far as they're concerned. Nothing. They're having a great time. They're living the way Secretly some of you want to live. And they're like, look at me. They kind of know it. It's kind of there, the head the way the head is. They just know you want to be like me. But you can't. And I surround myself with people like me, and we're having a great time. They have no idea that they are in a terrible place before God. Wealth is not an advantage. Let me say that again because I doubt that you believe that. Wealth is not an advantage. What advantage was it for Evaniza Scrooge? What advantage was it? I know that's just a story. What advantage was it for the rich man? What advantage is it for these guys? It's not. It's a spiritual trap. And that's why most rich people never bow before Christ and and come and beg for mercy and say, I'm a sinner and I'm a wretched human being and I deserve the wrath of God and I need someone to save me and I'm I'm really a poor man at heart. They don't say that. They're so smug. And the riches have deceived them. Remember in First Timothy, the deceitfulness of riches. The deceitfulness of riches They're living in the midst of it and they think everything is good with them. In fact, other people think everything is good with them. God must be on the side of the rich. Look, God gave the rich all this stuff They're in the worst condition. How hard it is for a rich man to enter what? The kingdom of God. Who said that? The Lord Jesus Christ. There's some rich that get saved, but not many. It's a disadvantage, in a sense, to your discipleship to be rich. People visit other parts of the world and they see the believers there and they have ten times less than us. It seems like their souls and their commitment to Christ are soaring that much more I tell you it's the hardest thing with pastors in America to convince their people you need to give more, you need to give more money, you need to give more time, you need to give more energy and effort. That just falls on deaf ears. Man, I got enough to do. Leave me alone. You've got enough to do because you're all invested in the things of this world and it's filling all your time and your energy. You wake up in the morning thinking about it, you go to bed thinking about it, and it's wearing you out. You have no time and money left over for the things of God. It's a trap. It hurts your discipleship. And you're really freeing when you learn to give. How do you know your heart can be free? There's only one way, and it's going to be painful for some of you. And you're gonna say, Oh Pastor, you're just manipulating us with the Bible. No, this is the way it's gonna be. Either you're gonna learn to give or you're not gonna learn to give. You're gonna go reach into your pocket You're going to reach into your savings. You're going to look at something that you wanted to get this year, this summer, and you're going to say, no. I'm taking that. I'm giving that. Someone in Need some ministry that needs it. Some person that needs it. The rich are so deceived They've lived a life, a hedonistic lifestyle in the end times, and that's the witness against them. And lastly, verse 6. And this is where it gets the worst. This is the climax of the passage. This shows you why this passage is not talking about believers. The others do as well, but this one really shows it. You have condemned and put to death the righteous person, the righteous man. And then it adds this little phrase, he does not resist you. Now some people think that this is literal murder that the rich literally murdered the righteous man. Of course possible, but given the overall scenario of the situation, what happens to the poor man who cannot pay for his family, eventually his being deprived of everything that he needs for life results in poor health and death. And he squeezed them out until he died while he continued to eat all the things that he wanted to eat. And then uh the righteous man by the way there is not talking about Christ, but talking about the kind of righteous man that lives in front of them, rather than being committed to the righteous man, the believer The one that does what is right, the one who stands on his principles, lived his life by the Bible, the righteous kind of man. Rather than helping them, they turned out to be against him. In other words, their wealth, their influence, their power was used basically to make it harder on the righteous man. And that's what CEOs and businesses and corporations are starting to do more and more, making it harder and harder for the righteous man. It's what's happening right now at an amazing, amazingly fast speed here in our society. Well, you use whatever bathroom you want, that's the latest thing, it'll be something else soon. And they act like this is reasonable, it's just absurd It's just absurd, it's crazy. Sometimes it's the CEO, sometimes it's big government, sometimes big government can start to put Put onerous rules on the righteous that I can't keep that rule. That will compromise my faith. And they don't care. The president doesn't care. The Supreme Court didn't care. Our local governments don't care. Putting non-Christian onerous burdens on righteous people. That is indicating a mind of people that are not in line with God's priorities. The rich did it then, the rich do it now, the powerful did it then, the powerful do it now. Sometimes that power comes from a position in government. Sometimes that power comes from money that they have to control the courts. Some of you know you've had to face a legal situation where you have to take something to court and you don't know if you want to do it. It's just going to cost too much. No problem for the rich man. He'll just appeal and appeal and run you into the ground, right? It's unfair. Yes, it is. It's completely unfair. It's unjust. Yes, it is. It's completely unjust. It makes you angry, doesn't it? It's our situation, it's our station in life. That's what we're that's what we have to face. Those are the authorities we're under. Those are the influential people we're under. That's what's happening in America right now. Godlessness is being promoted by our government Godlessness is being promoted by the business world. Boat, big business, big government. They're not either one on our side. We're left as orphans. Oh, except we have our Heavenly Father, who will never forget us. And we need to remember whatever we suffer now, whatever hardship that we have now, even when we're persecuted, even if it results in the death of believers, God forbid that that may happen. That God sees it, and God will bring swift justice upon those who deserve it A little last part there is such an interesting statement. He, the righteous man, does not resist you. What? See, we might think that the right response to oppression and persecution and all this stuff is to band together and flex our muscle as a church in politics. But one of the reasons why we don't espouse a political solution to things is because Scripture doesn't. There there is a sense in which the Lord Jesus said, do not resist evil. That means when people are doing evil things to you You win them over by walking the extra mile with them, by turning the cheek to them, you see? What did the Lord Jesus Christ do when he was arrested? He said, This is the hour of darkness, and it has been given over to you to do whatever. you want. And he did not resist those who came and and bound him and scourged him and put a crown of thorns on him and he willingly laid down his life. We believers need to be believing. We need to believe in the next life. We need to believe that our hope is there. We're not gonna we're not gonna res Exist, we're not in some feel it's like, well, they didn't have any way of fighting. They didn't have any means to fight in the courts. It might be it. But it seems to say more than that. The righteous man stood in his righteousness It said, In this righteousness before God as a believer, I find my security. God is my righteousness, and He has changed my life, and I'm living as evidence of that a righteous life, and in that I'm secure. In that I will stand. You may move against me, you may move against the church, you may remove our tax exempt status, you may make it hard to be a believer, you may make it hard to hold strong sexual purity and standards, about marriage and about bathrooms and about whatever else happens. You may make it very hard on believers, but we are secure in Christ. We don't need to resist you because there is one who's going to break through the clouds one day, and like I said, he has a sword coming from his mouth, and you will not be able to defeat him. You will lose. Rich man, powerful man, or woman you will lose. And you will lose tremendously. So now if you happen to hear this, it's your chance to repent, you know, before the divine judgment falls. Upon you. This is your chance to heed the warning, the divine warning. And for all of us, this is our reminder. Don't be envious of the rich. They have it coming. Father, strengthen our faith, our confidence, and our commitment To use our resources in this very short time that we have on earth to promote the gospel of Jesus Christ, the church, and to help the poor man For this was pleasing to you, Father. Help our church to rise up and find new avenues and better avenues to apply your word, for we have heard it. Bless it, Father. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.