Grace alone. Who would ever turn away from Christ and from the provision of His grace? Yet, have you ever seen someone who made a profession of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, maybe began to attend church, was baptized, began praying, and then Shockingly turned away from the Christian faith and just walked away from it all. Have you ever known anyone like that? What happened? What happened to them? Or have you ever thought about those great churches in times past? I mean churches that were on fire for the Word of God and built their churches solidly on good doctrine and now you look at the state of their denominations and you say, What happened? How did they get so cold for the things of God? How is there so much immorality that fills their congregations Or have you recently looked around at the state of the church today in America, even the evangelical church, the ones who proclaim the gospel of Jesus and believe in the Bible and Looked at the way many of the lives of those who claim such a gospel that they believe in, and asked yourself What is this? How can they be so immoral and also claim to be followers of Jesus Christ? What happened What happened is the church, which has been entrusted with the truth of the gospel, the one hope of this world. We proclaim the message to the world that they can be saved, that they can be brought back into friendship with God. We, the church, have that message, and God has entrusted that message to us. And because we have the truth, because the church is called the pillar and the support of the truth in 1 Timothy, the church is often under attack. Do you know this? Do you know that the Church, broadly speaking now, not Hope Bible Church, but just broadly speaking, the Church of Jesus Christ often throughout its 2,000-year history has been under attack. And I don't mean just persecution, being thrown to lions and burned at the stake and all of that, but its message being under attack. And its church even being divided. Because the church is under attack, that puts a sober reality into our heart. This is a darkened world, and it wants very badly to put out the light of the church. And so when the light shines in the darkness, the darkness doesn't like that. And it tries to put out the light of the truth that the church proclaims. Now, no one likes someone who just uh enjoys shouting out warnings that are warnings for uh just You know, they're not true warnings, they're not real dangers that are present. The people are just alarmists, they uh like controversy, so they just raise issues and they They act like this is the most important issue in the world and they raise controversies like, you know, Chicken Little running around saying the sky's falling, the sky's falling. And nothing really is is the matter. No one likes that But unfortunately, because a lot of people sound false alarms and false warnings, that can tend to close our ears to listening to true dangers and the alarms that are raised because of that. Well, when God gives a warning, and it's a true warning, we can rely on it. We can trust it. In fact, it is a warning that must be heeded or else. Or else. Now, over the next two Sundays, you're going to hear a warning, a warning from God about something extremely dangerous to the church. To the spread of the gospel and even to the power and vitality of the Christian faith. It's dangerous to the spiritual life It's a warning not just about something that's potential, but something that is already active and from time to time has reared its ugly head in church history. And I would say it's a very appropriate warning for the state of the church in America these days. Strangely enough, this very important warning comes from a tiny and obscure New Testament writing. The letter of Jude. Next to the last in the Bible, right before Revelation, it has only one chapter. And yet today I want us to focus on the four introductory verses to this letter, if you'll open up there. I'll read through the whole letter so we can get a feel for the whole context. This morning we'll be working through the first four verses. The letter of Jude, please follow along as I read. Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James. To those who are the called, beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ, may mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was making every effort to write to you about our common salvation, I felt the necessity to write to you appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith. Which was once for all handed down to the saints. For certain persons have crept in unnoticed. Those who were long beforehand marked out for this condemnation. ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into licentiousness and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I desire to remind you, though you know all things once for all, that the Lord, after saving a people out of the land of Egypt, subsequently destroyed those who did not believe. And angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandoned their proper abode, he has kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Just as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, since they in the same way as these indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh are exhibited as an example in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire. Yet In the same way, these men also by dreaming defile the flesh and reject authority and revile angelic majesty. But Michael, the archangel, when he disputed with the devil and argued about the body of Moses, did not dare pronounce against him a railing judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these men revile the things which they do not understand. And the things which they know by instinct, like unreasoning animals, by these things they are destroyed. Woe to them. For they have gone the way of Cain, and for pay they have rushed headlong into the air of Balaam, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. These are the men who are hidden reefs in your love feasts when they feast with you without fear, caring for themselves, clouds without water carried along by winds Autumn trees without fruit, doubly dead, uprooted, wild waves of the sea casting up their own shame like foam, wandering stars for whom the black darkness has been reserved forever It was also about these men that Enoch in the seventh generation from Adam prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment upon all. And to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are grumblers, finding fault, following after their own lusts. They speak arrogantly, flattering people for the sake of gaining an advantage But you, beloved, ought to remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, that they were saying to you, In the last time there will be mockers following after their own ungodly lusts. These are the ones who cause divisions, worldly minded, devoid of the Spirit But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God. Waiting anxiously for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. And have mercy on some who are doubting Save others, snatching them out of the fire. And on some have mercy with fear, hating even the garment polluted by the flesh. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy, To the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time, and now and forever. Amen. What a letter. What a strong letter. This brief epistle of Jude has been called, though, the most neglected book of the New Testament. It has an important yet lonely warning, often ignored by the universal church. Part of its neglect is due to some questions that surrounded whether or not it should even be in the Bible, whether or not it was truly Scripture, whether or not it should be included in the New Testament canon. Most books of the New Testament had no controversy associated with them at all, but because Jude seems to quote from an apocryphal book. Notice down in verse 14 concerning Enoch, some in the early church, particularly in the eastern side of the church, had their doubts about this letter. But over time those questions were solved under closer scrutiny, and I will say more about that in a future message. And now all branches of Christianity accept Jude as Holy Scripture. In fact It is very similar to 2 Peter chapter 2, which is also in the Word of God. Another reason, though, for its neglect And its lack of popularity and people saying, Jude, where's that? I don't know anything from Jude. I don't know if I can quote any verses from Jude. One of the reasons is it has an unpopular message. Its content is unpopular. It's really, as you can tell, a strong denunciation of false teachers, quite descriptive in how false teachers and apostates are described. It's a strong denunciation of sin. You hear the word ungodly, ungodly, ungodly, over and over in the letter And I guess if you really want to be a popular preacher, if you want people to like you and listen to you, if you're going to write something you want everybody to buy and read, well you wouldn't write on an unpopular subject, right? You'd write on something everybody really enjoys listening to. This was not pleasant to read and to listen to. And so I think that's one of the reasons for its neglect. D. Edmund Hebert has a great commentary on this book, and he writes this, the vigorous little epistle of Jude is without parallel in the New Testament. For its vehement denunciation of libertines and apostates. While displaying affectionate concern for true believers, it burns with fiery indignation and vivid pronouncements of judgment upon religious sensualists. Standing as it does in our English Bibles just before the book of Revelation, it forms a fitting introduction to the concluding book of the New Testament. See, there's certainly signs in our world that the end times are upon us and that uh the Lord's coming may indeed be near Whenever the Lord comes, the closer we get to that time, this letter is going to mean more and more, because the scripture says in 1 Timothy 4. 1 It says the Spirit explicitly says that in latter times some will here it is fall away From the faith. Well, we've seen whole denominations turn away from their belief in the supernatural and belief in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. and belief in the blood atonement that we're going to celebrate this morning at the Lord's Supper. Whole denominations no longer believing that, believing in the authority of Scripture and the truthfulness of Scripture And we've seen that over the last couple of hundred years, and this is supposed to increase as the end times get closer and closer. And the letter of Jude explains to believers how they are to live and survive and cope with and understand all of the apostasy that's going to go on. It's like a heads up. This is what's going to happen, and now let me tell you what you're going to need to do in the midst of all of it. It's a very practical and very helpful letter Dr. John MacArthur writes this, Jude's concise letter is a forceful condemnation of the false teachers who were infiltrating the church in his day. And by extension, all who were yet to come. In our postmodern culture, in which truth is considered relative and tolerance is prized above all else Jude's eloquent plea for doctrinal purity is particularly applicable. Guys, let's face it, our society is filled with immorality. We're drenched with immorality. And it's just coming in like a tide, stronger and stronger. Is this true? And it comes into the church, and you and I are tempted by it as well. And we need to understand what's happening and how to deal with it. This is a warning about those people who were leading the way in polluting the church with loose and immoral living, and the way they did it was through a teaching by taking the wonderful truth. of the grace of God which we just sung about, the power that transforms our lives to make us godly, and taking that wonderful doctrine of the gospel of grace that God put into the world to save souls and twisting it as a justification to live any way they wanted to. Have you heard that? In popular preachers of the day, grace has been turned into tolerance. And where are the moral standards for the church anymore? Oh, I can't think of something that's more applicable for our day. What did Jude do in his day? Let's kind of take a look at this and think about our day. Well, Jude took three actions here in the first four verses. Three actions. His first action is he needed to give some credentials. He's about to sound an alarm, so he needs to give credentials why he is the one sounding the alarm. This is an alarm. He's going to sound the whole the whole letter is an alarm. He's going to sound an alarm, but who's he to do it? So he's got to give the credentials, otherwise people are going to say, Who are you? Are you a chicken little? I mean who are you? The second thing that he does, and that's in verse 3, is he actually clang the alarm, he sounds the alarm. That's verse 3. And then in verse 4, it's like he's as everyone's coming because of the alarm, it's like he's running and he's pointing his finger at the problem and he's saying, Look. That's where the fire is. That's where the danger is. Do you see it? And so he points out the danger. First he gives his credentials to sound the alarm. Second, he sounds the alarm. And third, he points to the danger. Let's consider Jude's first action. Giving credentials about himself. Look back at verses 1 and 2. We may ask ourselves, who is this man that's summoning the brethren to watch out and to defend the faith? What are his credentials? Who sends his letter out to go around from church to church in all likelihood, like a first century Paul Revere saying, the deceivers are here, the deceivers are here. Well, verse 1 he tells us, Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James. Literally, Jude's name in Greek is great for this, Judas. Judas. But English translators use the shorter form of Jude so as to avoid any associations with you know who. Judas Iscariot the traitor, because that's how he's known as the traitor. Nobody names their kid Judas anymore. Naturally there's been much discussion about which Jude this is. Well, the writer himself effectively narrows the field of six New Testament Judes by describing himself as Jude, the brother of James. You know, in those days it was very common to identify yourself by who your father was, your father's name. But here he identifies himself by his brother. That's interesting, that's unique. Well, after the early beheading of the Apostle James in Acts chapter 12 and verse 2, the James of the famed duo, James and John, the two sons of Thunder, and the sons of Zebedee. He was dead and gone. After him, and he died early, there was really only one other James in the New Testament who could possibly be known simply by the name James. And that was, you know who? James, the Lord's brother. He was by far the most known and the most influential leader of the mother church of not Rome, where did the gospel start? Jerusalem. Many people think of the two great apostles, Peter and Paul, as the strongest leaders for the church in its formative years. And It would be hard to argue, I guess, with that. But according to Acts chapter 15, at the very first church council, when everyone got together to to try to decide an important issue about how the Gentiles were to be treated It is James, the Lord's brother, who is seen as presiding over the council. And it was the words of James. Who gave the final and decisive statement at the end of the council? Furthermore, in Galatians chapter 1, it tells us that James was reputed to be one of the three pillars at the church in Jerusalem. Peter is named, John is named, and James, not John's brother, but this James, James the Lord's brother. It's interesting also that when Peter escaped from prison in Acts chapter 12, do you remember that story where the angel released him He immediately came and he said, Report my release to James. And Peter reported to James. Even the great apostle Paul, when he visited Jerusalem where James was, Tells us in Acts chapter 21 that he willingly came before James and received James's counsel and did what James said. There was no Pope in Christianity. But if you were to look for one man in the New Testament church whose leadership stood out the most, it would not be Peter or Paul, it would be James in a leading role among the elders. And even in the universal church. More than anyone else, he seems to be looked up to because of his wisdom and his character. And though James is never called an apostle, but rather he is affirmed to be the Lord's brother in Galatians 1 He himself was given a private and specific resurrection appearance by Jesus. Jesus came to him and appeared to his brother. James was even admired by the unbelieving Jews in Jerusalem and was known by the title James the Just. You know, the modern church seems to have forgotten this important influence of James in the early church, but the ancient church knew it well. And that is why it is satisfactory that Jude, in writing his letter, knowing that it's going to go out and have an influence on the universal church, simply gave his credentials by saying, I'm the brother of James. It's all he needed to say. And the church understood. Now, since James was the Lord's brother and Jude was the brother of James, then Jude also then was the half-brother of Jesus. This guy that's writing is the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's fascinating. That means he was born to Mary and Joseph. You know, we believe in the virginity of Mary uh before the birth of Jesus, but after the birth of Jesus, if she had remained a virgin, she wouldn't be a very good Jewish wife, now would she? She'd be robbing her husband of what it is that she was supposed to provide. Jesus, of course, was virgin-born. Jesus had no human father. That's why we can say they are Jesus' half-brothers, children of Joseph and Mary. Do you know the New Testament makes it clear that Jesus did have half brothers and half-sisters? In Mark chapter 6 and verse 3. It records a problem that Jesus had in being recognized as a prophet in his own hometown in Nazareth. One of the reasons, the main reasons why they wouldn't recognize him as a prophet. They say it here In Mark 6, 3, is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joseph and Judas and Simon are not his sisters here with us And then it says they took offense to them. Wait a minute, we know you. This is your family. There's your brother. There's another brother. We know his name is in our town. This is a small town. We know who you are. You're not a prophet And so Jude was the fourth brother of the five in their household. And we also know from the scripture that Jesus' brothers They do show up from time to time in the Gospels, but mostly it's just in an unbelieving role. In fact, in John 7, 5, it says, not even his brothers were believing in Jesus. Can you imagine that? It's true. It appears that their disbelief in Jesus Christ continued all the way up until about the time of the resurrection, maybe even after seeing the resurrected Christ. And we read in Acts chapter 1 verse 14 that the brothers of the Lord were gathered with the apostles and Mary and the women in the upper room, waiting for the promised Holy Spirit. They were there at the founding of the church. Well, not too much else is written in the New Testament about the Lord's brothers. In 1 Corinthians 9 and verse 5, the Apostle Paul indicates that the brothers of the Lord traveled around as evangelists. So they were involved in proclaiming the Word of God. It also says that they took for themselves wives, and their wives traveled with them. So the Lord's brothers in the plural were a recognizable group in the early church, just as the apostles were a recognized group. They were not on the same par with the apostles, but they were highly, highly esteemed, and they were a recognizable group. I say not on the same par in terms of authority. So we know then that this Jude was an active preacher of the Word of God. He ministered the Word of God. He was an evangelist, most likely. He then would have had contact with many churches outside of Jerusalem, all throughout Palestine, and maybe beyond that. We know he was most likely married and had children. In fact, church history talks about Jude's grandchildren one day being called before the Emperor Domitian because Domitian was trying to stamp out anyone that was in the line of David And he brought Jude's grandchildren before him, and he wanted to know what their land holdings were and how much money they had, and they were very simple people, and then the emperor looked at their hands and saw that they were hard working with their hands, and he didn't worry about it, and he sent them back to Palestine. The brothers of the Lord and the family of the Lord continued living on in the land of Palestine for decades beyond the New Testament. This is who he was. But it's interesting that rather than elevating himself saying, Jude, I'm the half-brother of Jesus Christ, you better listen to me. Instead, he just says, I'm the brother of who? James. Verse 1. When he starts talking about his relationship to Jesus, he says he's a what of Jesus Christ? A bondservant, a slave, a doulas. You know, Jesus is now not just the boy born in Bethlehem, grew up in Nazareth. He's not just the itinerant preacher that walked around. We understand that he always was, but now he's exalted into that position, the Lord of heaven and earth. He is God in flesh, and he is our master. And so Jude himself lived under the authority of Jesus Christ in this changed relationship that he had to his brother Now, why are we taking time with all of this? Well, this implies, as he states his relationship to Jesus Christ, that he's under his authority. That what he is about to write, this clanging alarm that he's about to sound for the church, is not his own alarm. It is his master's alarm. It is his master's warning. The warning is authentic because it comes from Jesus. At the urging of the Holy Spirit through Jude. Jude is not doing his own thing. So many in the church do that these days. They make up their own doctrines, they believe their own beliefs They use the church to fulfill personal ambition. Many sadly are possessive of the church for themselves. They use the church for experimentation with their own personal philosophies or their own personal goals. He says, No, I'm a slave of Christ. Jesus is my master. My concerns are not petty. I'm not harping on a pet issue. This is huge. This is big. This comes from the Lord. It concerns the health of the church. Notice who Jesus, through his spirit, is alerting to this danger. It's us. Look again at verse 1. It says, To those who are the called, is that you? Beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. See, it's a Christian letter, right? It's written from a Christian to Christians in the first century. Now as you look at this, you may notice there's no specific church or group of churches that is in the address. And so the letter of Jude Like the letter of James and John's letters is what has been called a general epistle, a letter that is sent out to a wide circle of churches, not written to the Thessalonians or to the churches in Galatia, but a much broader kind of a letter. So it's called a general epistle and it's grouped with them here towards the back of our New Testament. The descriptions he gives of these people are descriptions all of Christians, not people in general. And so this is a letter for us. It's a letter for us to learn from. Yet it is also clear that Jude knows at least something about the churches that he's writing to. He's aware of the danger that they themselves are facing. There's a real event going on there in the first century. And he does address them warmly as beloved, so we would assume he knows them However, even the writing, the place of writing of this letter is not known. Scholars usually opt for Egypt. Or Palestine is the place where it was written, but nobody really knows. It appears that the preponderance of evidence favors Palestine, where Jude was. The place of the origin of the letter is not crucial at all to our interpretation of it. It's really also difficult to pin down whether he was writing primarily to Jews or to Gentiles or to a mixture. There is both a Jewish flavor to it, and there seem to be Gentile concerns But that again just shows again Jude's universal appeal to all the churches of his time and then beyond his time all the way down to us as well. Don't think of this as a letter written only for New Testament saints. As we study this together, think of it as a letter from Jesus Christ, through the Holy Spirit, through Jude, all the way down through the ages, that we would have it and learn from it. Now, as you read this letter also, you're going to see that Jude had a wonderful writing style. His Greek is actually some of the very best in the New Testament, and one of the things he likes to do is to group. Things by threes throughout the letter. And here he gives them a trifold greeting with three descriptions. First, he says that he is writing to those who are the called. The word called in Greek is kletos. It's a common New Testament designation for believers They are the called because they're called by God into a relationship with Jesus Christ, into the life of Jesus Christ. Romans chapter 1, verse 7 begins with this. Paul says, To all who are beloved of God in Rome called as saints. Not called saints, but called to be saints. First Corinthians chapter one and verse two says the same thing. We are saints by calling. So we have a calling upon us. In fact, in the Greek construction here in this verse, this designation, the called, is the primary of the three. The other two descriptions of those who Jude is writing to are descriptive of the ones who are the called. We are the called, those who are beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. So to be called means that we are now in some special status of being Beloved by God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. You know, many people are called by God when the gospel goes out and evangelists proclaim proclaim the good news and say, God is telling you to turn away from your sins. You're a sinner and you're going to face the judgment of God. Your conscience knows that you're a sinner. There is a judgment day. You may run from my voice today, but you will never escape the judgment of God, so it's better though it may be painful to listen. and and listen about the coming judgment of God. And then the good news of Jesus Christ, the forgiveness of sins, would be proclaimed. And that was a calling that would go out to the entire world and theologians call that a general call because many people, indeed most, resist it. They like their lives the way they are. They don't want to turn away from it and follow a master. They want to be master of their own lives. And so they die in their sins and they never really become the called. Because this is a smaller group of people, those who responded to the call, those to whom God called inwardly and drew them to Himself in faith. This refers to those who responded to the external call with God's inner call on their law. Only believers can be labeled the called. For only they received an inward and an effective call, which resulted in their salvation and their being in Jesus Christ. Calling speaks of God's, it works in conjunction with God's selection, where God has made a selection of you, and then he calls you particularly to himself. Romans chapter 8 and verse 30 speaks of this. It says, those whom God has predestined, he also called. And these whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. From God's foreordination and predestination all the way to glory. No one is lost from that process. The called are the saved. They are the justified. This is the calling where God reaches down into the soul of a person and communicates the gospel and the conviction of sin down into the heart of someone and calls them into the light. First Peter talks about this, chapter 2, verse 9. He called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. There we are sitting in spiritual darkness. And God, through an inward work of the Holy Spirit, actually alerts us to the danger we're in the darkness and calls us out of the darkness and brings us into His marvelous life. We are the called. Second, the second description of believers. We are not only the called to salvation, we are also beloved in God the Father. Beloved in God the Father. If you have the King James Version, it has sanctified by God the Father. That of course is true, but it's a weak reading here of the text. It should read, beloved in God the Father. Beloved here is a perfect participle in the Greek language. That means that once God's love has been placed on us, because it's in this tense, it means we're beloved, God has placed his love on us, and that love remains on us, it abides on us. Isn't that beautiful? To know not just that God loved me sometime in the past, yes, sure, he died on the cross for my sins and all of that. But what about now? No, when God places his love on those who are the called, that love Abides and remains on you. He constantly and consistently loves you. You are beloved in God the Father. It's a wonderful thing to be reminded of God's enduring love. His love rests on me and his love rests on you. Yes, God loves the entire world. There's some who doubt that. I don't. God loves the entire world. He he loves even his enemies. He provides breath for those who curse him. He provides the material for those who would make false idols and then bow before him and thus dishonor him. He still provides for them. He gives them a sun that shines on them and rain that falls on their crops. He loves them. He pities them. He has compassion on them. But that is not the love of which Jude is talking about here. This is that we are beloved in God the Father. There is a special love that God has for his own children. You should know that because you have a special love for your children You may be commanded to love everybody, but it's not the same love that you have for your own children. There's a special and a deeper love and a more joyful love that God has. We're beloved in God the Father. In fact, that's where we're loved. We're loved in God, in God the Father. Not just loved by God, but that we are in Him, and in Him we are loved in that relationship. That's something unbelievers don't have. Some people sound alarms because they want to draw attention to themselves. They want to create a phony crisis in order to capitalize on it for whatever agenda that they have. Politicians sometimes do that. Jude's warning is one of true concern for those who are beloved by God. And so it's a warning we should listen to because someone loves us and they're warning us of something. And then there's the third designation of the believer in verse 1. We are kept for Jesus Christ. In the past, we were called to salvation. In the present, we are beloved of God. But what about the future? What's going to happen to us in the future? Will our favorite position be lost? Will it be changed? Will it be diminished in some way? Answer, we are kept. Ter'o, a verb in Greek that means guarded, preserved, held on to by God. In fact, uh, in a negative way, the same verb is used down in verse 6 where it says the fallen angels are now kept Or reserved in a place of judgment. They can't get out of that place. They're guarded there. They're imprisoned there. That's how tight it is. But for us, it's not judgment that we're kept for. What are we kept for? We're kept for Jesus Christ. Notice that we're a gift to be given to Jesus Christ. We're being kept, we're a precious commodity that God is keeping, and it's keeping to deliver us to Jesus Christ. We're kept for him. I don't know what your self-identity is, what your self-image is. You might be down on yourself. I want you to think of yourself this way because this is what the Word of God says. You are a person, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, who are being kept for Jesus Christ. Isn't that wonderful? I'm going to be given to Jesus Christ. I'm for him. He gets me. And of course that speaks of my eternal security in God, right? I'm eternally secure. Listen, this is going to be a very tough letter as they read it and reread it and think about it on it, and not just gloss over, but really think about what Jude was saying. And they're in the midst of the trouble that's going on, so there might have been fear in their hearts as well. If apostasy is going to permeate the church, if if the warning of the false prophets was given and now they're present And if this is going to continue on until the end times and all of this falling away is going to happen, then what about me? Will I fall away? Will one of my good friends fall away It's a fearful thing. It's scary. Many are defecting. Many are abandoning the Christian faith. Or they're calling the Christian faith something different and thinking they have the Christian faith, but they've left the true faith. It's scary. It happened back then. It'll happen now as well. Well, true believers, we might shake with fear We might wonder about it, but God answers that concern right at the very beginning of the letter, so we won't worry about apostasy, about losing our salvation, for we are told that we are kept, we are preserved. And it is reinforced at the end of the letter. If you just glance down at verse 24, he says, now to him who is able to keep you from what? stumbling. And to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy. Oh hallelujah. Praise to him as hell. Like two sentinels standing in the front and in the rear guard of us, we have these two promises at the beginning and the end of the letter of Jude. Jesus, of course, requested this to the Father in his high priestly prayer in John 17, verse 15. He prayed to the Father, He said, I do not ask thee to take them, his disciples, out of the world, but to keep them. from the evil one. And so God will do it. Being kept for Jesus has eschatological or end time features to it, we are kept and we will be taken and preserved through to the end of time and given to Christ when he appears. Indeed, the church will be snatched up to meet him in the air. Well those three truths, called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ, effectively remind every Christian of their success. Security, their fireproof outfit, if you would, they're going to be rushing into danger. They need to be protected. And now he gives them all this before he summons them to the scene of danger. And then along with this threefold designation, he adds again a trifold wish. May mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you in verse two. That's sweet, isn't it? You know someone's pulling for you when they say, May mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. And take that as sincere, it's in the Word of God. That's a little better than saying to people, Hey, good luck, best wishes. I'd rather someone say to me, May God's mercy be multiplied in your life. May his peace just overwhelm you. May his love just be given in generosity into your life. That's a way to really bless someone, and that's what that's what's happening here. Because it's multiplied as the passive voice, it implies that God is the one who's doing these. Jude wants to spread this trifold blessing on the people of God before he lowers the boom on the enemies of God Alright, the second action that Jude takes is that he sounds the alarm. Look at verse 3. He sounds the alarm. Beloved While I was making every effort to write you about our common salvation, I felt the necessity to write to you Appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith, which was once for all handed down or delivered to the saints. That's the alarm. That's what he's sounding. He's sounding the alarm to get us to fight, to get us to contend. And to contend for the faith. Right at the very beginning of the body of this letter, he gets right to the point. He just dives right into the subject. There's no missing words here I'm not going to give you a lengthy treatise. This is not going to be the letter to the Romans, you know, sixteen chapters carefully describing salvation This is not going to be that epistle to the first Corinthians, another sixteen chapters dealing with a multitude of problems. This is short, it's to the point. We're not going to beat around the bush. It's urgent. The alarm needs to be sounded And the alarm's not going to be a pretty little church bell. This is a loud clanging, wake everybody up out of their sleep kind of an alarm. It sounded to move the church to action, to make them get up, look around, and say, okay, they're here. They've infiltrated. Where are they? You hear about those firefighters that have been fighting that fire in California. Imagine when it first broke out and they're like, there's the danger of the fire and they you know how firefighters are, they get together quickly, they get their stuff on, they get out there. The alarm sound, they get out there. There it is, there's the fire, get the equipment, let's do something about it before it spreads. This one got away from them. And some of them die It's such an important alarm. You can't leave a danger alone. If there's a danger there, if there's a fire burning, it has to be put out, or it will what? It'll spread. And he wants to make sure everyone really understands why he's sounding it. What was he thinking about doing first before he wrote this letter? What launched him then in a completely different direction? At first, he wanted to write a letter about the common life we have in Christ. He says, Beloved, I was making every effort to write you about our common salvation. That's nice. That would have been a great letter to have in the New Testament. We already have something like that. If you wanted to write something like that, our common salvation, tell us more about the Christian faith, tell us how to live it. That would be wonderful We can always get more instruction on living the life in Jesus Christ. We all have a common life in Christ. We share a common salvation. Titus says we have a common faith. And Jude was all set to write about this to his beloved one Maybe he was even getting set up to write it. Maybe he'd even got the pen out. Maybe he was I don't know. He was he was wanting to write it. And maybe a sampling of the kinds of things he might have written about living the Christian life are down there in verses 20 and 21. Where he talks about keeping yourself in the love of God and evangelism and praying and all of that. And maybe he would have elaborated more on all of that in his original epistle. But his plans got interrupted Somehow the Holy Spirit of God, who moved the scripture writers, indicated to him, Jude, I have other people that I've chosen to write about our common salvation to tell you what it's all about. That's not going to be you this time. You're going to sound an alarm. You're going to tell them to defend the faith. Other people are describing it. You tell them to defend it. Or if the faith gets corrupted. There will be no message of salvation left to hold in common. And Jude writes internally here. He bears his heart a little, but he says, I felt constrained to write it. I felt the necessity. Ananke, it means necessity imposed either by external condition of things or by the law of duty. It's sometimes translated compulsion, as in Philemon verse 14. In 1 Corinthians 9 16 also, Paul says he was under compulsion to preach the gospel. God would so pressure him that he had to do it. He really, you could say he had a choice, but he really had no choice. I mean he was choosing to do it, but God so pressed him to do it, he felt he had to do it. To preach the gospel and Judah saying, that's the same thing that's happening to me here to write this letter and to send out this alarm. Now, it doesn't mean he was reluctant to write it. It just means somehow in his mind and in his soul, God made the gravity of the church's situation very clear to this man. Oh, he probably received some kind of report of the evil working of false teachers. And he himself was alarmed at the inroads they had already made. He heard about them being in this local church and that local church and this local church, and it all of a sudden became clear to him what he was supposed to write. And so it's like he's standing as a watchman at his post And he sees this danger approaching, and he realizes now's the time I got to cry out for the people. He went from wanting to feed his sheep as a pastor and teach them something to guarding his sheep. He started with a positive letter, and now he knew he had to write a negative one. Watch out for the wolves. Beloved, this is a way that God guides church leaders. That's why you should always be praying for church leaders because you want them to be pressured by God to turn in the direction which God wants for his church. God can give a church leader, a teacher, pastor an overwhelming sense or an overwhelming perception about something that needs to be done to advance the flock or protect the flock. The Holy Spirit does drive along certain messages and certain actions that need to be taken by making clear the application of the Word of God in a particular setting for a particular group of people. I find this a fascinating insight into how the Holy Spirit not only guided this pastor, but also guided him as a writer of inspired scripture. What was the process of inspiration? It was not mechanical. The Holy Spirit grabbed the hand of the pen and was like, whoa, what am I writing there? It wasn't like that. Jude was thinking of going one way, and the Spirit of God started blowing strongly in the other way, and he said, I better go this way. And what he wrote was from the Holy Spirit. That's a picture there of 2 Peter, where he says, men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. And they also wrote from God. We're going to see also later that it is likely that this letter was written in the late 60s of the first century, or a little bit later. No one's really exactly sure of the exact date. We know it was in the first century. And if he did in the late 60s or early 70s at that time, that was when most, if not all, of the apostles had already died. There's some debate as to when John died. I believe he died later. Look down at verse 20. But you, beloved, ought to remember, you ought to remember, verse 20, the words that were spoken when? Beforehand, by who? The apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. The apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. I said verse 20, I'm sorry. It was verse 17, thank you. You often remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. What does that mean? That by the time of the writing, most of the apostles were gone. They've already done their teaching, they've laid the groundwork for the church. And so if that is true, then Jude is standing at his post and he's looking around and he's saying, Who's going to sound this alarm? And he realizes I'm the one chosen to do this. Jude is not prophesying in this letter. Jude is not saying they're going to come. It's interesting because in 2 Peter chapter 2 it has very much the same content as Jude. You read chapter 2 of 2 Peter, you read Jude, and you realize this sounds very much the same. But there's one critical difference between the two, and that is in 2 Peter Peter is prophesying that they will come, these false teachers. You need to be ready for them for their coming. Jude's not saying that. Jude's saying they're here. They have already infiltrated. And so, though some scholars for more subjective reasons believe that Jude was written first, I think it's clear from the content that Jude was written after 2 Peter 2. They are here. This is not a drill, soldier. We are in the battle now. And Jude himself is ready to defend the faith, but he's appealing that we would too. Right? That we would too. Verse 3, appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith. I'm going to say so much more about this next Sunday. Because it's hard to overstate just how intense that word is in Greek, that you contend earnestly for the Christian faith is what it means, for the body of doctrine, for the truth of the faith. At this point in time, just as we're wrapping up this first part, I just want to ask you, you know, w sometimes we think when we come to church it's all about relaxation. It's all about getting together with our favorite friends, being encouraged in the Lord. Grab a cup of coffee, sip it, have a nice chat with a friend in the hallway. And that that's really what church should be all about. But we're told in the Bible that church sometimes is about a fight. It's about fighting, not being obnoxious Not turning to physical weapons to fight with, but to use spiritual armor and to have an intensity about us that we will not yield any ground, and if we have to root something out, we will. We have to be willing to fight. So I ask you, even as we describe more of this fight next week, and I'll get into the description of it, I just want to leave you with this question and get you thinking about it. Are you willing to fight? Are you willing to fight for the faith? Are you one of the people who wants just to sit back and see other people fight for the faith? Say, good job. Or are you one of those who wants to get in there and defend the faith when you see that around you Christianity is being corrupted, Christianity is being taught falsely? People are being misled. There's a danger. The grace of God is being corrupted. Are you one of those that's willing to fight? We're going to pick this theme up, and I want you just to ponder that And pray about that and think about that unpopular let it yet important role for the Church of Jesus Christ, because I guarantee you, I guarantee you, that if we stand for the gospel, we're going to have many a fight ahead of us as a church. Lord, we ask that you prepare our hearts for being at your table this morning, that you would remind us, Lord. As we fight to defend your faith, we are not ourselves to be divisive people, but we fight for the unity of the faith and for the truth of the faith And Lord God, as we come to the table, we'll remember the precious message of the blood of your Son. Amen.