Alright, we're good. Ladies, did anyone ever ask you the question, what do you want to be when you grow up? I'm sure we've all heard that. Poor Chloe, you probably get it all the time. Right? When you're young, everyone expects you to know what you want to be when you grow up. And I've always found it interesting that I think you can tell what girls are gonna be when they grow up by watching them play Barbies. Because when I was younger, my older sister and I would play Barbies And we would always our Barbies would grow up and my older sister's Barbie would uh get married be you know, become a schoolteacher, get married and have babies, you know, little skipper dolls or whatever they were. And my Barbie would grow up, put on fancy dresses and go to parties. Um, well, Emily grew up and did exactly that. She grew up, she became a school teacher, she got married, and she had babies. And I grew up and I went into politics and wore fancy dresses and went to parties. So, it's just funny that we think, what do you want to be? What do you want to become when you grow up? Well, um we think even as we grow up, that always changes. Like now if I were to ask each of you What do you want to be in five years from now, ten years from now, two years from now? We all have something we want to become and work towards and maybe a better mom, a better manager, a better friend, or whatever it is. There's always something we're wanting to become. If you're a Christian, I'm sure that we would say that we want to become a better follower of the Lord. Um and although uh something we need to keep in mind, being a wife and a mom is a blessing. It isn't the highest calling for women. Um if that were the truth, our singled childless sisters would never be able to reach their potential in the Lord. No, the highest calling for a woman is to become a woman that pleases God. And so today we begin studying through this book entitled Becoming a Woman That Pleases God. The authors have gone through several areas of life to see how to practically uh implement the wisdom in Scripture Um we are busy women and there's no denying that and it's hard at times to know what is the right priority. And in Scripture, the Bible has given us an example of a woman that pleases God, has her priorities correct. isn't racing from crisis to crisis, but seems to have a serenity in the midst of quite a lot of responsibility and a lot of work. And that is the Proverbs 31 woman. And I know, um, 'cause I I know I've done this and I I know oftentimes we roll our eyes at the thought of the Proverbs thirty one woman 'cause she's so perfect. uh and she's unattainable. Or maybe she's not modern. That worked, you know, in the old days, but life is so different. How can I possibly pattern my life after a Proverbs 31 woman. But you know, ladies, we believe that the Lord is immutable, He's unchangeable, and that His word is the same from the beginning until today until forever. And so understanding that, that God's life does not change, his character does not change, his truth does not change, his ways do not change, his purposes do not change, and his son does not change. We can know that the Proverbs 31 woman's example for the believers in her time is an example for the believers in our time. So we need to seek wisdom where it may be found, and wisdom is found first in the Lord. Um, and the secret to the Proverbs 31 woman is not that she had it all together and that she was a certain Enneagram or Myers-Brigg type. She was able to get it all done. Her secret was the fear of the Lord and was wisdom So first wisdom, our first point here in our outline is that the wise woman in Proverbs 31, we're going to study her for this lesson. The wise woman learns from the wisdom of God and from others. Psalm 111, verse 10 says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all of those who do his commandments, his praise endures forever. So ladies, wisdom comes from God It stems, biblical wisdom stems from the fear of the Lord, and it is both religious and practical. It's not just in our heads, but it's practical, branching out to touch all areas of our life. Wisdom takes insights that we have gleaned from the knowledge of God's way and applies them to our daily walk. Wisdom is not simply knowledge alone. but the skill of living a godly life as God intended man to live. I have a lot of scripture verses. One of the things that I do love about this book and these authors This book is saturated in Bible verses. So I can't possibly read all of them. So I'm going to give you all references. If you want to write them down, you can go back and meditate on it. So to support this idea that wisdom is the skill of living the godly life, Job 2828, 28-28. Proverbs 1, 7 and Proverbs 9. 10, and 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, which says all scripture is God-breathed and useful for teaching. R uh rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness so that the man of God may grow up equipped, adequate in all good works So wisdom comes from God, and we need to be in His Word in order to get wisdom. Secondly, wisdom comes from others The wise woman possesses a heart open to learning from the experience and the wisdom of others. Proverbs 1522 says, plans fail for lack of counsel, but with many advisors they succeed. Proverbs 1114, where there is no guidance, the people fall, but in abundance of counselors there is victory. My father-in-law wrote a commentary on Proverbs back in his seminary days, and he Used to tell his students that Proverbs teaches that you will learn either one of two ways. You will either learn through experience or through pain. And Proverbs encourages you to learn through the experience of others that have gone before you. Listen to listen to the teaching. Listen to those that are calling out to you. Wisdom who's calling out. And if you don't You will learn by pain. And so we will learn through, we can learn through others. So that is the foundation of wisdom. In Proverbs 31, the authors have drawn out from this woman eleven principles of a wise woman. And today we're going to look at what those principles are. It says in the end of Proverbs 31, Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. Now I'm sure sometimes our pride would love to hear, you excel them all. But this woman really did, and it wasn't because she was gorgeous or had it all together. It's because of the qualities that she applied because of wisdom. So we mu it's not good just to listen to the wisdom that others and the Lord ha um teaches us. We must be doers of the word James 1, 22 through 25 says, But prove yourselves doers of the word, not merely hearers who delude themselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in the mirror. For once he has looked at himself and gone away, he has immediately forgotten what kind of person he was. But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides by it Not having become a forgetful hearer, but an effectual doer, this man will be blessed in what he does So ladies, I encourage you today, as we hear these 11 principles, not to be a good listener, but to be an effectual doer of these principles. Alright, so first a principle is defined as an accepted or professed rule of action or conduct So we are going to look at 11 accepted or professed rules of action or conduct. Number one, first principle, virtuous It says in Proverbs 31 verse 10, An excellent wife who can find, for her worth is far above jewels The quality of being virtuous is moral excellence, right actions, thinking that is true, nobly, just pure, lovely, of good report. possessing virtue and praiseworthy. We can find this list in Philippians 4, 8 through 9. Virtue is an effective power that is able to fill all the thoughts, actions, and relationships of the wise woman. When integrated into her life, this quality graciously generates power and demands respect. The wise woman establishes godly guidelines for living according to the Scriptures and determines through the strength of the Holy Spirit to abide by them. In r in all of Scripture, there's only one woman who is specifically called virtuous, and that's Ruth. Ruth 311. It's the only reference we have to a virtuous woman. And if you know the story of Ruth, then you think about Ruth. You think about how she was noble and righteous and honorable Women should embrace virtuous living at a very early age, as early as possible, as reputations become harder to change than to establish. I recently heard John MacArthur give an um exhortation to young children, think like 10 and under, and he implored them to grow in their love of Christ while they are young and to grow deep and quickly. Habits and love of Christ developed while young protect and prepare us as we get older. And if we establish habits of virtue in our youth, whether that be forty, you know, I I think fifty is young. You know, fi forty, thirty, young as we are, even even younger. That will carry us to righteous living throughout the r all of our days. And for those that are particularly young and as they're posting on the internet, you know, the internet is forever, and that character will follow them So the call from Scripture is to establish a virtuous reputation while you're young so it may guide and protect you as you age. To live a life characterized by virtue should be the ambition of every Christian woman. Matthew 5, verse 8 is a reference. Principle two. So one is virtuous, two is trustworthy. It says in Proverbs 31, 11 through 12 The heart of her husband trusts her, and he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. Well, the quality of being trustworthy is demonstrated by behaviors that lead to confidence in the honesty, integrity, reliability, justice, and loyalty of the woman. Integrity is the quality or state of being complete. That's what it means to have integrity. Colossians 2. 10 says, and in him you have been made complete, and he is the head overall and rule of authority. So our integrity comes from Jesus. We've been made complete in him, a state of being complete. The trustworthy woman demonstrates integrity through how she handles prosperity. Because abundance tends to reveal our true value system. 1 Corinthians 10, 1 through 10 talks about how we should, what happens when we have excess. A trustworthy lifestyle includes the nurturing of security, love, service, limits, freedom, enjoyment, faith, and encouragement. Those under the leadership of a trustworthy woman are challenged to reach their full potential. She understands she has the ability to feed or starve their character and thus handles this privilege with trust. through the strength of the Holy Spirit. If you are not married or do not have children, think then who is dependent on you for nurturing, for love, encouragement to reach their full potential. Are you trustworthy in that way? The fruit of trustworthiness is an understanding, encouraging, sympathetic, and tactful spirit. A trustworthy woman has the ability to retain confidences of another. Proverbs ten nineteen says, Where there are many words, transgression is unavoidable. But he who restrains his lips is wise. Again, a trustworthy woman has stability in her life based on a growing relationship with the Lord rather than strict rather than circumstances. She has the ability to resist temptation and she's dependable. Um she's trustworthy. This stability and dependability in life isn't not there because her life is stable and dependable, but because she has a growing relationship with the Lord. James 1, 5 through 6 says, Now if any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask. Who gives generously to all without finding fault? And it will be given to him. But he must ask in faith, without doubting, because he who doubts is like a wave by the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. So the trustworthy woman is stable, not tossed about by the wind. Principle three of a wise woman, she's energetic. I'm going to read you several verses from Proverbs 31 about the Proverbs 31 woman. She looks for wool and flax, works with her hands in delight. She is like merchant ships. She brings her food from afar. She rises also while it is still night, and gives food to her household and portions to her maidens. She considers the field and buys it From her earnings she plants a vineyard, she stretches out her hands to the distaff and her hands grasp the spindle. She makes linen garments and sells them, and supplies belts to the tradesmen She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. So, being energetic suggests strength or power efficiently exerted. A wise woman knows her strengths and her weaknesses. She develops her talents. She is a worker, not a shirker She works willingly with her hands and sets an example for others by her personal and physical involvement in the management of her home In this passage in Proverbs, we see the wise woman training her servants, supervising their tasks, actively involved in her well-managed household, making fabric and garments of construction, trading in the marketplace, and ministering to others. So how does this translate to the modern woman? Must we all stay home and make bread and sew curtains and clothes for merchants? Although not a bad skill to know and master, that's not how we apply this passage. The modern wise woman is an energetically hard worker who does not find artful ways of getting out of hard tasks. Instead, she's enthusiastically looking for ways to serve. She has the same mind as Christ, and she cares much more about those who are around her and under her care. That could be her children, her husband, her sisters in Christ, here I hope Bible Church. I admit it's exhausting hearing that list of what the Proverbs 31 woman does. I also admit it seems that my generation, this culture, is work shy. The pressures and stresses are there and they are different. But if we think about our generations before this, our mothers and grandmothers did work much harder than we work ourselves. The wise woman here is a great example. We don't have to always be happy papy bubbly tudbly. That's not the energetic. But the energetic is that we want to work for our Lord and we look for ways to serve and use the talents that He's got. given us. Principle four. Physically fit. She guards herself with strength and makes her arms strong. Proverbs 311. Well, you can hardly go anywhere in our culture without being reminded of the benefits of physical fitness, but the biblical application of physically fit can be summed up in three words. Our authors give us three words. Suitable proper and fit. Suitable meaning it guides her in the selection of physical toning activities that prepare her to fulfill the demands of her life. So suitable activities for the demands of her life. Proper encourages her to select activities that are dictated by good judgment. And then fit expands the definition to challenge her to possess the qualifications necessary to meet conditions, circumstances, purposes, or demands of her life So the Proverbs 31 wise woman is physically fit because of the rigorous work she does to maintain a well-run home, not so that she can fit into a certain pair of jeans or a deadlift of certain weight. 1 Timothy 4. 8 says bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things. A wise woman is not only physically fit, but she knows how to balance physical and spiritual fitness. Here are some guidelines to help us find that balance. First, we need to have a realistic attitude towards our personal capabilities God provides health boundaries to assist us in being sensible about the responsibilities we assume. Just because we can perform a skill doesn't mean we necessarily should Acknowledge that your body is the temple number two. Acknowledge that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, and it is your responsibility to make your body a fit dwelling place for him. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 through 20 Number three, realize that you must be healthy in order to perform your duties efficiently. Romans 12, 1 through 2. And four, understand the importance of recreation to maintain a healthy body. Mark 6. 31 and Luke 9. 10 are examples of where Christ was sensitive to his disciples' need for rest. We can adopt our Lord's model and be sensitive to recreation and rest to maintain a healthy body. And accept we can also need to accept the fact that sometimes others can, but I cannot. It is an exercise in futility to compare our capabilities with others. You have been fearfully and wonderfully made, limitations included. Lastly, we need to have a clear perspective regarding our body, how it cycles, wisely in accommodating this ebb and flow. The wise woman balances the care of her home with the care of her body. to avoid becoming a worried, frazzled, and defensive woman who just sacrifices herself on the altar of service and physical fitness. So it's not about having strong arms and big muscles, but it's being fit in order to serve the Lord. Principle five. We see that the Proverbs 31 woman is economical. It says in verse 18, she senses that her gain is good, and her lamp does not go out at night. Well, sensing that her gain is good means that profit is good. She's working towards making gain or profit in her life To do this, she has to economize. She has to budget. The quality of being economical challenges us to refrain from wasting time, money, fuel, or any of the other resources the Lord has given us. Application of the principle of being economical ensures that she operates her home on a budget, a plan for spending and time, and that monthly it balances with not too little or too much left at the end of the month. The wise woman perceives that her merchandise is good. We see in uh there in the verse that she sees it as good. She recognizes quality when she sees it, and she knows when she's received a good deal, and she can find the bargains. She knows her budget, she knows her need, quality, and can procure within. We need to remember that all resources are a gift from the Lord to be used carefully. 1 Timothy 6. 17 says, Instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited, or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but fix their hope on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy. So keep in mind, God does not love the poor and hate the rich. Our society tells us the rich are evil, but the Bible does not say that, nor does it even discourage increasing personal wealth. However, the wise woman, who is economical, does not budget and bargain hunt in order to store up money for herself, but in order to have stewardship. She is gracious and generous with her possessions and generous to those who are in need. Psalm 1126 says, He who withholds grain, the people will curse him. But blessing will be on the head of him who sells it. So the economical wise woman possesses an attitude of contentment. Wealth is not the source of her contentment. First Timothy six, six through eight says, Godliness actually is a means of great gain when accompanied with contentment. For we have brought nothing into the world, so we cannot take out of it either. If we have food and covering, with these we shall be content. So she is humble like the Lord and does not trust in her wealth for security. Also it says, her lamp does not go out at night. Now this is Frequently misunderstood. This does not mean she is up all night long and never sleeps. This means she has budgeted enough money and purchased enough oil to keep her lamps fully supplied all through the night No sudden shutoff of the electricity because she forgot to pay the electric bill or she did not purchase enough oil or misused the money. So economical is our fifth point. But our sixth, we see of the woman here in Proverbs 31, is unselfish. It says in verses 19 through 20, she stretches out her hands to the distaff, and her hands grasp the spindle, and she extends her hands to the poor, and stretches out her hands to the needy. Well, uh a staff and a spindle are tools used for weaving to uh fabric or we weaving wool and flax into fabric Um and that's not a tool that we commonly use here, although Sarah Irvine on she's got a a a weave, but anyway. Umfish To be selfish means having such regard for one's own interests and advantage that the happiness and the welfare of others become of little concern. Selfishness stems from pride, and is the first in the list of sins most hated by God in Proverbs 6, 16 through 19. I'm just going to read that one 'cause it's a a sobering list. There are six things which the Lord hates. Yes, seven which are an abomination to him. Haughty eyes, prize. A lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies, and one who spreads strife among the brothers An example of selfishness we have actually in history. During an excavation of the Roman city of Pompeii, which was completely covered and fossilized at the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, there is a perfectly preserved Fossil of a woman racing towards the city gate. Her feet are pointed in the direction of the city gate, but her body is twisted, reaching for something behind her. Now, as a human being, I think I would be reaching for my son, I'd be reaching for a loved one, but she is frozen, perfectly reached, and frozen is what she was reaching for. It's a bag of pearls. It's written about her in history. Though death was hard at her heels, and life was beckoning to her beyond the city gates, she could not shake off the spell of the pearls. But it was not the eruption of Vesuvius that made her love pearls more than life. It just froze her in this attitude of greed Ladies, anything can fuel these flames of excessive desire and greed, and it can destroy a woman. It might not be pearls for you. It surely is not for me. But the wise woman who lives by the principle that she is not satisfied with what she has, not the wise woman, the woman who lives by the principle that if she is not satisfied with what she has, will never be satisfied with what she wants. The biblically mature woman has a character that is free from selfishness. She is not busy, so busy with her own affairs that she's unable to assist others. When the Bible says the Proverbs 31 woman uses the spindle and a staff, these were the tools of her day to make fibers and to provide for her family and for those less fortunate for her. But what are the tools of our day, of your day? Is it your phone, your computer, the food processor, the oven, the washing machine? Maybe your sewing machine. We have examples of women in our church that use the sewing machine to provide masks for many during this time of COVID. Could be your vehicle, your lawnmower, anything. What are the tools right now? The mature godly woman is both active and passive in using the tools of her day. She gives when she is asked and is sensitive to offer assistance when she is not asked. She is like Dorcas in the New Testament, who was full of good works and charitable deeds which she did. You can read about her in Acts 9. The Proverbs 31 woman further demonstrates unselfishness and her willingness to share her time with others. In order to provide all of these materials for others, she had to give up her time. In this day and age, our time is our most precious commodity. Many are willing to pay as much money as it takes to preserve their time. The highest compliment, though, we can pay to another is when we unselfishly give of our time. Notice the Proverbs 31, wise woman is reaching out her hands to serve. She's not sitting idly back, waiting to be asked. She's looking for ways to use her time. Although we have a particular responsibility to those in our immediate family who are immediately dependent upon us, we should not show favor to who we help and assist. James 2, 1 through 13. shows that the Lord requests that we give to all and seek wisdom from the Lord as we give our talents to others. So unselfish. Our wise woman that pleases the Lord is unselfish. The seventh principle of the woman that pleases the Lord is she's prepared. It says in verses 21 through 22 and in verse 27, She is not afraid of snow for her household. For all her household are clothed with scarlet. She makes a tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine, linen and purple. She watches over the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. Well, most of us are not afraid of snow. Um, some are, but snow could have been devastating to the Proverbs 31 woman. during her time. Could have ruined their flock, destroyed materials their you know, in the d the the house that they were living in could have been unprepared to keep the heat in. But her family is closed not just in the winter clothes, but scarlet winter clothes, which was an incredibly expensive fabric. And she makes a tapestry. Tapestries were used to hang on the wall in order to keep heat in and keep cold out So she's preparing for this time. Uh we could define preparedness this way. Putting events objects or people in order. We're preparing and putting everything in order. Or to make something suitable and receptive. We're preparing by making it suitable and receptive. Now, think for a moment, do you ever feel like you are just moving from crisis to crisis? You're just running around playing whack-a-mole on all the burning fires of your life Well, it is not so with this godly woman of wisdom. The wise woman demonstrates planning and foresight that equip her for unforeseen circumstances rather than living from crisis to crisis She is not just prepared physically from her body and preparing her household. The snow is going to come. We should be prepared. But she's also prepared spiritually. She is economical and builds a financial reserve for the financial challenges and a spiritual reserve for the emotional challenges. The prophet Jeremiah refers to the person who trusts in the Lord as being prepared. Jeremiah 17, 7 through 8, says, Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence is in him. He is like a tree planted by the waters that sends out its roots towards the stream. It does not fear when the heat comes and its leaves are always green. It does not worry in the year of drought, nor does it cease to produce fruit. Ladies, the heat will come. The crisis will come. The drought will come. It is certain. However, there is a lack of fear when one is prepared, both spiritually and physically. Now, this doesn't give us yet another reason to worry. Now we have to be anxious about how we prepare. Charles Hummel has written a mercifully small book called The Tyranny of the Urgent. And this is a quote from that book. If we continue in the word of our Lord, we are truly his disciples, and he will free us from the tyranny of the urgent. He will free us to do the important, which is the will of God. So the wise woman will refuse to allow the urgence to take place of the important in her life You see, God and His priorities are her singular focus and priority. And the only way to know these priorities of God and to be spiritually prepared for the crisis is to be firmly planted by the streams of living water, meaning daily drawing on the means of grace in your life. Scripture reading, meditation, memorization, prayer, involvement in the church body with your fellow sisters. So prepared. Our eighth principle of our wise woman is honorable. It says in verse 25, strength and dignity are her clothing, and she smiles at the future. Being honorable is synonymous with having integrity, and is seen in others' high regard or respect of this wise woman The honorable woman possesses a strong biblical sense of right and wrong, and her moral uprightness is apparent to all. This is the woman we all know not to gossip around, not to have a wrong word slip around, not because she's gonna thump us over the head with the Bible, but because her goodness is infectious and her integrity is known to all 1 Peter 3, 3 through 4 describes that her outer adorning, the holiness you see outside, complements the inward qualities of holiness and honorability. 1 Thessalonians 5. 22 writes, She abstains from every appearance of evil. And in Proverbs 14 and Matthew 7, they describe a woman who possesses strong convictions of right and wrong. And Psalm 119, 11, and verse 105 write that those convictions are based upon biblical principles rather than cultural trends. If married, the honorable woman's high standard of behavior make a significant contribution to her husband's position. And f and she functions as a helpmeet and determines to never be an embarrassment to him or an hindrance to her husband. In Proverbs 12, 4, it says, An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones. So the honorable woman acquires a stable, honest reputation. Strength and honor accompany her in her business practices, whether in her work world, at home, or in her ministry at the church. Desiring to walk worthy of her calling, she leads a life that brings glory and honor to God. Humility, unselfishness, gentleness, mildness, patience Bearing with others and making allowances for others are characteristics of an honorable godly behavior. The honorable woman has control of her own body, recognizing that her body belongs to Christ and is a temple literally inhabited by the Holy Spirit. She has not given in to sexual temptation or to impurity and is welcoming of the accountability of her body of Christ. So, principle nine. So honorable was Principle 8. Principle 9. She is prudent. It says in verse 26, she opens her mouth in wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. Now, prudent is not prudish. That's very different. The quality of prudent implies wisdom, careful consideration of consequences. especially in the application of the use of our tongue. The wise woman's speech exhibits good judgment and discretion Colossians 4. 6 writes, Let your speech always be with grace, as though seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should respond to each person. Rather than being too aggressive or bossy, gentleness and compassion characterize her words and her speech. She possesses the ability to be kind, but also very firm. as well as the ability to maintain confidence. Prudence, her wisdom, makes her trust ready. Also, truthfulness is evidence in her relationships with others. And her prudence teaches her that what she meditates on means spends time thinking about and filling her mind with, that's what's going to emerge in her speech. So she's careful with what she meditates on and fills her mind. In family relationships, she's quick to give honor to her parents, regardless of fault or sin. She refuses to discredit her husband's character in front of others. She speaks with firmness that is balanced with kindness and gentleness to her children. Her conversations are characterized by asking herself these questions before speaking Is it kind? Is it necessary? Is it true? Is it gossip? Meaning, is she sharing private information with those who are not part of the solution? And lastly, am I defending my own opinion rather than listening to the individual? The prudent woman opens her mouth in wisdom with the teaching of kindness on her lips. This means she chooses to make encouragement a regular part of her speech and lifestyle because it's a spiritual concept. We can often not encourage people because we misunderstand what encouragement is. It's not simply an atta girl or great job. Encouragement inspires others with renewed courage of spirit and hope. It affirms individuals for who they are rather than simply what they do. For instance, Proverbs 25. 11 teaches us the value of appropriate words, like apples of gold and settings of silver, is a word spoken in right circumstances. So well, here are some ways to provide biblical encouragement. We can bestow notes or small gifts at unexpected times I know that was going a lot uh was going on a lot during the COVID times. Um, we can comment on desirable character qualities. Notice not, are you looking so thin? But character qualities um like punctuality or good attitude. Uh calling someone with specific encouragement oriented purposes. complimenting someone on a job well done, supporting someone who is hurting, choosing to use confrontation in the appropriate manner, rather than just as a Christian way of telling someone off or getting what you want. So prudence is the is the adjudication of wisdom at just the right um circumstances. Principle 10. She is lovable. It says in verses 28 through 29, her children rise up and bless her. Her husband also, and he praises her, saying, Many daughters have done nobly, but you excel them all. Well, this means the wise woman possesses a sense of kindness and generosity an intense love for others, including her family, her parents, husband, children, her friends, and extended relations, and she has a steadfast commitment to her Heavenly Father. The Proverbs 31 woman concentrated her domestic efforts first on her family, and the results can be seen in their high praise and evaluation of her. Her husband and children spontaneously cheer her on. So, if you are married, the lovable woman works creatively with her husband. She knows him well enough to respect and honor him, as well as to be his helpmate and friend. For those of you with children at home, there was something in the book written that I wanted to share here. It's taking 1 Corinthians 13 and applying it as a mom. Um, so here it's a it's a fun, encouraging read. If I talk to my children about what is right and what is wrong, but I have not love, I am like a ringing doorbell or pot banging in the kitchen And though I know what stages they will go through, and I understand their growing pains, and can answer all their questions about life, and I believe myself to be a devoted mother But if I have not love, I have nothing. If I give up the fulfillment of a career to make my children's lives better and stay up all night sewing costumes or baking cookies at short notice but then grumble about lack of sleep. I have not love, and have accomplished nothing. A loving mother is patient with her children's immaturity, and kind even when they are not A loving mother is not jealous of their use, nor does she hold it over their heads when she has sacrificed for them. A loving mother believes in her children. She hopes in each one's individual ability to stand out as a light in a dark world. She endures every backache to accomplish that. A loving mother never really dies. As for home-baked bread, it'll be consumed and quickly forgotten. As for spotless floors, they will soon gather dust and heel marks As for children, right now, toys, friends, and food are all important to them. But when they grow up, it will be their mother's love that they will remember and pass on to others. And that way, she will live on. So, care, training, and a loving mother reside in a home. These three, but the greatest of these is a loving mother. We should be encouraging, you may not be a mother, but you can be a spiritual mentor and apply these same principles. And we should be encouraging one another frequently to be this kind. of mothers and spiritual mothers to our children. Not hairy, fragbled, stressed, annoyed, put upon, complaining, short tempered, or grumbling or absent mothers. The lovable mother also trains her children well by practicing child-rearing principles based on God's Word. Like it says in Deuteronomy 6, 6 through 7. These words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your sons, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down. If she is without physical children, the woman can show a character of lovableness as a spiritual mentor. And she's often faced with the same decisions. of discerning her level of involvement in professional and ministry opportunities. Women who are empty nesters also fit into this category. All women must seek to concentrate their efforts to love those around them. Everyone has a limited time, and a lovable woman prioritizes people in ministry over other areas of her life. The most meaningful affirmation a Christian woman can receive is from those who know her and love her best. And we see that when these husband when the husband and children rise up and call her blessed. Our last principle is that of God-fearing. Our woman is wise when she is God-fearing. It says in verse 30, Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord shall be praised. Fearing God means a reverential trust in God, including the hatred of evil. Romans 12, 9 says, abhor what is evil, cling to that which is good. The God-fearing woman develops values that are based on the Word of God. And she lives out the principles of God-fearing with honor, respect, and worship of love for her Lord with all her heart. So practical applications for this in a godly lifestyle means a God-fearing woman has an individual hunger and thirst after God. It says in Psalms 41, As the deer pants for the water books, so my soul pants for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, the living water, when I shall come and appear before God. She, another God-fearing woman, uh has a willingness to possess an attitude of submission to God's wills and his ways. We see that in James 4. 7. The God-fearing woman has a consistent evaluation of her spiritual condition. 1 Corinthians 11, 31 through 32. A God-fearing woman has a determination to make spiritual principles a priority in her life. Matthew 6. 33. She also has a refusal to slump into a monotonous devotion routine. And lastly, she has a focus on the strength found in the joy of the Lord, Nehemiah 8. 10. The God-fearing woman can look in First Corinthians ten to the Israelites as an example of how not to behave. These we read there the Israelites craved evil things, were idolatrous, began practicing immorality, took God's goodness for granted, became cynical and negative, and in the midst of God's best blessing, they became cool, distant, indifferent. Not suddenly, but slowly, the keen edge of enthusiasm became dull. So the God-fearing woman acknowledges the traps. and avoids them. She's careful to learn from the example of these disobedient, lazy Jews during Moses' time. So what is the reward with of these 11 principles? What's the reward? Well, it says in verse 25 and 31, strength and dignity are her clothing and she smiles at the future. And they give her the product of her hands and let her works praise her in the gates. As believers, we know that our ultimate reward is waiting for us in heaven. It is a crown, and we will be rewarded by our Savior. But there are many earthly rewards we can expect and receive if we pursue the wisdom and example of the wise woman here in Proverbs 31. If we are virtuous, we can expect to receive an unobstructed relationship with our Heavenly Father, and blessings from the Lord, and righteousness from God in our salvation, and the assurance that our influence will never die. If we're trustworthy, our husband will trust us. Others will trust us. We'll have a trustworthy reputation. And confidence that as she walks uprightly, our Heavenly Father will provide grace and glory in all that is good for us. If we are energetic, the reward will be we'll have our family benefits from our business endeavors. We will enjoy professional and spiritual stimulation. and we will be exempt from reaping the fruit of slothfulness seen in Proverbs 19, 15. The reward of being physically fit is we can enjoy the tasks we undertake to our their fullest potential. Our body is an appropriate dwelling place for the Holy Spirit, and we will avoid the type of judgment and announcement that God executed on the women of Judah in Isaiah 3, 16 through 26 for their laziness. If we're economical, we will embrace a spiritual attitude toward money and material possessions. We won't be worried. They will be in their proper place. We will experience the joy of generosity. We will perceive our purchases are sound. We won't have any guilty shopping retail therapy. Or buyer's remorse. If we're unselfish, we have the joy of giving to others with the right attitude when we know this is pleasing to the Lord. And we will enjoy the fruit of giving to others If we are prepared, that means we will meet the design of God's plan for our life. And we will be an authentic role model for others. And we will be free from frustration, stress, and regret. honorable, then our moral integrity will allow us to reflect fulfillment later in life as we look back onto our life. And we will not see a life wasted or filled with remorse of sin. We will behave in a way that reflects our position as a daughter of God's royal family, and we'll have confidence that our convictions are based on biblical principles rather than cultural trends. If we are prudent, then people will be willing to confide in us and trust us to retain their confidences. Others will seek and follow our advice. And we'll have the privilege of encouraging and affirming others. If we're lovable, we'll enjoy healthy, growing love relationships with first with the Lord And then the individuals that are closest to us will love, honor, respect, and praise us. And we will live in such a way as to be an example to the younger women. And if we are God-fearing, then we will be a positive role model because of our faith. And we will enjoy the benefits of learning from the experiences of others, and we will be counted as a faithful servant when we see the Lord. The motive for cultivating these 11 principles is to glorify God and to hear our Heavenly Father say, Well done, good and faithful servant. and then to cast our rewards down at the feet of our Savior. These are our true eternal rewards for our earthly pursuit of wisdom and godliness. So in conclusion, the wise woman who pleases God focuses on developing that which is truly permanent and noteworthy of the character of a godly woman How should we apply this to our lives? Well, first, my ladies, is the gospel. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. If you have not submitted to Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, trying to put on these attributes will be the most frustrating endeavor of your life The only way to become a wise woman that pleases God is to serve the one who is the beginning of all wisdom. You must first be made alive in Christ, submit to his authority and rule over your life, and be made a new woman through his regenerating work before you can show fruits of righteousness and wisdom in your life If you are unsure of your salvation, please talk to your discussion group leader or me. We would love to listen to you and lead you to the feet of our Savior Jesus Christ. For the women who have been made new in Christ already, well, we must consistently grow in conformity to his image. John one twelve says, But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name. Little children my son is doing this now, he's hit this age, are always checking their height against another. How how high have they grown that You know how much it's summer, we're back to school, look how much I grew. We're always checking and comparing how much they've grown. Have you checked recently how much you've grown? to the conformity of the image of Christ. How do you compare for where you were two years ago, five years ago, ten years ago? We that we need to be constantly growing and comparing ourselves to the image of Christ not others to Christ. Number three, we need to actively pursue the application of these biblical principles into our life Psalm 197 says, The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul, and the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. We are simple and need to be made wise. So we need to actively seek for ways to implement and apply these scriptures in our every-minute day-to-day life. Also, we need to pursue and model godly character. Please read Psalm 84 and Psalm 145 later. And then ask yourself, do you purpose to act godly around those closest to you. Not on Sunday morning, but on those closest to you. Your husband, your children, your besties, those in church, the strangers on the road, those that don't know you that know you the best. We need to model godly character to them. And lastly, we need to avoid comparing ourselves with others and refuse to discouragement in the growth process. Philippians 3, 13 through 14 says, brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet. But one thing I do know Forgetting what lies behind me, reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on towards a goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. It can be discouraging when you look to someone and say, They're so much further along in their walk than me. And you can say, why am I not that way? Why am I not it it's everyone walks towards Christlikeness at a different pace and a different journey. We should not compare to others And and we shouldn't be discouraged. I wish I were growing faster. I should be further along in my faith than I am now. Well it might be true. But Paul says here, I I don't regard myself as having laid hold of it. I'm not there yet, he says I but I press on. And that's what we need. Don't be discouraged at where you are. Just press on. The Lord will grow you. When you stand before the Lord, you will be compared not to the women around you, but to the Lord Jesus Christ. Seek to compare yourself only to him and imitate him and he will work in you and he will grow you in his time to produce fruits of godliness.