Let us open the precious book once again to the Gospel of John, the book of blessing for those who hear and believe. We continue in our exposition of this great chapter, John chapter 17. I'll read verses 1 through 5. We'll focus on verses 2 through 5 today. Please follow along as you read and We're just saying, I love you Lord, I hope that what you hear will make you, cause you to love the Lord more. Jesus spoke these things, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you. Even as you gave him authority over all flesh, that to all whom you have given him, he may give eternal life. This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I glorified you on the earth. Having accomplished the work which you have given me to do, now, Father, glorify me together with yourself. With the glory which I had with you before the world was. It's hard to preach this chapter because You can never do it service. It's so rich, it's so deep. God doesn't give us in this chapter anything light and airy. Nothing trite, nothing common, nothing quick to read through. Instead, he gives us substantial nutrition for our minds and for our souls We mentioned last Lord's Day that this is really a plunge into the very mind of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. If you want to understand him and what he loved and what he was about, you read it right here. It's really a privileged opportunity to witness the holy communion that God the Son has with his Father, how he speaks to his Father, what he would say to his Father. It comes to the very heart of our understanding of Christ and then our motives in following Christ as well. We learned last week that we're witnessing here inter-Trinitarian talk. The unique Son of God, the only begotten Son of God, presents his earnest pleas and petitions to his father just hours before he is to be arrested and the night before his crucifixion. There's really no other chapter in all the Bible like it. It's a chapter that presents to us a pure heavenly perspective about life. We get involved in all the things going on on earth, indeed we have to to an extent, but then we lose focus, and this gives us This is the way we are to think. We're to be pursuing the glory of the Father in obedience to his will. And we hear the Son speaking of that right here. When God speaks to God, one person of the Godhead speaks to another person of the Godhead. All of creation should close its mouth and hush and just listen. It's a rare opportunity. I pray I just pray as I've prayed for this message and this whole series really that your hearts will soak it in. Sometimes the application isn't give me three things to do to improve my Christian walk. It's just Sit and listen and love God and learn to have a heart that loves God. This prayer marks a transition point in the ministry of Jesus. He's he's turning his face now towards leaving his disciples and he is heading towards being our heavenly priest. We call Jesus King he is. We call him prophet he is. The third office sometimes people forget about is that he is priest. He is Prophet, priest, and king. The book of Hebrews speaks much about the high priestly role of Jesus Christ. In chapter 4, verse 14, it says, We have a great high priest. who has passed through the heavens, and then it names him, Jesus the Son of God. The Son of God now becomes our priest. He's interceding for us, and he's going to take a position where he will always make intercession for us Hebrews again, chapter seven, verses twenty-three through twenty-five adds this. The former priests, that is the priests in Israel existed in greater numbers because they were prevented by death from continuing. But Jesus, on the other hand, because he abides forever, holds his priesthood Permanently. Hence he is able to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. That's great. He's always living He's always making intercession for us. We can always draw near to him. So it's a privileged position we have, not only to listen to the words, but realize who it is who's praying for us and what position that gives us to God. We have a high priest. He's risen all the way to the heavens, whatever stratosphere there is, and he just keeps going. He's gone to the highest of the heavens. And he sat down in the most privileged position in the universe. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. And he is there thinking of us and praying for us. Who would want someone like that praying for them? But in the first five verses of this prayer The true Lord's Prayer, Jesus begins by praying for himself. For himself. His request is stated plainly, verse 1: Father, glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you. We covered that last week in great detail. Jesus asked for glory. He asked the Father to glorify him. And he based his request on the fact that the hour that he was predestined in coming into the world To be glorified, that hour in human history had finally arrived. This refers, obviously, from the context to the hour of his death and his resurrection. Rather than glorifying himself at this moment, he asked the Father to glorify him in order that he might return the glory back to the Father. See, proud people seek their own glory. Christ said, Father, you glorify me, and I will bring back the glory to you. This is the hour. It was absolutely no accident at all when Jesus Christ went to the cross some of the crazy renditions of why Christ was crucified from folks that can't read the scriptures, I guess, because it's as plain as day. No, Christ was not surprised by the cross. He was not defeated by the cross. He came into the world knowing about the cross. The cross for him was victory. It was how he fulfilled God's will. It is how he saved men. It is how he glorified his Father It was not a surprise event. It was all designed by God and He knew. What we learn of Christ here is that He longed for glory. Isn't that interesting? We know he humbled himself, but in his heart he longed for glory. Glory. It means splendor. It means honor. It means the display of one's character so that others can see who you are and then glory in that. It's the revealing of who Jesus was in his being, in his majesty, who he actually was, not who people were saying he was. His attributes on display, the perfections of his person being shown in brilliant light so that all could rejoice in him. Glorify me, Father, together with thyself. Christ's desire was to be known, to be known as he truly was, so that he could fully make known the splendor of his own Father. Jesus lived with a passion for the coming glory and for glorifying his Heavenly Father. Really, this ought to be our desire. To glorify God. We think about our lives. What's God's purpose for your life? What should I do in my life? It's really the same for all of us. We find the way in which we can glorify God. Bring honor and splendor to the God of the Bible. So that all attention and honor and credit and acclaim and accolades all go back to him. And we're just a prop, but he's the one on stage, you see. That should be our desire. We want to make him known. We get an opportunity for evangelism. You ought to jump out of your seats because that's an opportunity to make the name of Christ known. Get past your worries, get past your fears. You past your doubts, how God will use you, and just get ready to glorify him. When it's time to sing of his praises, there ought to be something that cranks up inside of you that says, Now is the time my vocal cord should be used the best. And to sing for him, glorify him. And in everything that we do, as Paul says, whether we eat or drink, do all to what? The glory of God, right? Now focus in on verses 2 through 5, because here we see three ways that Jesus glorified the Father, and He's giving these in His prayer. Because these are the reasons why the Father should answer his petition in verse 1. Glorify me that I may glorify you. Here are the ways I have glorified you on earth. First, it's mentioned in verses two and three by providing eternal life. We'll spend the longest amount of time there. And then second, by finishing God's work, verse 4. And if we get to it third by returning to the Father, verse 5. Let's consider each of these and just ask you to think carefully about them First, Jesus glorified the Heavenly Father by providing eternal life. Look again in verses 2 and 3. He said, Even as you gave him authority over all flesh, that's all whom you have given him, he may give eternal life. This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Please notice in verse one the connection. Glorify me that I may glorify you. That's verse one. And then we come into verse two. Even as you gave the Son authority. to give eternal life. In other words, when the Son of God gives eternal life to people, to men, that granting of life to them glorifies God the Father. That's the connection. That was the plan all along. The Father sent the Son of God into the world and gave the Son of God authority to bestow eternal life on certain ones. So that in giving those ones eternal life, that granting of life to them would glorify God the Father. And of course the cross of Jesus had much to do with that. For by his dying on the cross, Jesus was giving his life for the lives of others, his perfect life for those imperfect lives, his sinless life for our sinful lives. It was the exchange. He gave his life that men may have eternal life. The penalty for sin is what? Death, right? And it ends up being eternal death if people will not turn from their sins and believe in the Savior Christ. They'll enter into eternity dead and that will stay perpetually that way, and the punishments and the consequences that go along with that, they will be eternally dead. And so by paying the penalty of death on the cross, he took away that penalty, that divine penalty that we deserve, so that then we could have imparted to us a life, and not just a life, but eternal life. Our getting eternal life, this this is interesting because we're so humanistic and we're so so self-centered in our thinking. We even think that our getting saved is really all about us And it really isn't. Our getting saved and Christ granting us life was primarily about God getting glory for that Yeah, we're happy we don't go to hell. Yeah, we're happy we're not dead in our trespasses and sins anymore, and that God has opened our lives. Not taking away from that, but the primary reason was not that. It wasn't really first and foremost about us It was about God getting glory. It was about his glory. It's all God-centered in the Bible, you see. Notice the progression in verse 2. There are really four progressive steps, sort of an outline inside of an outline here. Four progressive steps that all lead toward God's glory. Let's just think on these. First, the first step. The Father gave some people to the Son as a gift. Look at verse 2 again. To all whom you have given the Son, he that is the Son may give eternal life. So there's certain people, not all people. Certain people in this world of humanity who are gifts from God the Father to God the Son. Fathers can give gifts to the sons, right? Certain people are given as gifts to This truth is emphatic in the passage, actually, actually, five times in this entire prayer Jesus refers to his own disciples, not Judas, who's departed, but to the eleven, as those whom the Father gave to him. That's how he viewed them. The ones that believed in him were the ones the Father gave to him. He speaks of this in verse 2, and in verse 9, and in verse 24, and in verse 6, he mentions it twice. In fact, look at verse 6 a moment. He says, I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. So there's the world of humanity, and he gives some, God the Father gives some to God the Son. And it goes on and it says, they were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. What does that mean? Well, some people interpret this to mean that every time someone believes in Jesus for salvation, that is when God gives them as a gift to the Son. But as you read this, you and I both know it can't mean that. That has the order of events completely reversed, doesn't it? Jesus says in verse 6 that they first belong to who? God the Father, right? And then verse 2 says that the Father then gave them to the Son, or gave the Son the right to give them eternal life, and then Jesus gave them that light. See, first they were chosen or owned by the Father, and then they were given to the Son, so that the Son would then give them life. That's the order. And nobody, there's no hint at all of anybody being lost in this process. Everyone the Father gives to the Son as a gift, the Father then grants them life, and indeed they get life. There's not some in that category, but all in that category. Who get life. That points clearly to our election by God the Father in eternity past. Our election listen our election in eternity past results in our regeneration in space and time now. Not the other way around. God didn't look into the future to see who would believe in him. He chose who would believe in him, and in space and time they came to do that. Certainly it is our responsibility to believe, and there's always a mystery in how these doctrines fit together in Scripture, but then that's not new to any of us as we try to reconcile a number of things that are beyond our ability to do that. It is our responsibility. Every person is commanded to repent of their sin and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. But the driving cause and reason and power behind your faith is not you or your will or your insight, but God the Father. Who granted your faith and granted you to come to the Son. No one gets saved because of a choice of their own will. It starts with God's sovereign will That's what a sovereign will means, that his will always accomplishes what he desires. That's the first step. The second step in this verse is that the Father then gave the Son authority to give these particular ones eternal life. Let's focus on that truth. Look at the first part of verse 2 again. Even as you, this is the Father, gave him the Son of God, authority over all of humanity, that to all whom you have given him he may give eternal life. So the word flesh there Refers to human flesh, not talking about the salvation of animals here. And so the verse says that Jesus has authority over every human being. And he uses that authority to impart life, not to everyone. Please notice, read it carefully, but to whom? To the same ones whom the Father gave him. Earlier in this gospel, in chapter 5, verse 21, Jesus said, For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. He has that authority. The Son of God has that authority. That's the second step. Let's go to the third step that brings God glory here. It's also in verse 2. The Son then gives those men eternal life. Eternal life. That's what it says in verse 2. Well, we go back in the gospel, we see that this is again true. Chapter 6 and verse 27, Jesus said, Do not work for the food. which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man that's a reference to himself So it's the Son of Man who grants and gives eternal life. The Son of Man is the Son of God. Okay? Also, if we were to rewind a little bit and look back in the Gospel of John, chapter 10, verses 27 and 28, Jesus said there, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them. And they follow me, and I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish. What is eternal life? Well it's the kind where you never perish. That's easy, isn't it, to interpret that? You never perish. People say, can you lose your salvation? Well how can you have eternal life if it's not eternal? And how can you have eternal life if you perish? It makes no sense. They're not reading. In John 6 verse 37, Jesus said, The one who comes to me, that is, comes to me in faith, that might be you this morning. You might be like, I might I want to come to Christ in faith Or maybe you thought you had in an earlier time in your life and you know you really haven't. You know you didn't really take Christ seriously. Jesus said the one who comes to me, I will certainly not cast out. If you're wondering whether or not am I one of those chosen people, you never even have to worry about that. You just come. You just come. And Jesus said, if you come to me, I will certainly emphasize that, not cast you out. He will receive you So the Father gave Jesus the authority to give life, and then Jesus gives life to all who came to him, no exceptions. He casts out nobody If they came to him in faith, he receives them and he gives them eternal life. You say, wait a minute, wait a minute. You just told us that Jesus only gave life to those whom the Father gave to him to come. And now you're telling us that he gave life to anyone who came to him. That's right, you're listening. That's correct. That's exactly what it says. I want you to turn to John 6 again just for a moment. Keep your finger in John 17. We'll be right back. John 6. 37 fills in some of the missing details, some of the missing information. How does this work? John six thirty-seven. You know you can highlight this, underline it. This is an important verse. All that the Father gives me will what come to me. There's the missing information So Jesus gives life to everyone that the Father gives him, right. And he receives everyone who comes to him, right. How does that work together? Verse thirty-seven. All that the Father You see? You see how it works? The Father has some, He grants them, they come in faith. Jesus receives, gives them life. It's that simple That's a that's the order. That's the way it is. God is sovereign in his ways. God is not up there hoping more and more people will get saved. He already knows the number that are going to be saved. He's already ordained everything. God's not trying to work hard because it's not working out real well and the devil's getting most of the people. That's not how God thinks. He's sovereign All the ones he determined to give to the Son come to the Son, period. His sovereign and his will. What he wants works its way into human history and ends up becoming the will of man. And so that's what God does. He grants them the faith to come to the Son. Jesus recognized that. He knew that. In fact, while you're in John 6, actually I went back too quickly, look up at verse 44. Look at verse 44. Why don't some come? Why don't more come? Well we had this answer, verse 44. No one can come to me. John 6. 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. See, the Father draws him. That's a very strong term that word draws. It doesn't mean he encourages them to come. It means he pulls them in. And then that that is why Christ raises them up on the last day, you see? The Father makes sure that the ones that he gave to Jesus can come because apart from that no one can come because they're dead in their trespasses and sins. The others don't come because they have no ability to come because they're lost. You can't find your way when you're lost, you can't see when you're blind, you can't respond when you're dead. And all that leads to the final step, going back to John 17 here, in the way that the Father gets glory here, the fourth step, is that the giving of eternal life to these men. The giving of eternal life to these men brings God glory. Why does God get glory when one of us gets eternal life? Well, let's think about that. First of all, because now your mouth is going to give God glory, right? Now you start praising him and praying to him and telling other people about him, reading Bible verses and passing that on, memorizing scripture. Your life starts to get cleaned up. That gives God glory, right? It brings God glory because of your changed life. But it also brings God glory because you didn't get the eternal life by something that you did, right? The glory can't go to you because it wasn't your religious deeds, it wasn't your your trying to be nice to your neighbor, it wasn't because of your education, it wasn't because of anything you did You got saved as an act of mercy, God having pity on our miserable souls. So who gets the credit for that? God. God's mercy. People look at God and say he's merciful. He's glorious. He's gracious to us. He's so generous. He saves people. He gets the accolades. People, all the attention is given to him. Look at how he is. You see And that's the way it's supposed to be. The glory is not to come to us. The credit is to the Savior. In fact, Ephesians 1, verses 5 and 6 says that God predestined us. And then it if you go dot dot dot it goes to the praise of the glory of his grace. To the praise of the aura, the glory of God's grace. His grace is so wonderful, it has an aura, it has a glory to it, and we praise him for that, you see. God designed for you to have everlasting life, not just to remove pain and shame from you. Well so that everyone would be amazed if they look at your life and others like you and say, wow, God gets the glory. God's beautiful God is loving, and he gets all the glory. So the Son brought glory to God by imparting life to those men whom God gave him. Before Jesus goes on to explain the second way he brought the Father glory, he includes an explanatory comment about eternal life in verse 3. Verse 3 of John 17. Sure, Jesus grants eternal life, but what is that? Ever ask yourself that question? I mean, there's one of those words again we use in church all the time. We talked about glory last week we talked about eternal life. What's eternal life? 1 John 2. 25 says, This is the promise which God Himself has made to us, eternal life. There's a promise. Eternal life. I'm promising you eternal life. That's great. What is it? What is it? Does it mean simply to exist forever? Does it mean after we die, the soul leaves the body and it gets to continue to exist? Is that what eternal life means? Does it mean being stuck in the wheel of reincarnation? Over and over and over, coming back into this world. Is that eternal life? Does it mean the soul just gets to go to be with God in heaven? What does it mean? Well, eternal life, let's start with what it doesn't mean. Does not merely mean endless existence. It doesn't mean when you die, the soul lives on. That's not what it means. Otherwise, we'd have to say that everybody has eternal life, right? Because when they die, their soul goes on somewhere. It transcends the body. It departs. We can't see that with our eyes, but we understand that is true. Scripture testifies to that. In fact, in Matthew 25, 46, it says there's going to be existence beyond this life for everybody, whether they're righteous or unrighteous. You know, it's uh it's tragic that those who attempt to commit suicide think that they will escape sorrow. And pain, but no one ever passes out of existence. What an amazing sorrow they enter into in the next life trying to escape from it and jumping from the Fryer pan into the oven, as it said. Frying pan. Endless existence is not what Jesus Christ promised. We already have that You don't have to come to Christ to have endless existence. You were made in the image of God. Your soul goes on forever. So that's not eternal life What about reincarnation? There's certain religions, and you know we just sort of slur things together and we say all religions believe the same thing, and some believe in reincarnation. No, eternal life is not reincarnation. My question, first of all, to people is why would they want to be recycled back into this world anyways? Has the news gotten any better in your years that you've been here? Who wants to have life forever in this world? What a tedious existence that would be. There's a lot of problems with the idea of reincarnation. First of all, we have a population explosion, seven billion people, where do they all come from way back then? What do you got all the souls for all those people? It doesn't even logically make sense. They contradict themselves. And what about the fact that no one can remember these previous lives that they supposed to have had? I'm supposed to have a lot of them, I guess. Because I'm a human being, that means I did something right way back then. I can't remember any of 'em. I can hardly remember this life. Even the idea of reincarnation never defeats death. One's always subject to death. It's not even a great promise. You're always gonna die. You get to die zzz over and over and over again. Great. And th there's a the the biggest problem I think is just who wants to pop up in this world over and over again. I don't know what hope that is. Who wants to be potty trained every eighty years or so, or whatever it is? Really. What is the point in graduating from school if you have to go back and do it all over again? I don't know. Some people think of eternal life as floating around on a cloud with a bunch of baby angels and a halo over the head and a harp that's too small to play. And they have eternal life, but they're bored to death. That's not eternal life. Those are all things Satan says to keep people from coming to Christ to make eternal life not sound all that great. Those are all doctrines of the devil. Before we consider verse 3, I want you to turn forward to the first letter of John, 1 John. I want to clarify some things about eternal life. Let's go to chapter 5 and verse 20. Very end of this letter. 1 John, it's towards the end of your Bibles there. 1, 2, and 3 John. And uh look at chapter 5 and verse 20. We know that the Son of God has come. Now he's looking back on the coming of Christ. And has given us understanding in order that we might know Him who is true. And we are in Him who is true. In his Son, Jesus Christ, now listen to this part, this is the true God and eternal life. What does that mean? The this is means Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the true God, and Jesus Christ is the eternal life. So eternal life is not something, first of all. Eternal life is someone. Eternal life is a person. Isn't that what Jesus said? I am the way, the truth, and the what? I am the light. What is eternal life? Eternal life first is a person. He is a light. Remember what he said to Martha. You know, I know Martha said, I know my brother will be raised on the resurrection of the last day. And Jesus turns to him and says, I am the resurrection of life. He didn't say, I am able to do resurrection. He said, I am the resurrection and the life. I am life, you see. That's what Christ taught. Last now up at verse 12 in 1 John 5. Verse 12, Jesus said this here too, or is written about him too. Because Jesus is eternal life. How do we get eternal life? It only makes sense then. Look at verse 12. He who has the Son has what? Life. If he's life, and I get him, I get life. It's so simple. I love simple stuff. Then it says, Well maybe there's another way to have eternal life. So if you think there's any other way, and all roads lead to God, read this carefully. He who does not have the Son of God has another way to God. Is that what it says? Has another way of getting life. Is that what it says? Does not have the light. Does the light The life is Jesus. He is the life. He is the eternal life. He is the resurrection of life. You got him, you got life. You don't got him? You don't have life. You say, What do I have? You have death. You have existence, physical life, but in your soul you're dead before God. You're not alive. That's what you have. If Jesus is the life and you don't have Jesus, you can't have life. On the other hand, look at verse 13. These things I've written to you. To what? Believe. You believe in the name of the Son of God. I wrote this so that you will have confidence. You will know that you Not hope one day to have, but have eternal life, right? You already have the eternal life because you already have who? Christ. Eternal life is not what happens to you when you die and you go to heaven. You have it now. That's a present tense verb. Have eternal life. You possess it now If you don't have Christ, I want to say you can invite him into your life right now. He only comes in one way. He comes with you submitting to his will. He comes with you turning from sin and trusting him as Lord and Savior. If you're willing to humble yourself and ask Christ in, you'll come in right there in your seat, you can have eternal life today. It's that simple. It's granted as a gift because it can't be earned. There's nothing you can do. You can have it just like everyone else in this room. That can happen to you today. You can be born again into God's family by believing in Christ. Eternal life is the most precious possession anyone could ever have. You can have houses and land, but you'll lose them. Remember the rich fool? He had his barns weren't big enough for all the stuff he had. I'm gonna tear down my barns and I'm gonna build bigger barns. That's the solution to life. And God says, you're a fool because your life's gonna die tonight And then what are you gonna do with all your barns and everything? Someone else is gonna get it. Well you gonna get it. You're not taking a grain with you, nothing. Houses and land are nice, we work hard for them. Don't work too hard for them. You can't keep them. Gold and silver, like to put on all nice things, you know, and wear them. Not all that important. Stocks and bonds, power and position. Kings come and go, presidents come and go, governors come and go. Even friends and family, which are really important, nothing is as important as eternal life. You you can't get eternal life from anybody else. I gave life to four human beings in this world, had four children. I gave them life. My wife and I gave them life through obviously what God does. You know. But I cannot give any of my four children eternal life. Because I'm not eternal life. Right? Christ gives eternal life. Even if you're a Christian, you can't give anybody else eternal life. You can pray to love eternal life, you can tell them about eternal life, urge them to believe in Christ for eternal life. You cannot give them eternal life. Little math equation for all y'all. One Christian mom plus one Christian dad equals what? One dead sinner. Little sinner, but a sinner nonetheless, born into this world, dead in trespasses and sins. They're not alive, they don't have spiritual life, they have physical life. They have no life in themselves, and you didn't give them life either. Jesus must give you and your child everlasting life Now there's one more important aspect to this eternal life I want you to see. So we're going to go back to John 17, and we're going to look at this. John seventeen, look at verse three again. This is eternal life that they may know you. The only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. If Jesus is eternal life, and if Jesus gives eternal life, it follows then those who know Christ and have Christ have that life also. Eternal life, as we said, is more than unending existence. That adjective, eternal, ionios It it does mean forever. Actually literally it means from the ages under the ages. Ages that keep turning into more and more ages. It was the Greek way of saying forever, okay? So it is a life that goes on and on. Some have disputed that it's an everlasting life, that there's a difference between eternal life and and everlasting life. No, there isn't really. It is life that begins and never ends. It's an everlasting life. That's what eternal life is. That's what the word actually means. It's unending life. It's the same kind of life that Jesus gives. Is Jesus' life unending? Yes. And so we get that life also, you see. But it's more than unending life. It refers to a quality of life that you have as well. Here, eternal life is equated with an intimate and personal relationship with God and with his Son, Jesus Christ, who transforms us. The word know here, to know Christ, is the Greek verb gnosko. It refers to personal knowledge, knowledge of experience. It's not talking about some factual abstract knowledge you read uh Wikipedia, you gain some information and now you have knowledge. Not that kind of knowledge, a knowledge of knowing and relationship. You know, eternal life is It goes beyond the awareness of facts. It goes to the level of relationship, to knowing. And that relationship and knowing Christ changes a person forever and ever and ever. Eternal life is meant to be personal, it's meant to go deep, it's meant to be something that's dynamic, not boring Christianity primarily is not a religion. It's primarily a relationship. The religious things we do, but it is about, at the heart, it is about a relationship. Some people think of it as a list of do's and don'ts. If I'm going to become a Christian, I I'm I'm going to have to stop doing all these things and do all these things, and they think of it only in terms of a list of things that they would do or not do You know, some churches maybe stand up, sit down, recite these things, right? You go you're doing all these things, you go home, like what'd you do? I did church. What did all that mean? I'm not sure, but I feel better about it. That's not it. It's a relationship with Christ. They never gain a relationship with Christ. They come to church, they do the church thing, they think they know God because they're sitting there. They don't know God. It's got to be there in the heart, you see It's not knowing historical facts. There's some people that believe Jesus was raised from the dead, but they're not saved yet. They just believe facts about him, you see. It needs to change a person. It needs to change them from the inside. They need to know him. And when we know him, we know him forever and ever because he is forever. He lives forever. Some people say, yeah, I know God. God's the creator, right? He's a man upstairs. He's the higher power. That's not knowing God. That might be knowing some things about God, but you could tell the way they talk about God, they don't really know him well. In the Old Testament, the Hebrew word for know also described the intimate relationship between a man and his wife, such as in Genesis 4, verses 1 and 25. This same meaning is carried over into the New Testament in the verses like Matthew 1. 25. You know, Joseph and Mary and Luke 134. Listen, if you really think about it, the demons know God. They know him better in some ways than we do. They've seen him. They've been up there and seen him, but they don't have a relationship with God, right? They don't know God in a favorable relationship. So eternal life is experienced in the context of close, favorable Knowing of God. Look down just while you're in chapter 17, look down at verse 25 O righteous Father, although the world has not known you, yet I have known you. The world knows there's a God. Many of those people in the world would be going to church. They would be worshiping, but Christ says, No, they have not known you Yet I have known you, and these have known that you sent me. So you see the connection there. In John 8:54 and 55, Jesus told the unbelieving Jews, You Have not come to know God, but I know him. And if I say that I do not know him, I shall be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. So knowing God is a continuous and dynamic relationship. It's evidenced by our obedience towards His Word, what He said. This knowing is not a once-for-all perfect knowing. When you meet someone, do you know them as well as you're going to know them after you've spent more time with them? No, right? It's one of the reasons we needed to do things with each other and have fun together and work together and minister together. We get to know each other better and better too. And in marriage you learn and you grow to learn one another more and more through time With experience. We grow in knowing God. We know Him personally at the beginning, but we also continue to grow in knowing God. Even that is hinted by the use of the present tense for the verb know in verse 3. Knowing God is what spiritual life truly is. Jesus calls the life that he gives abundant life in John 10. I like that. I came that my sheep might have life and have it abundantly. I like that. The sheep enjoyed eternal life. Do you enjoy eternal life? Do you notice in our scripture reading in Philippians 2 it was about joy and rejoicing and joy and rejoicing? It's supposed to be something that you enjoy It's supposed to be a relationship that you have. It's the greatest thing in your life. It brings you peace. It secures you. It's a joyful thing. Joy is one of the ways you can tell if you're enjoying that relationship or not Or you're looking at the externals, and this is bothering me, this is bothering me, this didn't turn out the way it ought to. And you're not looking upon your walk with Christ the way you should, because you don't have joy, you can tell that But we are to enjoy the relationship. We can't, if we're pursuing earthly gains first, God will let you do that. You want to just pursue getting richer and having nicer this and having nicer that Some of you will get more of it, and some of you get less of that, and then after a while you'll be like, this is dry, this is empty. I thought it would mean more, but it doesn't mean much. Yeah, because you neglected the soul. You neglected time with God. You neglected your relationship with God. You don't have the joy there. Some of you want to rejoice in your self-accomplishment, you know you work hard to get that accolade from people. It's not that great after all, is it You know who was the Super Bowl winner from four years ago? That's the Super Bowl. I mean the Super Bowl. Who won it four years ago? Probably a couple of you know. Some of you are struggling right now to find out. It wears out, right? Alright, fifteen years ago. No way. It's gone. Where are the accolades It means nothing. Rejoice in your knowing God. Some of you boast in your might, you know, the muscles in the mirror. And uh that doesn't last too long. It's not all that impressive either. Some hunger for intellectual stimulus and satisfaction. But those who know God should want to know him more. Augustine of Hippo in his famous work, Confessions, wrote You have made us for yourself, O Lord, and our hearts our heart is restless until it rests in you. And he knew because he had spent much of his earlier life struggling against God. God is the only true God. Our idols are never satisfactory. Look at verse 3. This is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God. There's a dogmatic statement, right? Allah is not the true God. The God of the Bible is the true God. The God of the Bible says the God of the Bible is the only true God. You've got to decide whose side you're going to stand on, right? The expression, the only true God, is really a reflection of Jewish thought, as John was a Jew. The prophet Jeremiah in chapter 10, verse 10, said, But the Lord is the true God, he is the living God, and the everlasting King. At his wrath, the earthquakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation. The God of the Bible is not a figment of our imagination, he is at work constantly. This universe cannot be explained without assuming God He is not the creation of idol worshipers or ignorant religious people. He is the true God, and he must be dealt with, and every atheist will have to deal with him. Nor can anyone know the true God unless they know Jesus Christ. Do you see that? This is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God, and the last part of verse 3 says, and Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Never leave out the name Jesus Christ when you talk about your faith in God. God sent Jesus into the world to make himself known through his son. God chose to be known through the Son. Anyone who ignores the Son ignores God. Anyone who does not honor the Son of God does not honor the God who sent him. Any people that people any God that people claim to know apart from Christ is not the true God? Don't ever be deceived how terrible it will be to those who do not have a favorable believing, trusting relationship in Jesus Christ. They do not know God. We're told in the Bible what will happen to them That when Jesus returns with his mighty angels, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, he will be dealing out retribution to those who do not know God, and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord. There's not another way. There's not salvation after death. The only God the world knows is a false God, and the only way the true God has chosen to be known is through Jesus Christ. And the only way Christ is known is through the gospel of Christ to believe it. And I'm out of time. And that's a bummer. We'll pick up the second way Jesus glorified the Father with a life of obedience next week. And hopefully the third way as well. Let me pray. God's blessing on his word. We're going to go to our baptism service and um Those of you in the children's ministry, don't forget that they need you in the back. Father, we come to you and it's such an honor to pray to you. Such an honor to be saved by your son. We hope that in our lives you're glorified. We want that. Lord, we don't want to say religious things on Sunday, live differently on Monday. Help us to be genuine and true. In Christ's name, we want to see you glorified. Amen