I want to introduce this class and then I want to sit down and turn it over to Lorfe, mostly because I just like listening to him. So uh I want to draw your attention, not that you have it, but to uh statement that w was made in the very first lesson and it was by Owen Barfield, who is not uh a Christian by any metric that we would a scheme, uh, but C. S. Lewis called him the wisest and best of his unofficial teachers. That was a quote from the first lesson. But the quote that I had harvested from one of his pointy-headed books was this. It says, On the basis of past perceptions. Using language as a kind of storehouse, we gradually build up our ideas, and it is only these which enable us to become conscious. As human beings of the world around us. So a bit oblique, I would say, in its grammar, but it's simply this. We experience things, but without language there's no hanger for those things. There's no way to wrestle with the reality of experience without words that we use. And if you sit around and contemplate that for a minute over a hot cup of coffee on a cool morning or something like that, you'll be struck with how much you are sensing. And all of it filters through your mind in terms of words. Good words, bad words, whatever it is, right? It's words You can perceive many things about God. From the nature that is around us, from the sensory perceptions that we get of all that He has created from, if you will, a sixth sense that he communicates to us internally, but without words There's nothing. There's confusion. And we aren't in that situation. We obviously have lots of language and an abundance, an ocean of words. Have been poured over the topic of who God is and what is his work and how must we respond to him. But are they the right words? And do we understand the perception that underlies those words? Words are, if you will, a bucket to carry experience in, to carry real knowledge in. They in and of themselves are not a thing except as they are associated with ideas. And therefore, what you think about the words that you study in Scripture Largely dictates how you see your life in Christ. And that was the point of this whole class small ideas, small words, small pictures of God, pictures of God because a picture is something that I can see. It represents that which I have experienced I have an allusion here to something I've uh mentioned several times, my experience at the Grand Canyon, that somewhat stormy day, but with the rainbow and the sun coming through and just the transcendence of that experience. I took a picture of it But the picture doesn't use words per se, and the picture is small. The picture doesn't do justice to the experience that I had there Some of the words that I use both in today's lesson and just now try to expand on that, to reflect the beauty that I saw, to help share that with you. Words that we use about God are the same. We need to be careful with those words because the way we use those words and the ideas that are held inside of them dictate how we see the world around us, how we see God in that world. And I'm sorry. Actually I'm not sorry. I'm sorry if it overly offends you. I'm not sorry in my next statement. But we have crafted theology with small words in order to make it easy to h to hold. To make it convenient to put it in a little picture and show it to people and have people easily understand it. And there is some place for that But when that is the sum total of the table that we set for Christian minds, we are a hungry and malnourished people. And I hope that over the last 13 weeks or so you have learned. To expand on those words from the scriptures And in so doing, see the world around you, your place in it, and God's work in it in a bigger way. That sums up thirteen weeks. Today, final lesson, mostly on reflection. I just wanted some summary. This class is not a class where you take it, you learn it, you put the notes on the shelf. You you you just have to play this one out, right? You have to play this out So what's important for going full further for you? And Lorfe did a fantastic job. I asked him for questions. I don't know why. Uh I foolishly expected him to give me one or two questions per subject and instead I got a itemized, bulleted list with scriptural cross references. You you know, Lord Pete, right? Like uh I even said that to him. Why am I surprised that you went the nth mile? But he did, and so the table on the back is largely the last few pages is largely his work. I've uh thrown in a couple extra questions, but very little And I want to get some time to go over some of those, but I will tell you, for me, that's really work that you could be doing in the next few weeks in your devotional time. Get the old notes out, look up the sections, read the questions, work through them, think about how you're going to use the truths that you have learned over the last 13 weeks in your life To do that, to answer those questions well You must identify your domain or domains, should be plural, domains of operation. Every Christian. I was thinking about your kids for some reason when I wrote this, right? I thought, oh how wonderful. Your k except for today. Your kids have been tremendously faithful over the weeks, right? And I thought, I wonder why did they show up, right? Why did they come? Why did they stay? Um But I was thinking about them and people at the other end of the spectrum of their lives. Every Christian has been set by God in specific fields of service. Spheres of life where his reign, God's reign, must be declared in his word embody. Some of you work in homes, raising children, or supporting spouses. Some labor in workplaces where Christ is rarely named, others steward influence in friendships, neighborhoods, or ministries. None of these are random What are my domains of service? It's simple. Just think about your day. Right? What do you do during the course of a day? What obligations, what regiments or regimes, what habits do you have? Those are your domains of operation. And none of them are random. God has placed you where you are, and He has already commissioned you to bear witness in that domain. To ignore or refuse this is not humility, it is rebellion. Masquerading is modesty. Let me flesh that out for you. If I went around the room and I just said, where, what domain is God particularly using you in right now for his glory? Right? The service of the king. What domains are you executing in right now in your life for the service of your king? Many of you would say something humble like, well, I'm only a student, or I'm only this, or I only have, or I only do, or I'm not a full-time ministry person, or I'm not an adult yet, or I'm, you know, handicapped by this problem or that problem or this disease. You would say something humble-sounding And at the end of the day, it's a direct refutation of what God says about you. that he saved you for good works, that he saved you for glory, right? To to represent him in such a way that is so glorious that others come. To put their trust and confidence in Him as well. A conspicuous kind of behavior in your domains that call people to bow the knee to our great God. It's rebellion masquerading as modesty. And for you parents If you are not teaching your children this all the time, the importance of them, yeah, they're goofy. Yeah, they're chaotic. Yeah, they're unwise. That's your job to train them in those things. But I hope from the time they are small, you are impressing upon them their amazing value for the glory of the Lord in everything that they do I don't know why. The Lord was merciful to Angela and I. He gave us some patterns of parenting early on. I don't even know where we got them from. I do not assume that it was because she and I were, well at least I was wise about it. But we developed some patterns of parenting, and this is one that we developed early on. You cannot expect men to grow up and be the kind of men you need them to be unless you impress upon them their value as men. And so we tried to do that early on. And I'll tell you what, for Eighteen years. I think they thought I was lying to them. And then somebody at church would come over totally You know, I can't even think of why right now. But somebody at church would come over to him and say something like, Hey, now that you run off the college, I just wanted to know I watched you for these last eighteen years And your testimony, your ministry impacted me like this. And it started to happen more and more over the last two or three years. And then, you know, the kid comes up to you one day, I don't know, the young man comes up to you one day, right, and goes, I always thought you were nuts. Telling me people are watching, telling me my testimony is important. But this old lady came up to me and church today and just said how much I encouraged her for the last fifteen years. Praise the Lord, son. And how stupid are you for not believing me? I didn't say that last part. I did think To shrink from the assignment is to deny the king his due. Oh, please get that in your head. You serve a king, you are part of a kingdom, and you don't get to make the rules for it Bow the knee and call him Lord, and if that is the case, you do not get to shrink from the assignment. Because if you do, you deny the king And we know how that turns out. You don't need me to put the barb at the end of that hook. You know how it works. The question before you is not, am I called to service, but in which field has God appointed me And how will I obey him there? Not are you called to service, but in which field has God appointed me? And how will I obey him there? I'm not pandering to anybody in the classroom, and I'm certainly not trying to uh put anybody on the spot. But I think that single women and divorced women spend a lot of time feeling as though they are somehow shunted to the side of the road. Because of experiences of life, because of their sins and the sins of others, they don't understand how they can be a part of this glorious purpose of the great king. Why would the king specifically be tasking me each morning to do and to think and to be things for his own glory? I don't know the answer to that, and I don't know the specifics of your circumstance. I just know that he is I know that your value exceeds that of all others on earth. You know why? Because Christ died for you. But there is nothing diminished about your dignity in Christ. And I could go around and pick each class of person in the room and I could say something similar. No less or no more than that. And one more that's been on my mind this whole time. We may get there, Lord Bear. I may just crash and burn halfway through the page. I don't know. One more that's been on my mind the whole time though. Husbands, so many of these lessons have pertained to you To love your wife in the way that God loved us. To covenant with your wife in the way that God covenanted with us To practice covenant love with your life because of that covenant, while she may or may not be compliant with the covenant. To dispose yourself in grace to your wife in the way that God disposed himself to us while we were yet in rebellion. To have that disposition of grace provoke you to all action for the sake of restoring right relationship with your spouse On and on and on. Ending in fellowship, by the way. Not self-deception, but fellowship. Not deceived into thinking you have a right marriage. But actually fellowshipping with your wife and thereby dispelling any self-deception. So much in these words to teach us how to strengthen our marriages. So there's no question uh little very few, if any, questions on here about marriage, but how does this word apply to my marriage? How can I do this in my marriage And wives, it's the same for you, but obviously I have a much harder time turning my brain in that direction. Right? I'm I'm better at the husbands with the wives, but you could flip it. Except for the king part. Don't be a king over your husband. That would be wrong. But be a queen. Be a queen. Read Proverbs thirty-one. That's a queen. The necessity of applying words. So find your domains. You've got to realize that you're commissioned for the service. You've got to find the fields of service You gotta know you don't have to find them. You just have in your head you have to you need to identify them. They are what your life is today. You just need to start applying this stuff to those fields Instead of exercising that self-deception that we do all the time, where it's church here and life here The next one is apply the words. We have labored over words like love, grace, salvation, humility, faith, righteousness, fellowship, and Christ is King. These were not academic curiosities. To hear and not apply is the very essence of hypocrisy. To hear, in other words, to know, and to not apply is the very essence of hypocrisy. James warns that the one who hears without doing is self-deceived. Christ himself says that to confess his name while withholding obedience is worthless religion. I know I'm reading my notes, but it helps me go faster. To compartmentalize God's truth to Sundays or Bible studies is to live as a practical atheist. There's a challenge for you. Outside of Sunday church and potentially a Bible study, maybe to during the week. Is there any other operation for the glory of the king in your life? Don't answer, but consider. To compartmentalize God's truth to Sundays or Bible studies is to live as a practical atheist, affirming God's reality with the lips while living as if he were irrelevant Irrelevant to all those other fields of service that are our lives. That is hypocrisy of the most dangerous sort. The word was given not to stock our intellects, but to reconstitute our lives. I also am proud of this church for being an exegetical teacher. But I have started to wince every time I hear that said anymore I wished it would start to be mixed with this is a church that sets my life on fire and leaves me no room for hypocrisy and self-deception. This church is constantly calling me to Christ. A changed life, a changed walk, a different step. Greater living, with greater value, with greater joy, resulting in greater thankfulness The word was given not to stock our intellects, but to reconstitute our lives. over and over and over again. That would be the definition of sanctification if we ever had the time to actually study sanctification. A reconstitution of our lives. Starting with knowledge and intellect, but not stillborn there But growing into the fullness of obedience, fellowship, commitment, love for others, fruit So the demand is plain. The truths we have traced must be carried into your God-given domains of operation. Otherwise, we prove ourselves hearers only, religious in form, but atheistic in practice. I wanted to put some teeth behind the idea that every one of you is called to great daily purpose of the king. And so I have four bulleted points here. Purposeful calling. Meaning God had a purposefully called us, that all disciples are priests and kings, that every member uh of God's body is a gifted servant That's what it means to be a member of the body of Christ, and that there are no fruitless elect I don't think that I am going to read those to you. I called them out. I quoted the scriptures. I underlined the sections that I think make that statement. Again, parents and you know what you hear here is just my The the things the Lord has laid on my heart. Right. But parents, these four bullets should be the foundation of you teaching your children their infinite value in Christ. And men and women, as you interact with people that have been bruised by the world and feel shunted to the The sides of the road, these are the four points that you need to go over with them with And husbands that are trying to wisely come alongside your wives as they struggle with what their purpose is, because for whatever reason the activity of the home in today's world seems to leave people feeling confused about their value. So as you come along your side your wives wisely and try to encourage them in that, these are the four points. that you need to be addressing. And men, as you interact with men who for whatever reason are feeling purposeless Unfocused, uh lacking direction, unclear what the will of the Lord is for their lives These four points should be foundational to your counsel to them. Get them to see who they are in Christ. And then worry secondly about what they do with that knowledge. But start with what they are Final section there, uh page two, first square bullet, dangerous theology. And in case you needed a warm-up, Lorfe, I'm gonna eject as soon as I'm done these two points here. Dangerous theology, recovering the grandeur of God. When we systematize theology, we often commit the same error as when we raise a phone to photograph grandeur. Stand at the rim of the Grand Canyon. Storm clouds coil above, shafts of light pierce through, red rock burns in color, and a rainbow arcs into the depths. You can capture a picture, but not the transcendence. Worse, the photo whispers a lie. That you hold in your hand the whole scene, bounded, possessed, domesticated I've captured it Systematic theology is helpful to give us a form, a coherent form that we can use to help collect our thoughts. It is helpful in the extreme. And I value it. But it is identical in so many ways to that picture It is our way of capturing a snapshot that we can comprehend and reference at a future date when we forget. But it is not the whole picture. And even as we created the technology that captured that transcendence thing that God created, and cause to happen at that instant altogether while we were standing there in that canyon. We get the impression, look what we did In I don't even know how many mega megapixels this new newer phone has, right? The old one's fourteen. Anybody know what the new one is? In fourteen million pixels Right? We captured the transcendence of the Grand Canyon. No, we didn't. No, we didn't. Not even close. And neither have we captured God in the framework of our systematic theologies. Neither have we captured God in the sum total of commentaries on pick the book of the Bible. And I just want you to hold that wariness in your hands as you move forward in the study of God's Word. You are not supposed to be blessed by a small picture of transcendence. You are supposed to be digging in the mind of God's word. And through the work of the Holy Spirit, you are to be experiencing that transcendence as it is applied, His word is applied to your life. And you can't get that just from listening to a pastor on Sunday or a loudmouth like me on Thursday nights, if you're in my small group. It has to be you, and it has to be digging, and it has to be an attempt to apply all that you've discovered in that digging to your day-to-day experience He's not bounded. You don't possess him in that way. And God is not domesticated. If you've ever read the uh Lion the Witch in the Wardrobe series, right? What is that called? Chronicles of Narnia. Thank you. Sorry, I'm I'm blanked. The Chronicles of Narnia, right? There's an expression that pops up occasionally. Aslan is good Or kind. I'm screwing the quote up. Is it good or kind or whichever? But he's not a tame lion. And I I love that expression. We've used that expression often in the house as a metaphor for who God is and what he's like. God is not domesticated. So it is with God. Our formulations of theology are necessary, but they can provoke the illusion that we have contained him, that his majesty can be grasped Within our doctrinal snapshots. Yet he is not bounded. He is the living God whose word and work surpass every category The purpose of this study has not been to discard theology, but to challenge its illusion of control and to recover again the sense of transcendence. The humility, awe, and obedience that no system can manufacture, but only God Himself commands. Transcendence demands response. We must regain our apprehension of God's transcendence. We must respond.