Again, uh if you looked at the notes uh earlier, um you see I've kind of uh it's kind of a range and and Uh again, as we do any of these studies, it it's just an opening to uh the topic of first fruits or you know what uh God was talking about in the Bible. It's not a c i it's not exhaustive. Uh y y you just see the connections all over the Bible, don't you? Uh it's a mosaic and yet the piece is all kinda inter uh uh uh fit together. It's it's one great big uh picture. Uh and and of course themes just keep coming over and over and over again. And God has to repeat to us, doesn't he? Uh we're forgetful people. Uh a lot of times uh he'll use different uh uh uh books or d or maybe he comes at it with uh different approaches, but it's uh death, burial, resurrection, it's uh looking at a savior. We need a savior, w w it's sin It's it's the the basic elements that that are repeated in in different ways. It can look quite different, but really w when we come down to it's uh same message Having said all that, I just kind of picked a smattering of uh background. Uh I think we ought to start with Leviticus. Uh let's let's read the section. uh on the first fruits here. So Leviticus 23, if you get there, we're we're gonna start in uh verse nine. Okay, everybody there? Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them. When you enter the land which I am going to give to you and reap its harvest, then you shall bring in the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest. He shall wave the sheep before the Lord for you to be accepted. On the day after the Sabbath, the priest shall wave it. Now in the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb, one year old, without defect, for a burnt offering to the Lord. Its grain offering shall then be two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, an offering by fire to the Lord for a soothing aroma with its drink offering to uh with its drink offering. a fourth of a hen of wine, until the same excuse me, until the same day, until you have brought in the offering uh of your God. You shall n eat neither bread nor roasted grain nor new growth. It is to be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwelling places. Alright, so he's noticed a couple of things there. Um I've done some uh I gave you like a little bit of uh background. Um This first roots uh was the uh barley harvest. Uh it was the first one that was going to come up. It was planted in winter. Uh the wheat wouldn't come up till till later. Uh uh Uh we'll see that um uh really with with Pentecost. Uh but um They would they had they did have a ritual at one time and and some of this w went from tradition. The reason we just read over uh this and we'll read over the uh passage in Deuteronomy, how they uh celebrated this Uh you know how tradition comes, you know, the the the the details get filled in, you make things uh more elaborate, it it becomes occultic practice. But it was a special time and they would uh go out uh almost in a ceremony and mark out the best of the crop of the barley um and and I don't they tie it off or whatever and that would what they would uh bring in. They w they would go through this whole ritual, bring this in. Uh and again, it's to these are pictures, it it's just pointing to something. Uh but to them the y it's it's so easy for us, as we'll see, for ritual uh to become a religion and to kind of miss the whole point. Uh so this is what they did. They brought it in for the harvest. They they realized um Right, it um down this paragraph I have it it represented the harvest as a whole, right? You it would take this the best of the first fruits. Uh uh pl and it was a pledge or a blessing that the Lord of the harvest uh uh would be realized. Uh uh uh the rest of the harvest he was gonna bless it. He was gonna it was like a provision, he was gonna bring this in. Uh it was also a an acceptance, if you see. You will be accepted before the Lord. So it's uh served as a reminder, as a source, that God's a provision of everything Uh now without him n uh nothing uh is sustained, right? Uh w we say that but but we f we forget oftentimes. Uh is God in this, right? We say God sustains, He creates Uh we could say that uh intellectually, but we're in the midst of something, you know, we think, well, where is God in this? Uh uh He's there. Um Sc uh scripture does and did you notice uh there there is some controversy and was especially during the day. Uh it doesn't give us a sp uh specific date It tells us, right, the day, uh, excuse me, uh the date uh the first fruits, it was the day after Sabbath. Uh so uh as you see in there uh there was some debate by the time of Christ uh what is what is the Sabbath. Sadducees said it was uh uh that uh week, right? The Passover week, the week of unleavened bread, which they called it. It would be the Sabbath they re he was referring to was uh Saturday, first Saturday in that week. That was a Sabbath Pharisee said, uh no, it was uh uh so what are the Sabbaths, right? Let's review. We got the Passover, right? Unleaven bread. If you remember we went through unleavened bread, the first day of unleavened bread was a Sabbath, right? There were special sacrifices. And and it just it points out too when you think of it, um we think of Sabbath, first thing that typically comes to my mind always was um Saturday or for the Jews. We a lot of times we say, you know, now our Sabbath is a Sunday. That was kind of the thing uh we was raised on in the church. Um uh but it it's the day of rest. It's not If the if the Sabbath feast fell in the middle of the week, that was a Sabbath. It was not it was that it was a deceasing. It was to really worship God. It wasn't so much the a particular day as much as um it was a rest during particular times, appointed times So this weekly thing's coming in. The Pharisees said, no, it the Sabbath was was uh he was referring to was would have been the feast of unleavened bread So what that means is not that this is any great shakes, but uh I I found this interesting. Um So you got uh uh Passover, fourteenth, right? Unleavened bread, fifteenth, first fruits on the sixteenth. And if you notice in my notes, excuse me, uh uh uh that uh Josephus uh said as much that uh the Sabbath was on the sixteenth day. This is uh uh basically a quote by stating the Sabbath was on the sixteenth day of the month They partake of the fruits of the earth before uh that day they do not touch them. Talking about first fruits. Um I found this interesting though because when you think about it, right? Um uh that the time frame and it and it's kind of difficult, especially with the way they have days and and everything else, but uh you know, th the the beginning of the day is at sunset Uh, I always found that very confusing. It's the I mean w that's our night, right? It's still the same day to us. But to them, as soon as the sun set, now it's the next day. So really, night starts the day. That next that day, right? It starts at night for them. Having said that, think about the year that uh Jesus died, right We believe uh the uh sa or the uh Passover was on Thursday, right? First fruits would have been on Friday. Then you had a Sabbath day. He rose from the dead, right? On Sunday. So regardless of I it's just kinda to me, uh I I might be making more of this than it is, to me it's like God overrode both of them because okay, whatever day you said, it's gonna be Sunday this year Right? Or it's gonna be oh this is gonna be the Sabbath after he he does this because uh they came in succession. Um think about it, if if uh Passover had to come on um say Wednesday, right? You it w the uh the sixteenth day would have been um Friday, right So it's just interesting. Um again, i it's no big deal. I just thought it was uh he did not specifically day say the day on this. He just said Sabbath. Um Look at Deuteronomy. It's up on the board, but nonetheless. Deuteronomy 26, 1-10, this is kind of the practice At this time, this is what's spelled out in Scripture Okay, so again, if if you look at some of the historical accounts, the practice might have been uh a little different, more detail was in there, especially about marking the the the first fruits off and that kind of thing. So let's go over this. Let me read it from here. What do you can hear me? It shall be when you enter the land which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance and you possess it and live in it, that you shall take some of the first fruit of all the produce of the ground which you bring in From your land that the Lord your God gives you, and you shall put it in a basket and go to the place where the Lord your God chooses to establish his name. You shall go to the priest who is in office at that time and say to him, I declare this day to the Lord my God that I have entered the land which the Lord swore to our fathers to give to us. Then the priest shall take the basket from the hand and set it down before the altar of the Lord your God. You shall answer and say before the Lord your God, My father was a wandering Araman, and he went down to Egypt and sojourned there. Few in number, but uh there he became a great and mighty populous uh great, mighty and populous nation. And the Egyptians treated us harshly and afflicted us and imposed hard labor on us. Then we cried to the Lord, the God of our fathers, and the Lord heard the voice and saw our affliction and our toil and our oppression. And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with a great terror, with signs and wonders. And he has brought us to this place and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. Now behold, I have brought the first of the produce of the ground which the Lord And you shall set it down before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God. You and the Levite and the alien who is among you shall rejoice in all the good which the Lord your God has given you and your household. When you have finished paying all the tithe of your increase in the third year of a tithe, then you shall give it to the Levite and stranger. So really you can see the process here. This is what was and they right, this is Deuteronomy. So uh let's kind of get our time frame here. They're about to enter the land, right? Uh this is uh second law. Moses is telling 'em. Uh think about it. They they've already gone through the wandering. Uh in in Leviticus we we uh we're have come out of Egypt We we haven't gone through the forty years of wandering yet. Uh so this is the second time Moses is going to reiterate to him, look, this is where you're going. We read this, but I mean are you thinking through some of this Laura? How many times you can see where I just kinda underlined? This is just one of the things I picked out God gives you. Where is this coming from? God gives this to you. This is mentioned over and over again. Your inheritance, your possession. So God shall establish you. And that's the thing. We are uh they are representatives of God. Uh we are representatives of God. We we are a light to represent his name, not our name. Uh but again, uh we'll look at some of the m uh modern things. Yes. Yeah, I I was um thinking about the law of Moses where there's like a clear delineation of what people own and do not own. And then going back to the fact that uh God gave them uh certain life lands to a certain to certain specific tribes and then Joshua helped to understand which land had been appropriated And and then he there were times I think that um Joshua used his own judgment to determine which tribe was gonna get a certain piece of land. So it wasn't all dictated by God. But I I was thinking in order to give a a sacrifice, it's gotta cost you something. So that implies that when they were demarcating what they were going to give as the first fruit, it was actually their land that they owned And so even even though it it came by way of a gift, it was it was their their property, their their lamb, their goat. Their their sheep. And just the same thing for us when we give an offering as Christians. It's not a community chest that we're drawing from. It's our it's coming out of our pocket. It's it's a human sacrifice. But I I was just thinking and and maybe you can clarify Otherwise that these these are individual pieces of property that people are are giving uh from. It's it's not just a tribal property or a community Many of the own properties. Yeah, I'm kinda glad you brought that up, um uh because uh that was one of the things that was on my mind too about how we look at we look at Israel as this as a unit, right? But it's a units made up of individuals, right? And so there's that uh the way we look at that, um uh and one of the things that was on uh on my mind is is thinking that is as the individual, which is what you're you're kind of relating back to. is that um in Zechariah uh uh all i you know we uh well uh in Romans, Romans chapter eleven says all Israel will be saved So we tend to think of them, okay, they're going to say the unit. But if you look at Zechariah, which is a great prophecy, kind of unfolds in chapter twelve, he says, they will look on him whom they have pierced Um I I don't want to get bogged down in too much of the the the detail. We could just totally unpack. Um w we believe this is at the end of the age. Uh this is during the tribulation uh Israel's gonna see this. But if you look at the passages after that, uh they will look on him. He's talking about a nation And then he goes into this uh the ha uh David and his family and his wife and and they go through uh The the different um the maybe some of the Levites it might be represented and and it's their family and their tribe. It you think, what is he talking about here? What he's saying is, is that kind of what Kirk was alluding to is that n Israel is going to be saved as a nation individually It's each person's heart, right? God is gonna we raise ch kids uh children in a family uh They're Christian, right? Uh my parents were Christians. I've been baptized or you know, you come in this uh organiz no. It's It yes, he is going to work with them as a nation, but don't forget God is into the details. It's going to be in each each individual heart. It's going to come to faith. It's not gonna be well I'm in Israel and and boom, you know. He does you know, it's he's he's personal And and we can look at things, nation, church, institutional. Uh it is institutional, but it it boils down to individual our relationship with God. And and that's a theme we have to keep reminding ourselves over and over. Where are you in your walk with God? Where am I? So yeah, it does it I don't know if that's related to the answer you had. Mine's a big yeah I already told you I'm big picture, but you know, the details We're all different. We we say that, but we don't really get that. And God's gonna deal with us even to save. Go ahead. W with us individually. I'm not sure if the the Bible ever talks about well once For example, the tribe of Nahtali got a certain portion, how that was actually divided up into legal pieces of property that were marked with a boundary stone Um so that each head of their family got a a distinct piece of property. I'm not sure if that's actually in the in the Bible, but just by looking at the law of Moses, I mean they were individual owners and it wasn't a commun communal ownership. So a sacrifice came from a a distinct property owner. And we have lots of Jewish lawyers to figure that all out. I mean y you know, and uh I am not I'm not good with that. He uses detailed people. I mean if you look at the provisions David did for uh the the uh temple, uh all the provisions and all the organization. Uh You know, the the other thing uh uh y you talk about individuals. Um uh again, big picture. Think about this. We are talking about What we're going to move f to is uh the removal of the priesthood and all that with with the the new covenant, which is what these signs were pointing towards Think of the organization and the individuals and all the tasks that they had uh to slaughter tho hell are the thousands of sheep that they had. There were people they they God was organized. They and they were a very organized people. They're there are there are oftentimes you you can see with the the nation that they're a very intelligent organized society. Um even secular uh uh Israel they succeed, such a small little place. How can that such a small country be uh have such a big uh say in the world of events They're very organized. Uh so yeah. And and think about that. Now you just say, oh, this organization, this is what uh again, big picture But this is we're saying this is the end of this organization. No more sacrifices. And of course he had he's gonna take care of the temple so that that comes to an end I'm thinking of the the uh people especially in Hebrews, right? If you if you've ever done a study Hebrews, these were Jews, the temple is still there, and they they're coming out of this It's it's kinda this is what we do. Um Yeah, I have no idea how they they worked all that, but but um you know, we act like r th they weren't Stone Age people. These people were smart too. I mean we you know Adam was was not uh Right? He named all the animals. We forget that, right? We've been taught a lot of evolutionary things, uh, over the years, right? Uh they were primitive Yeah, sorry for going back to the big thing. That's okay. No, but I think that's a that is a big point. Uh you know, w where the uh Because we are. We look at this as a as a unit, but remember the unit's made up of individuals. Okay, moving right along. But again, look at the when you read this and we kind of go through it and and I don't know about you, but when stuff's read out loud sometimes I don't I don't ponder it the same way as if uh I'm reading to myself. But it's recognition all through here. God's given you this land. And cr of course they're gonna know this, this generation. They haven't even gone into it, right? Moses is is reiterating this just before they go into the land But it it comes from God, you know? And and so our worship needs to be with God. You know? I'm giving up my property. I do I don't really own it? Uh, this is way off past, but I've thought about this. You know, it said Satan wanted to take over God's right? He wanted to we see it in Ezekiel twenty eight. Satan wanted to go to the highest place, he wanted This guy on my crazy mind works, I'm thinking, God sustains the world, right? Let's say God say, All right, I'll give it to you for a week. You gotta sustain it too. He wanted to be in charge, but was he gonna be able to sustain the world? And and we don't even know what the ramifications of that sus sustaining are, do we? Right? We want to be in charge, but it's like are you are you ready? God provides all this. G God gives his breath. And yet we're saying, This is my money, my wheat, my sheep. Okay? Let me have your breath. No, it's not ours. That's the problem. And that's that's why I think he puts that that thing out there with tithe. The tithe is not so much it's just enough to make it hurt. Whatever if it's ten percent and more. It's like, you know, I can do it. That could be some fairly sizable chunk when I start adding it up. Do I really wanna Let go. It's hard to let go, isn't it? Mine. Modern observances. And again, um this is just something I took uh I have it footnoted if you notice in the notes. Um uh uh I think I know Howard and Rosenthal. Um Uh Kevin Howard, Marvin Rosenthal. I use two basic books. I use him and Sam, uh Nadler, Nadler, I don't know how you pronounce it. Uh it's from The Feast of the Lord. And it again, this is just an example. You have to have in mind what we what we read in Deuteronomy and and and 'cause people ask, well how do we worship how do we witness to Israelites or uh uh Hebrews or whi you know, whatever category you want to put 'em in. Um this just gives you an idea of of they're coming from all kinds of places too. Uh this is kind of an example of of one of the modern observances of the uh first fruits. Of course first fruits is done because we don't have a temple, right? So they they can't really do that. Passover, that's the big one. Uh we we already went through that. So there's no celebration of first root today, right, because there's no temple. There is a celebration of some sects of Judaism known as the counting of the Omer. So uh on the thirty-third day from the day of first fruits, there's a minor holiday called Lag Bomar. Uh, which uh m it may they're not even sure where it came about. I think in the second century, uh there was a uh apparently a plague on a student of this rabbi Akaba Uh uh the plague was taken away uh so they uh started to celebrate it. Uh uh it was thirty three days um after first fruits. And the way they came up with this and and again th this is not earth shadowing, but just to give you a idea of some of the mind of this, uh it's um Uh lag, and and of course in Hebrew there's no vowel. The vowels are pointed, so you just see the consonant. It'd be a lama and a gimel, I believe it is And numerically, they number the alphabet, this would be thirty-three. So This is where first this is kind of a spin-off of of some of the things you're seeing from first fruits now But it even goes further. Some of the uh mystics uh celebrate this day as an anniversary for Rabbi Simeon Bar Yaqai, I guess. Uh uh the rabbi who wrote the book on mysticism. Uh there's a sect of uh ultra-orthodox Jews, they're called uh Setmar. And they journeyed to Israel uh during this uh holiday Uh uh it it's uh they each year I guess it's uh uh Rabbi uh Simeon's grave, they they go. Uh the parents of boys will let the hair grow for the first three years. And if they can, they'll take a journey to uh Uh Jerusalem, they'll they'll go to the grave of Simeon, they cut the child's hair at the grave, and it's supposed to bring 'em good luck. So you can see how we just turn this is the heart of man. I don't care for whatever race or nationality. Um we I mean d you know uh so when you yeah I find it helpful because regardless, in in the back of my mind I may tend to think um um And and I did this, I I I think I uh share with you before. I used to wit witness to uh when I had my own shop I used to witness to a lot of uh Jewish people and I would talk to 'em and I would think, well, you know We just assume they know the Bible, right? It was given to you, you guys know it. Uh no, they don't. They really don't know much at all. Uh We would think, oh, if I witnessed this is the first fruits and and Jesus rose on the first they wouldn't know what the first fruits was pri necessarily. And I say that just to be reminded, um, because we should witness the people, uh uh Jewish people uh as well Uh you right? God saves a remnant right now. He has hardened the hearts. Uh again that Romans passage He says it's a mystery, which means he's revealing it to us. It was not revealed before that God is going to harden the hearts of the Israelites. And we're uh it we believe from our uh theological perspective, this church, progressive uh revelation, whatever you want to call it, that that is in fact going on now And if you read to that Romans passage you should know it. I mean it talks about being gr we're the w we're the wild branch being grafted into the root to to the uh to the branch where where the uh We're grafted into the vine. Hey? He's talking about Gentiles, non-Jews. He says in that passage Uh how much more when they are grafted back in? So uh we see this as as this time right now. So really approach people. It it's about uh I find you can see all kinds of of uh ways to evangelize Uh I I still find relationship first. Do you love the person that you're talking to? Do you really care about them? Are you curious about them? Uh Find whatever spiritual level you can you can talk to 'em on. Uh some I've found I never got to the gospel. I knew they weren't ready to hear it, but if I could get 'em to a spiritual level to at least start thinking about it. Uh uh th that's that's maybe the movement God wanted. Um I don't know. Right Um but I have witnessed to some people. I I used to talk to telemarketers all the time and I have witnessed to some. Back in the day I used to talk to them. I could get 'em in a spiritual conversation in no time Uh uh but now now you they they're hardcore and they're robos and you know, it's like uh I did say recently this is I know I'm off track, but I did say recently I kinda got frustrated, you know, it was always getting these colds around the same time. And I had a friend I used to do jail mystery with and he would just dive right in and go, You know Jesus your Lord and Savior? and we'd always joke about it. So I said to her, I said, Do you know Jesus your Lord and Savior? And there was this pause And she goes, Yes So you just never know and I said, Well yeah, you're going to a church, you know, and I just I you know, I don't want to talk about whatever you're selling I'm not buying it. But you know it's amazing. Uh and I we for I I we forget that now. Don't let the world harden us to that. People I don't care even behind that anger, people are hungry. I think they're hungry for the truth. They may the more they argue against it, I think the more they're really hungry. Something inside draws them. So Alright, I'll try and get back on track now. Uh let's see. So Jesus uh and this guy just kind of transitioned here. Um again There's no set pattern. But Jesus uh was a lamb, right, who takes away the sin of the world. Uh the Sabbath after the Passover, the priest would offer the right the first fruits of the barley uh harvest and the Lord w uh would accept and bless the rest of the harvest, right? The first fruits would have been offered on Sunday, the year Jesus was crucified. That's what I just explained Regardless of whether you're a Sadducee or Pharisee, it was going to happen on Sunday that year. Because remember, you had two Sabbaths. You had the the uh uh Friday uh was unleavened bread, it was a Sabbath. Saturday is a weekly Sabbath. Uh so it just kind of Uh keep that in mind. Uh so uh Friday, Saturday were both Sabbath, the rest was offered uh right to Jesus On the morning of the priest would have offered the first fruits of a harvest, the same time Jesus, the Messiah, was raised from the dead. fulfillment to the atonement for our sins. Think about that. That's the huge thing. What a coincidence. God is doing word pictures for people that can see them. And that's what right I when I yeah um I will when we get to the new covenant. I'll I'm gonna go over that and I kinda you're gonna hear me say things. Oh you said that already, you said that already Well and we're going to go through some passages for the first fruit. Uh if I counted I think there were about I think there were eight maybe in the New Testament that actually used first fruits. We'll go through some of the major ones. Uh and and so and the and again, when you have something like first fruit, do you ever notice that he'll use different aspects uh of what happened with that first fruit or what that first fruit was. And that's that's really that's our definition. We let the Bible define it. Uh theologians do it, but let's let's hope they were true to the test You have to check a theologian because all theology comes from where? From here. He says if they're categorizing And putting into groups, say, love from the Old Testament all the way to right, from Genesis to right, that's theology or that's you know, that that's a part of that. That that's what they're uh but again, the text. The definition, the first definition, the foundation comes from God's Word. It's easy to get away from that There's a lot of PhD, a lot of smart people, and they they can they can wander off too. So I have this passage, but we'll look at it again, but I want to read it now because it kind of answers your question. But now Christ has been raised from the dead, first fruits of those who are asleep. For since by a man came death, by a man came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all dies, so also in Christ all will be made alive. But each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, after that, uh those who are Christ at his coming. The acts of a lie, you could spend a lot of time just unpacking it. Okay? If you look at it, you see the order, you we we see that he's raised from the dead Um if you know your theology, you you're a all dying Adam, you you even if you don't know this, uh if you think of uh sin You go to Romans five, that's the key passage, right? Um uh it talks about imputation of sin And that's a deep passage, man. You spent a tremendous time in that that Romans five. Uh what is it nine? I'm not sure offhand to the end of the uh end of the chapter. And if you look at that and you read over, you see the parallelism between Adam and Christ. It's all through there, right? Uh sin entered through Adam, right? Uh life comes from Christ We see that in First Corinthians. First this First Corinthians passage, what's Paul's saying? He gives the gospel up in the beginning of the passage. Right? Christ died for our sins. Uh according to scriptures, he was buried, uh raised on the third day according to Christ Scripture. Now he talks about uh uh some of you say there's no resurrection, that's what this whole thing stems from. He goes, If there's no resurrection, Christ didn't rise from the dead and in verse twenty he goes, but now Christ was raised from the dead. That's our proof, isn't it? And you see if you look at the gospels or the epistles really, look look at it, uh how many times resurrection's in there. It's our proof. How do we know this is all true If you get into an argument with somebody, the proof is there's an empty tomb. That's a historical fact. You can argue all kinds of this and that. It's a proof There's witnesses. Um uh there's forensic evidence there for the people who think they're really intellectual. Uh uh There was a uh guy who uh Simon Greenleaf I think it was. He was uh he did forensic evidence for Harvard. He wrote the book on it. Some of his students challenged him. He wrote a book on the I think it's a testimony of the Of the gospels or I can't remember. Very technical. It's it's in legal terms. He puts forth the forensic evidence from a cold case, if you will, because really that's what ha that's what this is. You don't have uh uh immediate eyewitness evidence, you have uh right, you have proof And he puts together the evidence and the the evidence of proofs that they use in a law school, he says, without a doubt, this happened. Uh so it's there. It's the resurrection, the empty tomb. Uh people talk about, you know, the intellectual uh no, it's there There is it happen. Remember, this happened in a place and a time and a period. It's it's literal. We don't believe. We don't I hope You know. We don't yeah, our hope is what? Future. We know we're going to heaven, but our hope is future. Why? Because it's not here right now. Without uh the Passover, Israel would not have come out of Egypt, right? Now think about that. God jud we talk about the Passover, you say, oh okay, well they they put the blood, but it was more than that. The Passover really happened because God was judging, right? It uh Pharaoh said, get outta here, finally. Um right? He forced his hand. So the Passover happened? Um Right? If they didn't go to the land it wouldn't be a first fruit celebration. Um as a matter of fact, um Look at Joshua. Uh you know how you're you're when you're doing a study, those of you have been teaching and your mind there's a question you have and what if they ask the yeah, you want to know it all. Uh y I don't. But if somebody asks me a question, I want to be able to answer it. I'm thinking, my you know, some d I don't know it all. And when I don't I just say, look, I don't know. Let me get back to you or somebody else Look at Joshua. I think I think this will help tie this together. Right? Joshua chapter five What I got to thinking about, okay, you talk about first fruits and I was thinking, okay, so when did they stop with the manna? And I was thinking, I know that, so let me go back and read it again with Joshua. I'm not gonna read this whole thing, but uh So chapter 5, they've just crossed over the Jordan, right? The Jordan is dried up miraculously. Um it's a sign, God saying, look, I'm gonna give this land to you. Right? This is the next generation. Remember the other generation died off. It was the the fighting men. They didn't want to go into land, God said, You're outta here. You will you the next generation will will get the land. Uh so that's the forty year wandering. Now it came about when the kings of the Amorites were beyond the Jordan to the west All the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea heard how the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan before the sons of Israel until they crossed it. that their hearts melted and there was no spirit in them any longer because of the sons of Israel Alright? God has already got them so they they're locked up. They can't even fight. God's gonna do the battle for them. Um verse eight Now when they had finished now they they uh they didn't circumcise the next generation. Uh the fighting men had to die. You you read about that in in these uh verses from uh uh two to seven. Okay, they had to re-circumcise, right? So now when they had finished uh circumcising the nation, they remained in the place, in the camp until they were healed Then the Lord said to Joshua, Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. The name of that place is called Gilgal to this day. While the sons of Israel camp at Gilgal they observe the Passover on the evening of the fourteenth day of the month in the desert plains of Jericho. On the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate some of the produce of the land of unleavened cakes. uh and parched uh grain. The manna ceased uh on the day that after they had eaten some of the produce of the land So that the sons of Israel no longer uh had manna, but they ate some of the yield of the land of of Canaan during that year. I'm going to read this. This is a a kind of I find it a uh I make an association here. Now it came about when Joshua was by Jericho that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing opposite him with a sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said to him, Are you for us uh or an adversar uh for our adversary? He said, No. I love that. You're either for me or you're against me. He said, No, rather indeed I come now as captain of the hosts of the Lord, and Joshua fell on his face Tinyark bowed down and said to him, What has my Lord to say to his servant? The captain of the Lord's host said to Joshua, Remove your sandals from your feet, the place where you are standing holy, and Joshua did so Okay, we went to these think about it. We talk about a word picture. We went to they were given the Passover, right? This happened in the Exodus, then uh unleavened bread, first fruit. They were told about first fruit. Do you notice they're they're getting ready to go in the land. They're celebrating Passover. Tis a coincidence? Probably not. It's a reminding them who brought him out We think they're not th they eat the the bread that they eat, right, on the day uh um the manna cease, the day after they had eaten some of the produce from the land, the sons of Israel know the manna, they ate some of the uh Where did I read that? Twelve? Twelve, yeah. I was thinking uh it was in here that they had ri uh they had eaten the produce that was unleavened, right? Thank you. On the day after the Passover, the very day, the sum of the produce of the land. Unleavened cakes, thank you. I hate to think about it. Passover? Unleaven? They stop with the manna, there's the first fruits, you know, and then what shows up The angel, the Lord, right? The captain. We know this is a a pre incarnate. It's gotta be cr it's gotta be the pre incarnate uh second person of Trinity, right? He says, so you talk about, look at look at how this works out. And this is what what I kind of have in the notes, right? We got Passover, right? He covers us the unblemished lamb, Christ's blood. We're we're unleavened, we're we're to be holy. He's he uh uh w we're to remove the uh sin out of our lives and the first fruits. We get the first fruits of the spirit. Right? It's uh it's The it's the same theme over and over and over again. And would they have seen the picture as clear as we would have? No, but it it kind of was there, wasn't it? God was going to give them the land They just gone through another miracle. They right the floods uh the Jordan was really raging at this time, it was flooded. Water's moving pretty good. They go on dry land. I I just I see I see the first and think about this. These these Uh again, w we have all this stuff separated out. This is fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth that all this would have happened on a on a uh on a a week that that that didn't include uh a Saturday Sabbath, right? Three days in a row. And it it's pointing right to these these different things It's it's all packed in a little box that will explode, but 'cause think what they saw is not as uh uh as detailed and elaborate as what we see So I got a few minutes. Romans 8. 23. And not only this, but we ourselves having the first fruits of the Spirit. Right? Even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting eagerly for our adoption as a son, the redemption of our body. So Paul telling us, right, that uh uh we have the Holy Spirit as an assurance, uh uh our bodies are gonna be redeemed. Uh that's a relationship with God. I I uh I like this 2 Corinthians because one of the passages of the Holy Spirit talk about eternal salvation. This is one of them, you know, our assurance. 2 Corinthians 5. 5. He who has prepared us for this very thing is God who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. Now I use the ESV here. I like that. It's a guarantee. You got my personal guarantee. This one's real, right? This one's gonna come through. The guarantee we have the spirit. It's it's the first fruit, right? And the last this is really good too. Think about this. This kind of opens up a a uh a time frame of of God's uh uh progressive uh Just think God, say think about again, we've talked about what the i Israelite, the Hebrew, the Jews at that time, what they had as revelation, and what we have now You can't deny it. You have to see where he's adding more and more as generations go. Uh we are totally blessed on This side, right? In the last days, God is going to separate 144,000 Jewish men from the tribes of Israel, Jehovah's Witnesses. Just kidding. Hundred and forty-four Jewish men from the trials of Israel to protect uh them from God's wrath poured out on the nations. So that they may be witnesses for the gospel and a pledge for the Lord. So uh that God hadn't abandoned them. Remember, we are in the midst of the trials and revelation now. Uh the wrath of God is being poured out. Um They haven't come to faith. God is starting. These are the awakenings. 144,000. Okay, Revelation 14, 4. These are the ones who have not been defiled with women, for they have kept themselves chaste. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes Uh these have been purchased from among men, first fruits to God and to the Lamb. And y you're the w the two witnesses are also uh going to be operating in Jerusalem Uh these are are are Jewish uh believers. Uh uh you can see how uh they they're totally uh undefiled, um Nazarite almost uh kind of. Uh but they're going to be witnesses. And and this is this is a a witness to the nation. The nation is w we think is you know, parts of it are going to be awakened. This is the first layer of the gospel. They say sometimes people have to hear the gospel X number of times, right, before uh they'll believe it. Uh this is uh the nation has not come uh full fledged probably at this time but um uh this is uh a door. This is the first fruits. Okay? And God is is telling them, I've not abandoned you His covenant promises, this is why we believe this. An everlasting covenant. And he means it So Christ the Passover Lamb, the sinless unleavened bread, allowing him to be satisfying payment to God for our sins. God raised him from the dead as the first fruits of the uh for the resurrection of all believers, uh all who believe in him. The fulfillment of the first fruit offering opened the door to the new covenant to be ushered in. About out of time. So think about this. We call we think about um uh Pentecost, which we'll be talking about next time. Uh it's the beginning of what? If we say think of Pentecost, what do we think it's the beginning of? What? Somebody said it. Church. We think of the church. But even more than that, think about it. It's also the new covenant. It is the new it's think about it. That day was the day in the new covenant w when God poured out his spirit, right? Ezekiel was it thirty-six, I will put my spirit within you. Before the Spirit came upon people, it never now it's a new a new covenant. We are sealed with the Spirit. And w w what's the difference there? Uh that's a big question. Uh but it is different. Uh God did give the spirit for for periods of time, s uh particularly Old Testament uh for for different ministries. Uh Saul, he took his spirit away. His spirit did come upon Saul. This is think about it. Pentecost was the day of the new covenant We think of the church, because it is. We we we've got to take it over, but it was the promise for the nation and the world, right? I will uh it's uh I'll finish with this. So what he said to Abraham in in Genesis twelve, I will bless you, so you will be a blessing, not for yourself, right Many nations will come to you. You will bless the nations. We are blessed to be a blessing. Um yeah. But think about that. Uh This is um this is Pentecost but first fruits the resurrection without the resurrection no ascension no ascension no Holy Spirit There's certainly a lot more could be said about it. Uh if you have any questions we can we can uh kind of go to this next week We're out of time. That's the problem. We have a time limit. Um yeah, because really w I I like to get your feedback, w uh your impressions. Um Yeah it's uh oh how does God word move us