So good to see you all. So uh the only thing I'm gonna add to what Ann said is the first section of your sheet here, the perfections of God's nature is chapter 10. I threw in the boundless attributes chapter, which is chapter 19. Because as I was thinking about how do I approach kind of a overview introductory um message on God's communicable attributes I realize that chapter nineteen says a lot of the things that I was thinking what might be helpful. And so just for the sake of giving you more exposure to to uh George Swinnick's work and I think how he expresses it in such a helpful way. I thought it'd be good just just to read chapter ten, chapter nineteen, and then we'll go from there. So just follow along as I read. The perfections of God's nature. God's attributes are those perfections in the divine nature which are ascribed to him so that we can better understand him. They are called attributes because they are attributed to him for our sake, even though they are not in him as they are in humans or angels. Some of God's attributes are incommunicable because they cannot be attributed to humans or angels. I spoke of these under God's being in chapters one through nine. It is impossible for a mere creature to be infinite, independent, or incomprehensible. God is incomparable in these excellencies. Pride and presumption led Satan and Adam to rival God in his incommunity. Properties, to aspire to be like him in his sovereignty. Their sin was that they desired to be their own lords and masters. God charges the Prince of Tyre with unforgivable arrogance. Thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God. Some of God's attributes are communicable because he communicates them to humans and angels. It is the nature of godliness to be like God in these attributes. David is called a man after. God's own heart, because he was a man after God's own holiness. I'm not sure holiness is the word I would use to describe David, but nevertheless. A new man is created. after God, the reimpression of His image upon us. Conformity to God and His communicable attributes is our perfection and happiness in heaven. But even in these we fall infinitely short of Him. And then the chapter of Boundless Attributes. Although God grants holiness, wisdom, power, justice, and other qualities in us, or to us in some measure, he remains in Incomparable in his communicable attributes. Why? Well, first, these attributes are essential to God. They are from Him and in Him. In other words, He is their author and subject. He is not indebted to anyone. But these attributes are derivative in us. Justice, wisdom, and holiness are in us, but they are not from us They come from God. Second, these attributes are the very essence of God. They are not qualities or properties as they are in humans and angels. The holiness of God is the holy God Once I have sworn by my holiness. When God swears by his holiness, he swears by himself. The power of God is the powerful God. The truth of God is the true God. The wisdom of God is the wise God. All his attributes are his essence. In humans and angels, wisdom, power, and justice are properties. These properties differ from their substances. This is apparent in the fact that many humans and angels exist without these attributes. Their essence and properties can be separated An angel can be an angel without being holy, wise, or just. A human can be a human without being powerful Patient or merciful. The reason is because these properties are distinct from the essences of humans. and angels. But in God, his attributes are his very essence. They are in him, therefore they can no more be separated from him than he can be separated from himself. Third, these attributes are all one in God. For example, his justice is his mercy, his wisdom is his patience, and his knowledge is his faithfulness. These attributes are distinguished in regard to their objects and effects, but they are all one in him. They are his essence, and his essence is a pure, undivided being. In humans and angels these attributes are distinguishable from one another. For we can have one without the other. Our righteousness is one thing, our power a second thing, our patience a third thing. Some people can have one of these attributes while lacking the others. But in God they are all one and the same. When sunbeams shine through a yellow glass, they are yellow. When through a green glass, they are green. When through a red glass, they are red. Yet all the while the sunbeams are the same. The sun shines on clay, or when the sun shines on clay, it hardens it. On wax it softens it. On flowers it draws out fragrant smells. On ditches, it draws out repugnant odors. Yet it is the same sun. The difference lies in the objects and effects. Likewise, God is always working in the world When he punishes the obstinate, he is righteous. When he saves the penitent, he is merciful. Yet he is the same immutable God. Fourth, these attributes are in the highest degree in God. They are limited in us because a finite substance cannot admit an infinite property. But immensity runs through God's properties. His understanding is infinite, along with his justice, mercy, power, and all other attributes. They have no limits but his pleasure. He has never put forth so much power that he could not put forth more if he so pleased. He has never exercised so much patience that he could not exercise more if he so pleased. Because these attributes are God's being, they are boundless. As you can see, I cut out a few things just for the sake of brevity. But that gives you a a taste of uh some truths about God that we don't often think about. We we think about his attributes in their particular uh distinctions, uh, we think about his mercy as distinct. Distinct from his wrath, we think about his love as distinct from his patience, and on we could go. But in God, that really isn't Accurate. We experience them and we see them that way, but that's not how they are in God. And maybe just one more illustration to uh give you a sense of how we can think about this I don't know if this was known back in Swinnix Day, if I had this um way of uh seeing things, but when you pass light through a prism What happens? Rainbow library. Rainbow. Uh the the as the light passes through the prism And I'm I'm reaching the boundaries of my scientific knowledge here. But as the light passes through the prism, it bends, the light bends, and because the different colors are different wavelengths, they bend in different uh degrees, and so they separate And so what we see on one side as white light or light, on the other side we see as all of the different colors. In a similar way, God is one whole, perfect, complete being But as we experience him, as he uh condescends to reveal himself to us, he reveals that and we see him in those different ways, even though in him they are all one Perfect being in essence. Now the question I want to pose to you, for you to consider, and we'll consider it together, is what Attributes are revealed when you put the essence of God through the prism of sinful mankind. When God engages and interacts through the sin of mankind, what do you see on the other side? In the sense of what attributes of God do you see? So I think we have a pretty clear answer of that uh in Scripture. If you have a Bible you can go to Exodus thirty four. Many of you are familiar with this. Maybe remember I preached through this passage um couple of years ago. Exodus thirty four is historically after right after um Moses was up on on the mountain for forty days The people made the golden calves and worshiped them. Of course, uh Moses went down and uh brought a stop to that. And then he goes back up to the mountain and the Lord tells him, Uh, I am not going to go with you across the wilderness into the promised land, because the people are so stubborn, they are so wicked and evil, that if I if I'm around them, I'm going to kill them and destroy them. by my holiness and justice. And Moses does what uh he ought to have done, and that is he intercedes on behalf of the people. And he appeals to God, and God says, Okay, I will go with you. And then Moses asked a question, this is in Exodus 33, that that shows that Moses has a heart to know God. He wants to know the heart of God. He has seen God work, he has seen all all of the p displays of power through the plagues in Egypt, through the parting of the Red Sea, uh by now they're already eating manna every single day. So he has seen the power of God on display just like everybody else. And by this point he's already had at least forty days up on Mountain with the Lord, so he's had that personal interaction with the Lord, which we don't have any sp specific details other than the words that are exchanged. But Moses Doesn't have enough for his own satisfaction. He's like, I want to know more of you, God. I want to see your glory And so he says in chapters uh thirty-three verse eighteen, please show me your glory And so if I can just uh abbreviate what happens next, the Lord says, You want to see my glory? Okay, I'll show you my glory. And in Exodus thirty-four, the Lord puts Moses on the mountain and he says, I'm gonna pass Before you I'm going to show you my glory, and here is the glory that God presents to Moses. Verses six and seven of Exodus thirty-four. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, Yahweh, Yahweh, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And it says Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshipped. Of all the passages in the Old Testament where God reveals Himself, and there are many, where God tells uh His people, whether it's the prophets or uh the people collectively, what kind of God He is, this is the most Extensive description of the glory of God, where God says, This is my glory. And if we were to take the time to think about it, each of these attributes are necessary as it relates to how God interacts with sinful creatures. There's those aspects of his being, his um aseety, his self-existence, uh his omniscience, his omnipotence, which uh are true of God no matter what, and they will be true of God forever and ever. And obviously these will be as well, but we particularly see and experience these attributes on display in relationship to sinful mankind. And this is so essential to God's glory and God's uh self-description that this becomes a repeated refrain For referring to what kind of God He is throughout the rest of the Old Testament. It's never repeated precisely in this way, it's always condensed in various ways. But this description becomes the template. And the definition of the character of God over and over throughout the Old Testament. And ultimately it's condensed down to two attributes. Steadfast love and faithfulness. And that you see all over the place throughout the Old Testament and the prophets, many times in the Psalms. And what we see, and what I want to highlight today, is that God is utterly committed To manifesting these attributes and being known for these attributes, not only by his people, but by everyone in the world. Such that these attributes become the qualities by which God determines how He is going to interact with His people. So I want to walk through just a couple, well more than a couple, a few passages where where we see that on display. Turn over to Ezekiel chapter twenty. Ezekiel chapter twenty is not a common passage. Similar to how we looked at I Isaiah 40 last month, which is also another common passage, Ezekiel 20 is also not incredibly common, but It reveals something very helpful. Here in Ezekiel 20, God explains to his people who are exiled in Babylon Why he does what he does. Just the context here is Ezekiel is a prophet who was taken to Babylon prior to the destruction of Jerusalem with 10,000. And so he's ministering to the exiled people of Israel there in Babylon. And the elders of Israel come to Ezekiel and say, we we have a question for God. We want to inquire of God. And God says, ain't gonna happen. You are too wicked and too evil. I'm not gonna be inquired of I mean the whole reason for their exile is because of their rebellion against God. And so what God does is instead of receiving questions from them that he is going to answer, he tells them why it is that they are in exile. see here information about Israel's history that we don't have anywhere else in Scripture. So let's just Jump into the context in verse five where the Lord tells Ezekiel what he should tell these elders as to why he won't be inquired by them. And thus and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, On the day when I chose Israel, I swore to the offspring of the house of Jacob, making myself known to them in the land of Egypt. I swore to them, saying, I am the Lord your God. On that day I swore to them that I would bring them out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had searched out for them, a land flowing with milk and honey and the most glorious of all lands. And I said to them, Cast away the detestable things your eyes feast on, every one of you, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt I am the Lord your God. Now just pause there and recognize that what he's saying is while the people were in Egypt as a nation, they were idolaters. They were not faithful to the Lord. You know, they obviously started out a as a family, 70 and all, with uh Jacob and his twelve sons and their families and everything. But they were idolaters even at that time. And so it's it's not entirely clear when he says uh that when he made himself known to them, whether that's near the beginning or near the end, was it when Moses first arrived on the scene? To deliver them. It doesn't give us the exact timeline, but he's saying, while they were still in Egypt. And I told them who I am, and I told them that they should not be idolaters The fact is they were worshipers of Egypt's gods. Verse 8. But They rebelled against me and were not willing to listen to me. None of them cast away the detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said, I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land. of Egypt. So think about this. While they are in Egypt, and then again we're not told about this anywhere else in the Old Testament, while they were in Egypt, God threatened to destroy them and I guess start over Because of their idolatry and rebellion. You know, as far as we know, once Moses got back to Egypt, everything was going well as far as the people following him and um and ultimately being led out of Egypt. But there was a a time where they were idolaters and God threatened to destroy them. Now why didn't he destroy them? Well, verse nine. But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among whom they lived In whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. God chose not to destroy his rebellious people Because he didn't want the nations, namely Egypt and whatever surrounding nations also were there, he didn't want those nations to have the wrong idea of what kind of God he is. He wanted them to know who he truly is. Verse 10. So I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. I gave them my statutes and made known to them my rules, by which if a person does them, he will live. I give them my Sabbath, a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They did not walk in my way, in my statutes, but rejected my rules. by which if a person does them he shall live, and my Sabbath they greatly profane. Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness to make a full end of them. Now this we're a little bit more familiar with. We see several instances where because of the rebellion of the people, both their complaining against the Lord as well as their idolatry, God told Moses I am going to destroy this people and I'm going to start over with you. And you know what? He was well within his right to do that. They deserve to be destroyed because of their sin and rebellion against the one true and living God. Why didn't he do that? Verse 14. But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations in whose sight I had brought them out. Again, God, and this is partly what Moses said to God in order to dissuade him from destroying the people, God, if you do this, the Egyptians and the nations will think wrongly about you, if I can paraphrase what he said. And so, for the sake of upholding the truth of what kind of God He is, that He is merciful and gracious and compassionate and forgiving while also being just, God chose not to destroy The people. Well, verse 15, moreover, I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them out into the land that I had given them, a land flowing with milk and honey. So we know that, of course, the people uh continued on, but they continued to reject his rule. And just for the sake of time, verse 18, and I said to the to their children, so that first generation was destroyed, but now we're now we're going to the second generation. I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the statues of your fathers Verse 19, I and the Lord your God walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. And so on. Verse 21. But the children rebelled against me. They didn't walk in my statutes, they were not careful to obey my rules. And so I said, I would pour out my wrath upon them and dispend my anger against them in the wilderness. Generation after generation after generation, rebelled against the Lord, though he had given them everything they needed, he revealed himself to them, he gave them the rule. by which they would live or could live, and yet because of their rebellion, they deserve to be destroyed by God. And he threatened to destroy them. Why didn't he ultimately destroy them? Verse 22, but I withheld my hand and acted for the sake of my name that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations. in whose sight I had brought them out. God is utterly committed to ensuring that his name, which is his character, his attributes, his essence, the kind of God that he is, which he himself defined as merciful and gracious and compassionate and forgiving and extravagant in his steadfast love and just in his punishment. He wanted the nations to know that he is that kind of God. And so he kept forgiving. He kept extending patience. He kept manifesting his glory through those attributes to his people. Well we're not going to continue on there. You can read that on your own, but basically he goes on to explain that even after all of these extensions of grace, his people just continued to rebel, and ultimately that's why they were finally exiled. He did finally punish them by uh bringing the nations against them and sending them out of the land. All of this to say The way that God dealt with his people Israel was driven by God's desire that he would be rightly known and Worshipped not only by his own people, but by the nations. But again, ultimately Justice had to come as part of his purposes for redemption. And so if you turn over to Ezekiel 36, we kind of pick up the story now with the reality of the exile and how how that relates to God manifesting his glory to the nations. You know, he he said in Ezekiel 20 repeatedly, I didn't want my name profaned, I didn't want my name profaned. Here in Ezekiel 36, he's about to give the new covenant He's about to explain to the people the promises by which one day they would rightly be brought back together, not only as a people group in the same way that they had been before, but as a uh a people who are uh regenerated from the inside. Now they would finally have a new heart to worship and serve the Lord. But before he gets to that, he explains his motivation. You already know this, but it's not because they were so good and they finally obeyed, so so he's gonna finally bless them in this way. Now look at verse sixteen. The word of the Lord came to me, verse seventeen, Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled that yet by their ways and their deeds. Their ways before me were like the uncleanness of a woman in her menstrual impurity, so I pu poured out my wrath upon them. For the blood that they had shed in the land, for the idols with which they had defiled it. I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries. In accordance with their ways and their deeds I judged them. But when they came to the nations wherever they came, They profaned my holy name. So here's the definition, if you will, of what it means to profane his holy name. In that the people said of them, These are the people of the Lord, and yet they They had to go out of his land. In other words, God must not be all that powerful. He must not be all that good. He couldn't keep his people together There's we was more we could kind of invest into that, but the nations had the wrong idea about the Lord Because the people had to go out of the land. Verse 21. But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations. Therefore say to the house of Israel Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. I will vindicate The holiness of my great name which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them, and the nations will know That I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes So everything that follows, and from there he goes into the new covenant promises, everything that follows is done for the sake of God showing what kind of God He is Yes, that he is holy, but also that he is merciful and compassionate and gracious and forgiving and full of steadfast love and also just So the display and and the uh conveying of what kind of God he is directed, God's interaction with his people in the uh Old Testament. display of his name and showing what kind of God he is directed, his promises of a new covenant. And We can also see how the display of what kind of God He is directed and determined what Jesus would do. In John chapter one I'm gonna try and go quickly here because we're running low on time. But in John chapter one, verse fourteen, as as John is really introducing the whole book and kind of gives the big picture of the life and work of the Messiah, Jesus. Jesus He says in verse fourteen, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Remember I said that steadfast love and faithfulness are the most condensed version of the list of attributes from Exodus 34. That translates into the New Testament as grace and truth. And so what John is saying here is that Jesus comes on the scene to show what kind of God Yahweh is, to reveal God to the world. Verse 16, from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace, for the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. So we can rightly say that Jesus came to redeem us from our sin, right? He came to save us from the wrath of God. And that's absolutely true. But I would s suggest to you that a higher purpose, even above that, is he did those things so that the world would know what kind of God God is. What are his attributes? How does he determine what he does Well, we see even in Ephesians chapter two that when God redeems his people Through the work of Christ, He does it for the purpose of displaying His attributes. Ephesians chapter two, I know many of you are familiar with this He says in verse four, but God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses and sins, made us alive together with Christ By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places. Why? Why did God accomplish this plan of redemption? So that, verse seven, in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches Of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. So everything God has done In and through Christ for your benefit, for redeeming you from your sin, so that you might dwell with God forever. Yes, it was to benefit you, but more than that it was to put himself on display So as it relates to Israel, as it relates to the New Covenant, as it relates to the life of Christ, as it relates to your salvation, God's plan of redemption, God does everything To put himself on display, to show to you and to the world what kind of God he is. As we draw to a close, what that means then is that our responsibility, or rather our privilege and joy, is then to live our lives in such a way That we put God's glory on display. In John chapter 15, verse 8, Jesus says in the upper room 15 verse 8. By this my Father is glorified, that is, he is seen and worshipped. That you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. Well, what's the fruit? How how do we define fruit? Well, the fruit is Putting on display the transforming power of Christ in our life. You know, you could use the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. You could speak generally about the character of Christ, those communicable attributes. God is glorified when we bear that fruit, when we show to those around us what kind of God And Jesus also said this in Matthew 5, 14, and 15 when he says, you are the light of the world. A city on a hill. And you don't put a light under a a lamp or a uh a bowl or whatever to to hide it. No. You put it Out there to display. And so he says, Let your light shine, so that others might see your good works and do what? Glorify our Father in heaven. So God does everything that he does. He makes all the choices that he makes for the ultimate purpose of putting his glory on display so that We and the world might know that He is a God that is merciful and gracious and compassionate and forgiving and full of steadfast love and just. And then he calls us then to live our lives in such a way that we put his attributes on display. So that gives us the opportunity then to reflect on our own hearts and lives and how are we doing with that? How are we responding to our trials How are we engaging in our relationships? How are we battling the sin in our hearts? Are we showing God's attributes or are we Showing something else. Well, there's some things there for you to discuss. I ended two minutes before eleven, so you have two minutes or whatever Karen says, but let me uh briefly pray. Father thank Thank you for just this uh fast reflection of this simple truth that your glory is to be seen and known. Uh Lord, we confess that uh so often we fall short of uh your glory. We don't display it uh for others to see And so we need your spirit to help us to put off uh our sin, to renew our minds, to put on righteousness, s not so that we make ourselves pleasing to you, because through Christ we are pleasing to you. But so that we would manifest your glory and that you might be worshipped and known even by those who hate you. In Christ's name I pray. Amen