I'm just trying to d decide how I thought you guys might be thinking about this lesson on Christ is King. It doesn't follow the specific pattern of lost words and yet I and taking two whole weeks to work through it. And I want you to know that I am working through this study because in having done it in preparation for the four sh uh short term missions that trip, I find that it is the foundation for words like salvation, words like grace, words like faith, words like repentance, love, leadership, holiness, so many others So many of them fall directly within the categories that we have established here that are based on who Christ is as king, how he mediates our relationship with God, and how we respond to him. You understand how those things fit, not within a uh framework of systematic theology, but in the framework of uh uh call it biblical theology, how it fits within the framework of Christ, God communicating himself to men through covenants and the king demonstrating right relationship with the covenant maker. And so I started in Genesis and we talked about how Uh Christ made uh God. It it's not wrong to say Christ, actually, but uh for the sake of keeping everything coherent. Um How God made covenant and established Adam and Eve as king to communicate all of what is good and right. Actually, let me let me let me put a pause on that I've been trying to think of how better to communicate this idea of judgment, justice, righteousness, rightness. And I just want you to go back to the garden for a minute and think about how perfectly God made the world Right? And you say, well, we know it's got it, right? It's it's all good. We've heard it a thousand times. Maybe you do, maybe you don't. What's most illustrative or illustrative, however you want to say that word Um uh about how good he made the world is how bad it went on that one wrong decision. Animals, all of them, lived in peace, in the majesty and complexity that they were created in. And they are amazing Food just grew plentifully. There was no hunger. There was no starvation. There was no sickness. There was no shortness of breath. There was no dimness of eyes. Morons like me pulling their glasses on and off so I can see the front row and the back row. And my notes, by the way. I need three sets of glasses now. That's that's how pitiful I am There was none of that. It was all nobody woke up tired. That was a conversation in my house this morning too with us. He was talking about feeling tired this morning during the prayer time. That was a conversation in my house too with several of us. Nobody woke up tired. It was all good. And then that first decision, and it went all bad. Everything went bad. Every relationship was broken Not just human relationship, but relationship with nature, relationship with God, relationship with men and women, relationship in marriage. Relationship among brothers. He's fond of telling me there is no good example of brothers in the scripture. That first sin happened and it seems to have broken that relationship Nah, we caught you him. That doesn't mean you just give up on your brother. Which is I think where he was headed with that whole thing. Well there's no good relationship, so why bother? Well you're gonna bother. Or I'll say another bad relationship. It's getting harder to say it is age Um it just all went sad. So before you make righteousness and rightness and justice, some sort of an ethereal spiritual thing Go back to the garden. To live according to God's righteousness is to live in harmony with all that He is and does. It's to live without this injury of the fall. That is a better way to think about it. It is right decisions at work. It is right words in the midst of conflict. It's right mit words in the midst of injury. It's right footsteps in the dark It's right activity in the life. It's right food. It's right exercise. It's right sleep. There is no area. There is no decision that you could make That does not in some way fall under the totality of God's righteousness. We say that's a that's a lot of talking about one little thing that we all know. Do you? This is what the whole study is about. Do you appreciate the totality of God's righteousness. Or have you spiritualized it as blood and altars? It is that, but it is so much more And if you get it confused with blood and altars or Christ on a cross only, some of you are like, whoa, where are you going? I'm not going anywhere that the scriptures didn't go. Christ on a cross is significant. It is a part of restoring us. to rightness or righteousness with God is a part in unrolling the hurt of the curse, but it is only a part And many of us in our conservative, reformed, baptistic, dispensational Christian circles have limited rightness with God as Christ on the cross. And in so doing You have become Pharisaical. You have become a Pharisee. This way, God, this box, that's what you live in. That's how I define you. This one box right here. It is the totality of your life. You cannot talk about grace and faith without understanding the rightness of God and how broken we are in being able to experience it. Did you hear the way I said that? God's rightness and righteousness is almost synonymous with his goodness. We separate them so that you can understand that there's a set of requirements and a set of promises, but they actually go together The promises are for the goodness. The requirements are for the goodness. Do not eat of that fruit, or you will get broken Run. And uh no matter what it costs, hey mother and father, sister and brother, take up your cross, give away all your money Whatever it takes, it's a heavy requirement. But it's so that the totality of God's goodness, the world, the universe of God's goodness might be expressed to you. And it is all depicted in From Genesis to Revelation in this context of covenant and kingship. So I'm spending two whole weeks on it. I wish I had four, to be very honest with you. I'm not sure that there has been anything that has dominated my personal conviction and devotion time in the last two months more than this idea. I had a terrible week at work It doesn't matter. That's not my point. Don't don't say that. I don't want you to feel sorry for me. That's not my point. The fact that I feel that it's terrible is an indication that I'm a sinner. If I understood that God was a great God, I would go, ha that's rough. What are you gonna do with this guy? I would live in expectation, not sorrow, not confusion, not turmoil in my heart and mind. I would live differently. I just confess to you that I'm a sinner, so don't feel sorry for me. Pray for me But it has been so good to stop periodically throughout the day and go, Scott, you're not teach people that the reign of your king is here and now and then live as though it's not What a hypocrite. Any of you that have ever heard my testimony, I was tired of being a hypocrite. God had convicted me that I was a hypocrite. I no longer wanted to be a hypocrite That was thirty-five years ago. I still don't want to be a hypocrite. Either his rule and his reign are here and now and that is what I am experiencing, I am a hypocrite. Well, are we warmed up? I feel like we should be warmed up. I'm warmed up. We mostly talked about the bad stuff last week. Genesis, Adam and Eve, they fell. Then there was no king, and all men did what was right in their own eyes. And I gotta tell you, when we live as though the rule and reign of Christ is not here and now, present powerful, palpable, in impinging on our lives. I cannot help but think that we live just like that That there is no God. Or at least not right now. Or at least not present here right now. I don't know what categories you put on it, but whatever it actually is, the real reign of Christ our King over every event. Every breath of everything, whenever we diminish it from that, we live, just like they did in Noah's day. And but but for the covenant God made with Noah, we would get destroyed again. Then we jump forward through Abrahamic covenants, kind of skimless. Mosaic is the big one, right? God came and became their king. Uh manifested himself on that picture of a throne. If you think about it, he became present with his people in the in the temple, in the fire, in the cloud He manifested himself presently, visually, conspicuously with his people. And in less than a hundred years They rejected it. I said, it's not good enough. We want a man like those kings, those pagan kings over there. We want a man just like those kings to lead us, God, because you're not really doing a good job. And then we talk we just finished a big Hebrew study, right? We talk about Hebrews. We have a better covenant. We have a better priest. We have a better prophet. We have a better king. I don't mean better than God, obviously, but better than anything else. And our new covenant is better than the old covenant. We have a better thing. We are further in the revelation of God to his people than they were. Here we are again. Is he real? Is he reigning? Is he good? Do I have time to serve him? Is he worth serving? Some of you might be thinking in your minds, I'm not exactly sure what he's talking about You know like what's wrong with my life that he's he's acting as though there's this implied criticism. This is very simple. This is very simple. You want to know how you're doing with the rain cocaine? Is your heart universally overflowing with thankfulness for all that God is and does. If you didn't write down, write that dance. I don't think it's in your notes, but it says it. Write that down And put it someplace where you have to look at it all the time. Let's say on the steering wheel of your car, but I don't want you staring at that way if you'd be watching traffic. So put it someplace conspicuously. If your heart universally overflowing with thankfulness for all that God is and all that God is doing. And you might add, in your life. So the answer to that question, the degree to which that statement is true in your life or not, is the degree to which you live in the reality of the reality But that is 100% the message of the scripture. And if your mind somehow got roadblocked at the cross, you you missed it The cross was the means by which we might live like that, not the end of it. It was the beginning, like in Ezekiel thirty seven It was the the rising of the dead bones to life and the breathing of breath into it to make a great army of it. That's what the cross is like. Are we a people who are conspicuously accused of being joyful? I'm getting off target. Somebody in the Guadalupe, you're gonna call me back. You gotta call me back here Here we are. We finished with human kings last week. They all failed. Every human king failed. Some of them were better than others, but they all failed. And what we end up with at the end of that entire summary is best summarized in Ezekiel 11, 23. The glory of God departs from his people, and they are led away to captivity. And there he was in the temple, manifesting himself conspicuously. They could approach the throne of God. But because of the heart of man Because of the nature of who we are, we mixed that in with false religion and false worship and false value until the Lord's temple was a mockery, was a mockery of allegiance to one king. And he said, I will have none of it. And his glory departed. And his people went into captivity. Covenant with David that we all know, when your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He will be a king. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. So we know that's not Solomon, right? We know that's not Not an earthly king, you know, a um a man king. We know that's something beyond that, because the throne of his kingdom will be forever. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. So there it is, that promise of a great king that would come from the line of David. It's just a promise here, but it is a promise, and it's a long way off. Psalm eighty nine, three through four, you have said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one There's that covenantal language, right? Uh I have sworn to David my servant, I will establish your offspring forever and build your throne for all generations I just want to see you. I want you to see the covenant language that the Lord is using. I'm not making it up. I'm not embellishing it. I'm just calling it out the way it is in Scripture. Isaiah 11, 1 through 4 There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. Jeremiah 23, 5-6. Behold, the days are coming, declares Yahweh, when I will raise up for David. a righteous France, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely. One shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. And then one more, Micah 5. 2, but you, O Bethlehem Ephra Who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me, one who is to be ruler in Israel Whose origin is from of old, from ancient of days. You get a clue there that the king will be also the creator, the self-righteous one. Why read all those? Because I want you to see that the expectation of the Old Testament was principally, primarily, centrally, dominantly For a king and for us to dismiss that as the framework by which we understand New Testament covenants, New Testament promises We do at our risk. The promise that you and I are depending on is a promise of a king who would be servant, who would be savior, who would be teacher to would be all those other words that we need to learn about. It's like watching somebody, a pitcher wind up, right? He's his foot's back, he's his arm is back, he's looking in a direction, and we watch that, and instead of looking where he's looking and expecting it to go where he's he's aiming or charging, if you will. We look the other way. Oh well we think God might appear in this other way over here. We w we think he might throw in another framework by which to understand him. No, just just follow the pitch, guys. I see you Y your point about the Old Testament pointing to a king just solidifies the fact that when Jesus came, they wanted to make him king because that's who They were looking. You're getting ahead. Yeah, yeah, a hundred percent, right? That the this theme will carry all the way through. Hundred percent So he's promised and then he's announced, right? One is looking forward to a thing that will happen, and the other one is like, it's about to happen. Right? I I promised you a thousand years ago it was gonna happen. It's about to happen Now it turns out that about had a four hundred year wind up on it, right? But um Referring to Malachi by the way. Um but here he's an announced and he's announced entirely in a context of repentance. Now it's repentance for the purpose of restoration, and that should give us some hope. But it is so important to see the coming of the king is in the concept of And there's a there's a curve on this pitch, if I continue to abuse that metaphor. There's a curve on this pitch. You gotta stay with me for a little bit. I pretty much said the next paragraph, so I'm not going to repeat that. I do want you to know there's a bit of a surprise when Christ comes. And John the Baptist was a little confused by it, even though he was part of the act, man, he was in on it, right? It would be hard to say that John the Baptist wasn't at the center of the activity of Christ coming as king. The whole birth is focused on it, right? Like that man's purpose was Christ as king. He even was surprised. So I want to make sure because we're not in the center of it like that. I want to make sure we understand the surprise because it is imperative. to how we see Christ as King and see his reign play out. Zechariah 9. 9, we're going to stick with the announcement now. Yet so Christ isn't here. King ain't here yet. We're going to stick with the announcement. Just to understand what was the expectation. Zechariah 9 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you righteous and notice this having salvation is he humble and mounted on a donkey on a colt the foal of a donkey so many things. We could stop there and do several lessons But I want you to see when the king comes, he brings righteousness. Go back to that garden idea. Don't spiritualize my word, right? Done with spiritual words. Right? I want words I can use and look by. Come to restore us from the hurt of all that was done by the curse. That's what you You should think in your mind every time you see that word righteousness in this undo the pain of the curse, all of it. This king will come with righteousness, having salvation is he. And he's humble. Malachi 3, 1 through 5, behold, I send my messenger and he will prepare the way. This is John the Baptist, right? Uh send my messenger and he will prepare the way before me, and Yahweh, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming coming, says Yahweh of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming Stay with me, pay attention. Who can endure the day of his coming and who can stand when he appears? There's an implication already that there's something about the coming of the king that we cannot bear. That there's a standard or an expectation, or hey, how about a covenant? He has told us what his requirements are, and we have not lived It's here. It's here. That's why we cannot endure it. Soap, right? He's gotta he's gotta fix something. He's gotta purify something. He's gotta correct something. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. So there it is. The king is coming And he will draw near to us in judgment. And you begin to get sent down a slightly confusing path there. And I'll explain that in a minute, but I want you to see, this is what John the Baptist is confused about His expectation was for a king that was coming in judgment to call us to account for the covenant requirements that we had broken. And it's entirely biblical. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker and his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust at button. He's not against the widow and the fatherless. He's against those that oppress the widow and the fatherless, just to be clear on that one. Um against those uh against those who thrust aside the sojourners. Let me summarize that. Those who are not hospitable and do not fear me, says Yahweh of hosts. Joel two, twelve through thirteen, yet even now, declares Yahweh, return to me with all your heart with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning. And rend your hearts and not your garments. Return to Yahweh your God, for He is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He relent there's that word by the way, uh did we do it? We did it, we did it, what's that I said, right? Steadfast love. Steadfast love for what? Steadfast love for his covenant. Covenant love. I made a covenant with you, and even though you keep breaking the requirements, I am faithful. I am a faithful king. Return to Yahweh, your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and he relents over disaster. And then that next comment is so important, right? Do not miss what our response should be to the coming reign of the king. By the way, you see this so clearly in the gospels. in that early ministry of John. The king is coming and his house is in disorder because you have not honored him in his own home. While he has been away from his home, think about how many parables and messages of Christ you know that use that metaphor, right? He has been away from his home, and you have allowed it You have even caused it to become disordered. The king is coming, set his house in order. That is the response. to a reigning king. John the Baptist preached the same message. Revelation, that passage we started with, right, 19, 11, and 16, does the same thing when Christ will come as judge. But he specifically repeats it to the seven churches. And then Malachi four, one through two, five and six. For behold the day is coming burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all those are big words, all all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says Yahweh of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch, nothing. For ye But for you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet. Again, the New Testament makes it And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children and the hearts of children to their fathers lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. Christ was promised. Christ is announced and we are told how to respond. to the coming of our King. A couple more passages and then we'll move into the New Testament. This one actually is a New Testament passage Luke one thirteen through seventeen. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zachariah, for your prayer prayers. Hmm, I think it's prayer has been heard. I'm sorry, I have a typo in there. And your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John, and he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God, and he will go before him in spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedience of the wisdom of the just. to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. So there it is in the New Testament, right? I didn't make it up with Old Testament anachronisms or something like that. There it is. He's quoting from Malachi. He's specifically assigning that prophecy, that promise to John the Baptist. And he affirms here in the New Testament the very same message. Make ready for the Lord of people prepared. Prepared for what? Make ready for what? None of it makes any sense. Until you go back to the Old Testament And you see the covenants of God, the requirements and the promises as mediated by and then you understand the office of Christ as And to Mary the angel of the Lord uh excuse me, and to Mary the angel of the Lord says he will be greater and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, right, back to those promised passages in 2 Samuel, for instance. And he will reign Over the house of Jacob forever, and is of his kingdom there will be no end. The announcement of Malachi three and four is fulfilled in Luke three, three through eight, and he went into all the region around the Jordan proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sin. With no surprise there when you see that the pro uh excuse me, the announcement of the king required preparation of the house, which required repentance in the heart. And so as John the Baptist goes around, he's trying to prepare, right? Prepare the house. Get a people prepared for the Lord. So what's he proclaiming? A baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. You've broken the requirements You must repent, as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. He said therefore to the crowds that came out Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? And I love this part. Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father. Let me summarize that for you real quick. The the Jews, the Old Testament Jews, actually had a very clear, I would argue better than we do, had a very clear concept of living in covenant relationship with God. And they they rooted it in that covenant with Abraham. I'm mind blank, trying to think ahead. They rooted it in that covenant relationship with with uh Abraham. But at some point in time that got twisted into, well, because we have a covenant, we're good. We have a covenant, and we've been taught about it all of our Christian lives. The covenant we have with Christ. It's the covenant we have with Christ, just like God divided that sacrifice and unilaterally walked between it in order to make a covenant with David. Abraham. Christ unilaterally executed a covenant with his elect on the cross. We have no part in that. We receive the benefit of that covenant, but he unilaterally accomplished it. And that's true. Even as c Abraham's covenant was absolutely true. True and faithful and historic and excellent in every way, just like ours. But when we live in the absence of the of the fear of our king's judgment. Our king's and if you think judgment like oh we beat with a stick, right? You stop that The right king who comes and says, I have spent all of your life drawing you into right relationship with God the Father. And I asked you to order my house in your life accordingly By bearing much fruit in keeping with repentance. Will your soul response be new coven! New covenant! We got new covenants! And if some of your mental objections could be heard, I think I would be deafer now than I was when I walked in the room. Uh oh. I know I got you thinking, I'm nervous about what you think. tendency to want to dumb things down which makes things easy to get across. And we could do things like saying, well I prayed prayer or uh you know I've got my past, I'm good. And but God is always wanted Yeah, yeah, yeah. So many things I want you're you're tempting me to get further off topic here. So I I'm just going to say yes to that and then keep on moving. I do want to say this in my other set of lesson notes on uh um uh bearing fruit in in keeping with repentance. Uh I I didn't mean to do it, I didn't search for these verses, but I was really impressed with the verses in the New Testament that say that a good tree, in other words, a tree that is rooted in the reign of Christ. A good tree bears only good fruit. Some of you are like, Well, that's not possible because we're not perfect. Stop with your thoughts for a moment. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying I understand it all. I'm just saying I don't care what we think. I only care that the scriptures say a good tree bears only good fruit. And an evil tree Bears only evil fruit. And in case we're confused, he goes ahead and handles the negative ones too. And he goes, a good tree does not bear bad fruit. And a bad tree Does not bear good fruit. Sorry, I got lost in that one. Right? So bear fruit in fully in good fruit. And if somebody's feeling discouraged, hang on There is strong encouragement in this lesson and in the message of the scriptures. So don't get discouraged. Like I'm not making it. I'm clearly not perfect. So God Scott must have it wrong just because I'm not doing it correctly, and because I'm not doing it correctly, he's got to be wrong and there's got to be another way. None of that is true. So stick with the scriptural models character of Christ as King, the overwhelming testimony of the New Testament. Christ the King reigns. He reigns now. And he reigns with goodness. John the Baptist learns the meaning of Christ's reign as king prior to the final judgment of Revelation nineteen, eleven, and sixteen. And it can be well seen in Luke seven, eighteen through twenty-three The disciples of John reported all these things to him and all the miracles that Christ was doing after his ministry became more open and conspicuous, public, if you will. The disciples of John, because he's in prison, reported all these things to him, and John, calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to the Lord, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? Now, that should bother you. If you are familiar with the gospel messages, John is not confused that Christ is the Messiah. When Christ walks up to him to get baptized, he says, I don't want to baptize you. You should baptize me. You're the one. And he saw the Spirit descend on him, and I mean he knew. But when Christ demonstrated the character of his lordship in this period of time, it was not what John was expecting. John was expecting a radical axe-swinging king. He was expecting a judge. He was expecting hellfire and brimstone. He was expecting God to come and clean house, literally. And this Christ is so gentle. So meek. He he's more like a servant than a king. And John himself, the the the dichotomy of the character of Christ's kingship between what it was manifested as in Christ And what he expected it to be like, based on that that wind up for the pitch in the last part of the Old Testament, was so different that he actually sent two disciples to say Are you sure you're the one? Or shall we look for another? And I I've always loved this. Once I found it, Christ doesn't answer him Per se. He healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits. And on many who were blind he bestowed sight. And those words are so familiar to us it doesn't occur to us how radical it is. Can you imagine somebody showing up and just pouring out? The hope, the the utmost hope. Have you ever wanted something good and honest for yourself or for somebody you cared about? Can you imagine having that satisfied in an instant and then in bulk Completely lost my place. Here we go. And he answered them. He answered the disciples. And again, I love it, right? It's the non-answer. And he answered the disciples, go and tell John What you have seen and heard. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them. Go tell him. I'm the king, and my reign starts now This is what it looks like. The synoptics discuss Christ's kingdom a hundred and nineteen times. It is it is an overwhelming topic in the Gospels. For us to attempt to approach an understanding of Christ in the New Testament without having the framework and context of Christ reign as king in his established kingdom is just the uttermost Foolishness. And you cannot understand Christ as King without understanding God's covenant, that he works with men through requirements. And requirements and promises. I'm sorry, it's the phrase I meant to speak. By the way, of those a hundred and nineteen times, about fifty-four percent of them reference the kingdom of Christ as I don't mean that they just allow for it. I mean they say it. It's now. It's here. He is reigning. You must respond as though he is reigning. Even I I don't even like the way my sentence Played out. You must respond as though he. Well, it's not as though. He is reigned. And we, like all the Old Testament examples are so busy trying to reconcile our circumstances and our experiences and our own thoughts and the words and thoughts of other men with the truth that's in scripture that we ask for an earthly king. Give us a lead pastor to direct us into all righteousness. I'm not picking on pastors. We need shepherds and pastors. Those are ordained by God to be helpers, to help point us towards the King, to remind us every day that he is reigning and ruling. So that that's not my point. But we take our eyes off of Christ who is king in every circumstance of our lives and we start looking for a magic helper. But we do it ourselves Christ is ruling and reigning now, and he is good now. Only about 33% explicitly emphasize the future and final kingdom of Christ In Luke alone, it's even less frequent. I think of the forty-ish times he references the kingdom, only three are specifically future. Luke was really intent. Notice he walked with Paul, right? He was Paul's Companion. He he was really big into now. The reign is now. The kingdom is now. Christ's current reign is characterized primarily by his goodness, but he constantly cautions us that the judgment is coming And we need to be preparing the way through repentance and fruit bearing. You all know that you will stand in the in the judgment. And the passages are a little bit difficult in some senses We know that the unrighteous will be judged. And it's very clear in Scripture over and over again that the unrighteous, those outside of Christ, will be judged. But what is very interesting Is that when the judge comes that's Revelation, by the way, that passage in Revelation, when that King of Kings and Lord of Lords comes He will come in a final judgment. His goodness is meant to entice us to repentance, to draw us near to him. It's him opening his arms to the world in steadfast covenant love while we are shaking our fists in his face. And he has made the means, through Christ the King, as servant on the cross, he has made the means to reconcile us to himself. That all of his goodness may be poured out on us. But he will come, and his patience will be I don't want to say an end, but it will be complete. Completed is probably a better way to to talk about it rather than in an end And he will begin to discern between those that are his and those that aren't. And in every place we find that played out in scriptures, two things are true. One, he comes first to those who claim to call him King. That's where he comes first in his judgment. Every place. There is no place that I have been able to find. I'm not saying that's universal. I'm saying I have not been able to find a place in the scriptures where Christ comes as judge. He does not come first to those that claim him as king. That's the first thing that's true about that. The second thing that's true about that is that there is a considerable division between those who really serve him as king and those who only claim that he's implied. But I think it's important lest somebody miss it. Which are you? Well how do I know, Scott? Are you repentant? Are you bearing fruit with you thing with repentance? The reign of God in your life now, source of overflowing I'm getting short on time and I don't want to miss this complete thread. So I'll do my best to speed read through some of my other notes, but before I my time expires, if the answer to those questions I just asked is no or no sometimes or no a part of the time or no no half the time or you know whatever, right? If when you look at your life you go, my life is not consistent with a universal range of I spend a lot of my time discouraged. I spend a lot of my time afraid. I spend a lot of my time frenetic. I spend a lot of my time whatever it is My life is not characterized by the universal overflow of Thanksgiving because of the reign of my king in all of my life. If in any way the answer to that is no. This is both mind boggling and so ordinary that you're not going to preach. When Christ taught us how to pray daily, when he gave us our daily prayer, he said the very first thing you do, pray God The God is in the midst of a covenant relationship desires to draw you close to Father, depending on the Joshua who art inherent. Your kingdom come. And we all, because this is what we've been taught to thank Although it's not well supported by Scripture. We all go, hey, we mean in that final kingdom coming. That is not supported, not at all. Read it in context. Father, let your kingdom be the reality That's the context in which that prayer is to be praised. Not your kingdom come eighty years from now in that final revelation apocalyptic kind of way. Yeah, that means But that is not what he is praying. He is teaching us to pray that we walk this day in the reality of our because there's no way for us to then satisfy the commandment that He makes for us to rejoice in all things at all times, in all ways. Whether the therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, right? Do all to the glory of God. Well, how do you do that? Overflowing doing overflowing things too. So we cannot do that unless we are daily living in the full reality or the fullest we can get of the reign of our king. But then also notice in that same prayer, forgive us. Repentance is an appropriate response every day to the rain of your And because of the work that Christ did on the cross, because as a servant, he took care of the demand for justice. That prayer daily was It daily unwinds the hurt of the curse that we have allowed in since we last re-referenced our hearts and minds on our grave. I picture myself going into the courtroom of the Lord every morning. I'm not a spiritual person. I'm a broken person. I need a lot of help. So I have all these things that I try to do To help me be less broken, right? So when I talk to you about my spiritual disciplines, I don't want you going, oh Scott's a religious person, or Scott's a spiritual person. Scott's a broken schmuck. Okay I'm just trying to help you understand how broken schmucks can also come to Christ. But I try to picture myself walk I do this on purpose, I try to picture myself walking into this great throne room with Christ. And at first I'm I'm I'm sin of my day, sin of yesterday, I'm healing Jesus. Fish and whatever, and at some point in time he smacks me in the head and goes, Stack, all that you know about the cross. Get up here and talk to me. And so I go up there and I talk to him Talk to him. And he says, Stop being a coward. Stop being a whim. Stop acting like I'm not raining in your life. Stop grumbling, for heaven's sake You gotta go talk to a Sunday school class about Thanksgiving. How can you wake up grumbling about the entire? I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about me. That's all that we were going to now this morning, right? And I was like, all right, Wood, all right. I got it. Thank you. I'm good. But I gotta then walk out of that room And moment I walk out of the room, like Peter, stepping out of the boat, I guess, right, the waves and the distractions of life and the child's and the All the stuff, the unfairness, the brokenness of the world, begin to push on me, yet, or refuse to remember. I start trusting in my own ability. Well, I don't understand how that's going to work out, Lord, and it's frightening. And I'm a pretty capable person, so I I'm going to do it this way. And so every day I get a chance to come back and say, Lord, please forgive me. Let your kingdom be the conspicuous reality that I live in. Today. Forgive me for the sins of yesterday. Forgive me for that matter, for the sins that are being prepared in my heart now as I fear what's gonna happen in that And give me what I need, Lord, today. That I am not desperate for the basic provisions of life. And if I can mix in a little Psalm 51, and return unto me the joy of your salvation, that I might make your glory known. To my wife, who I very much want to encourage in Christ, to my sons who I want to supplement, to my church, whom I hope to encourage in radical obedience and thankfulness for the glory of God of the Lord. Alright. Let's skip over to the very last page. I already did the Lord's Prayer basically. I skipped ahead because I was afraid I might miss it. So you see a summary of it there right below, respond to Christ as King. I want you to see that we are supposed to carry this example of Christ as King with all that it means as servant. As a mediator to some to some degree, to obviously a much lesser degree than Christ, but we are called to do that as Christians. We cannot do it before Christ, but when we are redeemed in Christ, we are absolutely to walk in this Christ as uh walk as kings or queens, however that works for us. Romans 5. 17. If because of one man's trespass, death tongue tie. If because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man. Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Jesus Christ. So there you see it right there in Romans. We are to reign as Christ reigned. And don't let that spiritual definition of righteousness creep in again and go back to the garden. That we would teach men and women. To walk before their God, fulfilling the requirements of the covenant, so that the hurt of the curse would not enter in. You want a theology of parenting? There it is You do whatever it takes, however costly it is, to teach your children to live in right relationship with God, because it's the only thing that rescues From the hurt of the curse. To fail to do that with everything that is in you, every resource that is right to use in that pursuit is to willingly surrender your shoulder to the hurt of the curse. And it it hurts. Revelation 5. 10 and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God. So there it is again, and they shall reign on the earth. 2 Timothy 2, 12, if we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. Just want you to see that, please. Not if we get saved, we will also reign with him. Yes, salvation is the beginning. There is no life in the dead bones in that valley until God does a work that's completely outside of us But if we endure, if we live in the reality of the reign of our King, if we stay faithful to that daily prayer, remind me, Lord, remind me, keep my feet in the rain, consistent with the requirements of the covenant. Keep me in the covenant, Lord, and forgive me of my sins. I have no fear of challenging you to sinless obedience. There's a phrase I I don't shy away from it at all. Because my very next sentence is Pray every day. Pray every day to have the curse unwind in previous days' activities. Pray every day for the mercy and grace of God to strengthen you to live according to the reign of Christ that you might share all of the promises of God. God with everybody around you, which it can only be done when we live according to the requirements that He established, when we live rightfully 1 Peter 2. 9, but you are chosen race, a royal priesthood, a kingly priesthood, both things like Melchizedek, both king and priest. a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Revelation 225 And night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever. This is for everybody in the room. I long to see women restored to the legal dignity that God intended for you in your bearing his image as As a woman, cannot tell you how excited I am about seeing she goes up in that and one day fully restored to it. The awesomeness of a woman, all of the the So call it painful beauty because on this earth the beauty of women is a snare to men and men of God. But there will be a day when the The same things that we consume in our lust will be consumed as though it were the water of life itself, and it will not cause us to stumble. Instead, it will cause us to praise Creator It will be satisfying to our soul in a way that the achievement of our lusts can never do. And as a matter of fact, uh uh blask and I had a passion for that, as you might tell from that little spiel. But men political manhood has failed in this complete And I won't more than anything stand with other men who understand that they have been called to this. This is the preoccupation of their lives. This is what they undertake daily at great cost ourselves even as it was of great cost. Not that we could become Christ. That's not my point. But it is neither moralizing nor sermonizing for me to take out the very message that And I long to stand with men who live in the reality of Bold, fearless, spending it all, always ready, always, I don't know Supercharged, but that word sounds so stupid I regret saying it all randomly. But I can't think of a better word right now. This this idea that we have of a superman is It's fictionalized and foolish, but it comes from a good place. God made us to be this. And we gave it up when we tried to usurp the throne. And we will only regain it when we stop usurping the throne. with a rightful king back there and serve him every day, in every way. And so th these two things are what I want to see. most men restored to their kingship in Christ and women who walk in the terrible dignity of their Queenliness? Queenness? Queen you know I I don't know. Whatever that word should be. Every day is a day of repentance. Every day is a day for thanksgiving and rejoicing. Every day is a day to serve God at the greatest cost and without an expectation of current reward. Because it will come. And if we're only serving Him for reward, we're really serving ourselves. And every day is a day to see Christ seated on the throne. of your life. Lord, I did my best and I so much pray that despite the sin in my life this week that I am thinking about right now, you would be pleased to use a broken thing to give glory to you. And that it would radically encourage and ennoble everybody in this room. In your name I pray. Amen.