Let's pray. Deavenly Father, I want to only speak the flames of your word That are good for your glory and the building up of your people. But I do want to speak with Flame. I want to be a body of believers, as is described in Isaiah 6, who sees the glory of the Lord new and rightly and honestly and visually. And perceptively and is convicted and changed and Commissioned into conspicuous living for your glory. Help it to be so this morning and in all these lessons to come In your name I pray. Amen. So everybody said lost words, what's the class about? It's not really the the class is about words. Yeah, not so hard, right? So that's really the wrong question. The question is why? And I shared a bunch of that with you. But a particularly uh timely response to that comes from two convictions I I have been watching what how this church has responded to the trials that the Lord has provided over the last, I don't know, five, six, seven years, right? The the the previous period of this church and two things stand out in my mind We are a church with a superabundance of knowledge about God, but we are struggling to know God. I'll say that again. We are a church with a superabundance of knowledge about God. But we are struggling to know God. Philippians 3. 10, right? That I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Being transformed in my life is a paraphrase of the way Paul finishes that sentence, that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. Be made conformed or conformable unto his death. Right that my life could be lived in such a way that the per the cross, the the death, is is a reasonable cost for me. That's knowing Christ, not a dictionary full of theological terms and words. Doctrines, orthodoxy, commentators. You should look at the countertop in my house right now and the floor in front of it stacked with books. I love books. I am not an anti-knowledge guy guy. But it hides a knowing. And I intend to change that by looking at some of these words in a new way. I want to introduce you, acquaint you better with your guy. Secondly, we have become a complaining church. Men in particular, whining, not working. I'm tired of it in my own life and I'm tired of listening to it in other people's lives. Don't complain. If you're not willing to work. I am the most critical person in the world. People tell me that all the time. And I allow it in myself Because I try very hard to never criticize something I'm not willing to enter into. There's really interesting references you can find for some of this. My you know I'm trying to keep it short here at the beginning and get to the meat of it, but the two things that come to my mind when I talk about whining and not working or being a complaining church. We have become men without chests and women without crowns. Those are references to C. S. Lewis's books, one, The Abolition of Man, where he talks about the manipulation of words, how we think about words Deprives men of the passion, the courage, the dignity, the motivation to serve, to work, to pay a high cost To understand that there is such a thing as being motivated by the grandeur of a truth, and then to go surrender everything for it. And women, I don't have time to develop it. One of these days I might actually foolishly try to teach a class on it, but I cannot explain to you in simple words The degree to which God made you to be queens, with a dignity so terrible that it it echoes his very nature And if you've ever read Paralandra, C. S. Lewis tries to take some of that and invest that in the lady. And it's it's amazing. But we've become men without chests and women without crowns. We have encapsulated God and His revelation in small pictures and have thus become complaining, isolated, indolent, insensitive, adds another bunch of words. We are not men and women who are on fire for the glory of the Lord. Again, Isaiah 6, not some stupid metaphor about being on fire, right? I'm thinking Isaiah 6 there. Or I'm thinking Elisha on Mount Carmel. Where's the fire on the altar of your life? A fire with no alt uh altar with no fire. It would help if I could put my thoughts together for a minute. An altar with no fire is an altar to no God. That's right out of the scripture, right? That's not me. I didn't make that up. I had an interesting realization, and I hope it illustrates something about words the other day. I guess you could have just used the picture on the phone. None of you are going to be able to see this, but that's actually kind of okay. This is a picture that popped up on my phone the other day. It's a picture of the Grand Canyon. We were just there October? April. April It's cold and snowing, so I picked a winter month. Um it's not snowing here, but it was snowing and I'm getting texts from business consultants this time. This is Grand Canyon. It was really awesome. It was snowing a little, it was quiet because uh it was uh also raining at the altitude we were at at this point in time So it was quiet and there weren't many people and this crazy rainbow comes out and you've got this picture of it and it was the first time Anzo and I had actually seen the river run green when she and I went down the river. It was just muddy for a week and not as nice It's it's so it was amazing scenery. And the picture is nice. It helps me remember it, but it's a small picture that does not encapsulate the grandeur of the Grand Canyon Or or the what's the word there's a word that I can't think of right now, but when you see a thing that just makes you think of God, we saw the whole ark of the rainbow come out. And it was almost below us. You can see how low it is in the in the horizon. So it was almost like we were looking down at it. We have done that with God. We've come up with little pithy remarks and sayings and orthodoxy and doctrines and we've painted ourselves little pictures of God and then we're surprised when it doesn't motivate us in our lives. We're surprised when it doesn't answer the mail of each day. I want to change that. A book that I didn't know about until about a week ago, Daniel Regev suggested it to me when he was asking me about the class. It's called 18 Words by J. I. Packer. Uh interesting quote there in Green. Keys open doors. Key words open minds. And through minds, hearts. And I thought that was just a great encapsulation of uh my intention here. So I wrote it down. Some ground rules for the class. No proof texting. No, Paul is not the final authority on how to interpret scripture. He is an inspired apostle. He has great things to say. As a matter of fact, he creates a lot of tension Which forces us to rethink how we use some of the words in Scripture. So Paul is absolutely necessary and inspired. I'm going to keep coming back to that and inspired. Right? But he doesn't get to define the totality of faith or works or law in the scriptures. The scriptures in their totality get to define that. And Paul is being used to help create definitions with greater palette, with greater dimension than we would otherwise have. So no proof texting. I I'll call you on it every time. For some of you. Some of you. Um, be careful of exegetical fallacies. Root words andachronisms, you using um a modern rendition of a word, faith is a great one. We talk about faith all the time, right? But we have a very modern meaning, even a dictionary definition of it, which may or may not align with what the Greeks meant when they used that word, or what the Hebrews meant when they used that word, or what they understood God and Christ to mean when they used those words. So be careful with your ex exegetical fallacies. You're a church filled with lots of good knowledge. Use it rightly. If you came in here and hugged me, you're in trouble. Um We are not interested in what you think a word means, nor your favorite commentator or preacher. My goal is to identify the narrative emphasis of the Bible with regard to keywords that we use to see God. the world and ourselves, right? Narrative principles. I want to see the thread pulled all the way through the scriptures. I want to look into the old and take it all the way forward into Revelation. The study we'll do at the very end of the class, if I get there, on the word king, is exactly that, and I was so excited to have I I never had done it before, but to pull that thread all the way through the scriptures. We need to be clear on how we see what words mean. Words signify what they are used to signify in particular linguistic circles that use them. That's a That's a quote, so I am sorry it was difficult, but that's from that J. I. Packer book, eighteen words. What he's saying there is we have to be careful to understand what an author meant by their words in the time, in the way, in the setting that they used them. and not pull them into ours. I will come back to that in a more pointy-headed way in a little bit. There's a necessary facet of this that you need to capture, and so I'm going to drag you through some philosophy on on the way to where we're going. This will be the last class I try to do that with. Every other class will be on the words. We'll just get into it on the words Dig deep and hopefully enjoy that time. But I wanted to set the stage for you today. Words change in meaning as time passes, language evolves, and men, like commentators and pastors, manipulate them Often for good reasons and in good ways, but they nonetheless manipulate those um those words as time passes. And we often get caught up in that so that words lose their original meaning as we use them over time. We want to know how the Bible defines the words by perceiving the Bible's use of the word, right? God is the author. He has used words. But what did he mean by those words? Again, we'll we'll peck on that a little bit deeper in a few minutes. He that owneth his words and actions is the author, Thomas Hobbes. That statement is particularly relevant because in uh in today's world uh authors don't own their words. Anybody that reads it gets to own the word and manipulate it however they want. And you see that all the time. That word made me feel not relevant. This is what I meant This is what I was after. This was my meaning and intention. Alright, the importance of words. An unsurprising foundation, John 1. 1. In the beginning was the word, logos, and the word was with God, and it should be the word. was God. When God wanted to express himself to man that he might be known and responded to, he sent Christ, who is the Word. That word, that that phrase express himself is particularly important, and you'll see it, I hope, on a little graphic that I'm not seeing right now. Well, it's on the back page, or the bot back of that page. We'll come back and touch on that when we get to that graphic. When God wanted to express himself, so God in his nature, right, whatever he is Let me stop and give Bridge thought real quick. Words are only significant because they represent ideas, right? How would I speak to you about this cup? If I couldn't use the word cup or pottery or glaze or persimmon, right? Why persimmon? I could have said red, I could have said brown, I could have said something, right? But persimmon is more accurate. It gives you a a better if you know what persimmon is. Particularly a roasted persimmon, because on the tree it wouldn't look like that at all, right? But you've got to know all that. You have to have an idea, right? That we use words to represent Ideas are things that you take in through your ears and your eyes and your taste and your touch of your senses, right? You you experience things through your senses and you can formulate a I guess an idea, but as I didn't record it all, but as philosophers have already surmised How do you hold an idea if you can't categorize it with words? Words represent an idea. So I want to know about God. I want to know who he is, what his nature is, what he requires of me, and what I should do is in response to that, right? Those are all ideas. Well, how do I get at him? I get Adam through words. And what did he send? He sent his word. He sent the self-expression. Right? He said Christ, who in Hebrews is described as uh He is the radiance, verse 3, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. the word of his power. We have small pictures of God, then you will be tempted to believe that he is a small God. You say, well I would never say that. That doesn't matter It's evidenced by the way you act out your life. It's evidenced by the way you respond to a $30,000 tax bill. Is my picture of God big enough to answer that mail? Revelations nineteen thirteen. I I I love this because it actually ties into the the king study we're gonna do, but I Right at the end of all things, when the Lord is saying, here is the final revelation. No longer am I hiding in any mystery, no longer is there something further to be waited for. I am revealing all that I intended. All that I am, all that I will be, you will see it new and fresh. You will no longer be hidden This will no longer be hidden from you, right? I will I will open it. I will reveal it to you. And when he when he does that, he begins to name Christ In verse 16, he calls him King and Lord. But in verse 13, he says he is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the word. D. A. Carson does a good job in uh talking about John 1. 1. He says, hey, logos is a little difficult to understand semantically. It it it has, you know roots all over the place and it was used differently at different times in that in that um in the vicinity of when John was written has Greek, it has Hebrew, it has some Aramaic, it's got some Latin, it's I mean it's it's it's a hard word to grasp. And Carson is loves to Dig into that. Uh one of the works I was just reading last night, I thought I I've just read a page and it's completely incomprehensible to me. I have no idea what I read. So I mean Carson digs deep. But in this particular case he writes, God's uh you know we don't he says we don't need to go all there. All we need to know is is that John would have been familiar with the Old Testament. And the Old Testament, God's word in the Old Testament is his powerful self-expression in creation, revelation, and salvation. And personification of that word makes it suitable for John to apply it as a title for God's ultimate self-disclosure, the person of his own son. God communicates with others. In the beginning was the word. And humans, created in God's image, are likewise communicative agents. God's self-communicative activity results in creation, Christ, and the church. Listen to that. God's words Which are not separated from his activity, right? Results in creation, Christ, and the church. Whatever conception you have of God must come from the words that He gave us To express himself. And those words are both the written and spoken word and the word of action that he has testified to throughout the scriptures and throughout creation. I will magnify that point by just showing you a summary arc in scripture in scripture right after I read this next quote, which is a little mind-bending, so stay with me. The triune God is commu is communicative agent. So the author is just saying That is true. The author's name is uh Kevin Van Hooser if you care. This this book is quite good for any of you that like it when I provoke you to buy a new book. Um A lot of you complain at me about it, but I really think you're doing that for your spouse while you secretly love the fact that you don't have an excuse to go buy the book. Um is there meaning in this text? It's pretty good. Um The triune God is communicative agent. So he's the author. And action, that's the word or the text. And result. The Spirit. Right? The power of reception. God expresses himself. How does he do that? With actions and words. Words themselves provide knowledge. The action part is the knowing part that I mentioned to you early Experiencing him, responding to him, our perception of him Look at the scope of the word of word in scripture. In Genesis 1, God speaks creation into existence. That's a phenomenal statement. If for just a moment you would step outside of how familiar and utterly dependent you are on words Right? Funny sounds that come out of your mouth and that are changed in all cultures to do what they want them to do. We discovered, I don't even remember how, that there is a culture that had no spoken language, they whispered. They literally communicated through whistling. Right? So our bias toward words and alphabets is not necessary for communication. You just have to have a sound that has an agreed-upon meaning Why did God need a word to create? But he did And he imparts to creation the voice of words. Several of the authors were like, hey, there is communication without words, and they point to creation They even use some of the passages, you know, heavens declare in Romans 1, 20, and 21, the invisible things of Him for the creation of the world are clearly seen. And they say, well, that's non-word communication, not according to the scriptures Read Psalm 19. Voice and word over and over again. The skies, the heavens, space. The stars have voice. Their word is heard. You say, how does that work? I'm not sure, to be honest. I I'm not sure. I don't want to lie to you. But it's very clear in scripture, and so I'm gonna just nod my head and go, okay I'm also going to refute the men that say that there's non-word communication. I disagree. When God expresses himself, he uses words. Sometimes vocal ones, if you will, written ones, and sometimes action ones. Genesis 2, 19 and 20, Adam names the animal. That's an amazing. We're going to do a thought exercise at the end of this. How does that work? Poof! Okay, I'm Adam. And apparently God made me, you know, a full-grown man with hair and you know maybe a beard. I don't know. Right? And the ability to speak to him. So language And poof, crazy number of animals show up, and I know how to name them all. God communicated to him his mind. I don't want to be too funny about this. I just want to try to understand what it is. God somehow communicated in his mind The ability to connect or associate hold with a good word. He gave him the ability to hold a concept in his hand by the use of a word. Because that's what words do. Words give us the ability to fully hold a concept, an idea. To appreciate it, to admire it, to adore it, to inspect it, to discern it from another lesser thing, to discern it relative to a greater thing. Recognition will be a key phrase as we go through. Distinction will be another one as we go through this study. The ability to recognize and distinguish based on the refinement of a concept that we associate with a word. And somehow God did that for Adam. Exodus 20, God gives law in written words. There's so much writing about this. Natural law theory. John Locke wrote a ton on it that's pretty famous. But to give us a law, to give us instruction, to establish a concept for relationship that we had we were able to hold back to that holding that we were able to possess. This isn't vague and unstructured I want to relate to you. I want you to be near me. I want you to be with me. I want you to be in fellowship with me. Let me create, let me help you hold the concepts and ideas that are necessary for you as a man or a woman to be able to do that. That's the law Deuteronomy six, six through nine. The words of the law are to be taught, bound, and spoken. I didn't put it in my notes because it's not relevant. I'm just using the king thing for an example. But it's so cool. He didn't want them to have a king But he told them way before they asked for one that they were gonna ask for one and he established ground rules for it. And you know what the ground rules were But in my word, you with your own hand write my word, bind it in the book, read it and study it every day You want to be king? That's how you be king. And I'll tell you why, because when you're king, you mediate God's justice and God's goodness to men. What does that mean? It means you help God if you will, or represent God in his expression of himself to men. And you have to have the right words to do it. And I'll give you those words. Weak words, weak men. Weak words, weak women. Weak words. Tasteless Christians. Unsalty. Not light filled. substance with no character or form or potency. Romans ten seventeen, faith comes through hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. We'll come back to that. It's a criticism of the Jews in some sense. It's talking about going and teaching them what they need to hear. They can't have faith unless they hear, and they can't hear unless somebody is sent to them. And and then we'll come back to studying that in a bit, but you know, one of the commentators I use there, Cranfield, says Christ speaking the message through the mouth of his messengers, right? That's that's a word-oriented ministry. It's a word-oriented expression. You can't have faith, whatever that means, we'll come to that. So we're gonna do that later when I feel like I've caught my stride a little better. I'll probably put the metal detector by the door before that lesson. Um Where was it going with that? Which just necessitates an idea. Cannot have that idea unless it can be held in words. And your ability to have faith and to have that faith be useful to strengthen you in your everyday life is directly proportional and dependent on the meaning that you ascribe to those words. A child understands circle or ball. But how about ellipsoid? How about geon? It's the name of my company, but it's also the name of a parametric shape that can flex into a circle. Does it hurt the child that they don't know GN? No. But they're also not able to express ideas in the way that I'm able to express them because I have greater meaning and nuance to those words. Too many of us have approached Christ with childish words. And we're content to do it because many men do it with us. In a lesson some weeks from now, I will come back to the notion that over and over again in the Scriptures, Christ and God come to a crowd of people. People in Luke, we're studying Luke. You'll hear me reference Luke a lot. I love Luke. I'm really enjoying it Crowd of people are trampling Christ. There's so many that are walking on each other, and he begins to teach on evidences of discipleship. And you know what it immediately begins to do? Divide the crowd. Drastically and dramatically divide the crowd. This small group are my disciples. And the rest of you want something from me, but you are not willing. To confess me as Lord. You'll call me king. You'll lay down palm branches, and a week later you'll call for my crucifixion. Oh, that's exactly what happened, isn't it? Too many of us are in that crowd and we want the goodness of God, but we don't want to wrestle with the real idea of Christ as Lord and discipleship. of being on fire for Christ. Isaiah 6. A little pointy headedness. I'm going to race through this pretty fast. That may feel dizzing to you, but I I don't I don't want to spend too long here. I I want you to have categories of thinking about words. So I spent some time to try to pull together some examples from secular philosophy, if you will. It's no surprise that there's no shortage of Christian men that are willing to call us word-focused people, right? And then go on and on about that. That's that's not shocking. What's shocking is that leading philosophers, thinkers also understand this fundamental importance of words. Ellen Barfield, uh who I was familiar with his name, but not really familiar with much of his writing until I walked doing this study, um wrote this Book I'm not recommending to you called Poetic Diction. I read far too much of it over the last few days. Um called Poetic Diction. He was considered by C. S. Lewis to be the wisest and best of his unofficial teachers, but C. S. Lewis was quick to say that there was no category of Christian in any orthodox sense that would rightly characterize Barfield. In other words, Barfield is not uh um a a Christian. He was spiritual. He was interested in God and Christ and things, but he was not spiritual. He was not Christian. He wrote on the base and he's the one that gave me the interesting uh mental exercise that we'll try in a minute. Um the basis of past perceptions Using language as a kind of storehouse, we gradually build up our ideas. And it is only these which enable us to become conscious as human beings of the world around that. A lot of words. As I live, I perceive things and I associate those experiences, everything, color, taste. sense of all sorts. As I perceive those things through life, my experiences, I I collect them into a storehouse Through the mechanism of words. We gradually build up our ideas. We're able to express more complicated ideas as The palette of words and their meaning increases in us. And only these enable us to interact with the world around us in a useful way. Do you do you see how foundational that is If you are not rightly exercising this gift that God gave you to hold complicated, majestic Grand, truthful ideas. If you want to exercising your ability to hold these things and store these things, Then how will you live in light of Christ? How will you live as salt and light in this world? By definition, your salt will lack saltiness. Your life will lack Lightliness. Lumens, how about that one, right? Intensity. John Locke, interesting man. Uh don't know where he was uh with Christ, would argue he was a little too empirical to be uh uh a follower of Christ, rely a little too heavily on himself. Um I'm gonna zip through these two quotes, but they're important. They're entirely man-centric. So as we read them, I just want you to be thinking about what he's saying, but it's it's man-centric. I'm gonna steal those words. to help me illustrate an idea that is more relevant between us and God. Okay? But this is a man-centric view, so don't panic. A man may have a great variety of thoughts that could bring profit and delight to others as well as to himself. So I'm a man and I have thoughts. But they're all locked up inside him, invisible and hidden from others, and incapable of being brought out into the open If society is to flourish, thoughts must be communicated. So people had to devise some external, perceptible signs through which they could let one another know of those invisible ideas of which their thoughts are made up. For this purpose, nothing was so suitable just the way he does this drives me nuts. Nothing was so suitable because plentiful and quickly available as those articulate sounds they found they could make so easily and in such variety. In other words, words. Okay? Except for the one culture that decided to use whistles instead. That is presumably how men came to us came to use spoken words as the signs of their ideas. So bunch of nonsense, but it this guy is not dumb Right? John Locke is wrestled with in every school of philosophy, business, law, jurisprudence, right? There there's government like it you can't make it through any of those fields of study and not Suffer under the weight of his writings. This is book three of a four volume set and it's It's the smaller part. I I don't mean just this section, but it doesn't matter. Um an idea that is important for life And community and society cannot be expressed without words. And the degree to which we can express it and convey it and communicate it is entirely dependent upon words. Now some of you have that look. You're like, yeah, we got it. You set it and you set it and you set it and you said it. Just give me this one hour. And then I promise I'll just do the fun stuff. But for just a minute, feel the weight of this argument. Your need to go back and review Does this word express the meaning that God intended for it when I use it? Faith, belief, salvation, election, love, humility, stewardship, service, hospitality Men use these marks either to record their own thoughts as an aid to their memory, or to bring their ideas out into the open, so to speak, where others could see them. So words in their primary or immediate signification stand for nothing but the ideas in the mind of him that uses them. That's that made me stumble when I was reading. I was like, wait, wait, wait, wait. It felt like you just took the importance of words away because you just said they're just relative to the speaker. And then I thought about it a little bit and I was like, well yeah, I mean that is what happens, right? I am speaking to you this morning. I have a something inside of me that's driving me nuts, and I'm trying to get it out. I'm trying to share it with you, and so I'm beating you to death with words. I can feel it on your faces. Even without my glasses. Um and I'm I'm circling it trying to find the right words in the right way. I I have an idea But I'm struggling to find those those perfect words that I think would convey it to you However, on the receiving end, you're hearing those words and then you're overlaying your connotations that you've developed over time of what those words mean. And so there could be a disagreement. in what the actual meaning behind the idea is. What he said. That was awesome. What he said. But when it comes to the study of God's word and his revelation How much care do we need to bring to that exercise? How often have we brought our own ideas to the way we've received God's word? And again, while I love books and I love commentators and I I love all that stuff, I don't want their words in their ideas. Or at least I don't want them to be the authoritative source of my ideas about God. This is it And it's magnified by the struggle of translation and on and I I get it. I get it. But that just means we gotta work at it, people. It means get your hands in the soil and keep digging. You're you're not there yet. Whatever your level of knowledge you are at in Christ, whatever level of belief or conviction you're at, you ain't there yet. You won't be until he reveals himself to you. So please dig with me over these next weeks. Max Mueller, definitely not a Christian, least Christian guy on the page here. Wrote a book called The Science of Thought. Actually kind of interesting. Page 510, the most uh excuse me, he even says, language and thought are inseparable. And he goes on to say that a consequence of this is that philosophy would be completely understood. That one also hurt my brain, I had to think about it. Philosophy would be completely understood if the biography of language were comprehended Right? And so I define philosophy for you, right? The truths and principles of being, knowledge, and conduct. Philosophy would be a done issue if we understood the meaning. behind words, the biography of a word. Right? A word shows up and it communicates all the idea and concept behind it somehow. It's able to convey that to you. If we understood that There would be no need for the study of truths and principles about being, knowledge, and conduct, because we would get it. Because we would speak the word and you would immediately understand that totality of the truth. Meaning Christ and God would have been able to communicate all that they are to us through that word. Now, I think they intended to, but as receivers we struggle with that. And so my invitation here is struggle with me. Just just take that struggle up. Know your God. Owen Barfield's thought experiment. Right? So he wrote about it in that that book up there. Supposes a thought experiment that sets a man in an open and familiar setting with houses, trees, grass, sky, etc. Suddenly that man is deprived by some supernatural stroke of every vestige of memory, including all those assimilate this is pretty much a quote. uh including all those assimilated forgotten experiences which comprise his power of recognition. What he's trying to say is he has no words to associate to the sensed experience that is coming in through his eyes and his ears and his nose Right. He sees the same things as he did a moment ago. But what is it? The thought experiment is difficult because you can't go back to that first day of birth. You can't go back to a place that has no words. You know why? Because you got no words There's no way to hold or store that information. Even to talk about a sense perception. Well, I don't remember anything whatever, but I just remember being really warm and comfortable. Yeah Warm and comfortable were concepts you couldn't hold at that age because there were no words to express it. It will appear, I think, that for the first few moments his consciousness, if it can bear that name, will be deprived not merely of all thought, but even of all perception. as we ordinarily understand the word. And I was enjoying thinking about that a little bit when Angela provided an interesting example of it Uh she spends all of her time on the land cultivating things that are good. Good for decorating the house, good for eating, good for all this stuff. Well the other day she shows up, she puts some flowers in a vase, we're all admiring them, only to determine that they are hemlock. Yes Socrates died drinking hemlock. That hemlock, of which all parts of the plant are deadly. And while we're talking about this and laughing about it, she moves the vase to the kitchen table. Because, you know, cross-contamination would be great. How how's that an example of anything? Hey, recognition was important in that instance. I saw it as a plan. Got that word. Saw that it was a flower. Got that word. Knew that it was a cultivation of our land, whether intentional or unintentional. Got that idea. Was it that? Set it on the table. That's all I'm gonna say. Fashion evidence. Um But to be able to recognize the thing for actually what it was wasn't good enough to know it was a plan. It wasn't good enough to know it was something Angela brought home, and I trust Angela generally, although you know think about that It wasn't good, you know, none of those, none of the categorizations that I had for it at that time were actually a good protection to the fact that it was a highly poisonous plant As a matter of fact, Drew and I were even joked while she was reading about how poisonous it was. She hadn't gotten there yet. And Drew and I were like, just just try a leaf. Like just let's just see what happens. You know? Because I didn't have words. to categorize the degree of pain that that would have apparently caused me. Until she read them to me and I was like, ooh, ooh, wait, I understand that word Right and she started talking about all the things that happen to your insides when you uh ingest hemlock. I wasn't able to interact with the uh silly example, but I wanted the silly example, right? I I wasn't able to interact with the environment that I was presented in a way that exercised any sort of legitimate wisdom. I wasn't able to choose right, to do right, to be wise Because I didn't have words to express right ideas. Now the word hemlock means a whole lot more to me. Before it just meant Socrates drank it. Okay. Pretty much my exposure to hemlock. Right? Now I know it's a white little flower, looks delicate, it's fairly pretty, droops pretty quickly, which I was glad of because then we got rid of it. Shouldn't be set on your kitchen table. Again, how are you interacting with your life like that? God is expressing Himself through His actions and His words in the Scriptures through Christ. through the means of grace that he applies. Where, how are you working to take that in? So you just know how to interact with life in a way that is pleasing to God. So that when he comes and holds you accountable for the relationship that you've had with him, you are able to say, Lord I I gave you everything that I knew to give you. I did my best. And not weakly Um I'm gonna skip my Romans 10, 17 section. You can read that there. If you have questions about it, ask it. But the long and short of it is just simply this. That hearing is not sufficient. That the whole world, it says, has been able to hear the truth about Christ. Hearing and agreeing is not enough either You must know your God, and the way to know him is restricted by your ability to hold the truth about him in words That's what Romans ten and Second Peter one say. Some sample words that we will likely look at. I haven't settled on my list yet. I go back and forth. I have more words than I have weeks. So I haven't settled on my list yet. But some sample words like love. Somebody in the room, just right? There's some palette of ideas associated with love. So in one or two words, give me some of the things on your palette. When you think about I don't mean the palette, I mean like a painter's palette, right? Give me some of the uh the things on the palette when you think about love. Who said that? Okay. Come on, come on, this isn't hard. Affection. Affection. Desire? What? The color red. Wow. I I think about that one. All right. What else? Truth. Truth? Obedience. Obedience. Consideration. Consideration. Joy. Joy. Abbey. Huh? Fantastic. That word did not register in my head associated with love, so I was like Abbey. Like the building? Yeah, okay. Interesting. All of you were gonna learn something when we study that word. I'm just gonna tell you that flat out. None of you got close to the biblical themes, ideas behind love. That's not true M most of you went to derivatives instead of essential principles. Thankfulness. Why is Eucharisteo a significant theme? In the New Testament, and is not able to be found in the Old Testament, at least in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. What do you make of that? It's a rhetorical question. Oh, unless you have an answer. I'll take it. Sorry. Um just the aspect of thankfulness really rotating our um recognition of what God has done for us. And I say in the well, in the Old Testament they understood God that he gave to them as well. But in the New Faith is another one. Hospitality. I'm uh expecting somebody in my small group to get really close to some core principles here. What is a key concept when we talk about hospitality? Service. Those are important Really? Yes, it's scary to me. Okay. Cost you indebted. Indebted. Ooh. Depends on how you mean that. I don't have time to dig into that, but we will definitely be working on hospitality, so you'll get a whole class to help me on that one. Um obedience to lordship submission Let me take you through this example. This example is meant to illustrate how we are going to go about these next week. weeks. So I picked up the word I got uh assigned Christ is king for uh one of the lessons we're gonna teach on the short term missions trip. Um I have been enjoying the provocation to study this because I just haven't really studied it, like really studied it previously. And uh so I've been enjoying it. First thing I ran into was Revelations 9, 11, and 16 Then I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, the one sitting on it, called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings. And Lord of Lords. And I thought, that's funny. That's two different words. Why? What's the distinction? They're similar, but they're different. Right? Two different words. And so I s started studying the words. Um and one is is Yeah. One is king and one is Lord. I you don't need me to take you back into the uh the Greek there, although it's written on the page. Curios is uh uh Lord and and Basilius is is king. So two different words. And you can trace those words back into the Old Testament by using the Septuagint. And so I I did that and I found that Kyros translates Jehovah And Basilius generally translates uh a a fairly general word for King Melech, and even to the degree that molech the The pagan god, uh that's kind of where his name comes from, right? So just a a general word for king But I'll tell you what else I found. I found that from the beginning of the Bible to the end of the Bible, there is a theme that focuses on king or kingship or kingdom I discovered that um the idea of king Focused, centered, was grounded in the idea of covenant. And what a king was intended to do was always mediate the covenant. He was always meant to take the one that wrote the covenant, the one that made the covenant, and express him to others. That's what it means to mediate, right? To stand between two and bring them into harmony, to align them, to facilitate their relationship, their dialogue, their communication, their business with each other. So essential in the scriptures between the Lord and his people was the notion of king. And when he created Adam and Eve, what did he do? He said, you take what? Over all creation. He said, you take dominion, right? A king word. He didn't call them kings, but he used that language. Name them and take dominion over them. You share All that you know of me and all that I gave to you, you mediate that down to the rest of creation. You steward all that I have made. And as you raise other people or interact with other people, you do the same thing there. You mediate God. So at that point in time, you had God and you had his king and queen. And that didn't last too long. And by the way, that's an implied covenant, right? Don't eat of the fruit of the tree. Take dominion over this stuff, and the world will continue going on like it is. Do something else, get out of the garden, never come back. There's a break in relationship. an insuperable distance between a holy God and an unholy set of people. There's an implied covenant back there. Um and it's broken. Hosea 6. 7 makes it very clear it even it alludes to the covenant and basically says they they broke the covenant. Adam and Eve broke the covenant. And we're not told exactly what the words were for that covenant, but we know that was there. And we know that it had to do with them mediating God to the rest of his creation. You know that happened again in Exodus um 19, 338 and Deuteronomy through thirty-three five. God came and he established himself as king by giving them laws, giving them covenant, and saying, I will do in in this other, you know, if if you obey or if you disobey or if you uh follow the covenant like this, right? So he establishes his justice and his goodness through covenant, creation, mosaic, and the new covenant And that's mediated to his people by King, first God, uh excuse me, first Adam and Eve, then really nobody. And then uh every man did what was right in his own eyes, and then the Lord establishes a a a verbal covenant and he becomes their king, and then they reject him and stand up a man and he says even right there, right, like they haven't rejected you, they rejected me. But he establishes rules for a man to be king, and that doesn't work out so well, right? And so he says, I will send a man, but this time he will be a perfect king. And we see Christ in all of that. And something so interesting to me, when Christ, John the Baptist, is sent as the herald of the king, and his message is repent. So first of all, you learn something there about the king. The king is coming, what's our response? Repent It's written in Malachi. It's responded to in the Gospels. But pick up Luke in particular does a good job at this. I told you I'm studying Luke. Luke does a really good job at this. John comes and he says, Repent, for the king is coming. But then something happens, I think suffering, and John begins to ask a question. So he sends his disciples over to Christ, who's out teaching, doing all this stuff, and he says, Are you the one that was promised? What he's asking is, are you the king? And God, Christ, excuse me, Christ doesn't say yes or no He just begins to pour out goodness. He heals people and feeds people and casts out demons and forgives sins. He just begins to lavishly dispense goodness Now if you're not paying attention, you're like, okay, cool story. Moving on. Price is great. That's awesome. But if you're following the thread through, it's a little unexpected Because we are such a rebellious people, and because God is so righteous, and because the king mediates justice, he ensures that God's justice is upheld And so it makes sense to us that we should always be responding in repentance. And yet when John, the herald of the king, proclaiming repentance, asks a question about the king. He says, let's be clear. There's two parts to my role as king. Never occurred to you that you're told to pray every day. Father who art in heaven, thy kingdom come But be on the throne of my life, Lord. Your kingdom come. Your kingdom today. Your rule today. Not me, but you. You rule in my life today. Your kingdom come. Your will be done. Right? Forgive us this day. And give us our daily bread. You see how that prayer every day is meant to provoke you to think of your king as just judge and overflowing goodness of God. And to respond in both ways every day. If we had time, and I can flesh this out more, I can also teach you why the fear of God Is fundamental to the way you interact with him because he's the king and he descends his justice. And so many people love to talk about well, I don't fear God, I don't have to fear God in the New Testament days. There's no condemnation. Look Look, I you throw funny words at it all you want. But Christ is king in the Bible expresses that kingship as just judge And overflowing goodness. And he will mediate both perfectly, whether you find them intention or not. He will mediate both perfectly through his tension. Do you understand on that study very quickly, very simply? I didn't do it justice. I have pages more of notes for the short-term missions trip. I stretched that out for a whole hour or more Do you see how seeing him as king helps you to understand how you need to interact with him each day? And the failure to do so is you having small ideas and small words and small concepts for a big life. How will you respond to God unless you understand His expression through His words? It's interesting that uh when God uh started out in the Old Testament we're speaking about creation, he didn't use words to justify justify the beings.