Let's just open up to Titus 1 and get started here. Titus 1 verses 1 through 4, continuing from our message. From last Lord's Day. I'll read it and uh please follow along. You get so much more when you see the Word of God and to hear it at the same time. Paul, a bondservant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the faith of those chosen of God, and the knowledge of the truth, which is according to godliness. In the hope of eternal life. Which God, who cannot lie, promised long ages ago, but at the proper time manifested even his word in the proclamation with which I was entrusted. According to the commandment of God our Savior. To Titus, my true child in a common faith, grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior. Last Lord's Day, we launched our series here in Paul's salutation to this letter, teaching that our church, Hope Bible Church, like any local church Like those on the island of Crete is an apostolic church. Doesn't mean we have the word apostolic in our name, but it means we're built on the foundation of the apostles and their teaching. Every local church today, if it's a true church, is an apostolic church. We are based on ancient apostolic ministry and ancient apostolic doctrine. No church today really is uh at liberty to reinvent church. This is uh not the time. 20 centuries into church to be reinventing the way church is done, or the goals of the church, or what church is, or what it means, or what a church is supposed to be doing That's folly. We are in a long line of godly men doing what the church has always done, just in a new generation and in different cultures. There are three ways this apostolic foundation for the church are seen here in this passage. The first way, we covered last time, is just the apostolic authority. We saw that in Paul's two titles that he gives himself as he opens this letter up. Title I, a bondservant of God. Remember we talked about that. He's a doulos, literally a slave. He is owned by God. He's bound to the will of God, and that means whatever he writes in this letter or another letter is not his own will and not his own doctrine, but is indeed God's will. And so he is to be listened to. And then the second title reinforces that, makes it more particular. He is an apostle or an ambassador. The apostle was a person directly chosen, particularly chosen by Christ. In other words, Jesus individually chose each of his apostles so that they would be his spokespersons. And then he sends them on the mission to bear witness for him. That's what an apostle is. So anything Paul writes is conveyed from a higher power, a power on high, indeed, the authority and power of Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God. who presently sits at the right hand of Almighty God. In other words, God has given to Jesus Christ the right of all things that would happen on this planet. And so we are all under his authority, whether people acknowledge it or not. The church must therefore purposefully and visibly place itself under this authority, for this is the authority it was founded on. The job of each succeeding generation like ours is not to go our own way or try our own thing or be creative, it is to do what God has said and do only that. Now, the second way the apostolic foundation is seen here, we started last time, and that is the apostolic purpose. That's sort of from the middle of verse 1. all the way through the end of verse 3, and this is a complicated sentence. It's a little hard to follow. I'll grant you that, but I hope you'll try There's a lot of truth in it. And what we began with last time is that Paul's purpose comprises a number of things here. First You see that preposition four, it shows what his apostolic ministry was there to advance. Why your ministry, Paul? What is it supposed to do? What is its purpose? First, he is there for the faith of those chosen of God. He was sent to lead people to faith and then build them up in that faith. And then also, secondly, the knowledge of the truth. This knowledge is not intellectual knowledge only. We never want to be known as a church that just has a lot of Bible information in our heads It is knowledge that is a divine kind of knowledge. It's a deep knowledge. It reprograms the way we think. It transfers our thinking. into heavenly thoughts, and then we're able to understand the world and our lives and everything going on around us with this knowledge. It becomes part of us with fullness of truth in the heart. And that of course is what Paul was sent to do as well. Why do you think Paul, by the way, spends so much time teaching? Why does he have complicated phrases and clauses and doctrinally rich uh uh letters and not just Paul but Peter and John as well, because Because the Christian faith is built on knowledge. We need to have good understanding. And the understanding that we think we have often we only have partially and it needs to be refined. And so we're people of a book, and we are destined therefore to listen to sermons like this and to learn from them and to get more teaching and to grow in our understanding. Well, we left off with this divine knowledge, which notice is according to godliness, and we touched on that. What is godliness? Sometimes people mix godliness with other terms that they think are similar like righteousness, but righteousness is just referring to right behavior, uh particularly keeping the law of God. Godliness is a God-oriented word. It has to do with our aspirations directly towards God. It means that we're oriented towards God. We fear God. We worship God. When people think about our life, they think there's a religious person because they're a godly oriented person. We're not secular, we're oriented towards God. Actually, everyone is oriented towards something. They just don't know sometimes what it is There was an older word that kind of explained godliness. It was the word piety. When someone was a pious person and they had piety, they were godly people. A godly person lives for God. So my question for you is, are you living for God today? Or are you living for yourself? You're living for yourself, then you're not a godly person. An ungodly person is an irreverent person. He ignores God, or worse, he mocks God, or mocks God's people, or mocks God's word, or would trample down holy places if he were allowed. We were told not to envy the God, the godless, in uh Psalm 73. These ungodly people push God out of their minds. They go dancing through life as if they'll never have to deal with God. Can you think of a bigger fool than that? That here's Almighty God and has their future in their hands, and nothing can ever stop him from his judgments. Their eternity will be based upon his pronouncements, and they act as if he's a lightweight Nothing could be more foolish than that. And that's what unbelievers are. They're ungodly people. Jerry Bridges in his book, The Practice of Godliness, which I know some of you have studied in your small groups. gives this little uh snippet about godliness. Godliness is more than Christian character. The New Testament word for godliness in its original meaning conveys the idea of a personal attitude toward God that results in actions that are pleasing to God. This personal attitude toward God is what we call devotion to God. But it is always devotion in action. It is not just a warm emotional feeling about God, the kind of feeling we may get while singing some grand old hymns of praise or some modern-day chorus of worship. Neither is devotion to God merely a time of private Bible reading and prayer, a practice we sometimes call devotions Devotion is not an activity, it is an attitude toward God. This attitude is composed of three essential elements: the fear of God, the love of God, and the desire. for God. That's what you could ask yourself. Am I a godly man? Do I fear God? Do I fear God? And do I love Him? Is He the affection of my heart? That's that's the way to measure am I a godly man or not? Paul teaches us that truth and godliness go together. When you get truth, it advances godliness. It advances a love for God and a fear of God. You really can't have sound biblical doctrine without it urging you unto godliness. See, false and misguided doctrine is the opposite. Listen to what Paul exposes in 1 Timothy 6, verse 3, one of the other pastoral epistles. He writes, if anyone advocates uh a different doctrine And does not agree with sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and with the doctrine conforming to godliness He is conceited and understands nothing. So there are a lot of teachers and their doctrine doesn't conform to godly living. And Paul says wherever they're doing that in the church, those people are conceited and they understand nothing. The godly, armed with knowledgeable faith, purposefully live in a way to honor and adore the Lord their God. Now, as we transition there into verse two, please notice. Look at it again. Paul has already given us the goals of his ministry. We've had that. But now he's going to write about the basis of his ministry. ministry is built off of or based on. The basis of his ministry is the first clause there in verse 2, in the hope of eternal life. In the hope, I think, is better translated on the hope, or if you prefer, upon the hope. It's the preposition epi in Greek, and it usually means on or upon. It's the normal word for that. And so Paul's apostleship is based on the hope of eternal life. It's resting on that hope. What a precious hope we have. This same use for the preposition epi is used in 1 Timothy 6 and verse 17 twice means upon the hope, upon the hope. Why it's translated in here I don't know But it's better translated upon the hope. Also in 1 Timothy four ten you see the same thing. Now again, because this is one long involved sentence Some people connect these phrases in different places and they get a little bit of a different meaning. If you have the New International Version, the NIV, it translates it this way. It says A faith and knowledge resting on the hope of eternal life. So they connect the on the hope of eternal life back to faith and knowledge. Problem with the NIV and other dynamic equivalent translations is they often make interpretive kinds of decisions that you don't know about because they're trying to smooth out and make clearer the translation. It is true, of course, that our faith and our knowledge are also founded upon hope, but the flow of thought in Paul's main point in the salutation is about his ministry, is about the apostleship. And so it's better connected back to the phrase apostle in verse 1. It shows the basis on which Paul's apostolic ministry operates. Just to add a little bit of evidence to this. The only other place where the phrase the hope of eternal life is used in all of the New Testament is also in Titus. It's in chapter three, verse seven, and there Paul also relates the hope to himself as well. Furthermore, Paul writes in 1 Timothy 4 and verse 10, he says this about himself, for it is for this we labor and strive, because we have fixed our hope on the living God. Paul is giving the reason that motivates his labor, his hard work, and it is because he and his companions, Timothy included, have fixed their hope on the living God. Why were they able to labor and do all the things that they did? Why were they so excited about building the kingdom of God? Because they fixed their hope upon the living God, and here upon everlasting life. Not coincidentally, Paul's opening to the two other pastoral epistles provide further evidence of this as his thrust. In 2 Timothy 1, verse 1, for example. He says that he is an apostle according to the promise of life in Christ Jesus. In other words, God's promises of life bring us hope. So the hope then is the basis of all we do. God gives a promise, it's Christ Himself, it's eternal life, it's the hope of glory. We rest our hope on that. And Paul says, my ministry, and indeed our ministry by by uh application as well is built off of that hope. If we didn't have that hope, what would we even be doing here? Now hope should be very important to us, maybe more so to us because we are all hopians Here at this church, we have it in our name. What is hope? What is your hope exactly? Think about that. What is your hope? What are you hoping for? In 1 Peter 3. 15 it says you have to always be ready to make an offense to everyone who asks you to give an account of the hope that is in you. How would you answer that? What is your hope? What is the basis of your anticipation of things in the future? What are you doing with your life in terms of what are you expecting? What is your your hope? Biblical hope has certain characteristics and they're not all what you might think. And I want you to jot these down and think about them. The first characteristic of hope Is that you're hoping for something that is unseen. In other words, hope is unrealized. Otherwise, it's not hope. The proof of that is Romans 8, because it says this very thing. Verses 24 and 25, Paul wrote For in hope we have been saved. But hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he already sees? Great question. But if we hope for what we do not see with perseverance, we wait eagerly For it. So as soon as you have what you're hoping for, you no longer need hope. Hope is for what is unseen. That's what we're doing Living down here. We do not see Christ. We do not see with our eyes the eternal glory that we are going to inherit. Second characteristic is that hope is objective A lot of people don't understand this today. They just believe that you can be a person of faith or you can have hope and you ask them, what is your faith in, and what does your hope rest upon? And they don't know. It's like they have faith in faith Or faith in a feeling or faith in the general goodness of whatever might happen. I don't know what it is. And they just hope in hope. You can't hope and hope. Hope and hope is not hope. I don't hope and hope. I hope you don't hope in hope. You know. We should hope in something that is that is solid. It has an object to it. In 1 Timothy 1-1 Paul says, Christ is our hope. What does that mean? We're waiting for Christ. Y'all got that right? We're waiting for Christ. When he appears, we're like, that's who we were hoping for, you see? He's our hope. Here, eternal life is our hope. Well, Christ is eternal life, and so those go together, right? Eternal life, this endless fullness of life in God's presence in conjunction with Jesus Christ, we get it all, right? Now, some people say, why are we hoping for eternal life when the Bible says we already have eternal life? You know that if you're a good theologian. You know that if you are studying the Gospel of John, because it says that many times that our present possession is eternal life A lot of people say if you know that you have eternal life, you're being arrogant. You're not being arrogant, you're saying what the Bible says. John 3. 36 says, He who believes in the Son has what? Eternal life. You have it. That's a present tense verb. If I already have eternal life, so how can I hope for it? Because I haven't seen it in all of its fullness. That's why There's a present aspect to salvation. There's also a what? A future aspect to salvation. We have not experienced eternal life in its fullness. We still hope for it. We don't see it. Hope of eternal life is akin to another phrase in the Bible, the hope of glory, the hope of glory, like in Colossians 1. 27. By the way, unbelievers don't have this hope, right? They don't have this hope. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 12 says unbelievers have No hope. And they are without God in this world. They have no hope. Now they might think they have hope. God says they have no hope. You ever been to an unbelieving funeral? It's hopeless. Unless someone's lying to them and giving them false comfort, then everyone's patting themselves on the back like everything's going to be fine, you know. It's not. It's hopeless. There is no hope. There is nothing to say when an unbeliever dies except to turn to God and say, Oh Lord, you are right in your judgments. That's it. Because He is. 1 Thessalonians 4. 13, it says to believers, We do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who are asleep. That refers to Christians who have died, so that you will not grieve as do the rest who have what? No hope. No hope. See if your hope is not in Christ and what He's gonna bring, if your hope's not in eternal life, as far as God is concerned, whatever you think you hope in, you have no hope. None. I don't know, young people, younger people, I have to say younger people now. You uh I don't know what you're hoping in. What are you hoping in? A lot of people say, well, I hope to finish school. Then what? Well I hope to get a job. Then what? I hope to find a wife. Great. Then what? I don't get a nice house and car and live in a nice neighborhood and have babies and travel places. Then what? Go old and die. People that are older like, it's nothing to look forward to, is it? Growing old is nothing to look forward to. You're supposed to laugh on that. I guess the older people, the older people chuckled on that. They know, they understand, there's nothing to look forward to. Except for the wisdom you gain. That kind of hope is so short-sighted, it's so fleeting. People today, whatever their hopes are, I like to call them dreamers. They're not really hope. They don't really have hope. They have dreams Here's my little acronym, Dreamers D. They hope in democracy. Listen, uh, democracy is gonna fail all of us. It's going to fail all of us. You know why? Because ruled by the people, the people are wicked. That's why. Eventually it catches up, right? Or people hope in religion, false religion. It's deceptive and it leaves people condemned. It doesn't give them life E is for education. Oh, people think of education almost as the messiah in our own culture these days, right? Education cannot forgive sins and education cannot open the eyes of the blind. It's no hope What about affluence? People hope just to get rich and then everything will be great in life. First Timothy six seventeen has something to say about that. Instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, on God. The M I put is for morality. People hope that their morals will somehow deliver them in the day of judgment. They don't realize that we're all sinners and fall short of the glory of God. The E is for evolution for all of those in the sci-fi that somehow will go and go off to the stars and man will pull itself up and will continue to to evolve, but even those secular microbiologists know now that evolution is an impossibility for they see the mechanism is not there and uh the the ability to have that happen by itself is not there. And the R, maybe not so much in our culture, but increasingly is reincarnation. What do people look for? They look for moving on and being reincarnated in the next life. All that is is a cycle of defeat and despair even with logical contradictions to it. It's no hope at all. These are all false dreams. These are not hope. They take you nowhere. They simply deceive. They're short-sighted. If you lose sight of eternal life in Christ, you lose sight of Everything. You lose sight of why you're even working for Christ. When you're called upon to do something for Christ and give up your time and your money, you forget it's because of my hope And it's because I understand that Christ is coming, because I want to please him. I want to be rewarded by him. I want to be seen doing his work when he comes. It's that hope that is the basis for all of that Peter's advice, 1 Peter 1:13, prepare your minds for action. Keep sober in spirit. Fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revealing of Jesus Christ. Well the third characteristic of hope is that it's effective. It's effective. You can look down at chapter 2, verse 13 there in Titus. It talks about it being the blessed hope. We are looking for the blessed hope. It's a blessing. It's effective in our lives. It works. In Hebrews 7. 19, it calls our hope in the New Testament a better hope. I like that. That's a little bit of bragging. I'll go with that, right? We had an old t-shirt once at hope, and then back it said we have a better hope. And there it is. We got a better hope than others. We have better hope than the Old Testament covenant. We got the new covenant. We have something that's better. It's effective. It has power In 1 John 3 3 it says, Everyone who has this hope fixed on Christ purifies himself, just as he is pure. If you're focused on him and your hope is fixed on his arrival, do you know what that does for you? That purifies yourself. You say, I want to know how to overcome sin in my life. Get focused on his coming. Get focused on his purity. It lifts you out of yourself. You see, it's a powerful hope. To live with that kind of a longing, or as it's called in Romans 8, an eagerness, an anticipation. There's power in that And it allowed Paul to to sell out for Christ. He could go throughout the world and say, I just for me to live is Christ, because he had this hope, you see We're given the benediction in Romans. Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you will abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. And in Romans 12, 12 it says, we are to be rejoicing in hope. Where is the source of my joy, that hope that I know is true? Now this brings us all to the fourth characteristic, and maybe the most important of them, and that is that hope is a confident hope. Hope is not a wishful whisper. Hope is not a fading dream. Hope is not a nice thought if it just could be, oh my. It's a little bit hard for us to learn the word hope in a different way in our own society, you know, because it's so used. People get out and they wish upon a star. And that they think is hope, you know. They roll dice and they're feeling lucky and hopeful. And they throw a penny in a wishing well and they hope for something. They blow out candles and and hope for something and wish for something This is our idea of hope. That's so fleeting. It's so uncertain. Who'd want to have a hope like that? It's a nice spot, but it's probably not going to happen. Boy, it would be neat if it did, but it's probably not going to happen That's not biblical hope. That's not elpis, the Greek word. Hope here is certain. That's why there's an eager expectation. Listen, if someone that you know always tells you the truth, And they can do what they promise, promises you something that you're excited about, right? You're gonna be like a dog wagging a tail getting ready for the meal, right? Because you know it's coming because the master's faithful to fill the bowl And you're all excited about it. You have that kind of eager anticipation. Is that the way you are with Jesus Christ? Is that the way you are with Jesus Christ? Or it's like, well, I'm down here. I'm hoping this all works out in the end. Being a Christian seems like a good idea. This hope we have is an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast. Hebrews 6. 19. 2 Corinthians 3. 12. Therefore, having such a hope, we use great boldness in our speech. Yeah, talk to someone like I know I have everlasting life. I know God. People look at you like no one talks like that. Nobody can say that. Either you got something there or you're wacko. Because that hope is exuding from you. There's confidence there and it comes from you. You're not like, yeah, maybe you should try Jesus. I tried him and it kind of worked for me. That's not the hope we have. That's not it at all Now he goes on to give a couple of reasons why our hope is is so secure and certain. I want you to notice them. The first is that God promised it long ages ago. Do you see that? Which God, who cannot lie, that by the way, is the only time this word is used in the New Testament. Ah, Sudes. God does not lie. Hebrews 6. 18. It is impossible for God to lie. People ask, is there something that God can't do? And the answer is yes, God can't lie. God's omnipotence never works against his will. His omnipotence is there to be able to do anything he wants to do. These crazy ideas about can God make a rock so big he can't lift it and all these little philosophical conundrums that are given to us in college. That's irrelevant because he can do whatever he wants to do and he does not want to lie. He cannot lie. In fact, God hates lying. You ever read Proverbs recently? Chapter 12, verse 22? For example, lying lips are an abomination to the Lord The Old Testament already told us about God. This isn't something new, Paul's writing here. Numbers 23, 19 said, God is not a man that he should lie. Oh, what a slap, slap to the face of humanity, right? Yeah, men, yeah, they're liars. It's true. Anytime they can get away with it, anytime there's not accountability, you know it because you're probably harboring a lie right now in your heart The Cretans were liars. The Cretans were known as liars So Paul wrote to them. And uh by the way, the Cretans' gods were liars too One of their gods, the Roman gods, was a guy named Zeus. And you read about this guy, he was always lying to his his wife. So he'd get down on earth and have uh uh sexual immorality was some uh some mortal woman. In fact the Zondervan background commentary writes this there was never a greater lying trickster from Olymp than Olympian Zeus, who always seemed to wrap himself in a fog in order to ravish some maiden out of sight from his wife Hera, and then the lie about the deed This caused some of the pagans embarrassment, which early Christian apologists exploited. Look at your gods. They're not even better than you are, you know? But the Cretans are liars. Did you look down at verse 12? One of themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars. Imagine having that as a reputation where you live. Yeah, we're known for lying. They even lied about Zeus's tomb being on the island of Crete. He lied, they lied, they were all liars. So this language wasn't just show, this was put here. It's the only time Paul uses this term in all the New Testament, anytime any writer does. God cannot lie, sending a message to the church, not just the Titus, sending a message to that entire culture. We have a God who does not lie. That's why you know your hope is certain, you see. Men break promises, false gods break promises, Cretans break promises. God never does. Romans 3:4, let God be found true, though what? every man be found a liar. If every man on earth was found to be a liar, let God still be found true. Every word from his mouth is golden. Newt Larson in the Holman New Testament commentary writes, God does not lie Just as God brought forth the world by the spoken word, so he confirms the future by a word of promise. Yet that image is so important because it's like He speaks and it produces something solid, the universe. He speaks to us again with a promise, and that should be solid in our minds because it will happen. He goes on with a quote: Whatever God says must happen. Now you and I know that's not true of us. You got the word faith people saying, Let me be rich. It's not happening. Stuff doesn't work. But when God says, let there be light, there is light. When God says something's going to happen, it can't not happen. It must happen. That's what he says. His spoken word cannot be contradicted in actuality. If it could, he would be dethroned. But that is impossible. God, by his very nature, remains reliable and trustworthy. What he says must be. That's so exciting that what we read about in this book is going to be materialize and become the reality one day. That's how we know it's the Word of God. Notice God promised it long ages ago. God promised eternal life. And God does not lie, so eternal life is guaranteed, and then that should make our hope rock solid. When did God promise it? It says it promised it long ages ago. Some interpreters think Paul means some explicit promise that the Lord God made to the patriarchs like Abraham in the book of Genesis long ages ago. Because he uses the word promise, it seems to indicate that. But the Greek phrase here, pra chron Ionion, literally is translated before times eternal The King James, if you have it, I think translates it better. It says, before the world began. The only other time Anyone, Paul included, uses this phrase is in 2 Timothy 1, verse 9, where it's translated from all eternity Huh. So, I don't agree with this translation. I think this is a promise that transcends antiquity and it goes all the way back into eternity. You say, why does this make our hope of eternal life even more certain? Because this was a promise made first, not just to a patriarch, although that would be great. It speaks of the eternal purpose of God. God had a purpose even before the world was made. There is the eternal triune Godhead. The three in one, the Father, Son, and the Spirit. And they made an agreement, a promise, a determination, a decree before time even began that something would be carried out The promises we read about to the ancient people in Genesis spring from that eternal purpose of God. You see, God doesn't make up things as he goes along. Oh, I see I made man And uh there's a problem with man. Well, let me try something else. People re interpret that way in Genesis sometimes and it leads them astray God's not making up a little plan as he goes along hoping that he can stay ahead of the choices of man. He's sovereign over all of it. He's got it all planned So that's why our hope is so guaranteed. The present grace, brothers and sisters, that you have in your heart flows from an eternal decree That's why in Ephesians 1. 4 it says God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. That's when it happened. That's when he made the decisions That's why our hope is certain. The second reason here that hope is secure is that it has now been revealed in the preaching of the gospel. Look now at verse three, if you would. It says, But at the proper time manifested even his So Paul moves from eternity past and he comes into the present. He goes from concealment in eternity to manifestation or revealing in space and time, manifested. Revealed. Fanara'o. To reveal, to make known, to show. That's what's going on in the present world now. What is it that God revealed? Answer, He revealed His Word. His Word, His Lagos. Sometimes that's referring to Jesus. In this context, it's not. Of course, Christ is the eternal word of God, but the word of God also is written and spoken. And that's what Paul has in mind here. He uses it that way just for cross-reference to 2 Timothy. chapter 2, verses 9 and 10, where it says the word of God is not imprisoned even though Paul was. Or you can look down at Titus chapter 2 and verse 5 where the Word of God is used this way. He's talking about the the revealing, the manifestation of his spoken Laga. The word is a promise in eternity, and then it's passed into space and time, and now in this present dispensation, from the time of Paul onward Now it has been revealed in the preaching of this word. And so the word that is preached is the word about Christ. It's the word about the word. It's the word that is the gospel, and that's what is preached in the present age. Word and gospel are often tied together in Scripture. And notice the preaching is at the proper time. The preaching of the word comes at a specific time. At the proper time, that exact phrase is used two other times. in 1 Timothy 2. 6 and in 1 Timothy 6. 15. It means it's his time. When God chose as the time. It's not just any time. God is sovereign over human history, people He's sovereign over time. Time is working out according to what God has determined. There's a plan that God has. Romans 5:6 says, at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. It's all according to a time. It's all on a clock and nobody can stop it, no one can resist it. It's all unfolding exactly as God said. He brought it about at the proper time, his own time You see how all of that makes our hope certain? God promises a way in the past, it's being preached now according to God's own time and manifested. That's why we're even here. That's why we know we have the Spirit of God inside of us. We sense all of that. We see that we're part of a worldwide preaching of the gospel. And we understand these are the times in which we live, and it's exciting. And it gives us a solid hope. Now that's a big breath. What I want you to see here is all of this Continues to validate the Apostle Paul's preaching ministry. We're talking about the church built on an apostolic foundation. Notice the last section in verse 3 In the proclamation, talking about the preaching of the gospel here, in the proclamation with which I, and that's emphatic in the sentence, I was entrusted. According to the commandment of God our Savior. That is an amazing thing that as Paul looks at the eternal decree of God and he thinks about the work of Christ accomplished, and now God is manifesting Himself He takes his own person, his own apostolic ministry, and he puts it front and center, and he says that it is now being revealed in the proclamation with which I am doing my preaching, my apostolic ministry, you see? This is an astounding statement. It would be very arrogant if it were not true. This is the kerugma, the preaching or proclamation. Which is at the center of all that God is doing. What is he doing? He's proclaiming a word to the world and bringing out believers from among them. And Paul's and also the other apostles, apostolic preaching is at the heart of that plan. This is absolutely shocking if you remember in particular who this man was. Paul. Oh, Saul. Who entered into prayer meetings and dragged Christians out and threw them into jail. And who watched blessed Stephen being stoned to death and gave his heart hearty approval in Acts 7. Say man. Say man. That he would be chosen by God to be at the heart and center of all of this, particularly to the Gentile world, is astounding. No wonder he always talked about himself as the biggest sinner and and the grace of God has been shown to him. He was always talking about that, always humbling himself. Frankly, it's shocking, he says, this has been entrusted to me. Entrusted is slave language again It's the language of stewardship where a master turns to a slave and says, I'm putting this in your hands. You take care of it. That's what God did with Paul. He was entrusted with the gospel. He was under epitage, he was under command. Paul didn't show up at the apostolic headquarters and say, Yes, sir, I would like to sign up to be an apostle. Didn't happen This was against his will. He was pursuing the abuse of Christians, and against his will Christ appeared to him on the road to Damascus and said, Get up and I will show you what you must suffer for my name's sake and how you must be a witness of mine He was under divine command. Jesus Christ chose him on that road and commanded him. Paul was so adamant about this. When anyone challenged his apostleship, in Galatians 1, he said, I got my apostleship from no human agency at all. I got it directly from Jesus Christ. In 1 Corinthians 9 17, he said, For if I do this voluntarily I have a reward, but if against my will I have a stewardship entrusted to me. First Thessalonians 2 4 But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who examines our hearts. Preaching the eternal word of God to reveal the eternal plan of God was Paul's entrusted responsibility. That's how God's grace works. God takes the least likely candidate and uses him in the greatest way. You think you can't be used by God? Better better think again. And notice Paul in humility calls him God our Savior. We needed saving. We were poor, pathetic, miserable sinners. What a wonderful, merciful Savior we have. The hope of eternal life, eternal unending joy, forgiveness of sins, life within The Father who loves us forever and ever and ever, with no end to it at all, and no one that can ever take it away from us. That's what I'm living for. That sounds good. That sounds sure Obviously, if you understand all of this, you understand that we are built on the same apostolic purpose and proclamation and basis of the gospel as he was. We should feel a sense of responsibility what we do in this church. We should throw ourselves into this work. We should guard the message. We should want it to advance here, yes, but abroad and in our region. We should work hard at it, people. Too often, by the way, in thinking about preaching here today, preaching is viewed as a means in and of itself. Preaching is viewed as an art form. You know, to please men, to bring more people in the church, get a little more money, build a bigger building. Preaching is not that. Preaching is God's chosen vehicle to advance the apostolic word and the gospel. It's not about style. It's not about smooth, polished oratory abilities. It's about a message. It's about an authoritative declaration. That's what preaching is about Jim Shattock, in a book I read this summer, The Passion-Driven Sermon, writes, power is not in the clever creations of the communicator. But rather in the intrinsic truth of the Word of God through the preacher. The text-driven sermon is the agent through which the Spirit of God calls people to decision The biblical text is the only sure foundation for calling people to a changed lifestyle. The most effective preaching pastors are not those who get up before their people and present a sermonic creation with homiletical skill and oratorical precision The most effective preaching pastors are those who dive into a passage of Scripture and then beckon their listeners to join them for a swim. That is a life-changing journey. And that's so true. That's what we need to do, whether we're preaching evangelistically or preaching here. Third and last, and rather quickly, verse 4, notice that we have the other reason here, and that is the apostolic delegate. The recipient of this letter formally is Titus, says to Titus, my true child, in a common Faith, note the connection to what was preceded. Paul's forceful reminder of his apostolic authority and his position immediately gives Titus the right To take this letter and turn to the churches in Crete and carry with them this instruction and to bear the authority of the apostle who bears the authority of Christ. The letter, of course, is directed to Titus, but through Titus to all of the other churches on the island of Crete. Make no mistake about it, this letter would not have found its way into the New Testament canon if he just pocketed the letter and read it only himself. This was taken and this was read to the churches. Titus was one of Paul's close friends and co-workers. He's never mentioned in Acts, curiously, but he is in Paul's letters. Titus was converted to Jesus Christ probably by the Apostle Paul in Syrian Antioch. Apparently, he came straight out of paganism. And according to Galatians chapter 2, verses 1 through 5, Paul brought Titus along with him to Jerusalem and to the leadership when they were meeting together. And he used Titus as a Gentile as exhibit A of a man who had believed the gospel and who was not circumcised. I don't know if they checked that or not. But who still was saved, not keeping the law of Moses. Titus was the man that Paul brought along with him, saying, a man is saved apart from keeping the law of Moses. Paul put him on the spot. Paul used him as an exhibit. And so I think Titus must have had a pretty strong personality. He was proof that salvation was by faith alone. The assessment of Titus as a a strong man, a man of capability, plays out as you read more, and we don't have time to get into all of this, but Titus assisted Paul in his third and in his fourth missionary journeys. He was a very impressive and trusted and skilled leader. Paul let him handle the very thorny and rebellious situation. at the church of Corinth when they were going back and forth with letters. He sent the letters by Titus. He had Titus reprove them and rebuke them. He had Titus report back to him about what was going on in that church Nine times Titus is mentioned in Second Corinthians, for example, and through all of those negotiations Titus steered that very difficult church in the right direction. won the heart of Paul and all of that. He also had a heart himself for the Corinthians. As it says, he came to love the Corinthians and yearned for their maturity. Titus was also one of the men entrusted by Paul to carry a very great Gentile offering to the Jewish church in Palestine, according to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. So he was a man trusted with people, a man trusted with churches, a man trusted with money, a real asset to this apostle's ministry. And he used them here and sent him there and had him stay here, and that was the way he used them. Furthermore, he faithfully served Paul on the island of Crete and was with Paul on Crete at one point in Paul's fourth missionary journey beyond the book of Acts, like we talked about last time. Titus was commissioned by Paul to stay on Crete to finish the work. We'll look into that next Lord's Day in verse 5. Titus also was with Paul at the end of Paul's fourth missionary journey, right before his execution. But according to 2 Timothy 4 and verse 10, Paul sent him on one last mission to a place called Dalmatia to build up the church that was there, and then Paul's head was chopped off. And so Titus was a capable man, a skillful man, a faithful man, a trusted fellow worker. You younger men ought to look to Titus as someone that you want to be. like, that you would be useful to the leaders, that the leaders would be able to trust you with work and trust you with getting things done, faithful and skillful and capable. That will endear you to the leadership as Titus was endeared to Paul. Notice he says, My true child. True usually means sincere, but when it's attached to the word child, it more precisely means legitimate. He is my legitimate child. This designation points to the fact that Titus, though uncircumcised, was still a true spiritual child in the Lord, who held to the same common faith that Paul and others did. It didn't matter whether Jew or Gentile, there was one common faith. As Jude 3 says, we also have one common salvation. And that is true of us too. We are all tied together in common faith and common faith. Salvation. Finally, after such an involved sentence, the greeting proper arrives with a two-fold greeting where he says, Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. Grace is the typical New Testament greeting. that refers to the grace that flows from Jesus Christ and peace is the typical Old Testament and Jewish greeting from the Hebrew word shalom. Some manuscripts of yours have a third one put in their mercy. The twofold reading is better attested. The twofold blessing flows from a twofold source from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Usually Paul would say Christ Jesus our Lord. This time he says Christ Jesus our Savior. He just called God the Savior. He turns right around and he calls Christ the Savior. What does that tell you? Christ is the divine Savior. He is fully God as well. And both Titus and the Cretans would need God's grace. They would need God's peace for all the things that God would call them to do, which we'll learn about. in the following weeks. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for a journey into this text, and we know we didn't do it justice, but There's so much truth and so much learning in this passage and the passages to come bless our understanding, particularly of ourselves as a church, and how we are to be structured and what we're based on and what we're supposed to be doing And add conviction and cooperation and determination and energy to your people as they focus on godly living in the present and looking for the hope of eternal life. For we do pray it with confidence in the name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. And