Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. So the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you in peace from God our Father. And the Lord Jesus Christ. First question, was it Paul's will that he became an apostle, or was it God's will? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as He shows us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. And I'll go to verse number five. Having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. The pause right there. Last week we discussed the concept of adoption and we're gonna get into it a little bit more, but who can remind me what adoption is in this context, Jake? Do we choose to adopt us? Or are we selected for adoption? Bob So we are by nature children of RAC. So he did not belong in this code. So he predestined before the foundation of the world. He chose us. He adopted us. He selected us. Not on anything not by anything that we ourselves had done. But by his grace and by his mercy. All right. Now if we could turn to Romans eight, verses twenty-eight to thirty I'll start with verse 28. And we know that all things work together for the good of those who love God, to those who are called. According to his purpose, for whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. These he also hauled, whom he called He has also justified. And whom he justified, those he glorified. One of the things that I read this week was The doctrine of election is not something that was conjured up by man. It's something that God presents to us. It's not based on our feelings It's biblical. But a lot of people don't spend time to think about that. What does that really mean? I don't know if you all ever play sports But most of y'all that plays sports knows how it feels. A win. You have a bunch of kids out there and you're getting ready to play a game. And You have two captains, and then the first captain chooses somebody, second captain chooses somebody, and as all the kids begin to get picked, you find yourself as like one of the last two or or three and me maybe even the last one. Doesn't feel good. But sometimes unfortunately, you even have that last kid whereas the teams are like, you take him I don't want 'em. You could have 'em. Well the numbers are not gonna be fair. We're gonna have more than you. It's okay. You can have him. I know nobody in here was like that. You all look like athletes. Okay. But so it feels good. You feel wanted when you are chosen, especially if you are the first. So just to recap last week, I'm not gonna go through the whole thing, but I wanted to have a um a summarized page for you all. We talked about three aspects of what? Salvation. And what were those three aspects? I have a very active class. What were the three aspects of salvation? What was number one? Justification. No. Three aspects of salvation from last week. You're jumping ahead. Morgan. No, the three aspects of salvation. No. From our discussion last week, class. My goodness, you guys are making me look bad in front of Scott. Okay, so Salvation implies someone needs to be saved. Yeah, someone was listening to me. Someone needs to be someone needs to oh is that what you're saying? Salvation? Okay. So someone needs to be saved, right? What's the second aspect of salvation? A deliverer is needed. And what's the third aspect of salvation? The savior effectuates the saving of the that individual. Pretty much moving them from distress to safety, from the grasp of spit of sin. So freedom in Christ. But we didn't get to what that process looks like. And that's what we're gonna do today. So I don't want to spend the whole time going through everything that we discussed last week. I do have it On the first page for you all, for you also go back to a review. But I want to start today on page two. Some of the things that we just read was talking about the doctrine of election I just gave you an example of what it means or what it feels like to be elected. And from the look of all Everyone here, it feels good to be selected or elected to something. So the definition and most of the definitions that I have here are from our books. Um that I believe Host Bible has used for the longest time, uh from Wayne Grudham. Election is an act of God before creation whereby God Sovereignly chooses whom he will save by way of his special grace. We just read it in Ephesians 1 For those he chose before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless in his presence. So before the world even began, before you were even here, God had elected you. And your thoughts are like, wow Why would he do that? Why would God do that? You see, as human beings, we like to feel like though we're contributing to what we get. And when we don't feel as though we can well, we should feel that way. When we don't feel as though we're contributing to it, we don't feel as though we deserve it. But God is a loving God. And as the Bible says, your deeds in the sight of God are like what? Filthy racks. So there's nothing that you could do or nothing you you will be able to do to effectuate a salvation for yourself. Just ponder on that. When we look at the apostle Paul, who would have elected him? Because everything about him was not godly, I guess. He seemed as though he was doing it for the right reason, but he was lost. But when you look at him and you're just like, wait, wait, wait, wait, Paul. You're studying right there as they stone Stephen Wait, Paul, you're going out looking for Jews to murder them? Or for Christians to murder them? We would have casted him out. We would have said he has no place in the kingdom of God. But when we get to um Acts 915 As God is giving Ananias instructions. And Ananias is wondering and saying to God, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. We don't want this guy. He was murdering us. We don't want him a part of our crew. When we go out When we're around other people, what will people think of us if we're hanging with this guy? So in a sense it was like self-preservation for Anna Iis. I can't hang out with this guy because people will associate what he's done to me and they'll think that I'm a rat Don't think that Paul is buttering me up and trying to make me close to him so that I could tell him where the others are. So he might have been dealing with a lot of anxiety and a lot of pressure. But God Speaks to him, calms his spirit, and says in nine fifteen. For the Lord said to him, Go forth, he is a chosen vessel of mine, to bear my name before the Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel, for I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake. I'm choosing Paul for my name's sake. I am a loving God. I am a forgiving God. I am a God of a second chance. There's nothing that you could do once you're elected or saved to pull your grasp from God. And those of you that think that oh I'm gonna lose my salvation or what if I don't do this or don't do that. If you could have, you would have lost it already. There's nothing that you could do to hold it. It's even him that preserves you and keeps you. But think about that. I know that oftentimes we like to compare ourselves to other individuals that are falling and many of us have done that. Well I'm not as bad as Paul. Well at least I don't steal. Well, he stole twice as much as I did. We are all Sinners, we're all deserving of God's wrath. But God, to display his love, his mercy, said, I am gonna elect you anyway. To display my grace to the Gentiles. Paul, you're gonna have a radical transformation. And you know what? People may not believe that you are truly transformed. People may look at you and continue to judge you on your past behavior But in me now, as of this day, you are a new creation. So boldly go out with the spirit that I'm going to give you and proclaim my name. And guess what? You will suffer. Christians don't like to suffer today. We hate that. turn it or pull it aside. Especially when we work in an environment where we know that they are anti-God. I came from the corporate world um about Yes, fifteen years ago now. I was at children's hospital um working finance and I remember the day that we all got a email or note to stop saying Merry Christmas but instead to say Happy Holidays. And I remember how I thought that was a slap to me because at the same time that they were telling me not to say Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays I had um one gentleman that I worked uh for and I did his budgets was putting up his once again pipelag. So I can't say Merry Christmas, but I must Submit to this being put in front of me. So when God based on the fact that God has elected us, we need to be bold We need to be graceful. We need to go out there not to stir up trouble, but to know that we're chosen for a purpose, to glorify him, to represent him No matter where we're at. Now I think I may mention it last week. Not just when we're in church, but especially when we're out in the world. You're elected not for your own purpose and not simply to be saved from God's grasp. Oh I'm saved. I'm going into heaven. I could just march on through life now. No, you're saved for a purpose. And are you walking in that purpose daily? Do you wake up each day to say, God, you've chosen As I mentioned earlier, when you're playing a sport, you're chosen by a team or a captain or whatever. But as you begin to play that sport, you have a purpose If it's a football game, then you play your position. If it's a basketball game, it's gonna be five guys. But if you're the captain of that basketball team, I'm using sports analogies here, I know But if you're the captain of that team and you pick five five uh players or four players as a captain and one of the guys is just like you guys go ahead I'd be right here. How would that make you feel? I want you. God selected you for a purpose, so live in that purpose. And he talks about for those he foreknew. He also predestined, which falls under the doctrine of election. Now there's this misconceived notion about foreknowledge and predestine. Who could explain to me what Foreknowledge is met when God said he those he foreknew. What does the Bible mean by that? Bob. Not so much his omniscience to king those all things. It's his formu to for new was also said to be for love, to know in advance of the love. I like you Bob. You helped me out a lot. I have to bring you closer. To um to Bob's point. Turn with me to uh Genesis four, chapter one chapter one. Now Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain. Now that word knew Is in the Old Testament, but it pretty much means the same thing as for knowledge. To know somebody is to intimately know them. As Bot said, it's for love is to have intimate knowledge and your your affectious love for that individual It's not simply, oh I foresue or foresaw, forgive me, whatever it is, for knew, foresaw, somebody correct me. But it's not it's not that because what would be the problem with that if it was the merely the fact that God Look down the corridor of time and saw what you're gonna do. What would be the issue with that? Yes, somebody else. So it's a reciprocal thing. Oh I saw what you did, so now I'm gonna choose him. Right? What what thank you. Great. What's the issue with that? It's a workspace. Richard? Ignore it It ignores the sovereign will of God because now, as Julie said, it's workspace. You're saying that God could just look down time, see what I'm gonna do, and oh, he's gonna behave. But would we Would we? We talked about it last week. There is no one that's righteous. No one seeks after God No, not one. If it was simply looking down the corridor of time and waiting, we would never be selected because God would be waiting. And keep in mind, a day is like a thousand years and a thousand years like a day. And you only live for what? Seventy, eighty, ninety, hundred You'd be gone. So be grateful that it is the love of God that causes him to choose you and that should make you feel not only purposeful as I've been driving, but wanted, desired. And when you feel as though you're wanting, you wanna Do more. You know, one of the things that you learn early on in marriage is um those of us that are married is when you try to do things just to get affection from the other spouse, oftentimes it can lead to disappointment. Any other married couple experience that? Yes, I'm the only one It can lead to the when you're just simply doing to get a reciprocal response from that person. Because when that person doesn't respond in the way that you wanted them to, there's unmet expectations Right? And there and it caused a lot of frustration because you were doing it for one reason, the person didn't really care much about it. And you're like, Oh well I just did all this all day. I'm just gonna say thank you. I didn't even notice everybody Thank you. You sort of feel hurt. Right? But thank God that's not how God operates. He is not man. He doesn't operate in the same way that we do. The Bible says, while we were yet sinners, Christ die for us. So if you were in the midst of sinning and you were still a sinner, you were not living right before God. And pretty much when it says those he foreknew, those he predestined, predestined pretty much means to be marked. So we elect a president He's not in that position yet. But we predestined to be in that office. So those he for knew he predestined. Those two things encompass uh election. I have a couple of passages here for us. Yes. Yes. Mm-hmm. how we want. But I understand what I I don't have the and I'm not gonna try to pronounce the um the uh Hebrew part of it, but whenever you saw the word God Like we just talked about in um in uh look at you, my man. And then and then if you also Turn to uh Amos three two. Somebody can get there for me. We have the same word, the um see you. And so it's not uh for foreseeing or for knowledge. It's more so an intimate thing. God knowing you. And so the Greek the Greek um has for for for for new or for for knowledge. And the Hebrew in the Old Testament has the word new. But most of the time in that context it talks about somebody's instrument. knowing you, somebody um selecting you or having a desire uh a genuine love to save you from the rapid which was to come. And again, it's not something that you were able to do in your own. It's God's sovereign choice and sovereign will to save those whom He So is does anybody have Amos 32? Did I get the right passage? Amos 3. 2? Can you read that for me, uh Al? You only have I known and what was the second part, Elizabeth? Uh Alphon? So the first part, Sal Saint Israel's, you only have I know. You only have I love. And um there's other passage that talks about how God knew Israel and collected Israel, not because of their side or because of anything that they had done, because they were not the greatest nation simply because he knew them. He loved them. He had a purpose for them. So he chooses you because he loves you, but he also chooses you because he has a purpose and a desire for you. Does that clarify something for you? David? Okay. Any other questions? Any other comment? You're just smiling today. Bob. Oh, so you know when Jesus said uh good part for me, work with you and making a I never knew you. It's a form of the verb code. Which what is used in Rome those would be for nearly. So it's not that you just please with his omniscience. He knows people but he does know you and he doesn't love you and and that Yeah, so the word there gnosal to know, but the for no is progonoso with with with the and the pro comes before the gnosis. So to know you before prognoso as opposed to gnosis. But thank you. Great point. All right. So we move from yes. Um talking about this love just reminds me of our beginning conversation conversation with your wife flag the friend the yeah the friendship is here so she knows who it is she's smiling. I think our sustainment has a missed like understanding of love and empathy. I think to um just agree with someone in their beliefs is loving, but real love is truth and uh That's the difference. It's not affirming what someone believes just because you want to make them feel happy. You want to tell the truth because Thank you. Well you know the issue is Julie is um we as human beings don't want to feel rejected. We don't want to have the spotlight on us and have people labeling us. And so oftentimes even though we know the truth and we want to share it in the spirit which Feels you which is supposed to guide you and help correct you is trying to prompt something out of you, but we suppress it because we just like my feelings and I face this my feelings are worth more or I should preserve my feelings more than share the gospel to somebody that's never heard it. I like the main reason to come Isn't that ultimately selfish? Versus what would be genuinely for this good? Am I leading them down a path or uh suggesting that they can go on something That would ultimately be very harmful. Out of love, we should care more about warning that person even if it causes temporary hurt feelings. Like for most of us, we Amen. Amen. Amen. I um Ron? Um back to the y your point. I just want to say that we're also commanded to be wise as serpents, meaning it's not to make an excuse for not sharing the gospel, but understanding when we're at our workplace, we're submitting to their authority. Yes. And we have to recognize that because You can't share the gospel if you're unemployed. You can't share the member playing. So be wise as a serpent. So I I agree. If I have a coworker, a new co-worker, Hey, can I kick you off to lunch? And then once we're out outside of lunch, you're right, we're in a lunch period, we're outside the office, we're on a private time. And I make sure that a fact is established and therefore then I feel more free to share the gospel and then there's usually no blowback on that. It's like we were on our lunch break And and and I usually to to top it off pay for lunch. So I just want to say it's not an excuse, not the to share the gospel, it's to be Why for the longest time I was able to put those thirteen reasons not to commit suicide on my desk if no one ever said anything Or are you a rotten fish? No one ever said anything, and as long as no one ever said anything, I didn't. Then we decided to do the hot desking and it's like, well it's no longer my desk We're going back to I have a death now and the first thing I thought about come September is I'm putting those back on my desk. It's a god in the man centered view of life as it goes to a god view of life. Oftentimes really the thing to search out if you jurors see where they do they believe the Bible is true throughout? And usually if you run a little bit, they go, Well Now and 'cause really whether we want to follow God, follow our own rule basic back to what it has itself Yep. Thank you all. Thank you, Karen. Okay. Um so I have a couple of uh supporting scriptures here under election for you all to Go review, have discussions. One of the things that um we've been doing in my home which I've loved and it's really only started happening by God's grace through being at Hope Bible Church over the last years is as I read something, as I go through something, have that discussion with my wife or even my children. Try to explain it to them. Because that is the best place to practice. Especially for me. My kids are gonna reject me anyway They they they love my wife. So I just passed on them and if they re receive it, then I know I'm ready to go out into the world. Um number two atonement. As we go through the process of salvation, atonement. The work done by Jesus in his life and death for our Salvation. And I have it here at the top of the page, um, Hebrews 9. 22. You don't have to go there. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. So the question is, was your bloodshed when you stand at home and if you could take a look at your back, do you have stripes on your back? Do you have thorns on your forehead? Where you spit on where you mocked. And as I talked about the analogy with the um the basketball or the football team picking and selecting. Just imagine you standing there and as the game is getting ready to start. I joked earlier that what if you were the last one and everyone moved the it said you could have 'em. But wouldn't it be worse if you were standing there Getting ready to play a game with everyone and everyone just decided to go to another court because they didn't want you. And what I'm getting at is when Jesus was up on that cross, dying for the sins of humanity, he looked down. Where was his voice Scattered. I mean, w wasn't Peter big and bad and pulled out a sword and cut off Malchazair? He was bold because he was right there in proximity to Jesus He knew Jesus had power, but the moment with Jesus was out of his sight, what did he do? Rejected him. And in the synoptic gospels as you go through that story There's a there's a scene where it talks about how after he denied him the third time he looked up and he locked eyes with Jesus. Man man I hate disappointing people I hate disappointing people. I felt bad enough this morning coming in here and I didn't have all my copies made. And I was like, Jeff, please get the copies made before everybody comes in here. But just imagine you denying your savior and you lock eyes with him Imagine the weight that would have been on him in that moment. Just for a moment, imagine that. He had been with you, he walked with you, he fed you multiple times And here he is getting dragged away and pulled away and it says you like I got you. I'ma die with you. Right? That's what he said. I don't know him. It's like me standing out there with Carrie. We're we're bowling in the church and then somebody comes and starts talking to him and we're evangelizing. Or Scott or anybody else. Or I decide to go visit my um my good friend Noah and we start hanging out. Right Noah? And we're out there evangelizing and people start coming at us And though it turns around like, Hey, Morpheus. Yes, I'm on my own. But did Jesus reject them No. But we're so quick. Because of what Alison and Carrie were saying earlier, right? Self reservation. We're so quick. We we get offended quickly. Somebody does any little wrong to us, don't talk to me. I'm gonna cut you off. And we see this now more than ever. with the political atmosphere. It's crazy. Be in a conservative circle and mention Kala to get this look. Like, what do you think? Where's the medicine? He just infected us. Be in a liberal circle and say Trump. Good luck getting that there alive. That's it. We're quick. We're we're offended and we in anything that anything that is done to us, we don't want to associate with people Forgetting, as I mentioned before, while we were sinners, you have been saved by grace through faith and not of your work so that what No man may boast. No man may go out there with their chest taken out. I did it. No. You did nothing but contribute to your death. I like what um um One of my favorite preachers and don't judge me. Um Steve Dawson. Yes, I said Steve Dawson, one of my favorite preachers We fall. We make mistakes. But that man has fed me through his preaching. My goal is to pray for him, not to say, Oh, he fell in the worst guy ever. No, I'm saved by grace through And one of the things that he said was that there is nothing man could do to save himself. Why? He's dead. What can dead man do but stink and decay, but it is God that gives you new life through the atoning work of His Son Jesus Christ on the cross. And what does atonement entail? Propitiation. A. A sacrifice of God which satisfy his just judgment and righteous anger against sin. You know, there's a uh false theory out there that I may have alluded to it last week, that this payment that God um that Jesus gave on our behalf, this payment was given to Satan because it was Satan that held us. It was Satan that held us captive. It's called um rest into Satan for God has to pay Satan to let us go free. And I forget who said it, um, but it was said that even the devil It's God's devil. He can't do nothing without God allowing him. And we see that in Job, right? He said, Won't you test my servant? How many of us would have made it through that test? Okay, the second part of the atonement is reconciliation. There is none righteous, no not one. Therefore we can't stand in the presence of God. God is a holy God. Alright, I'm coming to you, Bob Holy. I keep making eye contact with Greg too. I think I'm gonna get him soon. What does holy mean? So we can't be in the presence of God. We are at enmity with God. We're dead. We think. We're foul. And when you think about dead things, what do you do with it? You discard it. I am the vine, you are the branch, right? Remain in me and I in you. John fifteen. If you don't be made to me, you're what? Cut off. Cut off. You're like a dead branch. That wither, there's no good. But through his atoning work, and I'm gonna keep emphasizing that. Through Christ's atoning work Not because you woke up this morning like, I'm in love with you, Jesus. I'm in. No. Through his sovereign will and atoning work, he says, I am going to reconcile you to me. It's like in a relationship You reconcile. When you reconcile, you work out your differences. And in here, in this context, we were sinners. Sinners can't be in the midst of a holy God. Where do we first see that happening? Daniel's ready to answer Where do we see that happening? Greg? Abigail. No, that's great. In the garden. God was walking with with Adam. He was in his presence. But once they sinned, he had to pull himself. He is a holy God. He stands apart. He set apart. He can't be in your midst. You can't pray to him. You can only have a relationship with him. You can't seek him. Your heart will remain callous You are dead, your mind is dead, every part of you is dead. Your desires will not seek him. You will not reach out for him. When we understand this, we have a better um the word I guess as opposed to sorry. W the deep respect for God seeing how holy he is? Yes, but in addition we see the world lost, we understand why. And that should prompt us as believers to pray for those people. And if God gives us the opportunity wisely To have conversations with them about the truth so that they too may come into the newness of life and go out into the world and represent God. And to be like Paul to be an instrument of God. This was me. And I think sometimes even though we're saved, we're sanctified, we're going through the sanctification process, we need to stop sometimes and remind ourselves where we once were. As were such were some of you. It's perhaps. But when you think about that, it makes you grateful that God said, Morag, I love you. I want you I desire you. We should be grateful. Sean, when we wake up and we're like, man, I messed up yesterday. But God says, Come to me. I got you. I've adopted you. You are in my family. And real families, they work out their differences. God knows about that Raising 10 skits. I'm sure there are differences, but he teaches reconciliation. I'm sure I the man that I know uh over the last three years that his sons could go to him to say, Hey Dad, this is what I'm dealing with And in the same manner, when God says you are adopted, you can go to him. That's why when they ask Jesus, how do we pray? He says, Hey, our Father who art in heaven Heaven. Not my buddy. Not hey big guy. Hey Jesus is my homie. What can I get from you? No. Dad. Father's here to guide. A father's here to direct. Said that This is what I'm dealing with. And I don't know how to handle this. I need you. You're omniscient, you're omnipresent, you're omnipotent. So there's nothing that I I'm dealing with right now that You can't guide me through. Then we we are redeemed. So not only are we reconciled, we're redeemed. The sinner is free from the bondage of sin. Prior to God, you're fooling yourself if you think that um you could do good And we deceive ourselves. Well, I I I'll do better. I'll do better. No, it's only one time. The devil comes to steal, kill, and destroy, and he's gonna make you think that you're defeating that sin, but it is in you You were born into sin. Apart from God, your whole life is sin. Everything that you think about is sin. I tell you, I I I don't know how many times I had to I whip my head or shake my head or whatever the case was, trying not to mess with my hair up. And um God, I heard you too loud. Sorry. Um You shake your hair, you try to rattle it around and you're just like Get out, get out, get out. The devil will just snow stuff in your mind. And you have to constantly go back to God and say, Lord, help to get this thing out of my mind. Help me to focus on you. We call scripture, bring back the scripture. That's why it says one of my favorite scriptures that we're teaching our kids that we've been trying to teach them since they were younger, I think they know it by now, is do not let this book of the law depart from your mouth. Meditate on it. How many know that scripture Okay, meditate on it. Those of you that know it sometimes when you feel like it day and night. Meditate on it day and night. And in in um in Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 9, God even tells them And he tells them to meditate on the word, to write it as frontments in front of their eyes so that everywhere they go The word of God is like right here. I see you. You're holding me accountable. Maybe you all are much stronger than me, but I know that when I'm not in my word, and I may have mentioned this last week, something different. I respond differently. One of the things that I've learned in both being a parent and being married is I'm not as patient as I thought. Yeah. I don't feel good about it, you know, because In your mind you're like, Yeah, I'm a patient guy, I'm a caring guy, I do this. But then the moment that either my wife or my kids do something, I can control my my my emotions most of the times. Um, but I don't have to blurt out something to be sinning, right You can have these awful thoughts towards that person. But when God redeems you, you can go to him now and say, Lord, I'm redeemed, I'm reconciled, you died for me. To set me free from the bondage of this sin. This sinful person is trying to come out of me. Right? But I know through you I can overcome it. So we're redeemed. Now, from The election to the atonement, we then come to the effectual calling of God. So we have the general call of the gospel that goes out to everybody. But it is the elect whom the call effectuates a change in them. I didn't grow up in a Christian home. Well, I grew up in a home that professed to be Christian. But some of the things that I saw, the uh stealing the the dis bad talking towards one another and the evils that I grew up around. And I'm not ashamed to share of my upbringing because I've been redeemed And I'm grateful to share what God saved me from. So I grew up in a home where a lot of you may not realize, but in our culture, the culture that I'm from, which is um I was born in Haiti. They do a lot of evil magic. So you grow up in a home sometimes where you have evil dark magic happening And at the same time, people are professing to be Christian or to go to church. But at an early age there was just something that was not right. I can't say it was anything that I did. But there was just something not right that I couldn't reconcile with. Number one When I would go to my uncle's house, I was fearful. Like truly fearful because in his basement, just a lot of dark stuff. And I was just the basement door would open, I'd look down there like, uh-uh. I don't know what hell looks like, but that sure looks close to it. And I'm not going down there. But that's what I grew up around. But Praise be to God that one day sitting at church I heard the gospel and I was unashamed. And one of the things that I remember that was funny when I got to school, I was in ninth grade, a buddy of mine said to me, Hey man, you can't do that. Why not? We got a lot of partying to do. Between now and college. Can you just wait until after college? And I was just like, No, I can't. I can't And because of my um lack of intellect, I guess, or not knowing all the uh process that was involved in it, I knew I loved Jesus. I knew I wanted to live for Jesus, I knew I wanted to follow Jesus But I didn't know exactly all that was right and all that was wrong. I found myself in situations that I shouldn't have been. You know, but as you continue to mature, you have to say to yourself, Whoa God did all this for me and I'm saying that I belong to him. I need to crucify this old man and be reborn with Christ. And so my thinking needs to be different. The way that we look at each other needs to be different I passed by Richard for like maybe a year and a half or something like that. Uh my wife's name, Richard? Miriam. I passed by Richard for like a year and a half Um, not realizing his name. But Richard would always stop. Hey Lorfie, how's your day going? Hey Lorfie, how you doin' today? What's going on? Got to know Sean because Sean would stop and we know his son coming to our class. He just would Scott, Mel passes by out of nowhere. I didn't even think that they knew me. Mel was passed by just tapping me on the shoulder. Says you're talking about earlier about Being selective in how you say things and when you say things, living a life that is redeemed and where you have responded to that effectual call, even the way that you behave is a testimony of Jesus. The way that we love those that do us wrong. The way that we show that we can see somebody without saying nothing just by tapping them or saying, hey how you how's your day going? So our whole nature, everything about us, the way that we interact with one another, needs to reflect Christ. And if I could challenge you as we um one second, Richard, if I could challenge you as you go out into the church into the world Remember people are looking at you, especially if they're new visitors. Are you saying to yourself, hmm I don't know that person. Let me just introduce myself. Do you see a young family coming in with kids, are you saying to yourself, have they been contacted or do they need a meal? It doesn't have to happen just when the person has a baby It could happen spontaneously. It just tells the person that hey I'm thinking about you and we are part of the same body and we've been redeemed and so I want to do something for you just because and I'm not looking for anything else. I'm gonna elect to do something from you, not because of anything you did, but just because. I do take Chick-fil-A. Freezer. Richard? In other words, uh like you said when you went to be you saw things, you had thoughts about them and uh It was it was out of Haiti because I came here when I was like four. So this was here in New York. I grew up in New York and so but as I Uh when we would go to church, so when we were younger we went to a predominantly Haitian church and as I was growing up here and I began to speak and get assimilated to the culture Um I still speak it fluently, but there are certain things I just did not get in the culture and stuff like that because I I've been here since I was so young, but We eventually transitioned to a English speaking church in middle school and as I continued to um listen, as I continued to grow grow, just I think it all just quick one day where it was just like, oh man, this I I've seen I've seen this after before I got saved I had no idea who God was. After getting saved, look back on my life and see Just in the circumstances by working. Yeah. But it's still not your work. Which is which is which is crazy because it's like it was him Yeah, it's like it we don't think about I'm gonna give you the faith to respond to me. Does that make sense? It's like your kids, Dad I need a candy, go buy it. I don't have the money Well you have the money. You sorta give them what they need to get what they n what they want. It's like God saying, Okay, you all don't have the faith. I'm gonna give you the faith to respond to me through my through the effectual call. Um let me see here. What time is five over? Huh? Ten forty. That clock's wrong. It would be my wife yelling out five minutes. Louded in the class. First thing we heard from you Five minutes. Um, so we have effectual fall, then we have regeneration. I have the I have the um the text here for you all. Regeneration, the work of God, the Holy Spirit, and giving life to the believer, uh to the believing sinner, effectuating new birth, i. e. , being born again. Where did we hear that from? John chapter 3, Nicodemus. What must I do to be saved? Must be born again. Nicodemus was completely lost. So I need to become a day nicotine? No. You said no better. Alright. Okay. So regeneration, another word for that is like renovated Okay? When you renovate something you make it like new again. Keep in mind we were all born children of wrath. And so once we came out of the womb, we were all sinful because of Adam And what God is doing is God is returning us. Not perfectly because we're not in glorification yet, which is the final phase, but temporarily he's returning us to the state that we should have been in, where we have a new mind A new focus and a new purpose and a new desire of the heart to live for his glory. So that's regenerated. And then through that regeneration comes conversion. That's where we get faith and repentance from. You're converting, right? And we all know what it means to convert. You convert from Islam to Christianity or convert from hopefully it's not Christianity to Islam but when you convert you leave one thing behind. And you cling to something new. Right? So the sinner's response to the gospel whereby he truly repents. And we've been talking about change our mind. Where do we repent. Repent. Alright, Bob, come on. Repent. So repentance to distinguish repentance and put away carbon in your mind. The fruit of repentance is actually those deeds that are the results. Okay. What was the key word in that what what Bob said? Turn away. Turn away, but how do you turn away? From something to something. But repentance is from the Greek word metanoia. Metamorphosis, right? Meta, to change, to change your mind, to have a new mind. God puts a new mind in your new way of thinking a new way of doing things. So the way that you were doing it before, God came and he was just like, not gonna cut it. Here's Jesus. I'm gonna put this new mind in you. Let this mind be in you which is also in Christ so that way you can do things the way that I expect them to. And if you want an example, look at my son. Stop living to defend your honor and yourself. Stop living to glorify yourself. Start living to glorify me in your marriage. This is one of the most convicting things when you're trying to be a parent. Because you feel like you're the boss. What you say goes But then you realize, oh man, I think it was um the the couples that were that we interviewed a few years ago that was from um Alaska. They they said uh they s I think somebody says, what can we do for your family? And the wife responded, we often forget that children of pastors are in need of grace. They too are sinners. And so pray for them. Help us to guide them. Come around them. And when I heard that it really pull the point of me to be like, Man, I need to disciple my children. We get all excited about going out into the world and make disciples, but at home we don't have conversations and disciple one another, especially husbands and wives. I'm telling you this, if you're married, nothing sharpens your marriage. more than discussing theology. Now the world is gonna look at you like what it was movie night. When you start to challenge one another and start to prepare one another and start to help each other to go out to the world and talk about it, I don't know about you but it's truly brought brought appreciation to um our relationship Conversion and then after conversion we have sanctification which is you have ebb and flows, ups and downs. It's not gonna be perfect, but God is sanctifying you. And then um And this sanctification we have perseverance of the saints, assurance, filling of the spirit, which I have all laid out here for you. And finally, what we've all been waiting for, glorification, the final step in redemption what it's all about. God will use you as an instrument. You do the best that you can with what you got. If you have five dollars, serve with five dollars. If you have a million, you serve with a million. If you have none, you serve with your hands. Use what you got to glorify Him, to bring honor. Say his name, not yourself, and you will be glorified. Not because of what you're doing, because not based on works. But you should give the very best of what you got because of what he's already done for you. That's a response You know, it's sorta like when your spouse says I love you. It's kinda awkward when you just stand there like Thanks And like I love you, they're expecting I love you too So the response should be because God says, I love you, your response should be, through everything that you do, Lord, I love you too. And I'm going to demonstrate that love through everything Everything I do, all my mind, all my soul, all my mind, all my being, even when I don't feel like it and I'm going through something, when I'm in the midst of others, I will try to show the joy that is in me All right. Father God, I thank you that you've allowed us to um get through this process which is called the order of salvation. It is not a perfect process, O Lord, but it is man's attempt and try to explain your goodness. What I hope that everyone gathered from this lesson today, O Lord, is that there's not much that we could do to earn our salvation. But there is so much that we should do because of our salvation. Father God, thank you for putting a new mind in us. Thank you for allowing us to be in this room to discuss your word. Thank you for your your your um Your choice, your sovereign choice to select us and elect us what purpose. Father God, I pray for every individual in this in this room that as they go out, not only into service, that they will have a mind that is um awakened and and ready and desiring to hear the the uh the word of God. But I also pray that they'll take what we've learned and they study it, meditate on it And go out into the world and try to make disciples. And lastly I pray that as they reflect on the process and of salvation, that they'll truly check their hearts to see if they've if they've experienced each part of this, especially the conversion which brings faith and repentance Thank you, Lord, for everything that you do for us, the things that we are aware of and the things that we are not aware of. Use us in a mighty way, O Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.