All right, here we go. This is review uh from a previous week, the very first section in your notes, right? I literally cut it cut and pasted this out of uh I think two weeks ago, the first uh part of our discussion of faith If grace is God's disposition to restore us to relationship with him, resulting in actions to effect that restoration. Notice that. A disposition, a disposition that led him to action. And those actions are uh atonement and the giving of the Spirit, uh, principally. There are obviously more, but uh those are the two principal actions that we have in mind Grace is a disposition of God. A a decision, a a disposing of, right? Like I I put it in a position, I direct it along a path. That's that's grace principally It's not enough to describe grace, but it is principally what grace is. And then the actions that follow from it are um the atonement that he makes for us And the spirit that he gives us, and that plays into our discussion of faith significantly, uh that it's it is the work of God uh to give us faith, uh to declare us righteous, all those things that God does monergistically. But it does not, oh, and then also to give us the enablement, and I have that on the screen as well So if grace is God's disposition to receive store us to relationship with himself. And that part is so important. Um there there is uh a sense of achievement that we oh if you need some notes, raise your hand. Katie apparently has uh additional copies. I am sorry about not having enough copies today. Um there is an overemphasis today. I'm ejecting on the previous sentence because I forgot where I was. There is an overemphasis, you're raising your hand for no Uh there's never gonna get there. There is an overemphasis today um on what I'll call positional sanctification. That would uh make several theologians And the fact is, I don't care. Um we are positionally sanctified in Christ. We are positionally, eternally saved in Christ. All of the things that we hold to be But we have made that the sum total of our identity. And I used the example previously that I have a ring on my finger finger that establishes that I am positionally married. And so I put it on my finger and I go my way and we're done with that story, right? The answer is no There is no marriage in the world that works that way. And any marriage that attempts to work that way will find itself in counseling, therapy, and somebody's law office at some point in time. Right. But by the grace of God. Right? What you are positionally is is hugely important. Don't try to act married without being married. But once you are married, act married Be in relationship. And I do not uh use the marriage metaphor lightly. I do not want to bring God down to the sum total of a human relationship. He is more than that. But if it's appropriate for God to talk about what we are in him and to talk about how it's evidenced in what we are in each other in tr in in marriage and he does do that, right? As Christ is to the church, so you should be with your wife You evidence what I am with you, you evidence that in your marriages. So it's an appropriate metaphor, not an attempt to bring God down to human relationship as broken and as needy and As selfish as it is, but it does make clear that what we are positionally is not sufficient or not the sum total of the value of what it is God did when he disposed himself in grace toward us. And if this class turns out to be about anything, and to tell you the truth, it's a bit of a journey for me, I wasn't sure where I was going other than that list of words I had in the back of the journal But if this class is about anything, it's about engaging God all the time and in every way in active relationships. And if you if you mistake it, so forget the center Which is a little bit like saying take out the core. But i if you forget the center of my diagram for a minute, this is God's activity to return us to that relationship, that covenant relationship of love. And I debated for like a full hour this morning And if you knew how precious an hour of my morning is, on Sundays in particular, you would know that that hour was like, Lord, I've got to get this right. 3 a. m. My notes are not even started, because that's the way I roll. Sorry guys, that's all the time I got. Just in time living. That's me. And I'm sitting there staring at this diagram going, do I connect the arrow here or here? And so I do a little study Do I connect the arrow here or here? And I do a little study. Do I connect the arrow? There is no such thing in the scriptures as relationship with God. And so it made no sense ultimately for me to connect that arrow back to just love. It had to be in covenant. And then the metaphor of a marriage was the same thing. It makes no sense to talk about being in a loving relationship with my spouse, something I spent a lot of yesterday thinking about since this is our anniversary I spent a lot of yesterday thinking about it makes no sense to talk about that outside of the bounds of promises and obligations. Covenant And so I want you to see that when I talk about drawing you into relationship with God, you always have to go back to the scriptures and find those promises and obligations. What you are in Christ and who you are in Christ Don't have time to draw that what and the who out, but you should be able to get that if you just think about it for a minute. It goes back to promises and obligations. But he's drawing us back into that. And we're so busy talking about this is where I am in Christ. Where's the relationship? We talk about worship all the time, and I uh uh it comes up a lot with contemporary uh worship modality. So that's how I'll you know what it well actually I'm avoiding that topic. So contemporary worship modalities. Well, this kind of worship you know makes me feel like this or like this. You know, I I know it stop talking about that Worship is entirely circumscribed within covenant. That's what worship is. Worship is right relationship with God. Worship is righteous relationship with God, if you want to know where we're headed today. And when I talk about righteousness today, This is the block, right? Bottom line up front. When I talk about righteousness today, I am literally asking you to reach out and lay a hold of God and engage him in physical, active, daily Relation. I am asking you to see all of your life, every event of your life as an opportunity to engage In relationship with God for as long as he speaks each of those breaths into your life. I'm directly paraphrasing scripture there. When he is done engaging with you in the relationship that he has established for you here and now He will stop speaking those breaths into your lungs. And your relationship with him will change one way or the other. So grace again is his disposition to restore us to relationship, active, engaged relationship, not distant, not remote, not absent, not distracted Not cool, but to draw you out of the world, to marry you for himself, to equip you in every way, to be with him, to know him, to experience him, to walk with him. to rejoice in him, to suffer with him. And faith is our responsive disposition. So a little bit of symmetry here. Faith is our responsive disposition that He does give us and that He does demand from us, resulting in actions to obey and enjoy Him. And I didn't flesh that out uh two, one, two weeks ago But that's where we're at today. What are the actions that flow from our faith? It is our righteousness Isn't that a hand raise? Oh I thought it was. Sorry. Uh don't flinch or I'll call one. God's actions. Note that there are two parts. Again, these are just Copies from two weeks ago notes. There are two parts that we too often reduce to one part. The sacrifice of the Son for the atonement of sin Redeems from slavery to sin, declared righteous. Notice that declaration. I've got a little side note later on that you'll see declared righteousness. First misspelled uh twice regrettably, uh declared righteousness and operative righteousness. But he declares us righteous Before a holy God whom we ultimately offended. And I don't mean like in the end we offended him. I mean we offended him ultimately across the board in every way. And he transfers us from outside relationship with him to inside relationship with him. And the best metaphor I can think of is here. God did this, and he he keeps coming back to the example. Would you cut that out? I keep thinking he reasoned. The best example I can give you is the one that the scriptures give you. I called you out of Egypt to be a people to walk with me. Now walk with me It's going to come up in some of our passages. God saved them from their slavery and learned to engage them as a as a as a God who would walk with them daily, who would manifest himself to them daily, whom he would direct every footstep that they took. He would lead them into challenges and out of challenges. He would actually direct their path specifically into situations that required them to, okay Lord, we're at the end. We got nothing, and here's a problem. How do we address it? stole it from me. Um so he does that first. That's one of his actions, principal actions is an atonement, and then the sending of his spirit to bring about obedience Every time Exodus and the Jews are a good example, every time the Lord brings us, saves us, if you will. Every time the Lord draws us to himself in salvation. We rebel. And the Israelites are the example that God gave us, and He says, I recorded these things so that you would see. I recorded these things in the past, what those things that happened in the Old Testament. so that you would see what you are like and who I am and how you must respond to me. And so in the New Testament we have a better covenant because he said sends that which we require in order to remain in active relationship with him, to fulfill the requirements of the covenant, that we might live in the enjoyment of increasing relationship with him. Remain in that relationship. The psalms do a good job of uh the psalmists often will pray, Lord, let me be in your house. And keep me in your house. It's the Psalms way of saying the same thing I just You cannot be in the presence of the Lord until you are made righteous. You cannot stay in the presence of the Lord and enjoy the presence of the Lord unless you maintain righteousness. And that gets prayed about all the time in the Psalms in the context of let me be in your house or let me be in your tabernacle or let me be in your temple, all the same different words say the same thing. That's God's actions. What are our actions? Our actions are righteous. Our actions are righteous. is here, the obligation or the operative righteousness that we are that is required of us is here. And that operative righteousness will lead to a final salvation and keeps us in the way of with God. We will be found in His house. That's a a way to help you understand that, right? If you are not found in God's house when He returns You will not get into God's house when he returns. But if you are found in his house, if you are found in his fold, if you are found in his flock, you will be And the scriptures use the phrase, so I'm not going to shy away from it. Ultimately saved. Finally saved. I don't think they say ultimately this is just a couple of references I can think of say finally. Final salvation. Righteous actions are necessary in response to God's holiness. You cannot stand in front of a holy God, he that is ultimately separate from all that is unrighteous. Broken, evil, untrue. Holiness can't be described as simply separation from sin. It has to be described as all that is best in pursuing the honor and glory of God. It is the passionate and overwhelming goodness of God manifested mostly through his nature and all that he says and does. And then through his people as he works in them, as we've already described. Righteousness results from a right comprehension of all that God is. And I debated putting it in here, but I didn't. I have a uh academic paper by a guy named uh Wolfke. Um he actually did a bunch of uh commentaries on the psalms that I've used in the past, but he wrote a paper. I I I think he wrote a uh commentary on Proverbs. I do not own that one. But he wrote a paper that summarized his commentary, and the point of the paper is that the wisdom of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes necessarily results in right action, righteousness. And he goes on and on to draw that necessary equivalence between wisdom Knowledge leads to wisdom. Wisdom is knowledge applied to action, if you will. Ethics is the way it's phrased in the paper. That just means the way we live our lives. Not just the moral uh contemplation But a physical acting app, right? That's what we mean when we or at least that's what these people mean when they say it. And while he makes a big deal Uh I think fairly convincingly about this equivalence between wisdom and action. And it's played out in Colossians 1, which Kerry gave us the other day, uh last week when we were talking through this, it's played out in 2 Peter chapter 1 and it's played out in in number of other places too. It starts with knowledge, it leads to wisdom, and all that is righteous follows thereafter. And if you just read those passages with a highlighter, you'll find the knowledges of God There's often promises of God and other things. Christ is usually in there because that's how we know him. But it builds this logical structure that goes from knowledge to wisdom to righteousness to um assured assurance of salvation set in different ways as you go through those different chapters. And so that's really what I was trying to get at with this diagram. I just wanted to see how how well all that we have studied have has fit together into that. I did add this one in case it was missed, because there is no such thing as righteousness in the scriptures. It is not obedience to God in service to others. And every passage that faults the Israelites for how they are unrighteous is always in the context of a lack of justice and a lack of charity and a lack of love For those that are around them. Every last one of them. So there is no discussion of righteousness that is not a passionate pursuit of God's glory by the spending of yourself For the sake of others. So if you want I I don't have that down here. I it's another one of them I should have written down, but again, only so much time between three and eight A. M. on Sunday morning But if you want a definition of righteousness, it is the passionate spending of yourself in obedience to God in care of other people. Knowledge leading to wisdom leading to righteousness leading to justice. That would be the syllogism. A equals B equals C. That would be the syllogism that you find I think uniformly in scripture. I was unable to find the deviation of that syllogism in 100%. mentioned that as Christians, I forget what percentage you maybe said ninety maybe percent of our love is focused on brothers Christ. I I guess I understood that correctly Correctly. So when you say caring for others, we're mostly caring for the body, but also unbelievers that come into our area Is that how you would put it? Yeah, I'm surprised they gave a percentage. I'm not quoting you on that. No, no, I I may have. I have been known to make statements like that before specifically for the goal of provoking people. But uh now that you're calling me on it I'm feeling a little sheepish about it. I am surprised I gave a percentage. There are two principal examples of what I just described in the scriptures. The one is in the context of the Old Testament that I just alluded to, uh, God halting the Israelites or declaring themselves to be in God while lacking all justice, which he usually goes on at length to describe as not caring for the widow, not caring for the poor, not caring for the worker, not caring for the So it's it's caring for uh their covenant brothers and sisters, and I say covenant, just in the in the covenant of Israel, if you will, caring for their covenant brothers and sisters in Christ That is principally, not not uniformly or exhaustively, but principally the example given in the Old Testament. In the New Testament, love one another. Now you say, well it it talks about loving your enemy and doing this and doing these other things. It does, it does. But those are exceptional Verses. I don't mean that we we throw them out or dismiss them. I just mean that they do not reflect the dominant narrative in either the Old or the New Testament, which is we care for each other. Now that gets super hard because I don't know your heart. If you're in this room, if you declare Christ, that should be good enough for me to start caring for you. Not not some test of are you religious enough for me to believe you're in Christ or out of Christ, right? And so uh that's not what I'm talking about. But the world should know what we are and what Christ has done in us done in us by the conspicuous righteousness that we perpetrate on each other. Use funny language on purpose, right? The costly care that we pursue, passionately pursue, in the care of each other. That is what the New Testament says is our principal ray of light, if you will. Because it demonstrates the care, it demonstrates this, this whole ark, even while there is rebellion and sin on our part. When we care for each other and the unlovely parts in particular, if I can paraphrase a few New Testament scriptures, we demonstrate exactly what God has done for us through Christ. Doesn't mean we don't love others. But principally those, that's the majority narrative in the New Testament, and so that's where I'm going to camp out on the majority narrative. I did so that was a lot of me, right? That was all me talking. That whole beginning part of the class, about twenty-seven minutes, the gospel according to Scott. Well that's worth Nothing, right? Absolutely nothing. Um I know that, you know that, you better know that. So let's dig in. I want to root it in the Old Testament because I want you to see see the continuity. So what I did is we're going to labor on the back of that first page, we are going to labor through an Old Testament framework that establishes the things that I just said. And now I'm not going to get there. I won't have time. But there is a chart of New Testament passages that effectively say the same thing. And so I just gave you the chart. Okay? So I'm going to labor through the Old Testament. You're going to be more familiar with the end. The only verse I really hope to uh conclude on is the 1 John 3 passage. And we'll actually turn there and read it. The second from the bottom of the the chart there. So that's kind of how this class is going to go. Um I hope that you are as excited as I am to uncover this this again this dominant narrative. When God says something from beginning to end of the scripture, it's just it's just So side since right? Like we've always been saying it. Why am I not seeing it? And and how did God's people see it? Or how did the people that said they were God's people see it? And you see all of that in the study that we're going to do today. So I learned a new phrase, eighth century prophets. I had to go look that up. I was like, what do you mean eighth century prophets? Well it turns out they're talking about four of them. Isaiah Hosea, Amos, and Micah. And they called them that because they literally uh wrote and taught during the uh time period in the 700 B. C. 700s B. C. Sorry about that And uh I took a lot of the framework, or at least the beginning framework from um uh the book that is listed at the very bottom of your page there, the distinctive ideas of the Old Testament. I cannot necessarily recommend this book. I do not appreciate the hermeneutic framework. for you geeky people out there uh that's uh SNAETE Norman uh adopts, but the book is nonetheless helpful from a framework structure perspective. And so uh I'm gonna Start there and then deviate. Uh but I was just excited to see this in the scriptures. Snaith Norman Snates is a weird name. Norman uh makes an assertion on page fifty-four of his book that the eighth century prophets adds new content to God's holiness as demanding righteousness. And the general thought there is that all of the writings up to that point were very clear that God is wholly separate. Holy W H O, right? uh wholly separate. He is holy. Everything about the temple construction, everything about the meeting on Mount Sinai, everything about God always called for him to be completely other than us. And because he was completely other than us and we could never be completely set apart in holiness like he is by his very nature, that there was always this in insuperable uh uh separation uh between us and God. And uh but he says um uniquely these four prophets added to it the demand for righteousness Individual righteousness. Now many of you are thinking about the sacrificial system and the Mosaic Law. Hold off, because that is not where this lesson goes. As a matter of fact Using the scriptures, the discussion for the demand of righteousness even says, Did I not, before I gave you the law, tell you to walk with me in obedience. The first thing I said to you after drawing you out of Egypt is walk before me in obedience and enjoy all the blessings of that relationship And that fell apart and failed. And then I gave you the law. And you thought killing sheep was gonna make it okay. So the same passage that says I told you to obey me first, and then I gave you the law. And then says, Did I really want your sacrifices? Which is a bit confusing, because clearly he did Right? But what you're understanding there is what is all through the Old Testament leaving leading up to those four prophets, that I I didn't I didn't care about dead sheep Or goats or cows. I cared about a broken and a contrite heart. Psalm fifty-one. Uh Norman goes on to say, this they did, those four prophets, this they did because they had a conception of deity which was without parallel. The way they thought about who God is and who they were before him and what he required of them, these four prophets uniquely had a conception of God that instructed them. To go beyond just he's holy, but that he demanded righteousness. And they say, well, how can it be true that these four prophets did this? My example for that would be as simple as Isaiah 6. Who else got to have Isaiah's manifest holiness of God. Who else actually had that experience? And so when you talk about uh these four prizes, I don't know what the other three had, so I'm not saying that But Isaiah at least had an experience with God unlike anyone else. And so it is not difficult for me to go, Isaiah uniquely was able to write about things based on his experience that augmented or magnified that which had been done up to that point. And I think it's warranted by the number of citations or quotations from Isaiah In the New Testament. You were so close, Isaiah, you saw so much. Now let me finish the story for you in the New Testament All four, another quote, all four prophets combine into a solid unanimity in repeatedly reiterating the fact that Jehovah, by his very nature, demands right conduct. Sorry about that. From his worshipers and will be content with nothing less. Demands right conduct from his worshipers and will be content with nothing less. I don't have the time to defend that statement other than the bullets that we're going to do here, but if that statement bothers you, you need to get your nose into your scripture. And if you don't believe that the Old Testament is for you right now, that's fine. There is more than enough in the New Testament to convince you that that statement is correct. Let's begin in Isaiah five. Turn your Bibles over there. I don't know how much of this we're gonna read or not read depending on our time, but it's good to rather have our nose in the Bible than in my notes. Chapter 5. I read to you from 6. You should know that the wind-up to 6 is obviously here in 5 I first ran into Isaiah 5 when I was teaching in small group on Luke 11, the Lord's Prayer, and it says, Father, is the first word, and I spent a week on that, if you want to know why Julie, I can't get through Luke. It's because Father in Luke 11 takes me a week. And then I spent another week on Hallowed be your name. And if you hadn't guessed, it kind of kept going through that. So the Lord's Prayer took me a a while. And we will never finish Luke. Um but this was so good. I was studying this, Hollowed be your name, and I thought Lord I I read the words but I don't quite I I need something. I need What does that mean? Why did you teach us say that? What was I supposed to be thinking? What was I asking when I said hallowed be your name? Right? Put it up on a scoreboard and light it up God or Jehovah. At least that's his you know the name he gives us, right? What what am I doing with that? And it took me to Psalm 111 first Which we'll get to. And then it took me to Isaiah 5. Psalm 111 is a clear statement of what it means to hollow or set apart or make holy or sanctify, all those are the same Hebrew uh root verb to to set apart or to sanctify or to hollow All comes from the same Hebrew root word, which I think is in your notes here someplace, although I'm not seeing it at this very moment. Um 111 is the definition, if you will, of the hollow God's name. Uh Isaiah 5 is is the reverse. It's it's it's how you don't do it. And I want you to see how it starts here. I'm trying to get to Isaiah 5 16 That is ultimately where I need to get to to equate God's uh holiness and sanctification with righteousness, but I I want to build it correctly. God of his own work and in his own power and in his own way and through his own resources says, Let me sing For my beloved, my love song concerning his vineyard. He built a watchtower in the midst of it and hewed out a wine vat in it, and he looked for it to yield grace. Fruit. Notice the reference to fruit, Carrie. And he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes. Um where is See Amos 5-7. We'll get there about halfway down the page. Amos 5. 7, the complaint against the people is OU who turned justice to wormwhip. No remember the equation I did? Righteous obedience to God always results in justice for his people. And here, justice is turned to wormwood, and the footnote in most of your Bibles will say something about bitter fruit. So again, that reference to fruit. You have turned, and notice the accusation, you turned justice to bitter fruit. And that's the complaint here. You yielded wild Grapes. Grapes that do not accord with justice and righteousness. And he begins to elaborate on that as he goes through Isaiah 5. We don't have the time to go through all that, but he eventually gets to Isaiah 516 and he tells us what the Lord will do and what he requires. And in 516 it says, But Yahweh of hosts is exalted in justice, right? And the holy God Shows himself holy in righteousness. And that phrase, shows himself holy, is actually a single word in Hebrew, sanctified, or hallowed, or sanctifies Or to sanctify, because it's actually a verb there, 46 uh 6942, the strong's reference is the verb, and that's the verb that's translated shows himself holy. The adjective form of that is where it says holy God in the same verse. But Yahweh of hosts is exalted in justice and the holy God. It's the adjective form of 6942. And he sanctifies his name, if you will, in righteousness. Hollows his name in righteousness. So there is a very clear And very direct aspect of the Lord tells you to pray each day, or maybe multiple times a day, Father, hallowed be your name. What does it mean? It means in my life Give me all that is required, so that I might obey you and spend myself conspicuously for the care of your people. So much more. We could stop and just really work through that prayer in our own lives, in my work, in my homekeeping, in my administration, in my marriage, in my parenting, in my Studenthood. Studentness. Student you get the idea. Justice and righteousness are what hollows God in this verse. And in the it in this we find the nucleus of right relationship with God. It's one of the few times in the Old Testament that there is such a strong equivalence between the holiness of God and the righteousness that He requires. I already mentioned Luke 11, too. I also mentioned to you that it took me to Psalm 111. I wanted to know what it meant to hollow God's name And Psalm 111. 9 uses the same words as Luke 11. 2. That's how I got there. And it talks about lifting up the name of God. It gives us some hint as to what it means for us to daily pray. Hallowed be your name. Holy and awesome is your name. How does it play out in our day-to-day? It plays out to righteousness. Declared righteousness and operative or obedient righteousness. Both are necessary. And then I don't have it in the notes because there was no time for it, and I knew there wouldn't be, but I do want to be clear on this All of the people in the Old Testament that were called righteousness are demonstrated sinners. That doesn't mean that they lived in it, they walked in it, they lived and walked in Christ. They maintained relationships. But were they sinners? They absolutely were. They were repenting sinners. See Psalm fifty-one. I sure hope so, but I'll double check for you because I've gotten it wrong before. Oh one eleven now yeah. Yep. Oh okay. Yep. Yep. Uh yeah, it it it's a great question. Confusion noted That is the reference that I originally got to from Luke 11. How would be your name? How did I, you know, where does the scripture say that? Well Psalm 111 is the only place that I could find where that was so clearly stated Holy, hollowed, right? Same same Hebrew word, translated into Greek obviously in the New Testament, but same Hebrew word. Hollowed and awesome is his name. And then in in the uh study we did just so that you're clear, I went back to the beginning and said, okay, that's a summary on this whole psalm. So what does the psalm say Well the Psalm talks about praising the Lord. The Psalm talks about giving thanks to the Lord with my whole heart in the company of the upright, in the congregation. And then you'll notice it's a careful study and attention to God's works. Who is he and what is he doing? And how do I live in accord with God's works? How do I live in a manner that's consistent with God's works? That is the righteous obedience that God calls us to, and it's right there in Psalm one eleven. And so Psalm one eleven nine is that tie, if you will, that that connectedness to Isaiah five, Luke 11. Let's turn to Isaiah 6 for an eyewitness of And you know this passage, so I don't need to spend a ton of time on it. I already described it to you in some ways, but when when Isaiah sees the holiness of his God who has revealed himself, right? In some sense, uh Isaiah has entered the house of the Lord He has been engaged in relationship with the Lord. And he sees the Lord as he is. He was enabled to do that by all that the Lord says and does. And look at his first response Verse 5, I am unrighteous. Woe is me, for I am lost. What does he mean? He means if the judgment happens right now, I'm I'm done. There is no way to be found fit to be in your presence. I am dunt. I'm a man of unclean lips and I dwell in the pe midst of a people of unclean lips For my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. His own realization. Right? His eyes are more open than ours have ever been with regard to the holiness of the Lord. That might not be true. I'd have to think about it a little harder. Don't quote me on that one. But it's certainly not a wrong statement And his first assessment is, I am unrighteous. He understood implicitly the demand for righteousness. To be with God and in God, to relate to God, to be able to stand before God, to be able to enter God's presence, the demand was for righteousness. And he didn't have it. And he couldn't get it. And then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar, and he touched my mouth. The thing of unrighteousness, right? I'm a man of unclean lips, and he touched his mouth. The thing of unrighteousness. And said, Behold, this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for. And there it is, declared righteousness, that thing that Christ And then I said, Here am I, send me. And we always just make that like an evangelistic call. It sure it is. But it was so much more. Go and listen to a people that aren't going to even listen to you. So was it really about evangelism? No, I saved you, I redeemed you, I atone for you, that you might walk in obedient service to my people. And their response is irrelevant, frankly, to your call to obedience. Your call to costly obedience Here it is in Isaiah six. And it's not disconnected from Isaiah five. I had a vineyard, and everything in the vineyard bore bear fruit, even though I made it to be a good vineyard But the Lord is exalted in righteousness. The Lord will always be interacted with. There is no relationship with God without righteousness. That which he declares and that which he demands. And Isaiah 6 follows hard on the heels of that, as though to give you the example. You want to know what this looks like to enter into right relationship? Isaiah 6. Look what I did. Let's pick up in Amos 5. Amos 5 picks up the glory of and power of God's name. Zed, Joel, Amos, if some of you need a little help. Sorry, I've been running you to some of the passages you don't usually turn to lately Just gonna use this for an outline. He picks up the glory of and power of God's name in verse 8. He who made the Pleiades and Orion and turns deep darkness into the morning. You'll see why that uh becomes relevant in a minute. Um out of context, it doesn't seem to mean so much That verse does end, The Lord or Yahweh is his name. Picks up the glory and power of God's name and seats it firmly in the context of right response and right relationship, which is how you should always Think about worship of God's holiness. Let's just go through the logic of Amos 5. Amos 5. 7 is a complaint against the people. O you who turn justice to worm words or sour fruit, just like the Isaiah five passage, and cast down righteousness to earth. You bring the concept of righteousness out of the heavens where it sits with God as the standard of it, and you cast it down on earth. You make it cast Common. You make it mundane. Do you understand that the word mundane comes from the Latin word mundus, which actually means of the earth? Did you know that? Contramundum was a a phrase in the four hundred A. D. when Athanasius was working against the Arians to the uh preserve and defend the sanctity of Christ in all that he was. And and the church was against him, or uh the popular church was against him at the time. And so he came up with the phrase, Contra Mundum, against the world. Do not cast what we have as high and exalted and lifted up in Christ and in God and in his righteousness. and cast it to the earth. Against the earth was the cry. Or at least against bringing something down and making it pedestrian and small. Return your conception of your obligation to righteous to the heavens. Picture yourself as Isaiah, and the demands upon your righteousness are no smaller than they were when Isaiah stood before the burning holiness of God, and he said I am undone, except that we have Christ who at every instant of our life and day we may return to and say, Lord, give. And every day we have available to us the whole of Christ to say Your guilt's gone. Now serve. Now obey. Now do righteousness. Costly care for God's people. Him is five eight. Five seven was you cast down righteousness. 5. 8 says, there is no place for that. Righteousness is a response to my holiness, and my holiness is up in the heavens. In the constellations of the stars, and also in the deep darkness, and into the night. And it Covers or calls to the waters of the sea, and it's poured out over the surface of the earth. It's not mean or pedestrian, it's not mundane My name is not mundane, and therefore your righteousness cannot be cast to the earth, because your righteousness I've called you such that your righteousness is a reflection of my holy name. This is so important. Listen to this. We love to separate ourselves from the pig-headed Jews, but we are just like the They hate him who reproves in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks the truth. Do you get that? Isaiah's message is, look at what you're doing Look at what you're doing. Look at how you're calling the righteousness of God down to be something that's mundane and earthly. And yet when I send my prophet to speak this word of caution to you, you hate and you abhor it. It goes on. It gets worse before it gets better 14 through 15, he says, Instead of casting righteousness down to the earth, seek good and not evil, that you may live. And so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you With you in relationship, in covenant relationship. He will be with you, not against you, not away from you, not separate from you. He will be with you As you have said. And it goes on more explicitly in other passages. I'm really running skinny on time, so I don't know if we'll get there, but it goes on in other passages more explicitly as you stand in the temple while you're you're filled with your unrighteousness, your mundane definitions of righteousness Meaning you give the sacrifices but you don't spend anything to care for other people, which is really the beef here, the heart of the beef. He says then you stand at the temple with your sacrifice in front of you, bleeding on the altar, and you're like, We're good, we're redeemed, we're saved. And he goes, No, you're not, even back then. He said, no, you're not. He says, if you want the Lord to be with you, as you have said, then seek good and not evil, that you may live. Verse 15, hate evil and love good. Do you get that? I hate all that is wicked and evil, all that is separate from the righteousness of God. And I love, I crave after, I pursue, I send for, I do all that I can to achieve what is good. And I establish justice in the gate. In other words, all communications of my life. In, out, up, down, work, personal. Right? You can't do anything without going in or out of the gates. Establish justice in the gate. Make it that which all commerce of my life establishes The justice of God. The acting out of righteous obligation, righteous obedience before the Lord. Establish justice in the gate. It may be that the Lord, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph 18 through 20. Uh the desire for the final day of the Lord. This is a little bit of what I was talking about, 18 through 20. Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. In other words, they are so self-righteous. That they're like, oh yeah, Lord, come. We are ready for the judgment, man. You are going to find us in your house. And he goes, woe to you. Woe to you! that think presumptuously after making God's righteousness mundane in your life and in your politics and in your church and in your work and in your relationships Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. Why would you have the day of the Lord? I didn't make that up. That says right there. 18. It is darkness for you and not light And he goes on to elaborate that in some of the verses that follow. And then in 20 through 23, and then uh also twenty-five, God despises religious practice without justice enacted by righteous obedience. I hate, I despise your feasts. I take this Old Testament, guys. I hate, I despise your feasts, and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them And the peace offerings of your fattened animals, I will not look upon them. They had taken the overt obligations that were written in statute, and they had limited There's some total of their obedience in their lives to the prescription that was bring a goat. Now I don't quite know how that parallels to the New Testament. It has something to do with like, don't drink, don't swear, don't date girls that do, attend church, uh, get baptized, make sure you read your Bible once a month at least, right? Has some dress clothes with which you could look presentable before God's people, right? And only swear when it's really bad. Obviously I'm making that up. But there is something like that that circumscribes our conception. of being in Christ. And it is a false security and a false conception. And it lets us wander around outside relationship with God and you say, oh my word, you sound so legalistic. If you are calling me a legalist, because what I desire most is to see you stop playing around in the world and actually have the value of right relationship with God, then you can call me whatever you want. Take away from me the noise of your songs, to the melody of your harps I will not listen. This is religious practice at its finest, guys. This is this is high worship, but it's without righteousness. Or it's with a kind of righteousness that is so mundane that it does not speak to the exaltant holiness and glory of our God. You be your own judge. I I would not stand in that position Save my life. But does your life speak to the conspicuous holiness of God in all the comings and goings of the gate of your life? Mine's not, and that's why I'm excited about these lessons, because I need to be called back to it over and over and over again, and I need to be held accountable to it by people that actually care about me, which maybe at least two of you in the room do Jeremiah. So it actually ends with, Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, so House of Israel? And I had to go study that because I was like, well yes they did. You told them to So I ended up in Jeremiah, and uh we don't have time to turn there, so I'll speed read some of this. But the substance of Jeremiah seven and its allusion to Exodus fifteen, where it ultimately comes down that the Lord said, You obey me and be with me and walk in me and you will have all of my blessings and I will be with you. In other words, if you exercise the obligation of righteousness, then you will remain in all the goodness of covenant with me. Covenant relationship with me. Jeremiah 7, 8 through 10, you trust in deceptive words. You should look through this in the scriptures. It's so much more powerful when the scriptures are saying it, not Scott. Um Jeremiah seven, eight through ten, you trust in deceptive words that say to you you will be safe in the day of judgment. It's there again in Jeremiah seven. Even when you do not practice righteousness. In Jeremiah 7, 21 through 22, sacrifices were never what God wanted. In Jeremiah seven, twenty three through twenty four, God wanted obedience to his voice, and they did not obey. And it quotes from Exodus fifteen twenty six. Now it quotes it differently, and I'll touch on that in a minute, but it does quote from it Exodus fifteen twenty-six says, and this is right at right, if you just think about the chapters of the Bible, most of you know Exodus nineteen and twenty is the Ten Commandments, and then after that all the levitical stuff and the ceremonial laws and all that other stuff, right? So we're We're just in time sequence, we are before all that happens. They have just been wrecked rescued from Egypt. They have been saved from Egypt. And here they are in Exodus 15 And he says, if you will diligently listen, diligently, listen to the voice of Yahweh your God. And do the and I keep changing the Lord because I want you to see this is the name he gives to his bride. I hate that we translated, I know why we did it, but I hate that we translate Yahweh as the Lord with drop caps. You you miss the fact that God said only you can call me this I call her Anne. She gets angry when anybody else calls her. It is my unique privilege to be able to call her that. I have heard her call people out and go, you don't get to call me that And I'm like, Yahweh is the privilege name of relationship that he gave to his bride. So even using the term, God is saying, if you will diligently listen to the voice of your covenant Lord who is in relationship with you. with you, who uniquely is in relationship with you. And do that which is right in his eyes, and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, which, by the way, to this point in time have been very few, as listed in the scriptures. Except for love of the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and love others as yourself. Those are the only ones we actually have recorded in the scriptures for the most part up to this point in time. Now there must have been others, because we see it evidenced in other places in the scriptures Why did uh Adam and Eve had two sons named Cain and Abel? Why did Cain and Abel bring sacrifices? Well, because God must have said something about it, right? And Rob did a great job talking about that when he talked through Give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on Egyptians, for I am Yahweh, your healer. And I just want you to be clear on that. I put diseases on Egypt This is what I I believe God is intending here. I put diseases on Egypt because they trampled on my righteousness. I told them to do something and they were stiff-necked and stiff-willed and they wouldn't do it. And so I sent plagues. But as long as you are not stiff-necked As long as you obey, as long as you fulfill your obligation to righteousness. I will not do that. And he says, For I am Yahweh, your healer. Notice this is right before the people start grumbling about food and wish they could go back to eat. Egypt. Don't have time, but I would love to pursue that a little bit more. Jeremiah seven twenty-three So back to Jeremiah, right? I took a little aside. Back to Jeremiah rephrases Exodus fifteen twenty-six says, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people and walk in all the way that I command you, then it may be well with you. And Amos five twenty-four concludes with, If you want to walk in right relationship with God and understand not how not to just Practice religion that is worthless, then let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Flip over to 1 John chapter 3 and we will end there. I hope you're seeing that superabundance of justice and righteousness that God is calling us to there, right? Not partial, not peevish, not parsimonious, not It's not anything, right? Just overabundance. Let it roll down in righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. And 1 John 3 verses 7. Little children, let no one deceive you. I love that. Alright? Somebody's gonna show up and be like, oh, don't get carried away. You're you're practicing religion. You're good to go Don't get carried away. Let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever Whoever fulfills their obligation for righteousness is the one who has already been declared righteous. If you wanted kind of a theological expansion of that that tries to put everything God's work first and foremost in its right order, as he is righteous. As God is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides. in him and there's a full circle back to that vineyard in Isaiah 5. God deed bears the fruit of righteousness. All of the time. It does it because he declares you righteous, he restores you to himself. It does it because he gives you the Spirit that fully empowers you. To spend exhaustively in obedience to His Holiness for the care of His people and for His ultimate What does the gate of your life look like? Is it filled with righteousness or is it filled with you? Is it an ever flowing stream that is abundant in justice and righteousness? Is that what characterizes? Or is it mundane, half-hearted, partial, not so costly