I would invite you to turn in your Bible with me to John chapter 12 for our time in the Word. We continue to study John chapter 12, verses 20 through 36, which has helped us see the cross of Christ from a different angle than we're typically. Then we typically see and speak of it. We typically see the cross as a symbol of our salvation It is where our sins were paid in full. The cross is where Jesus died, redeeming sinners, to be a people for himself. The cross of Jesus Christ is those things, and we should continue to see it and proclaim it as those things, because that is what the Scripture declares to us. But the perspective we've been gaining is that the cross of Jesus Christ is where the glory of God is on full display. In and through what Jesus accomplished at the cross, we see the greatest revelation of his splendor and glory. The light of the knowledge of the glory of God shines most brightly in the bloodied face of Jesus as he hangs on the cross. If eternal life is knowing God and His Son, Jesus Christ, then to have eternal life we must see the glory of God the Father and God the Son at the cross. Muslims do not have eternal life because they do not believe that it was Jesus who hung on the cross. Jews do not have eternal life because they are offended at the idea of a Messiah hanging on a cross Cults like Jehovah's Witnesses and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints do not have eternal life because they think Jesus was less than God as he hung on the cross. Only those who see and believe in the glory of God displayed at the cross by Jesus, who is truly man and truly God, have eternal life. All others are blind to his glory. And so as we continue to journey through this passage, we're going to see today. That the Father intends to glorify himself through the death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus But the crowds around Jesus are blind and deaf to his glory. Let's read the passage. We'll review where we've been so far. And then we'll press into new territory. Follow along as I read John chapter twelve, verses twenty through thirty-six. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus Philip went and told Andrew, Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit Whoever loves his life loses it. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life If any one serves me, he must follow me and where I am, there my servant will be also. If any one serves me, the Father will honor him. Now my soul is troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. The voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him, We have heard from the law that Christ that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus answered them, The light is among you a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you The one who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Well, as Jesus comes to the end of his ministry and approaches the cross, his focus is on the glory of God. And so that has been our focus as we have been walking through this passage. And so borrowing from a the the concept of a path that has signposts marking Your progress on that path. We've been using signposts, if you will, to remind us of our progress as we walk through this journey of this passage. And the first signpost that we saw is the people's interest in glory. The people's interest in glory. We see there in verses twenty and twenty-one that Greek-speaking Gentiles come and ask for a private audience with Jesus. The other gospels tell us that at the beginning of this final week of Christ's life, He cleared out the temple. He removed all of those who were selling animals and exchanging money on Monday morning. And that disrupted what everyone considered to be a normal experience on this Passover week. That act would not only have uh made more space in the temple for people and decreased the amount of noise of all of the animals and activity that was going on, but it would have drawn more people's attention to Jesus causing them to surround him and listen as he taught, as he answered questions, even as he engaged with the religious leaders, who kept trying to challenge him while they awaited for that opportune time to arrest him and ultimately kill him. But these Greek-speaking Gentiles who worship the God of the Jews had limited time in Jerusalem. And so on this week they pleaded with Philip uh who took his request to Andrew, who took their request to Jesus to have uh uh a s uh uh isolated time with Jesus as Gentiles, they had they had questions and they likely assumed that because they were in a Jewish rich environment And given the natural tendency of the Jews to be hostile to Gentiles, that it wouldn't be wise for them in that public setting in the temple to speak up and in interact with Jesus. And so they they wanted that private audience Now their impulse was good, their desire was noble, but they were too late. Unbeknownst to them, Jesus was wrapping up his ministry. And there would be no more teaching, no more healing, no more answering questions, no more private gatherings, no more signs except for his death and his resurrection. That is the people's interest in glory. The next signpost, the second signpost, is Christ's announcement in glory, of glory, rather, in verses 22 and 23. When this request comes to Jesus through Philip and Andrew, without addressing the request directly, Jesus speaks what are likely his final words to the crowd of Jews, to the public, if you will. He announces here that his time for glory has come. In the weeks leading up to this moment, Jesus has repeatedly told the disciples that they were going to come to Jerusalem, that he would be killed by the scribes and the high priests and the elders, that he would be raised from the dead. and he would be departing from them. And yet, as clear and direct as Jesus was, the disciples just could not comprehend what he was talking about. They were divinely blinded from his Statements. In a sense, Jesus could have said here in verse 22, the time, or rather 23, the time for my death has come. You could have said that, but he spoke not in terms of what would happen to him, but rather what his ultimate death would accomplish. And that is, his death would bring to complete fulfillment the revelation of God all the way back in Exodus 33 and 34, where Yahweh revealed himself to Moses as the God who is eternal. and merciful and gracious and patient and loving and magnanimous and forgiving and just Now, obviously, there's far more that can be ascribed to God, and we've talked about some of those other qualities displayed at the cross. But God Himself chose those particular attributes to represent the most magnificent displays of his glory. Certainly, we see those qualities manifested by God throughout the Old Testament as He loved, cared for, and at times judged His people. Over the next 1500 years from that time of Moses, Israel persisted in that constant cycle of rebellion and repentance. And then restoration and a period of faithfulness, only to start that cycle all over again. And with every cycle the Lord would manifest his attributes of patience and grace and mercy and love and justice The problem was the people were incapable of changing. They were, as God says, stiff-necked. They were hard-hearted. They were stubborn. And so the only way for the people of God to remain faithful and to live according to what is right and just and good. was for the Lord not just to cover their sin as he did through the sacrificial system, but but to ultimately remove their sin altogether and then fundamentally transform the hearts of his people so that they could obey And that's exactly what God promised to do in Ezekiel 36 with the new covenant. But even there, it was unclear how God would accomplish that. And the inscrutable wisdom of God, he used the greatest act of evil. Humanity putting their creator to death Use that greatest act of evil such that He fulfilled His promises, He shined each facet of His glory throughout all time and eternity. The cross, as we've seen, inaugurated the new covenant promises, purchasing people from every top tribe, language, nation, and people Sin and death were conquered through the satisfaction of God's justice, and the righteousness of God was revealed And so standing here at the foot of the cross, or rather at the shadow of the cross, Jesus announced that the time for his glory had come. That brings us then to the third signpost. Because there is nothing seem more seemingly antithetical to the cross than glory, and glory than the cross, Jesus explains the path to glory in verses twenty-five. Or rather, twenty-four to twenty-six. You see, in our pride, we tend to think that the path to glory is through the expression of strength and power And perhaps that's true in athletics, perhaps that's true in military exploits, but it is not true in the kingdom of God. Using the simple illustration of a seed, Jesus teaches us that if you love your life and work to preserve it, you will never be anything more than what you are. And then the time will come when you will die and all will be lost. But if you die to yourself And you embrace the life that God has for you, you will experience fruitfulness in your life beyond what you can imagine. Only God is able to do exceedingly abundantly beyond all that we ask or imagine. And so his strength is made perfect in our weakness. And he chooses to use us broken vessels to accomplish his glory. Jesus uses the seed illustrate to illustrate this principle. But then he models it with his life and death. Of course, Jesus deserved nothing more than praise and honor and glory from his people. And had he not died, had he not gone to the cross, had he continued to live as the sinless man Generation after generation of mankind would have seen his power. They would have experienced his healing. They would have heard his teaching. And they'd be amazed. And in a manner they would glorify him. The problem is, each generation would then die in their sin and then be recipients of his judgment. At the end of the age, when the final human being had died, Jesus would have received much praise throughout history, but then he would have nothing but vessels of wrath. In existence. There'd be no one to extol him for all eternity for the fullness of his glory But in dying, Jesus purchased a people for himself whose sins were forgiven, who were reconciled to him, and more than that, who would reign with him in glory. for ever and ever, and give him forever the infinite praise that he is due. Oh, it's true of the seed and what's true for Jesus also applies to our lives Again, when we die to ourselves and when we live for Him who died on our behalf and rose again, we experience eternal life now, reconciliation with God, and everlasting life and glory untold. And that is the path to glory. And then we see in verses 27 and 28 that Jesus is committed to this glory. The principle that death leads to life is a principle that's easy to talk about in the abstract, isn't it? The challenge is when life hits you in the face. And dying has real consequences. Jesus knows exactly what it will mean for him To go to the cross. His soul is thrown into turmoil as he meditates, as he thinks about the cost of not only the human suffering that he will experience, but ultimately and even more, the wrath of God that he will bear. Though not at the level of what he will experience in Gethsemane, the reality of the suffering at the hands of men and the and at the r under the wrath of God Causes his soul extreme turmoil. And it raises the question: should I ask the Father to rescue me from this trial? Well, he raises the question, but it's it's really nothing to consider. He is committed to the Father's glory. He knows, as we saw last time, that the people of Israel throughout their history have continually drugged God's name through the mud They have misrepresented the character and the glory of God in the midst of the nations. Though God had been nothing but good to them. And had demonstrated his love for them, they just kept going after other gods, broadcasting to the nations that Yahweh is not worthy of your exclusive worship. And then when the Lord judged them and sent them out of the land, the nations got the wrong idea and interpreted God's casting them out of the land as his inability to preserve his people. So Israel treated God as unworthy of worship, and the pagans concluded that Israel's God was powerless. Jesus' entire life and purpose was to fulfill the promise. Of Ezekiel 36, that Yahweh would vindicate the holiness of His great name. He would show the truth of who God is and the supremacy of His power. There was no way at this juncture that Jesus was going to void God's plan for the sake of his own self-preservation. And so with his soul raging in the tempest of the impending suffering, he lifts his eyes to heaven and he says, Father, glorify your name. That brings us to the next step in our journey, the Father's confirmation of glory. The Father's confirmation of glory. Look again at verse 28. Jesus prays, Father, glorify your name. Then a voice from heaven came. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. Jesus publicly prays, Father, glorify your name. And the Father publicly answers: I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. Before we consider the words that the Father spoke, we need to consider just how remarkable it is that the Father made a public declaration from heaven. Do you know how many religions claim, or how many religious books claim, that their God spoke from heaven such that Masses of humanity heard the voice of their God. None Other than the Scripture. Apart from the Scripture, where the Old Testament, of course, is shared between Christianity and Judaism, no other religion claims that their God has ever spoken in such a public way. It's always those private revelations from so-called angels or other means that are demonic And so this means that if the Bible is historically reliable, and it has only proven to be such for the last 2,000 plus years, with ever-increasing piles of evidence. It proves that God exists because crowds of people at different points in history have heard a voice from heaven from God. Now, this crowd is not the first to hear it. Apart from the many individuals, of course, who heard the voice of God, men like Abraham, men like Noah, and so many others. There is only one other time prior to the life of Jesus when God spoke from the sky in the hearing of a mass of people. And that other time is in Exodus chapter 19. You can turn there if you want. Exodus chapter 19. This is after the Lord has uh redeemed Israel out of Egypt, after he has rescued them through the Red Sea from the Egyptian army. They have come now to Mount Sinai, and they have encamped at the foot of the mountain. Exodus nineteen, verse nine, says, And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I am coming to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you. And may believe you forever. I don't know about you, but I often think about Mount Sinai, and I think about Moses going up to the mountain and getting a private revelation from God, going back. Down to the people and communicating to them what God had said. That certainly happened at various times. But here the Lord says, Moses, I'm going to talk to you, and the whole nation is going to hear me talking to you Well, as the narrative moves forward, Moses goes up and down the mountain a couple times to convey to the people what's about to happen. And then he goes up the mountain for this final big event where God will speak the law of Moses in the hearing Of the nation. And do you know what the l what the people heard him speak? The Ten Commandments Exodus chapter 20, verse 1, after the Lord has prepared or Moses has prepared the people to hear from God, it says, And the and God spoke all these words, saying, and then it goes on to give the Ten Commandments. And then as soon as the Ten Commandments are concluded, verses 18 and 19 says, Now when the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled, and they stood afar off, and they said to Moses You speak to us, and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us lest we die. They heard the voice of God, they saw the fiery cloud, the lightning, and the thunder, and they were terrified. Now, what does God's voice sound like? Well, the Old Testament describes the voice of God often as thunder The Lord asked Job, Have you an arm like God, and can you thunder with a voice like his? David writes in Psalm 18, verse 13 The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice. He also describes the voice of The Lord in verse uh rather Psalm twenty nine as uh in various ways as thunder, powerful, majestic. It says his voice flashes forth flames of fire and shakes the wilderness. His voice causes his creatures terror. And it says, all in his temple cry out when they hear the voice of God, glory! It is beyond human comprehension. Friends, let it be known that God exists and he has not been silent. Not only has he spoken in his word throughout the ages, but he has spoken from heaven in the hearing of his people. Well, between Exodus 20 and John 12, 28, there are only two other times when the Lord has spoken from heaven, and you're probably familiar with these occasions. The first is at the baptism of Jesus. When Jesus came up out of the water, it says a s a dove came, or a spear like a dove came, descended on him. Then Matthew three seventeen records, And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. And then sometime later Jesus went up on the what we call the Mount of Transfiguration with Peter, James, and John. It says he was transfigured before them, and Matthew 17, 5 says. Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him Notice that in those passages the scripture doesn't say God or the Father spoke from heaven. They say some version of what we have even here, a voice came from heaven. You see, no one in history was ever accustomed to hearing the voice of God from heaven. You shouldn't read the Bible and say, man, they were just hearing God all the time. No, they weren't. It was extraordinarily rare. And so when they heard a voice from heaven. You know, you and I would think, man, somebody has their music up loud or something. But they would hear it and they would say, what is that voice? They wouldn't make the connection with God. And so as the apostles wrote the scripture, they didn't always write based on their later understanding. They just wrote based on their experience. And they write, and John writes here. That as Jesus prayed, they just heard a voice. Now, let's consider what the Father says And Jesus praised, Father glorify your name. And the Father replied, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. In short, the Father confirms that he has and he will glorify his name through the Son. First, the Father says, I have glorified it. It seems best to understand the Father to be saying here that he has already glorified his name through the Son. And that is exactly what he has done. Jesus teaches us. In Matthew 5. 16, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works, and then glorify God who is in heaven. Jesus lived what he taught. He is the light of the world, and he shined his light for all to see, so that they could see his good works and give glory to his Father, and that's exactly what they did. In Matthew chapter 9, Jesus healed a paralytic man, a man who was paralyzed. And verse 8 says, When the crowd saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God who had given such authority to men. And then on another occasion, he interrupted a funeral procession. He raised the young man from the dead, and Luke 7. 16 says, fear seized them all. And they glorified God saying a great prophet has written Risen amuse among us, and God has visited his people In Matthew fifteen, verses thirty and thirty-one we get more of a sweeping statement about the ministry of Jesus. It says, And great crowds came to him bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others, and they put him at his feet, and he healed them. So the crowd wondered when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel Now, why is it that the Son would perform all of these miracles and the Father got the glory? You would think, perhaps, that doesn't the Son deserve the glory Well, the answer is because the Son, who truly is God, and yet he was empowered by the Holy Spirit. At the baptism of Jesus, as we said, Jesus, the Spirit descended on him and never left him. In fact, when Peter was preaching to Cornelius, the first Gentile converts in Acts chapter 10, He said about Jesus, how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power And he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him This is why, when the Pharisees accused Jesus of doing his miracles, specifically casting out demons, that he did it by the power of Satan, Jesus essentially said, You can say whatever you want about me. But you cannot blaspheme the Holy Spirit. When the Son of God is empowered by the Spirit of God to do the works of God, God gets the glory. And that's how the Father had glorified his name already through the life and ministry of Jesus. But then the Father says here, I will glorify it again. I've done it before, and I will continue to glorify my name through you. Now, of course, that refers to the cross as we've seen, but since we've spent so much time in recent weeks magnifying the cross and the display of the glory of God there, I want us to consider this morning how his resurrection excuse me, and his ascension bring glory to God. Because without the resurrection and without the ascension, the cross has no glory. If Jesus had not been raised from the dead, there is no glory at the cross. It's merely an instrument of death And so consider how the resurrection specifically glorifies God. We know, as we've seen, that Jesus or that Jesus glorified God through resurrection power that he demonstrated in his ministry. Specifically, we know of three individuals whom Jesus raised from the dead. He raised a little girl right after she had died. He raised that young man while he was being taken to the place of burial. And then he raised Lazarus from the dead four days after his burial. But there are two major differences between those resurrections And the resurrection of Jesus that puts the glory of God on display. First, the first major difference is that when Jesus raised people from the dead, they would each Die again one day. When the Father raised Jesus from the dead, he would never die again In Romans 6. 4, Paul writes that Christ was raised from the dead. Listen, by the glory of the Father And because of that, Paul writes in verse 9: we know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. And so the power that the Father exercised in raising Jesus from the dead didn't simply loose the cords of death from Jesus, but it conquered death itself. And Jesus stepped into death and he killed it. The Father is glorified then by demonstrating his power in Jesus, who is never to die again. The second difference between those Jesus rose from the dead and his own resurrection is that the people that Jesus rose from the dead, they were raised to their healthy pre-death condition They weren't resuscitated. They were actually raised from the dead and healed of whatever it was that caused their death. Jesus, on the other hand, was raised with a glorified body. In the words of 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44, the resurrected body of Jesus is imperishable. It is raised in glory and power. It is a spiritual body, which means that it has supernatural abilities, and it is an immortal body That Jesus was raised from the dead with a glorified body glorifies God because it reveals how that Son of Man, as promised in Daniel 7. 13, can be given an everlasting dominion and kingdom and glory. After paying for sin, the reason that Jesus will never die again is Because his body is incorruptible. And so once he returns to establish his throne in Jerusalem and reign over the earth for a thousand years And then forevermore on the new earth is because his body is glorified. Now further, it glorifies God Because it's a guarantee that the promise of God that we too one day will be raised in glorified bodies will come to pass. Again, in 1 Corinthians 15, 20, Paul writes, But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. That Jesus was a first fruit simply means that he was the first of many. And Paul makes it clear what that means for us in Philippians 3:20 and 21. He says, But our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him to subject all things to himself. So the promises of God of our eternal inheritance are guaranteed in writing in the scripture, but they are sealed by the proof of the resurrection of Jesus. And this shines the light on the goodness and the faithfulness and the power of God. Again, Jesus prayed, Father, glorify your name, and the Father answered. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. This is at least some of how the Father will glorify himself through the resurrection Now consider how he will glorify himself through the ascension of Jesus. There's a lot we can say here, but the ascension of Jesus retur refers to his return to heaven in that cloud, as we read in Acts chapter 1 and Matthew chapter. twenty-eight Forty days after his resurrection, that bodily ascension up to heaven is really a visible sign of the exaltation of Christ. In Philippians 2, 9 to 11, we read that in response to the humble death and obedience to death of Christ, it says, God has highly exalted him. And bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee would bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that And every tongue confessed that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father So the exaltation of Christ serves the glory of the Father The exaltation of Jesus Christ highlights that the Father accepted the sacrifice of the Son and fulfilled his age-old promises of forgiveness and redemption. And it also shows ultimately, again in the inscrutable wisdom of the Father, that he had devised a plan to redeem sinners in such a way. That his name is vindicated, his son is exalted, and his people and creation bowed down to him in worship Now back in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul gives us an interesting insight into the relationship between the Father and the Son after his ascension. Paul writes in verses 27 and 28, for God has put all things in subjection under his feet, that is, Christ's feet. It goes on, but when it says all things are put in subjection, it is plain that he is accepted who put all things in subjection under him When all things are subjected to Christ, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to Him who put all things under in subjection under him, that God may be all in all. Now there's a lot there, and that might sound confusing, but here's what he's saying. This looks to the future when Christ will be given that dominion and that kingdom and that glory. And it says that the Father will put all things Everything in heaven, on earth, and under the earth, everything that is created, he will put under the foot of Christ in terms of subjection under him And in that transaction where everything is put under the subjection of Christ, the Son will publicly subject himself Under the Father as an expression of love and honor and praise This is what Jesus prays for in John 17. He begins his prayer, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son. That the Son may glorify you. The Father is glorified in the resurrection and the ascension and exaltation of his Son. Well, not only can we praise and glorify the Father for his demonstration of power and glory in these things, but we can have confidence and hope in this life. Because we will be there with Christ if our trust is in him, and we will reign with him forevermore. Listen to the words of Peter in the beginning of his first letter. He says, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So he's glorifying the Father for what he's about to say. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. So the Father glorifies himself through the resurrection and the exaltation of the Son, and we glorify the Father because He has given us a new birth, new life to participate in his everlasting kingdom through Christ. This is the Father's confirmation of glory Now the next stretch of road, if you will, of this passage will be somewhat quicker to move through. We turn now to the crowd's deafness to clo to glory. The crowd's deafness to glory. Look at verse twenty-nine. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him John here, as we've seen, doesn't record where exactly Jesus is when he's speaking these words, but he is most likely in the temple, in the court of the Gentiles, which he has somewhat recently cleared of the uh marketplace of animals and money exchange. So there would be a crowd That would be a large group of people there in the temple, Jews and Gentiles, who were there listening to Jesus. And again, uh the other gospels tell us of a variety of things Jesus taught during those first couple days of that final week. And we see here that the crowd was not deaf to the sound, but they were deaf to the glory. Like most who have hearing impairments, they heard sound. They just couldn't discern what was said And they were like those who were with Saul on the road to Damascus. They all heard the voice of Jesus, but only Saul understood what Jesus said. In fact, we're not told here if anyone understood the words other than Jesus. Perhaps the disciples did, we don't know. But clearly most of the people didn't. And so the crowd proposed two explanations for this seemingly coincidental event of Jesus speaking to his father and some kind of audible Activity that took place. The first interpretation is that it had thundered. Now, earlier we saw that in the Old Testament the voice of God is often connected to the sound of thunder. That's not the connection that these people are making. They're not hearing the thunder and thinking, hey, God has responded to him The Greeks believed that thunder was how the gods gave omens to people on earth. But the Jews did not believe that. And again, nobody is accustomed to hearing the voice of God from heaven. It was entirely uh unheard of for God to speak from heaven after Sinai. So there were some in the crowd who heard it and thought, oh, that was just some thunder. That's interesting. The second interpretation is that others said, an angel has spoken to him. Now this is really nothing more than superstition. There is no biblical precedent or otherwise for an angel to speak from heaven. And so it seems that there's this group in the crowd that heard Jesus' prayer to the Father. They heard there's some kind of sound That took place immediately afterward, and they thought that is too much of a coincidence. And so lacking any other explanation that was plausible to them, they went with, well, maybe it was an angel. Much like many today would see something they don't understand and say, it was an alien. Irrationality is rampant among those who don't believe. Their deafness to God's voice mirrors the blindness of the people to the glory of God. If you look down at verse 40, John quotes from Isaiah saying He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them Now, obviously, we'll look at that in more detail in the future, but their deafness in discerning God's voice And their later confusion over what Jesus says, as we see in verse 34, are really the final evidences of the crowd's inability to truly understand the will and the purposes of God. There is here a sharp contrast between their high expectations that Jesus is the Messiah, and yet their unwillingness to comprehend what the path of glory the Messiah must walk. And so divine judgment has blinded them to the truth and made them dull of hearing. And this, as we'll see, is necessary to fulfill the plan of God. Apart from this, They would otherwise receive the Messiah, but God's plan is to get them to the place of rejecting and putting the Messiah to death And so this is a judgment of God. And that introduces us to the next signpost on our journey, judgment by glory. Judgment by glory. And we'll just dip our toes in the water of this. Part of the path. I guess that's mixing metaphors there, but look at verse 30 and 31. Jesus answered them, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now he's the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out The coming glory of the Son of Man means the judgment of all who are against the Son of Man. In other words, the manifestation of the glory of God through the death, resurrection, and ascension of Christ means judgment for the world, in rebellion against him, and all angelic beings, most especially the ruler of this world, Satan himself Notice that Jesus doesn't correct their wrong interpretation of what they heard. Jesus doesn't say, oh no, you didn't understand that. Let me tell you what the Father said. No, he answers them. He responds to their interpretation saying, the voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now, worded that way, it sounds like this voice is to have some benefit for them in some way. And that would seem rather strange because how could they benefit from something they can't even understand? It certainly would have benefited them if they understood it. If they had understood the voice of God as the people did at Mount Sinai. They would have believed in Jesus just as the people believed that Moses was God's prophet because they had heard the voice of God. But that's not what happens here. So what does Jesus mean by saying this is the voice has come for your sake, not mine? Well, more literally, Jesus says here, this voice has come not for me But for you. It's more of a simple statement there. The Father didn't need to call out of heaven and Give Jesus an audible response for Jesus to know the Father's response to his prayer. Jesus and his father would uh communicate through the Spirit And so he didn't need an audible response to his prayer. And so, in what sense did the Father respond through his voice from heaven? For the crown. Well here it is. It's not for their benefit. It's for their judgment. For their judgment Their inability to discern the voice of God was a sign of coming judgment. Their rejection of the Son of God already in their hearts meant that God had no further messages for them. Just as God refused to address the questions that Israel's leaders had as they were in exile, as we saw in Ezekiel 20. God would no longer speak to the people of Israel And you see that even in verses 34 and 35. The people are confused by what Jesus says. We'll look at this more next time. And so they ask Jesus the question, but Jesus doesn't explain what he means. Because the time for teaching and revelation is over. He simply calls them to believe in what they've already heard. In fact, that this is born that this is a statement of judgment is borne out in the next statement of Jesus in verse 31 where he says, now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out The word now, of course, often refers to a moment in time, but here it's best understood as kind of a shorthand for in light of my glorification, which has come, the time for it has come. And so He's essentially saying, In light of my glorification, the world is judged. And in light of my glorification, the ruler of this world will be cast out. Notice the difference between those two. Verb tentis One is present as it's translated and the other one is translated in a future orientation And so he's not saying, in this moment, this is what's happening right now. He's saying, in light of my glorification, these two realities are at hand, the judgment of the world and the casting out of the evil one. Now, because those two statements of judgment are critically important for us to consider carefully, we'll save that for next time. Beloved, in our study of this passage up to this point, we've seen the expansive display of the glory of God in the death, resurrection, and ascension of Christ, and we have still only scratched the surface. This presentation of glory is unmatched by any other religion. No one comes even close to making claims like this, let alone proving it as Jesus did. And so, in light of that magnificent glory, the question often comes: if it's so clear, why won't people believe? You may have someone in your life. Your child, young or old, your spouse, your loved one, your friend, whom you've known for years But you know they know the truth. They've heard the gospel and they just won't believe. Why Well, the reality is, as we've seen from John 3, unless the Spirit moves the heart In the heart to grant eyes to see and ears to hear, they simply will not believe. And so Jesus says in John 3:19, this is the judgment, the light. has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. The only thing that can change a person's mind as it relates to the glory of Christ is the work of the Holy Spirit. And so if the very presence of Jesus and the performing of all the works that he did didn't cause the people who saw it to believe, we shouldn't be surprised When we proclaim the gospel and it's received with a with a shrug or even with hostility. Nevertheless, we must continue to broadcast the message of the glory of God in the face of Christ. so that those whom the Father wills and gives to the Son, the Spirit, can work in their hearts, and they can be saved, and they can join in the course of the Redeemed. And when I say that we must continue to broadcast, I don't simply mean we need to keep going out and sharing the gospel, you need to keep explaining the gospel, you need to keep uh uh speaking the truth of the gospel. That's true, but I also mean As we've been seeing here, that we need to walk in the footsteps of our Savior. We need to show the gospel, at least the principles of the gospel, by dying to ourselves as Christ did Living for the glory of God as Christ did, living in the power of the resurrection as Christ did, and then living in the confident hope of the future glory that is ahead of us. We must not live in such a way as the world does, as if this world is our only hope. As if we have no forgiveness, as if there is no redemption. No, we have it all. So let's live like it to the glory of God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this time to meditate on your word, to reflect on your glory. Or help us to continue our uh raising of our thoughts toward you to do as Paul wrote in Colossians to set our minds on things above So that in the mundane moments of life, in the normal routines of home and work And our existence here on earth that we would not live as if this life is all there is, as if there's nothing more important than experience of this life, but rather we would live in light of your glory, the past glory of your work through Christ, and the future glory you have promised to all who love you and follow you. Or we can't do this on our own. We can't do this in our own strength. So cause the Spirit to empower us By your grace to walk in faithfulness to you, so that Christ would be magnified. We ask in his name. Amen