Well, I would invite you to turn your Bible with me to John chapter eleven. John chapter eleven This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified in it You will recognize those words as what Jesus said when the news about the illness of Lazarus came to him at the beginning of John chapter 11. And what we've seen in our study up to this point is that the Son of God, who is Jesus, was glorified through the demonstration of his life-giving power. His power over death was put on full display, and it demands that we embrace him as the Son of God. And that is what Jesus primarily meant when he said that this illness would not lead to death, but rather to the glory of God, so that the Son of God would be glorified through it. But that is not all that Jesus meant. Jesus was glorified in the raising of Lazarus from the dead. But raising Lazarus from the dead was the catalyst that would lead to the Son's greatest revelation of his glory. And that's what we see here in John chapter 11, verses 47 to 54. Follow along as I read John chapter 11, verses 47 to 54. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all. Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, and not for the nation only. But also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on, they made plans to put him to death. Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with his disciples. This is the word of God. Jesus has just performed the miracle of miracles. Raising Lazarus from the dead is arguably the greatest demonstration of his power It required power over the physical realm to take a four-day decomposing body and restore it to living condition. It required power over the physical realm to call back the soul of Lazarus from heaven back to earth. And it required the power of life, which is to unite the body and the soul of Lazarus and make him alive once again. In making his case to prove that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, John, who wrote this gospel, reserved the greatest sign for last. And in terms of the evidence from the life of Christ pre-crucifixion, John has effectively rested his case. What remains for us is to see how the Jews and the leaders would respond to the work of Christ. And that's really what John focuses on here at the end of chapter 11 and through the rest of chapter 12. After that, John will spend several times preparing us and all those who believe in Christ for what life will look like for those who follow Christ. And then in his closing argument, John will reveal the final validating proof of it all, the resurrection of Jesus Christ himself. That's just a brief summary of where we are and where we will go in the rest of this gospel. Now, as we saw last time in verse 45, there were many Jews who witnessed this miracle of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead, and they believed in him. But then forty verse forty-six says that some of them, and it cut is a direct contrast, they uh implicitly did not believe, and instead they went to the Pharisees to tell them what Jesus had done, almost certainly with ill motives. Well, having heard the account of Lazarus Being raised from the dead by Jesus, Israel's highest court comes together. And John here gives us a rare glimpse behind the scenes as to what Really was behind the crucifixion of Jesus. And here we get both the human perspective and the divine perspective of what led to the cross. Is in some ways this passage is the the precursor, it's anticipating what the church understands took place as they look back on the cross. In Acts chapter 4, verses 24 to 28, they quoted collectively, the church did, from Psalm 2, and they said, Sovereign Lord who made the earth and the heaven and the sea and everything that is in them Who through the mouth of your father David, your our our father David, your servant, who said by the Holy Spirit, Why do the nations rage? And the people's plot in vain. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and again against his anointed. For truly in this city they were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus Whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place That's what the church said in Acts chapter 4, just weeks after Jesus died and rose from the grave. And so our passage is really just the beginning of that gathering and that plotting of the people's of Israel by virtue of their leadership to put Jesus to death and effectively do precisely what God the Father had already planned and predestined to take place. In other words, what we're going to see here is that God's glory shines through the sinful and sinister hearts of men. The sinister plot, based on sinful fear, is the sovereign plan. This is the doctrine of concurrence set before us. Or in biblical terms, what man intends for evil, God intends for good. We'll walk through this passage under four headings. First, we'll see the their sinful fear, and then a sinister plot. Which reveals the sovereign plan and finally the settled resolve. Overall, the main point is that God will glorify Himself by enacting His sovereign plan by means of a sinister plot based on sinful fear. This is how God works. Let's begin by looking at their sinful fear. Look again at verse 47. John writes: So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council, and they said. What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. This council is the Sanhedrin. That's the Greek word Sanhedrin. And for at the time of the first century, the Sanhedrin were the top religious leaders, about seventy of them, who functioned as the executive, the legislative, and the judicial branch, all in one The Sanhedrin were the top civil leaders and religious leaders that governed Israel under the constraints that Rome had put in place. The majority of them were chief priests, which were Sadducees, and an influential minority of them were the Pharisees. Typically, Sadducees and Pharisees were like feuding political parties who could never agree on anything. But Jesus had the effect of bringing these parties together as his common enemies. Though the Gospel of John, as we've seen throughout our study, John focuses on Jesus' interactions with the Pharisees throughout the Gospel, but the rest of the Gospels record that every faction of Jewish leadership Took turns sending delegations to Jesus. Initially they investigated him. Who is this guy? What's he about? What's he teaching? Then they challenged him. Then they tried to discredit him and ultimately they tried to gather evidence to convict him Of course, we know that they always failed. And so here they are, the top leadership of the Jews gathering together in common frustration. And the verb said there in verse 47 that they said, that is in the imperfect, which means that they were saying these things. These words were echoing around the room as they were airing their frustrations. Consider what they were saying It says, what are we to do? For this man performs many signs. That phrase, what are we to do, is literally, what are we doing? What are we doing? And some translations take that further to mean, what are we accomplishing? But there's a direct contrast between these two statements here in verse 47. The phrase translated, this man performs, that second phrase, is really this man is doing. So they ask rhetorically, what are we doing? Answer, nothing And what is this man doing? Many signs. Every attempt they've made to get him to either s to side with either party has failed. Every attempt they've made to get him to contradict scripture has failed. Every attempt they've made to get him to speak against Rome has failed. Every attempt they've made to arrest him has failed. Every strategy, every scheme that they've deployed has not only failed, but they've often walked away from those situations publicly humiliated. Remember that it was way back in John chapter 5, verse 16, that it says that the Pharisees were persecuting him because he was doing these things, that is, he was performing healings on the Sabbath. And then just a couple verses later in verse 18 it says that they were seeking to kill him because he was making God his father. Nearly two years after the for nearly two years, the Pharisees and the chief priests have been going after Jesus to no effect. They've been inept and incapable of bringing him down or tripping him up or discrediting him or turning the crowds against against him or even just the simple act of arresting him Again, what are they doing? What are they accomplishing? Absolutely nothing. What is he doing? Many signs. Many signs He controls the weather, he walks on water, he feeds thousands with virtually nothing, he makes the lame to walk, and the blind to see, and the dumb to speak, and the deaf to hear, he heals the sick, he raises the dead. Everywhere he goes, crowds gather. Every time he opens his mouth, people listen. Whenever he leaves a place, the people are rejoicing because of all that they've seen and heard. The Sanhedrin has heard all of these reports, and many of them themselves have seen it firsthand And as a collective body with all of this divine power that they cannot deny and the divine truth that they cannot refute, they still refuse to believe This issue of blind, stubborn, hostile unbelief has been a theme of this gospel. Remember that in the prologue, John said that he came to his own, and his own, that is, his own people, did not receive him. And then just in chapter three, speaking to one of the members of the Sanhedrin, Nicodemus, Jesus said in chapter three, verse nineteen, This is the judgment. Light has come into the world and the people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. And then in John chapter 8, verse 43, Jesus is speaking to another group of religious leaders, and he says to them, Why is it that you do not understand what I say It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. And then verse 47, whoever is of God hears the words of God, the reason you do not hear them is that you are not of God And it's not just that the Jewish leaders themselves refused to believe. This was the natural disposition of most of the people. Jesus said to the crowd who searched for him after that day when he fed well over five thousand people, he said, Truly, truly I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, in other words, not because you believe in me as as the Messiah, but rather because you had your fill of bread. As much as it looked like people were flocking to Jesus and and following the the the following him, the truth is that the reason that they followed him is because of the food he could provide or the healings that he could perform. They wanted him for the physical benefits, not because he could reconcile them to God. And we see the exact same thing in our world today. Well, the Sanhedrin's response to Jesus confirms this principle which even Jesus taught In Luke chapter 16, when he gave the account of another man named Lazarus who died and who was not raised from the dead. You may remember that account, but just in summary, Lazarus was a poor man who begged at the home of a rich a rich man whose name was not given Lazarus died, and then the rich man died. Lazarus was taken up to heaven, and Lazarus, or rather the rich man, was sent to hell. From hell, the rich man was able to see and interact with Abraham, with whom Lazarus was enjoying Rest and in addition to asking for relief from the torment, the rich man begged Abraham, send Lazarus back to Back to life so that he can go to my brothers who didn't believe the word of God and warn them lest they end up where I am. He was convinced that even though his brothers, again, who did not believe the scripture just like he didn't, that they would believe if someone was raised from the dead. Well, Abraham responds with this universal truth in Luke 16, 31. If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced should someone rise from the dead. Signs are not what awaken the soul. Unless the Lord grants eyes to see and ears to hear and a heart to believe, no sign will produce faith in one who rejects the truth. This is why the top brass of Jewish leadership refused to believe. It's not because there was insufficient evidence, it's because their souls were dead to God. Now, not all of them were unbelieving. There's at least two that we know of, who believed in Christ, Joseph of Arimathea, in whose tomb Jesus laid for three days, and Nicodemus, who assisted Joseph in the burial. But for now they keep their faith secret. Well in their exasperation over the fact that they are doing nothing and Jesus is doing many signs, the Sanhedrin express their sinful fear. Look at verse 48 They say if we let him go on like this, as if they had any control over that, if we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him And the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. These are two sinful fears rooted in the same selfish ambition. Because they were oriented around keeping their positions of power and influence, they feared, first of all, that Jesus would displace them, and they feared, second of all, that the Romans would displace them Now, on their face, these fears were false. They were illegitimate. They weren't real. And yet, ironically, in the end, both fears would come to pass. Let's see how this is the case. Consider the first fear. They feared that Jesus would displace them if everyone believed in him. They said everyone will believe in him if he keeps going on like this. Now obviously they don't mean that every person in the world would believe in him. They don't even mean that every person in Jerusalem or in Israel would believe in him because they themselves don't believe in him And there were those who observed his miracles and came and told them about them who didn't believe either. There were many throughout the land who had not embraced Jesus as the Messiah despite hearing him teach and despite seeing him perform miracles. But now, in their minds, Jesus has performed a miracle so undeniable as to its veracity and authenticity and its power That they feared this would be the turning point that would cause the masses to turn their allegiance to Jesus And because Jesus constantly was teaching and against the practices of the Jewish leaders, if the majority of the people embraced Jesus, that would necessarily result in a radical change of leadership. I understand that the chief priests here and the Pharisees were not at all concerned about the possibility of the people going after a false religious teacher. They are not concerned about the people's spiritual welfare. They have no concern that the people would be walking away from God if, in fact, they followed Jesus. No, if the people believed in Jesus as the Messiah, that means that they would be embracing him as their king. And that means that their entire leadership structure would be swept away. And because they have been the ones who oppose Jesus, they would be public enemy number one. This is their first fear. As I said on its face, this fear is born out of unbelief and selfish ambition. It's false. It's not going to happen the way they think it is. Even though at first it almost seems like they're about to be, right? I mean just look over at chapter 12, verses 9 to 11. This is just a few weeks later when Jesus makes his way back to Bethany, a week before he's crucified It says, when the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to dead as well, because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. Now, however many were believing in him, it wasn't enough to stop the Sanhedrin from successfully convincing the crowd one week later to cry out for the crucifixion of Jesus. But ultimately, their plan, or rather their fear, didn't account for the sinful heart of man and the purposes of God. Now, on the other hand, their figure will be realized on that day when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And all the leaders in Jerusalem and in Israel and throughout the world will will be deposed and destroyed. In fact, Revelation chapter twenty says that when Jesus returns, he will defeat his enemies and establish his new kingdom with those who have been raised from the dead. Revelation twenty verse six says, Blessed is the Holy One who shares in the first resurrection Or rather, blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Overset the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for 1,000 years. In other words, the Sanhedrin's fears will come to pass. They will be deposed. And the tragedy is that had they actually embraced their Messiah They would not hold the same positions, but they would be resurrected with Christ and reign with him for a thousand years. But no, they exchanged that glory. for temporary power. Well the second fear is that if the people believed in Jesus, quote, then the Romans will come and will come and take take both our place and our nation. Now that might sound odd, but it's actually not an unreasonable fear. The Romans had a general policy as they conquered other peoples, that they would generally let those people rule themselves and maintain their cultures and their norms, as long as it was kept within the bounds that Rome set. Most nations could maintain some semblance of their own leadership and their own religion and their own culture as long as they paid tribute and taxes and were willing to submit to Roman occupation. And many nations accepted that and lived in relative peace. Not so much for the Jews. Because they were known for being notorious, or they were notorious rather for being a thorn in Rome's side because the people kept revolting against the governors that Rome put in place. That was largely because the Roman governors would often oppress and antagonize the Jews with their idolatrous practices. But still the Jews would revolt, and Rum did not take lightly to revolts. And so they would often violently suppress those revolts. The Sanhedrin feared that as had happened in the past, if the people believed in Jesus, if they embraced him as their Messiah and their king, and if Rome got wind of this apparent revolt, they would come and they would destroy the nation. Specifically he says they will come and take away our place and our nation. The word place there refers generally to a geographical location. It could refer to a position So they could mean that Rome will come and take away their positions of authority because they've been unsuccessful at suppressing this so-called revolt of people believing in the Messiah. They've been unsuccessful in keeping the people in line Some say that the place refers to the temple, which is the locus of Jewish worship and leadership. Still others take it as uh the land that they would be exiled potentially, which is yet not something that Rome typically did. It's probably best to take place and nation together to refer to every aspect of their way of life. Everything from their leadership positions to their worship in the temple to their land. All of that could be taken away if Rome got word that there was some national uprising. Whether they feared one of those things or all of those things, the result would be the same. The worship, the leadership, and the land of Israel could be lost. That is their fear. Now, of course, if they considered the facts, they would remember or realize that Jesus prevented and stopped every attempt to make him king. In fact, to their own great frustration, Jesus affirmed the rule of Rome and affirmed the right of Rome to issue taxes. Jesus was no threat to Rome. He would never allow a revolt to rise on his account. Nevertheless, this was their fear. And with this one, again, there's the tragic irony that it did in fact come true. But not because Jesus led such a revolt and not because the people believed in Jesus. It came true because in the year 66 A. D. began what is called the Great Revolt, which is another one of those moments where the people responded to Roman oppression. They revolted against Rome and Rome had had enough after over a century of repeated revolts, they came, and that led to the ultimate destruction of Jerusalem, the burning of the temple, and the dismantling of the nation in 70 A. D. In the most devastating way, Rome brought an end to the leadership and to the worship and to the nation of Israel Well those are their fears their sinful fears driven by selfish ambition The chief priests and the Pharisees again had no concern for the true worship of God. They had no concern for the evidence of the identity of Jesus. They had no care for the welfare of the nation. As it would have been far more well cared for by the Messiah, they could only think of their own power and position That is their fear. And that brings us to the sinister plot. Look at verse 49 But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all The Mosaic Law established the priesthood through the tribe of Levi and a high priesthood through the line of Aaron. Well that was then. This is now. The entire priestly structure of the first century was a religious farce. Whatever connection it had to the tribe of Levi was incidental. The chief priests were primarily Sadducees who only professed to believe in the first or the five books of Moses. But even then, their religion was really perfunctory and aimed at self-promotion and self-enrichment, which is why Jesus cleansed the temple at the beginning and at the end of his ministry. The high priesthood actually became a position obtained through bribery or power plays or Roman imposition. Instead of the life tenure described in the Mosaic Law, it was a position that would change often Now Caiaphas was actually an exception to that constant turnover in the high priesthood. He was appointed high priest in place of his father Annas in 18 A. D. , and he remained high priest for 18 years until 36 A. Even though Annas himself was no longer high priest, he still would hold a position of power. And you see these various passages where Annas and Caiaphas are each called high priest. But In the during the life of Christ, Caiaphas was the official high priest, Annas was just, I guess you could say, emeritus high priest We'll see in John 18 that when Jesus was arrested, they first took him to Annas, and then Annas sent him to Caiaphas, and Caiaphas sent him to Pilate. But here Caiaphas sits as the high priest, if you will, the chief justice of this court. And notice what he says. You know nothing at all. The Greek here is emphatic. Quite literally, it is, you don't know nothing. The double negative expresses his mockery. You ignorant fools, he says Well, look at verse 50. Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. The verb understand there translates legizimai, which is the word from which we get the word logic. You don't under understand, you're you're not reasoning here, you're not using your faculties of logic to consider the obvious solution. It's better, he says. It's more advantageous. It's profitable that one man should die and not that the whole nation should die. Their fear is that the nation will be destroyed. And so, how much better would it be if just one man died and not the whole nation? Conclusion: Jesus must die. Now this is obviously not a new idea. They've been wanting to kill Jesus for at least a couple years. The difference, though, is that up until now Those who wanted to kill Jesus were either individual Pharisees or groups of Pharisees in various locations. Now, this is, if you will, the Supreme Court coming to that conclusion. In fact, some would go so far as to say that this is where the death of Christ was legally determined in their own minds That they were giving him a guilty verdict and the death penalty by matter of law, such that the trials that took place after the arrest of Christ were merely confirming or carrying out the ruling established here. Whether or not that's the case, the Chief Justice of this Supreme Court has given his conclusion on the matter Now again, if you use your powers of logic, you could almost say that he's right Isn't it better that one man dies and not millions? If somebody has to die, isn't it in fact better that one man die and and not a whole nation? Logically, that makes sense. Where his logic fails is that Jesus is no mere man More on that later. Well, Caiaphas here means this for evil. But God means this for good. This sinister plot is really the sovereign plan. Look at verse 51. He did not say this on his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. You could say Caiaphas isn't is an unlikely prophet, but really he's not a prophet at all. The pri the high priesthood was not a role that uh that contained within it the act of prophecy. It's just that the Lord uses his rage as the top leader of Israel in this moment to reveal his sovereign plan. The statement he did not say this of his own accord means that he did not say this out of himself. He didn't get this from himself. He could have worded this plot in a different way. He could have stood up and said, that's enough. Jesus needs to die. He could have said, you fools, we just need to kill Jesus There are many ways he could have expressed the plot to kill Jesus. But the Lord chose this moment to make Caiaphas his mouthpiece. And Caiaphas expresses his murderous intent In a way that proclaimed the very purpose for which Jesus came. Please notice the words here. Being high priest that year. And notice that John had said the same thing in verse 49. Necaiaphas who was high priest that year As I said, Caiphus was high priest from eighteen to thirty-six, and John, of course, would have been well aware of that He knew that in this moment in history, Caiaphas had been high priest for over ten years, and he would be high priest for another several years. So why Does John twice say that Caiaphas was high priest that year as if the year before he wasn't or the year after he wasn't, when he was in fact high priest for quite a long time. Well it seems, it seems that John meant that year not in terms of chronology, but in terms of significance. In other words, that fateful year. That fateful year. Think about it. What happened when Jesus died on the cross? There's a lot you could say, but let's walk through the book of Hebrews a little bit backwards. According to Hebrews chapter 10, when Christ died, the final sacrifice was made. The shadow of the sacrificial system was replaced by the once-for-all sacrifice of the Lamb of God. According to Hebrews chapter 9. The shadow of the earthly temple was replaced by the true heavenly temple, which is why the curtain was torn in two from top to bottom According to Hebrews chapter eight, the shadow of the Mosaic Covenant was replaced by the better new covenant According to Hebrews chapter 7, the Levitical priesthood was replaced by the Melchizedekian priesthood. According to Hebrews 5, the shadow of the high priest was replaced. by the great high priest who lives forever and perfectly ministers on behalf of his people. Caiaphas was the high priest that fateful year when the entire system he presided over came to an end. Put another way, Caiaphas the high priest, thought that he was killing his competition. Instead He installed his replacement. And in doing so, he made the temple, the priesthood, and the sacrificial system obsolete. In practice, the priesthood and sacrifices didn't cease until the destruction of the city and the temple in 70 A. D. , but their reason for existence ended when Christ died. Caiaphas thought that the death of Jesus would be better for the nation. He had no idea how good it would be. No longer would there be an endless river of blood flowing from the temple. The final sacrifice would be made by Jesus Christ. No longer would people have to travel to the temple to worship God because they could worship from anywhere in spirit and in truth. No longer would they need a priest. To present their sacrifices to God because Jesus became the only priest, the only mediator. And Scripture says we are priests before God. In dying for the nation, Jesus brought all of these benefits to the Jews who embraced him as their Savior. But it gets even better. Look at verse 52. And not only for the nation, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. What could be better than one man dying on behalf of the people of Israel? How about one man dying on behalf of people from every nation? The purpose of God through the sinister plot driven by sinful fear is to provide a sacrifice that would be for the world. That's just as John the Baptist said when he first saw Jesus: Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world Now, this is the fulfillment of many Old Testament prophecies, but let me just remind you of one. Keep your finger here and turn over with me to Isaiah 49. Isaiah 49. Isaiah 49, 1 through 7 is a prophecy about the servant of the Lord. which is a title used throughout the book of Isaiah, sometimes referring to the nation of Israel as as a whole, sometimes it referred to the remnant of Israel, and sometimes it referred to the Messiah sp specifically. And here, in Isaiah 49, 1 through 7, the servant of the Lord refers to the Messiah specifically Follow along as I read here in Isaiah 49. Listen to me, O coastlands, and give attention, you peoples from afar. The Lord called me, this is the the servant speaking, that the Lord called me from the womb. From the body of my mother, he named my name He made my mouth like a sharp sword in the shadow of his hand, he hid me. He made me a polished arrow. In his quiver, he hid me away And he said to me, You are my servant Israel, in whom I will be glorified. Jesus, of course, being the true ultimate Israel But I said, I have labored in vain. I have kept my strength for nothing in vanity, yet surely my right hand is with the Lord, and my recompense is with my God. And now, Yahweh says, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him, that Israel might be gathered to him. For I am honored in the eyes of Yahweh, and my God has become my strength. He says, so Yahweh God says, verse six, it is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and bring back the pr preserved of Israel I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth Thus says Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel, and his holy one to one, deeply despised, abhorred by the nation, the servant of rulers, kings, shall see and arise. Princes, and they shall prostrate themselves because of Yahweh who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you. Notice the statement there in verse 6 again. It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. It's too small. It's too insignificant. If the Messiah's work accomplish redemption and salvation for the remnant of Israel That would be too small of an accomplishment given the glory of who he is. So, what will the Lord do to make his sacrifice worthy of his glory? I will make you a light for the nations, that my salvation should reach to the ends of the earth Notice the end of verse 7. Kings shall see and arise. Princes and they shall prostrate themselves. The glory of God is too much to limit himself to saving a small group of people in a small country. No, the glory of his name is worth sending forth the grace of his power throughout the globe so that the world would know who God is. Sometimes you hear people say something like, you know, you you can measure your worth and your value based on the sacrifice of Christ. You are so valuable that Jesus thought that you were worth giving up his life for. His death for you shows you your worth. I don't believe that, because the Bible doesn't teach that. What the Bible teaches is that we are sinners deserving nothing but the wrath of God. But friends, God is so glorious that his love and his mercy and his grace Is worthy of being seen. And so he saves people from every tribe and every language and every people and every nation. When the Lord declares a new covenant in Ezekiel 36, he says, it's not for your sake that I'm about to act. You're not so valuable. It's not for your sake that I'm about to act, but for the sake of my holy name And the nations will know that I am Yahweh, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. As I said last week, the glory of God is worthy to be seen and believed and worshipped and lived by And for that reason, he is not satisfied with the people of Israel being his people. His salvation reaches to the ends of the earth Isaiah 53. 11 says of the suffering servant, out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. Why? By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. Well, let's come back to John 11, 52. God's purposes are for the nations. And notice that here in John fifty-two, or eleven fifty-two, John goes beyond the sacrificial language that Caiaphas used to speak of reconciliation. Notice that he says, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. He's not talking about a physical gathering. He's talking about unifying a diverse group of people. And what is that one group? Well, it's not Israel. If John wanted to teach that the scattered people are now part of Israel, he could have referred to the scattered children of Israel, but he avoids that language and uses familial language, children of God. God is in the business of saving people from all over the world, and that salvation includes being brought together into one group. Consider the words of Ephesians 2, verses 13 to 16. But now in Christ you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ For he himself is our peace, who has made both, that is, Jew and Gentile, both one, and has broken down the wall of hostility. in his flesh by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. And might reconcile us both, Jew and Gentile, to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility And then he goes on to say, so then you are no longer aliens and strangers, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. So the hostility between man and God and the hostility between Jew and Gentile has been brought to nothing through the cross. And that enables us to rejoice with Paul when he says in Galatians 3. 28, there's neither Jew nor Greek There's neither slave nor free. There's neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. And that's not to say that such distinctions are null and void. Yes, there is male and female. There is Jew and Greek and all the rest. It is to say, though, that we all stand side by side at the foot of the cross without distinction. The only qualification to having the sacrifice of Christ benefit you is that you be a sinner who recognizes their sin and believes in Jesus Nationality, ethnicity, social status, lifestyle, resume, religious background, all of that is utterly irrelevant The death of Jesus brings all who uh those who believe into one family of God. Now perhaps someone might ask, how is it? How is it that the death of one man can accomplish all of this? How is it that one can die on behalf of not only all the nation of Israel, but all of people throughout the world, even throughout all of history? Well, of course, if Jesus was a human being just like you and I, he couldn't. Even if he were to somehow achieve the highest Levels of moral perfection where religious faithfulness he could do no better than just saving himself The only reason that his sacrifice on behalf of the children of God in all the world and in all of history is because he is truly man and truly God. Therefore, his divine nature means that his sacrifice is of infinite worth This is the sovereign plan of God to redeem and reconcile sinners throughout all the world Through the sinister plot driven by sinful fear. This is why the Scripture calls the wisdom of God inscrutable The word inscrutable inscrutable means that it can't be peered into. It can't be understood. It's beyond our comprehension The wisdom of God demonstrated here is beyond our knowing. Only an all-knowing and an all-wise could come up with such a plan. Well that brings us then to the settled resolve. Look at verse fifty-three. With the high priest having declared his plot, so from that day on they made plans to put him to death The word made plans more literally means to resolve or to decide. In this council, they agreed together on the verdict. Now all that was left was to figure out how to carry it out. And that planning would take a matter of weeks of discussion. It would shift with the circumstances. In fact, notice down in verse 57, it says, Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know, so that they might arrest him. Their first step was to arrest Jesus, but how do you do that? He's escaped their grasped multiple times already Ideally, perhaps they considered, maybe we can get somebody on the inside. Maybe we can turn one of his followers And that opportunity would in fact come to fruition once Judas recognized that his desire for financial gain would not come to pass by following Jesus. And we'll see that in chapter 12. Well, whatever means are necessary, the Sanhedrin resolves here to put Jesus to death. And then finally, look at verse 54. Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim. And there he stayed with his disciples. The word therefore implies that Jesus knew that they had made this resolve. Perhaps he had been told by somebody, whether a message got to him from Nicodemus or Joseph, of Arimathea. Or perhaps Jesus just knew this through his divine knowledge. That's entirely possible as well. Either way, he was tr conscious of the timetable that the Father had set for him. He knew that the Passover was a few weeks away, and so he needed to stay out of Jerusalem. He needed to stay out of the limelight so that the timeline would not be disturbed. And so he went with his disciples to this town called Ephraim. Now we don't know where this town is. It's not been discovered. It's most likely because it's near the wilderness, some rural small town, far out of the way. where they could lay low from the crowds, stay away from those who might serve as informants to the Jewish leadership. But Jesus is resolved, regardless of their plan, to do the Father's will And we see that in chapter twelve as he returns to Bethany for the final time. The Jewish leaders had settled their resolve to kill Jesus. And they did it in this context of a gathering of the legal body of the Sanhedrin. Jesus was resolved. to accomplish the Father's plan of the Father's time. As always, he remained in complete control of his life And so he waited until the right time to present himself once more to the nation of Israel It's always the case that evil people think they can subvert God's plans. But in their very schemes, God is working out his perfect will The manifold wisdom of God is that people who reject the revealed will of God, that which is clear in Scripture, are ultimately doing the decreed will of God. What they intend for evil, God intends for good. This, beloved, is how the illness of Lazarus not only leads to the glorification of the Son through his resurrection. But it leads to the glorifying of God because God will use that resurrection as the catalyst to redeem people as a result of the sinister plot driven by sinful fear. Psalm two begins with the question Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? It mocks them because of their powerlessness. But that psalm ends with an invitation. Worship the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled Blessed are all who take refuge in him. My friend, if you are here and you are running from God You need to know that there is nowhere you can go where God where you escape God's sovereign rule. God will use everything you do to escape Him to accomplish His purposes in your life. How much better would it be to just submit and embrace the God who has offered his son Jesus Christ for your salvation? You can enjoy life now and hell forever, or you can enjoy eternal life now and glory with God forever. Friends, no matter what is going on in the world around us, whether it's personal trials for you, whether it's national turmoil or international war. We can be confident that God is working out his plan and one day his glorious son will return and sit as king over the earth. So don't fear And don't rebel. Worship him and take refuge in him. Let's pray. As I pray the men can come to serve the Lord's Supper. Father, we thank you for this word. It's a word that more than anything just reveals your glory to us, that you are so powerful and so wise and so much in control that no one can do anything to thwart your will And we confess that very often we look at our lives and we look at the world around us and we can be disturbed. Because it feels as though there is chaos, uncontrolled, undirected. But we trust that through it all As your word has revealed, and as you have demonstrated throughout all of history and promise for the future, that you are always in control. Lord, I pray for those here this morning who are particularly burdened in their life because of turmoil and trouble May you comfort them through this knowledge of your glorious sovereign control Lord, I pray that those who are living in rebellion against you would heed this warning. That rather being those who are brought to justice in the end because of their rebellion, that they can turn and bow the knee and embrace A Savior who will forgive them and draw them into that one people of God, the one body of Christ. And Lord, now as we celebrate what Jesus did to purchase our redemption, may you use this time to Strengthen our hearts in the knowledge of the forgiveness of sin. We're all sinners here. We've all sinned this week many times and even in ways that we're not even aware of. And yet we celebrate together the gift of forgiveness. So bring glory to Christ even in this moment, we pray. Amen.