All right. We are today continuing our study in the Epistle of 1 John chapter 3. We're going to be looking at verses 19 to 22. And so Today we want to approach this text by looking at the fruit of perfect love. If you got your Bibles open and you're looking at the text now, let me read it for you and then we will jump into the details. John writes, and by this we will know that we are of the truth, and we'll assure our hearts before him In whatever our heart condemns us, for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. And whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. This is an amazing declaration by the Apostle John. And again, it is one that we should hold on to as an amazing promise. What a promise of divine assurance and unwavering confidence that we have as God's children. Well, before we get into the details of the text, I want to begin by asking you a question. And in this situation, I do want to solicit a response. With the show of hands, how many of you have had the opportunity to read John Bunyan's English classic, Pilgrim's Progress? Many of you. This is great. If you haven't read this book, I would strongly encourage you to read it. This is one of those books that will not disappoint you. Pilgrim's Progress is a book that was ultimately published in two parts Part one was published in 1678, and then it was followed up with part two in 1684, six years later. If you are not familiar with the content of Pilgrim's Progress, it is a book that was written as an allegory of the Christian life. The main character is a man by the name of Pilgrim. As the beginning of the book or the story starts, Pilgrim gets a hold of a book He discovers that his city, the city of destruction, is going to be destroyed. The book that Pilgrim reads symbolizes the Bible. And Pilgrim is this man who starts out carrying this book along with a tremendous burden on his back. It is a burden that pilgrim cannot remove. This burden represents the entirety of his sin. And the story is this beautiful portrait of a sinner who responds to the Christian gospel. Well, while wandering in the fields outside of his city, Pilgrim meets a man by the name of Evangelist. Evangelist points pilgrim to a distant sheep gate. Passing through the narrow gate and along the narrow way beyond, pilgrim, who is now named Christian, soon comes to a hill with three crosses. It's at this point that a deep change comes over Pilgrim. The first thing that happens is miraculously the heavy burden that he had been carrying slides down off his back. And it slides off his back to then roll down into an empty tomb From this illustration of forgiveness and relief, Christian begins walking the narrow way to his final destination. He leaves the city of destruction and eventually arrived to the celestial city, which is a portrait of heaven But it's along this narrow way that Christian encounters many different characters and circumstances that vividly portray the journey of the Christian. Through the difficulties of life and on into eventually heaven itself Not so long after Christian encounters the cross of Christ, where his burden of sin is removed, he comes to a hill called difficulty. As he hikes halfway up the hill, Christian then stops at a shaded area for rest. In the words of John Bunyan, Christian stops at a pleasant arbor Built by the Lord of the Hill for the refreshment of weary travelers while reclining under the arbor He rereads a scroll that had been given to him at the cross. In Bunyan's allegory, the scroll represents all of the promises of God for salvation. It contains the assurances that he needs to enter into the celestial city. And while Christian then sleeps, the scroll falls from his hand. When he awakens, he suddenly discovers that it's almost night. He speeds then on his way. And he hurries. And as he hurries, two men come running up the hill the opposite direction. They then confront him. They tell Christian, turn back. They warn him of the danger that is ahead. And now Christian is frightened, and he's unsure what to do He knows that he can't return home to the city of destruction because he knows that God's judgment is going to fall on that place. The sense that you get as you read this account of Christian's dilemma is he is now filled with this deep sense of uncertainty and this lack of assurance. Christian says to these men, you're making me afraid. Where shall I run to safety? If I go back to my own home country, which is prepared for fire and brimstone, I shall certainly perish. But if I can get to the celestial city, I know that I will be safe there. So Krishna says, I must go forward. He then says this: To go back is nothing but death. To go forward is the fear of death, but it is life everlasting beyond it. I will go forward. So, needing to find comfort and reassurance, Christian then reaches into his coat for the scroll. But it's gone. His assurance is absolutely shattered. And he now wonders, where have I lost it? He then remembers that he must have lost it at the place where he fell asleep, back at the arbor. So instead of going forward, Christian then goes back. up the hill to the arbor and recovers his assurance with joy unspeakable. This is such a beautiful depiction of how important assurance is to the Christian life. How important the promises of God are to the Christian life. I wish I had time to read the entire story for you. But the reason that I share this with you is because John Bunyan's portrait. Is such a compelling account of the Christian life. And here you have Christian climbing up a hill called difficulty with his assurance safely tucked in his coat close to his heart. But soon after he stops climbing, he loses his assurance of fate. And what is true about the character of Christian then is also true of us. At some point in our lives, we all have this experience of a deep sense of uncertainty Circumstances of life overwhelm us, and we experience then the lack of assurance regarding our own salvation in Christ. Most of us even ask the question at several points in our walk with Christ, am I really a Christian? Well, the Bible tells us that a true Christian may lose his sense of assurance from time to time. But we will never actually lose our salvation. Like Christian, our salvation is as secure as Jesus Christ is Himself. The worst that can happen to the true believer is that you and I can experience a lack of confidence in the promises of God because we forget them. And this is why John then writes 1 John. He writes it to remind us of what really it means. To have an authentic spiritual relationship with Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. In 1 John, the Apostle is writing to believers Who are going through very intense circumstances and the difficulties of life. They're experiencing persecution From outside of the church, false teachers and apostate believers from within. And so John writes this letter to make sure that We are completely secure in our salvation and able then to test the authenticity of our own faith He writes in 1 John 5, verse 13, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. Why? So that you may know that you have eternal life. One way that you can know for certain that you have eternal life is to believe the truth about Jesus Christ. and that you are able to see the evidence of saving faith in your own life. Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ? John asks. And the second question is this, do you love one another? 1 John 3, verse 11 says, For this is the message. Would you have heard from the beginning? The beginning of what? The beginning of your salvation in Christ. That we should love one another 1 John 3, verse 23, and this is the commandment, God's commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus and love one another just as he gave a commandment to us. 1 John 4, 7 says, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. And everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. And again, everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. John continues in chapter 4, verses 11 and 12, beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has beheld God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us And his love is perfected in us. Again, it is in the words of the Apostle John, literally, it is a bringing you to maturity in Jesus Christ. John knows that a true believer will occasionally fall or fail to love one another. But when that happens, though. He says, for a true believer, there will be no need to question the security of your salvation. Why? Because if you're a true child of God, the consistency of your Christian life will demonstrate your love for one another and therefore the authenticity of your faith in God in Christ. John says, you will keep God's commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. Chapter 3, verse 22. The words keep and do are such a wonderful set of verbs here because they're present active verbs. This just means that. There will be this ongoing keeping and doing of God's will in the life of the believer. And that's what then marks out a child of God. Again, when there is an occasional lapse, John says there are two very important promises that will strengthen our faith and give us the evidence we need to know that we belong to him. And here are those evidences. When the world comes closing in and circumstances begin to overtake you and make you question the authenticity of your faith, God promises that he will give you a greater assurance of faith and confidence that is even stronger than your own heart Knowing that your salvation is secure. God is greater even than our own heart. And it's the fruit of God's perfect love that then produces two enduring qualities that evidence genuine saving faith in the life of those who truly belong to Him. And this is God's reminder to each and every one of us in verses 19-22, and this is what we want to look at today. Now, as we discovered last time in our study of verses 11 through 18, God's word teaches us that the children of God are characterized by sacrificial love that originates with God. That our greatest example of love is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and that His sacrificial love is one of the most important evidences of having eternal life. Unlike Cain, who brutally murdered his brother out of a self-centered envy and resentment, the love that originates with God is sacrificial and it gives. And it puts others first. This means that a true child of God is more concerned about the needs of others than they are about their own needs. And why is this? Because God's love in us is what motivates us then toward action. And again, it helps us then to meet the real needs of others One writer put it this way, it's sacrificial giving to meet the needs of other Christians and to do it at its most extreme. It's a practical love that finds motivation in helping others. Well, where God's love doesn't exist, that then raises the question whether or not the person is truly a child of God. John writes in chapter 3, verse 16: By this we have known love, that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. In other words, a profession of faith in Christ is not enough to save anybody. Action is essential And that's why verses 19 and 20 are so reassuring to us as believers, because the first principle that I want us to see this morning is that the love of God ultimately produces assurance of faith. Look with me again at verses 19 and 20. John writes, and by this we will know that we are of the truth, and will assure our heart before him. Then verse 20, in whatever our heart condemns us, for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. John says, and by this you will know that you are of the truth. How will we know that we are of the truth? Because of everything that John has just told us about what it means to love our brother. We can know with certainty, with conviction, and with a measure of full assurance That we are a child of God if we demonstrate the same love for our brother that God showed us in the person of Jesus Christ. And I want you to please note that here he's speaking about a lifestyle of loving others, not just an occasional, hey, you're in need, I'll help you, but you know, leave you to your being. A lifestyle that is habitually patterned after that of Jesus Christ, sacrificial. This is the proof of our salvation, John says. When he says by this, he is literally referring back to what he had already said in verse 18. When he said, Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but indeed and in truth. Because this is the evidence of those who are a true child of God, John says. He says that Christians will know that you belong to the truth when your love finds practical expression in helping those who are truly in need. And this then is the evidence of a true disciple of Jesus Christ. We know this from what Jesus told us back in John 13, verses 34 and 35. When you love one another, you demonstrate to the world that you are my disciple, Jesus said. And the reason John writes this is because he does so in order to persuade the believer's heart before God. To spiritually reassure them in the face of uncertainty, of doubt, and a lack of assurance And I love this because the word assure here in verse 19 is the same word that could be translated to persuade To conciliate, to pacify, to set at rest, and even to tranquilize In conjunction with this word, he also uses a Greek verb to know that has to do with acquiring knowledge through experience. And so taken together, these two words form the basis for helping the child of God gain a complete assurance to a personal and saving relationship with Jesus Christ. If you see this as the evidence of your faith, the evidence of your faith, then you can know that you are secure in your salvation. In other words, how can we really be assured that we are part of God's eternal family? John says, by loving one another indeed and in truth. When you and I love one another indeed and in truth, two things are then going to happen in verses 19 and 20. And the first is: true assurance will confirm the authenticity of your faith. Assurance will confirm our faith. Now look again at verse 19 in the beginning of verse 20. John says, and by this we will know, we will know That we are of the truth, and will assure our heart before him, in whatever our heart condemns us. Your heart will be fully assured even when it wants to condemn you, John says. And the reason for this is because Genuine self-sacrificial love will eliminate any doubts or any insecurities you might have about what saving faith really is. Here's his point. Those who are the children of the devil do not practice love for other Christians. In fact, John says you shouldn't be surprised. They'll hate you. Because that's what the world will do. Those who have a habit of practicing sin and making a conscious effort to avoid loving Christians John says they will experience uncertainty, insecurity, and ultimately self-condemnation. If this happens to believers, the only remedy is to confess our sin Again, and begin walking in obedience to his word, to love him and to love one another. Otherwise, our heart will indeed condemn us. The fruit of God's love, John says, produces an assurance of faith. And the fruit of perfect love will confirm that you are genuinely of the truth. Secondly, this assurance will then cleanse the believer's conscience. Assurance will cleanse our conscience. In addition to assuring our faith, John says, the second thing that will happen is verse 20. In whatever our heart condemns us, for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. Spiritual assurance will cleanse our conscience before God. It will reassure us that God Himself is greater than our heart and He knows all things. Many times, because of our sin, our heart has a tendency to buckle. It gives in to the lies of the world It'll question the validity of our faith, the viability of our choices, and the credibility of our actions and our motivations. As a believer, I know this because it's happened to me And again, this is something that happens throughout the Christian life. Many times my conscience reminds me of certain experiences that can be right when others aren't But I need God's word to reassure me which one is right and the other is wrong. Like the character Christian in John Bunyan's classic, I need to retrace my steps and recover the very promises of God so that I can regain my sense of assurance of saving faith. And this is what God's Word does for us. The point is, I know when my heart is going to convince me of something that is either right or wrong. But when my heart is wayward, it tries to tell me that something is inaccurate about the promises of God, I then need to go to God's word and reject that lie. John says, this is when our heart will condemn us. And we need to remember that God Himself is greater than our heart. And he knows all things. So why not trust the very word of God? As a believer, God will never condemn his children. Romans 8. 1 says, therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, God says. Let me repeat that one more time, because we seem to have a habit of living in Romans 7 without acknowledging Romans 8. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Amen? This is what God's word tells us. And as a genuine believer, a true sense of assurance of faith will always fortify a weak and biblically uninformed conscience. We need God's word to reinforce the truth that God has given us. And why? Because despite what our heart may tell us, God's word will never fail us. The truth of God's word will always give us a proper diagnosis of our true spiritual condition. In fact, think about it this way: from the perspective of a medical exam. Sometimes we think we know what is going on physiologically with our body, don't we? However, the only way to truly know what's going on is to get in and see that doctor and have then a physical exam. In the same way God's word is that medical exam. He is the specialist And he knows how to read those words. Again, the Bible is the only standard of what is right and wrong with us spiritually. Our own personal diagnosis will fail us our heart will condemn us even when the truth tells us that we are perfectly righteous before God Himself. You think you know yourself, John says, but the truth is God knows you better than you can ever know yourself Someone once said for the believer, the worst is only what seems superficial. But the truth is, God sees what is deep down in the recesses of our very soul. And he only knows, and only he knows, our true intentions and inclinations of the soul after being transformed by the gospel of his saving grace. He sees what is true. He sees what is dignified, what is right, what is pure, what is lovely, what is commendable, what is excellent, and what is praiseworthy. God sees the deeper realities of our life. And even though wayward deeds may rise to the surface of our life in order to condemn us, God sees the seed of his perfect love. buried deep down in our soul, and he sees that is taking root and beginning to to boss blossom and bear fruit. Again, God sees the seed of His perfect love deep down in our life. And that love bears witness to a lifestyle of self-sacrifice. When a believer sins, the truth is God then forgives that sin. He promises never to condemn us for it ever to ever again. And a lack of assurance then will skew that perspective. It'll rob us of that true joy And like the character of Christian, doubts, fears, and insecurities will then give way to piercing our own heart. And what needs to happen is we need to regain our assurance The only way that we can do this is to remind ourselves of the promises of God and the truth about God and ultimately our final destination. The fruit of God's love will produce a deep and abiding sense of security and assurance. And John says this is exactly what God's love will do for us. It'll confirm our faith. It'll cleanse our conscience so that true abiding assurance will characterize our entire life And God's love will not only produce this kind of assurance, but it will then produce a lasting confidence as well. And this then brings us to verses 21 and 22. John writes, Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God, and whatever we ask, we receive from him because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. God's love eliminates self-condemnation. When we condemn ourselves with artificial guilt, Then we choose to put ourselves in the position of playing God with our own spiritual light. We're saying that we know ourselves better than God does. When that then happens, our security is ripped away from us. And like rust, it then eats away at the metal of our conviction. Slowly we lose our spiritual confidence. Our prayer life becomes ineffective due to the doubts and insecurities that we may feel or experience. Not so if we heed God's word John says, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. That is the absolute truth that John shares here, because it's consistent with everything that the Bible tells us. Spiritual confidence, John says, is directly related to two very important realities in the Christian life. Number one, confidence will strengthen our relationship to God, verse 21. And number two, it will embolden our practice of prayer in verse twenty-two. Let's begin first with confidence will strengthen our relationship to God. And in the Gospel of John Chapter 21, a passage very familiar to all of you, Jesus confronts Peter three times about his love for him. He said three times, Peter, do you love me? Now, again, this is on the heels of Peter having disowned the Lord and once again walked away from him. But he confronts him and he says, Peter, do you love me? After the resurrection, Peter thought he could Return to his place up in Galilee and could return to the comfort of his own life as a fisherman. But Christ had other plans and he shows up and he lays this on him. When Peter returned to Galilee, Jesus came to him and he again confronted him with this about his commitment. He asked him three times, Peter, do you love me more than these fish? Do you love me more than these nets, these boats, these lifestyle that you've returned to, essentially? And Peter then responded twice by saying, yes, Lord, you know that I love you more than these. Well, when Jesus then asked him a third time if he really loved him, he questioned the validity of his love. And Peter was crushed. In fact, John says that Peter was grieved because he had said to him a third time, Do you love me? Peter then responds this way: Lord, and I want you to listen to the words very carefully. You know all things. You know everything. You know, deep down in the recesses of my heart that I love you. You know this. Peter then finally concedes and appeals to Christ's omniscience. Lord, you know. You know, you know everything. And only you know that I truly love you despite my insecurities and my doubts. Because you see, Peter had lost his confidence. His confidence before Christ had become this weak and feeble effort. He trusted in what he then thought he knew, but even that brought into question his own assessment of his own life. He lost his perspective, bottom line. And in the end, Jesus reassured his confidence by saying to him then, follow me. Follow me. The only way to strengthen your spiritual confidence is for you to be dependent upon me, Jesus says to Peter To trust in yourself is a vain hope. It is a fleeting, worthless expectation that will only result in your own doubt and your own despair. Get your eyes off of yourself. Put them back and fix them on the author and the perfector of your faith. In contrast, the fruit of God's love will guarantee them the confidence that you need to bolster your relationship to Him. And John says, not only will that strengthen your relationship with him, but it will then produce a vibrant, powerful prayer life. Look at verse 22. Secondly, spiritual confidence will also be emboldened by a practice of prayer. John writes, beloved, if our heart does not condemn us Then notice verse 22: whatever we ask, we receive from him. Obedience to God's command will be empowered by an effective prayer life When John uses the term whatever, he is not using this word unconditionally and indiscriminately, he is stating a condition that is the latter half of verse 22. Because if we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight, then we will ask for the things that God will grant, and he will then grant them like a father giving his son the greatest gift The condition for answered prayer is always according to God's will and not our own. It is when we do the things that are pleasing in his sight that we know that we can pray, and know that our prayers are answered. We're not just asking for anything, John reminds us. We're asking for those things that strengthen our assurance of faith and that bolster our confidence before God. And why? Because this is exactly what God's perfect love is going to do for us. We're asking for a present awareness that we are truly His child. And we long for these convictions because only God's children can keep his commandments and do the things ultimately that are pleasing in his sight We're looking to God alone for the perfect expression of saving faith and obedience in this life And that can only happen when we confidently, know confidently, that we are his child. So the fruit of God's perfect love produces assurance and confidence. as two enduring qualities that give evidence of genuine saving faith in the life of God's children. And these then are the fruit of God's perfect love, his perfecting love And they continue to prove the authenticity of our faith so long as we are committed to live pleasing to Him These are the kinds of reassurances that we need. These are the kinds of confidences that we need. These are the kinds of concrete objective truth that we need in a world that is so subjective and so rebellious against God. At the end of Pilgrim's Progress, Christian is joined by his companion, Hopeful. The two of these Pilgrims cross a river, which is a picture of death. And they do this before walking up the mountain to the celestial city, which is heaven. I'm going to give you some spoilers here, so in case you want to go back and read it, you can get the details. But before they cross the river, though, they meet with another pilgrim named Ignorance. Who struggles to make the pilgrimage to the celestial city? After Christian and Hopeful cross the river, Bunyan describes them as entering into the celestial city It's one of the most beautiful depictions of heaven ever written outside of the Bible. Bunyan describes them going beyond the shadow of death out of reach of giant despair and to the place where you can meet where where you'll never meet Doubting Castle ever again. It is a place filled with beauty, majesty, splendor beyond our imagination. But strangely, when you come to the end of part one, Bunyan ends the book by focusing on ignorance rather than Christian and hopeful. He devotes the last paragraph of the book to to the pilgrim called ignorance And he says that ignorance then crosses the river of death without any problem. However, instead of walking into the river and eventually finding for firm footing in this He then is I'm sorry, he's then ferried across the river by a man named Vain Hope When Christian and hopeful come out of the water, the shining ones come down to greet him, greet them. They help them up the hill and then on into the celestial city These angels tell Christian and hopeful of all the glories that they will see and be given as rewards. But tragically, no one is there to greet ignorance. With great difficulty, ignorance makes his way up the hill alone. As he approaches the gates, he expects the doors to swing open, but nothing happens. And so he begins to knock and knock and knock. Someone then looks down over the gate and asks him, What do you want? He pleads for admittance, but the gates stay closed against him Eventually the king of the celestial city then commands two of the shining ones to go out, take ignorance, bind him hand in foot, and carry him away They take him through the air to a door in the side of the hill farther down from the celestial city. They then open the door and they cast him in Bunyan says, Then I saw there there was a way to hell from the very gates of heaven, as well as from the city of destruction. That is a profound statement. Bunyan's final scene is this graphic illustration to all of us. He points out that there are many who consider themselves pilgrims on their way to God's celestial city, but in the end, many will not make it. They'll not make it into the city itself. All throughout their life they believed that they were on the path to heaven, only to discover at heaven's gates They relied on vain hope to get them there. Christian had doubts at the moment of his death about his sins being forgiven. He experienced many doubts and insecurities as he traveled the narrow path all the way to the celestial city. But the issue is he never wavered in his walk down that narrow path. He kept pressing ahead. He kept relying on the promises of God, which were in the scroll tucked neatly and close to his heart in his jacket pocket. And when he got to the very celestial city, he was gloriously welcomed in. The point is this: it is normal. For a true Christian to have occasional doubts about salvation, but again, ignorance trusted in vain hope for salvation, not on the promises of God. Christian relied on the promises that were found in God's Word. And most will look to many other things in their life for assurance and confidence in this life. But only God's word can tell us who we really are and what our true spiritual condition is. Only God knows our heart better than ourselves. And only He can point us to the greatest security of our salvation, which is Jesus Christ Himself. And what does your assurance and confidence rest in? That's the question I pray that you will find that it is in Christ alone. For he is the personification of perfect love. And that's why his perfect love Shows this fruit. It is in Christ alone that we rejoice, we celebrate, we worship, for He is our salvation as we sang. I close with these words of 1 John 4, verse 9. By this the love of God was manifested in us. That God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him. Those are such powerful and potent words. And it is to that end that I pray may God continue to produce unwavering assurance and great confidence as we seek to love him with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and may God then strengthen us to live faithful and obedient to him, because it does depend on him. What a glorious God we serve. What a glorious God who came and died for us, who gave his life as a ransom for many. Who even today, if you're sitting here and you do not know Christ, he has died to provide a full salvation for you. I plead with you, repent, believe, put your trust in Jesus Christ alone, for He alone is our perfect gift of salvation. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this wonderful truth. We thank you for the confidence and assurance that we can have as believers in Christ. We thank you that because of because He died, we now live. We thank you that because He sacrificed Himself and showed us love, we can then love one another. And I thank you, Lord, that because of Christ, we can know perfect love. And we can have the fruit of that love permeating in and through our lives. And Lord, as we have discussed today, We want to excel still more in all that we do, and so where we need to begin is really with a heart of love. Lord, give us a tremendous love for one another. Help us to love one another beyond the bounds of any kind of practical love that the world can give. Help us to demonstrate that because we love our brothers, we prove to be Christ's disciples. And we thank you, Lord, that because of your spirit, we have that enabling power to love And I'm so grateful to be in a church that loves you. I'm so grateful to be with brothers and sisters who want to see you glorified in their lives. I am so encouraged by the love that is shown to me and my family. I am so encouraged by the love that I see demonstrated to one another. Lord, we can't help but be assured. We can't help but be confident. We can't help but be tremendously grateful for all that you provide. We thank you for all of this in Christ's name. Amen.