Good to see you all this morning. I hope you all like the transformation I went through this week. My name is Rob Thompson and uh No Rob is uh Uh for the life of me I can't remember you probably remember him better than I do uh where he's at today. That's right, that's right. Uh he a few weeks ago uh a few weeks ago he was telling me about uh uh the family was doing something, he's like, ah, but you know, I'm teaching class, I'm teaching membership class that day, so I can't go and I look at him, I'm like, Rob, I'll teach for ya You should go. He's like, Really? Oh, okay. Uh you wanna know the honest truth? So that happened. That was honest, that was true. But but here's what happened after that. I forgot about it. Except for except for membership class. I I had to put it on my calendar that I was teaching membership class. And then this morning or uh Friday morning I got an email from Rob, Hey Gabe, here's the notes for this week's class. Thank you so much for teaching. You bet, man, I'll have a nut there for you. Yeah, Friday and Saturday. The good news is he put together all the notes uh and as you know he has the his process that he goes through um in terms of review of the previous week and the new material and so uh it would make no sense at all for me to do something completely different and break the flow of that. So I certainly did my own preparation, kind of get my head in the in the passage as best as I could in a couple days. Um but uh we'll just be walking through his notes and I'll do my best impression of Rob Thompson that I'm able to do. Uh just as a reminder, uh the Ark in the Darkness, hopefully you saw this in Life at Hope. I know that Rob mentioned it to you already, but uh That's coming up here in the next couple of weeks and uh I'm just curious how many of you are planning to go or hoping to go. Wow. Very good. Very good. Um I may go depending on whether or not uh we have membership interviews. those nights, but that looks really good. Excited for that. Alright, well here we are in chapter 14. We're gonna finish chapter 14 today of Revelation. As always we'll do a review of the first uh nine or eleven verses before we dive into the new section of verses twelve to twenty. But let me pray as we get started. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this morning, thank you for your grace that sustains us today. Uh no doubt uh among us are those who are feeling various kinds of physical pains uh that are an annoyance at at least, um distracting and bothersome. Um Some of us are experiencing not only that, but perhaps uh other kinds of sorrow in our lives from the trials and tribulations that in your providence you have allowed to happen uh for our good and your glory. Uh Lord, we come not as people pretending that everything is together, but we come uh because we need you. We need your grace. We need the truth of your word to shape our thinking. Uh and especially as we study the book of Revelation, uh we We need the understanding of your plans for the future so that we would have hope, so that we would not put our trust in the things of this life, that that our hope would not be in the ease of life here and now, but our hope would be in you. So Lord, let this lesson this time in your word today draw our eyes to Christ. Uh and even as we meditate on your coming judgment of your enemies. Uh as difficult as that is, as in some senses horrifying as that is, Uh Lord, would you cause us to love you more, to have great confidence in you? And would it even stir our own compassion for unbelievers, knowing that if they do not turn to Christ, that these are the kinds of things that they they may experience. So Lord, would you uh accomplish your good purposes among us today? Amen. Okay, so in chapter fourteen uh Uh the apostle John is, as you know, talking a lot about judgment. He's giving us pictures through the visions that he receives of the coming judgment. Uh this is not a chronological passage in terms of uh the moving forward of his And that's certainly true for the uh the passage we'll be looking at verses twelve to twenty where he's he's looking ahead and then when you move into chapter fifteen and sixteen. and then he kind of comes back, kind of resets and and does it over again. But this is a particularly difficult passage for many people because we we want to highlight, we want to elevate the love of Christ, we want to see God and we and we ought to, of course. says gracious and merciful and compassionate, forgiving and patient and long-suffering. But there is a moment where his mercy runs out There is a mur a moment where God is finished showing grace, where his determination to uh extend uh kindness and goodness and love even for the unbeliever, where his love for the enemy comes to an end. And when his love comes to an end, that's when his wrath begins. In it's in a particularly devastating form. And if if God's love is defined as Jesus defines it, uh For the unbeliever in Matthew five is he causes the sun to rise and he causes the rain to fall on all, you know, regardless of of their relationship with him. And of course we know that Uh his love also is manifested in all kinds of ways through the the kindnesses of marriage and children and uh financial blessings. There's all kinds of ways that unbelievers experience uh extraordinary patience But when that is removed, uh it is a horrific reality. And it's hard for us sometimes to to picture that, to understand how could God bring such horrific uh Judgment. I was reading this week in the book of Numbers, and uh the when Israel was commanded to go against Midian, they're in the book of Numbers, uh, they went against Midian, the Lord gave gave Midian into their hands and uh the Israelites saved uh a number of the people and the cattle and and things that the Lord had told them to commit to judgment. And so the Lord rebuked them for that. And he said, You must now kill the women and the children. The women, any woman who has not lain with a man you must kill. And any child you must kill. And you and I read that, and w that's just hard for us to fathom. I if you can dare try to picture in your mind a battlefield and a gathering of human beings who are made in the image of God and who in some respects he might consider to be innocent in the sense that they're not combatants, right? They're not soldiers. Uh but yet God's judgment is on those who have turned against him. And uh there's certainly ways to think through w why is it that God would would bring about such judgment on people at that time. But even when we come here to chapter fourteen, uh it's in some ways easy to consider how God would bring judgment on those who are opposed to him, on the armies that come against His people to to surround Jerusalem and to destroy uh his chosen nation. Uh but God's judgment is not limited to enemy combatants in that sense because every unbeliever is in God's eyes an enemy combatant. And we have to keep in mind that God, in his grace and his patience and his love, has given every Extraordinary opportunity to everybody on the planet to turn to him. God has given time and opportunity again and again for people to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. And to turn to him. When you think about the tribulation, you're thinking about a matter of a handful of years that is preceded by the rapture, which Which means that it's only just a ha a small handful of years, anywhere anywhere from you know immediately after the rapture within seconds to no more than seven years at the end of the tribulation Uh when the church was on the earth, when the gospel was was being proclaimed from pulpits all around the the world Where radio and TV and YouTube we're we're uh spreading the gospel in all kinds of ways, where there's books and articles and the the gospel is just all over the planet Well then the church gets removed. And then there are those who, in God's grace, realize that that they are not in Christ because they've been left behind and they turn to Christ. There are those who who get saved you know very quickly in the tribulation because They've heard the gospel, they've not heeded the warnings, and now they realize they have been left behind, so they turn to Christ. We don't know how many that will be, but there will be some uh undoubtedly And so those people will then start proclaiming the gospel. Those people will start to gather together, uh, perhaps using the empty churches, uh, and worshiping God and being witnesses for Christ, but then of course they'll receive an extraordinary amount of persecution. By the world for their faith. Then the Lord will send the two witnesses who will stand in Jerusalem and proclaim the gospel. They will warn the nations, and their proclamation will be spread around the world through to Technology. And so the world will ha will have this witness to the the truth of Christ, the the need for the world to bow the knee to Christ for uh days and weeks and I don't does it say how long? I don't know. Three and a half years. Three and a half, of course it does. Sorry. Three and a half years. Um and so they'll have ample opportunity to hear the gospel. And to turn to Christ. Well, then of course they get killed. Then the Lord raises them from the dead, raises them up to heaven, which everybody sees And again, there is another testimony and another opportunity for the world to turn to the Lord when they see such miracles. And then there's the 144,000 Who are the chosen uh you know from twelve thousand from each tribe of Israel, who are God's witnesses, God's evangelists in the world. They're proclaiming the gospel. And then, as you learned last week in the early part of chapter 14, which we'll review, then there's that angel who proclaims the gospel in every language around the world. And all along the way there's people who are coming to Christ, there's people who are believing the gospel by his grace and and and becoming witnesses themselves. And so there's just opportunity after opportunity, there's gospel proclamation after gospel. proclamation. So as much as we would be horrified that God would bring such devastating judgment on the planet, we need to remember that it is not without merit. And it is not without warning. God has warned the earth by the time of the events in the latter part of chapter fourteen. And the judgment that comes to the world is far, far overdue. So let's just remember that as as as we walk through this this passage here. But as Pastor Rob would say before before we get into that we'll do review. So the the lesson for today, uh blessed are the dead from verse thirteen. Uh those who die in the Lord are blessed because of how they lived and how they died. Especially through the um the years of the the beast. And then verses thirteen to twenty get into the reaping of the earth, which looks forward to the time when Christ will return and defeat his enemies. So, for review When we look at chapter one, uh sorry, chapter fourteen, verse one, uh it says, Then I looked and behold the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 having his name and the name of his father written on their foreheads. So here we see that what attest what arrested John's attention was the eye-aw-inspiring sight of the Lamb standing on Mount Zion. This is a monumental moment in redemptive history. The text also describes the hundred and forty four thousand as having his name and the name of his father written on their foreheads. And we we see that back when uh was it chapter uh six Chapter seven, when we're told about the 144,000, yeah, chapter seven, that they are sealed, and that sealing is the name of God on their foreheads. It says in chapter seven verse three, Do not harm the earth or the seas until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. So that seal in chapter seven is the name of God given to them, which of course is in contrast to the mark of the beast. which is the name of the beast. So and despite uh Satan's best efforts, the all hundred and four thousand will survive to meet Christ on Mount Zion at his second coming. This is not the first time John heard the voice from heaven, nor will it be the last. The voice he heard was very loud and continuous, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of loud thunder. The mighty voice was not a mere noise, it was a it had a musical quality like the sound of harpists playing on their harps. And this new song sung in heaven before the throne and before the four living creatures And the elders is the song of redemption. Verse three says, And they sang this song before the throne, before the four living creatures, and no one could learn the song except for the one hundred and forty four thousand who had been purchased from the earth. These are the ones who have not been defiled for with the thing. Women, for they have kept themselves chaste. These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. So in the midst of the darkness of the tribulation period, which of course is extraordinary darkness, the hundred and forty-four thousand will shine forth like beacons of pure Purity, despite the rampant sexual sin that surrounds them. And these hundred and forty-four thousand will not defile themselves with women, but will keep themselves chaste or pure. This passage does not necessarily teach that they The only thing I would note about that is um the word chaste is also a word that can be interpreted as one who is a virgin. So it is possible that they are unmarried, but in contrast to the world around them, they are pure because of the the reality of sexual sin is one of the defining sins of the of the world at that time, in many ways as it is today. It's hard to imagine that being even more so, but it certainly can be. And in contrast to the world around them, the hundred and four thousand, one hundred and forty four thousand will be pure And so they are characterized as ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. In redemptive language, reminiscent of chapter 5, verse 9, John explains the 144,000 have been Purchased from among men. They will be redeemed as the first fruits of God and to the Lamb. In the Old Testament, the first fruits, the first part of the crop to be harvested, were offered to God to be used in his service. The 144,000 will not propagate Satan's lies, but will speak God's truth, and no lie will be found in their mouth. Because they will trust in God's power and lead lives characterized by purity, loyalty, and purpose, they will be blameless. Next, John sees another angel there. It's flying in mid heaven, having the eternal gospel preach uh who will preach the gospel to those who live on the earth and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people. And he's pointing out here that the The angel is flying above the earth where the beasts and the world cannot reach this angel to stop what he's doing. The eternal gospel preached by the angel is the same one proclaimed throughout all history. It's the good news of forgiveness. Forgiveness and eternal life. The angel's message is addressed to those who live on the earth, the phrase always used in Revelation to refer to unbelievers. The all-inclusive phrase, every nation and tribe, and tongue and people stresses the comprehensive worldwide nature of the angel. Angel's proclamation. This angel will call out with a loud voice to all unregenerate people everywhere, and his message to sinners is fear God and give him glory. He will call the people of the world to change their allegiance from the beast to the lamb. Unbelievers then will be called to fear and glorify God immediately because the hour of his judgment has come. So opportunities fading fast and the bold judgment. Are coming, the angel gives one final reason for sinners to turn from the Antichrist to God, proclaiming that people should worship him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and springs of waters. Then another angel comes, follows the first one, the second angels Uh equally brief and direct message is fallen. Fallen is Babylon the Great, which underscores the finality, certainty, and comprehensive nature of of the Babylon's judgment. Babylon in this passage refers not to the not just to the city, but To the Antichrist's worldwide political, economic, and religious empire. And Babylon there is personified as a harlot. She is described as one who made all the nations drink of the wine of the passion of her emotion. Now we have to remember that immorality in scripture is used especially in the Old Testament as a uh metaphor for idolatry. So it's not solely sexual sin, though no doubt it will encompass it. Uh but there will be extraordinary idolatry, of course, worshiping the beast and the false prophet, uh and all that is contrary to God. The food angels diet warning is addressed to Anyone who worships the beast in his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand. In chapter thirteen we saw that everyone who will be required under pain of death to worship the beast in his image as a sign of loyalty to the Antichrist and in order to function in his world economy. Every one must receive a mark on his forehead or on his hand. Those who drink the wine of the harlot, Babylon will also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is mixed in full strength in the cup of his anger The horrifying fate awaiting the person who drinks of the wine of the wrath of God is to be tormented with fire and brimstone. That the unregenerate will be tormented in the presence of the holy angels, and of the in the presence of the Lamb will add shame and embarrassment to their sufferings. And so the third angel concludes his message with a final sobering thought about the punishment of those who worship the beast, declaring that. That the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest day or night. And this slide he uh just affirms that um consistent teaching is scripture. Scripture of an eternal hell. Isaiah, Daniel, John the Baptist, Paul, Jesus all affirm that hell is eternal. Jesus said that it is a place of eternal fire, a place of unquenching. Fire and that where the fire is not quenched. So in conclusion, these three angels deliver God's last call to repentance before the final judgments fall, and the Lord Jesus Christ returns, but God's gracious warning Will go unheeded by most of the sinful world. This is perhaps no clearer illustration in Scripture of the sad truth that men love the darkness rather than the light, for their deeds were evil. That's the passage I'll be preaching next Sunday. So that's been on my mind. mind a lot this week. But all right, any th that's the first ten verses of chapter uh fourteen. Any lingering thoughts or questions as you've reflected on that passage uh this week before we move on. Yeah, Tiki. Um What is that one refer to in this context? So uh the uh it's s its core meaning would be the city of the beast and the Antichrist, but it's expanded to really refer to his entire enterprise, his entire empire I think. Yeah. A specific city or just this. Yeah, well the Antichrist will have to rule from somewhere. So he'll have a headquarters if you will. Yeah, a a a city. Um you know, of course we don't know precisely which city it will be today, but uh unless Rob told you otherwise. It's primarily the system, right? Uh yeah. Now when it when it gets into um I might be uh transgressing my uh expertise here, but um when it gets into chapter eight eighteen where there's an extended uh treatment of the fall of Babylon, it's clear that there is particular destruction to a specific city which is the center of uh the the work of the Antichrist. Um because of how it speaks of uh you know it says in there chapter eighteen verse two, again fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, she's become a dwelling place for demons, a haunt for the unclean spirits. Verse 3, for all nations have drunk the wine of her passion, uh of her sexual immorality. Again, hearkening back to chapter 14. Um Let's see here. Uh to verse 10, they will stand for off the nations will in fear of her torment and say, Alas, alas, your you great city, you mighty city Babylon, for in a single hour your judgment has come. And then it says verse eleven, and the merchants of the earth will m weep and mourn for her, since no one gives buys their cargo anymore. Then it goes on to list all the different kinds of cargo that come out of Babylon. Um verse fifteen, the merchants of these wears who gained wealth from her will stand far off in fear of her torment, meaning they don't want to get swept up in the judgment that is coming down to this particular city. Verse 17, all shipmasters and seafaring men, sailors and all whose trade is on the sea stood far off. So there's a a world Um Sure, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. in the in a geographic sense the GPS coordinates might have been different places, but certainly any place associated with the name Babylon in any form of it is certainly a source and center of evil. Right. Right. Yeah. We see that in Daniel most significantly, well not most Revelation most significantly, Daniel is a key example of that. Anything else? So pastor also when he scattered scattered them. You know, they also took their false doctrine, for beliefs and throughout the world uh when God scattered, you know. In Genesis eleven? Right. Yeah. The four beliefs pretend the Folk teaching, you know, things like that. And spread that Yeah, well when when they built the Tower of Babel, there were no worshippers of Yahweh that we that we know of anyway. Uh because it is out of the the line and a number of descendants down. Rob probably knows the exact number of descendants, but uh it is out of uh the descendants of those who built the Tower of Babel That Abraham was chosen in order for God to establish the Abrahamic covenant, you know, to choose a people and make it the nation that would be his chosen people. But as far as we're aware, every other people Every other people group, every other family on the earth was worshiping a false god. Just for what it's worth, there is a measure of mystery in that because there seem to be some worshippers of Yahweh. Oh Abel, yes. Yeah, I'm thinking of like from the Tower of Babel though, coming out of the Tower of Babel. But Melchizedek is one You know, k he's the king of Salem, priest of God most high, as he is referred to. Um what was uh Job. Job would be another one. He's during the time of the patriarchs, around the time of Abraham. Uh anybody else can think of one One later post Exodus. Uh pre priest of um uh pre that Moses is wife. Jethro. Jethro maybe. Yeah there's not a clear indication. But but possibly. You're not talking about Balaam, were you? I'm thinking of Balaam. I'm thinking of Balaam. I was reading that section of Numbers this week. And uh interesting thoughts. I I don't know about Balaam. Yeah, and it's so interesting, you know, Balak calls Balaam Balaam to curse the people of Israel. And Balaam says, I can only say what Yahweh and he refers to him by his covenant name, what Yahweh tells me to say. And uh th just you read the narrative and he seems to be a a prophet of Yahweh. Now we also learned that um he had uh advised Balak to cause there to be integration between the people, you know, to give their women to Israel to defile the nation, and so that led to cursing ultimately, but in terms of his prophetic ministry he seems to be a prophet of Yahweh. At least that's the way the text reads. But there's mystery in how that works. Yeah. You would you would think that the Antichrist was rule from Jerusalem means that he was imit imitating uh Christ and declaring himself. These gosh don't sit there and would catch Babylon in that surrounding area. Uh you look upon Babylon as a place where people have gathered themselves, established themselves, they Mm-hmm. Yeah, that I mean that's a a possibility that Jerusalem itself could be so overrun by idolatry and paganism and false worship that that that becomes the center. But But uh it's a very inconvenient source of trade uh because of the the way to to get there. Um so uh you know we don't we don't know. Ultimately it's certainly a possibility. Of course, in um time in various times it's been assumed it'd be Rome, you know, where the Roman Catholic Church is centered. Um and there's of course the Babylonian Empire that would be a a natural consideration. But yeah, we just don't know precisely It's one of those things where, you know, as you think about the uh the the book of Revelation, how do we understand the the words themselves, what's symbolic, what's metaphor, all of that. Uh as I'm sure Rob has communicated uh the hermeneutic that we follow is that everything has a literal meaning, even if that literal meaning is even if the word itself is symbolic of a literal meaning. And so the word Babylon is a word that is used in scripture Metaphorically, uh to refer to you know the the nations who are opposed to God, but it's also referring to a specific city. But which city, you know, we don't have a Babylon on the earth today. that I know of. Um Yes, Rex. We do. We do. We didn't rebuild. Okay. Since since America went into Iraq. Uh that city is the Oh interesting. Interesting. So Yeah, we'll see w what what things unfold in the future. Okay, you ready? All right. Here we go. Um who the Let me do a a straw poll or a hand raising poll. Who here has the NAS? You carry an NAS still? So committed. Faithful. All right. And so then ESV? Good number. Okay. All right. So it's all person. Yeah. I understand. I understand. Yeah. New King James. And then there's the holdouts. All right. No problem, no problem. There there's a cut there's one or two interpretive things in the ESV that I just I'll make sure to point out. Uh but we'll stick with the NAS uh for the for the sake of consistency. So let's let's just read this passage, verses twelve to the end of the chapter. You can look in your Bible or here on the screen. It says here is the perseverance. And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, so that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow after them. Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was one like a son of man. having a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. And another angel came out of the temple, crying out with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, put in your sickle and reap For the hour to reap has come, because the harvest of the earth is ripe. Then he who sat on the clouds swung his sickle over the earth, and the earth was reaped. And another angel came out from the temple, which is in heaven. and he also had a sharp sickle. Then another angel, the one who had the power over fire, came out from the altar, and he called out with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, Put in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters from the wine uh vine of the earth, because her grapes are ripe. So the angel swung his sickle to the earth and gathered the clusters from the vine of the earth and threw them into the great water. Winepress of the wrath of God, and the wine press was trodden outside the city, and blood came out from the winepress up to the horses' bridles for a distance of two hundred miles. Very sobering passage. Here's uh introductory thoughts that uh this quote from the commentary, MacArthur's commentary. The Bible has much to say about happiness, the familiar New Testament word makarios refers to spiritual joy, bliss, fulfillment, and satisfaction. It describes an inner joy that is the fulfillment of every longing, a serene, untouchable, unassailable contentment and peace. The Old and New Testaments reveal much about such blessedness, but the most startling pronouncement of blessedness. Blessing in all of Scripture is found in verse thirteen. Amazingly, this second of seven beatitudes in the book of Revelation pronounces blessing on the dead. Such a thought is incomprehensible to most people who view death as something to be avoided. Blessed are the living would seem to be a more appropriate motto for most most people. But the obvious question that the text provokes is why are these dead? blessed. The answer it presents is twofold. The dead in view here are blessed because of how they lived and because of how they died. God's final judgment on the earth is the theme of chapter 14, verses 6 to 11. Verses twelve to thirteen form a brief respite, presenting the encouraging, comforting truth of the perseverance of the saints. After that brief rest to encourage the faithful, the theme of divine wrath resumes in verses fourteen to twenty. The judgment is Introduced in these uh the judgment introduced in these verses will take place at the worst time in human history, the Great Tribulation. After years of enduring antichrist oppressive rule, demonic assaults, and the terrifying, devastating saccadists. Judgments of God, people will wearily hope things are about to get better. It will seem as if life couldn't possibly get any worse, but it will. The passages present striking parallels with Revelation fourteen, Isaiah sixty three records a fascinating soliloquy of the Messiah as he comes to execute the bloody final judgment on the un believing world. This passage, like Revelation 14, uses the metaphor of trampling grapes in a vine press, winepress, to depict the devastating uh the devastation of God's final judgment. The prophet Joel recorded the devastating Devastation caused in Israel by drought fire and massive invasion of locusts. The prophet used the temporal judgments to warn the even more devastating judgment of the day of the Lord. In Joel 3, 12 and 13, that judgment is described using the same imagery found in Revelation 14. Continuing on, the Lord Jesus Christ also used the harvest analogy for judgment. In the parable of the tares, he said, Allow both to grow together the wheat and the tares until the harvest. And at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, first, gather up the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them up, but gather the wheat into my barn So, Joel, Isaiah, and the Lord Jesus Christ all spoke of the coming harvest of divine wrath when the Messiah will execute final judgment. That final outpouring of the judgmental fury of the Lamb is the theme of this chapter's text. This passage. Pictures the final harvest of divine wrath in two agricultural motifs. The grain harvest and the grape harvest, raising the question as to why John recorded the two visions of the same event. There are many depictions of this event by the prophets, including those mentioned above, so it is not unusual for John to record two visions of it. But there's also a specific situation at this point in the book of Revelation that suggests a purpose behind the repetition. As the tribulation nears its climax, two aspects of God's eschatological wrath remain to be poured out on the sinful world. The first aspect involves the seven bold judgments, a rapid fire sequence of frightening and deadly worldwide judgments that will destroy the final Babylon, the Antichrist Empire. The second aspect is the Battle of Armageddon, at which point Jesus Christ returns to judge and destroy his enemies. So again, all of that's from the commentary by MacArthur. Alright, so here we are uh getting into verses twelve and thirteen. MacArthur describes these as kind of a respite, kind of a hey, let's take a a breath here before uh we get back into the judgment. Also take verse twelve especially as a reflection on what he has just said earlier in chapter fourteen. He's been talking about uh the the wrath of God coming down on Babylon and those all the nations who drink the wine. of the passion of her sexual immorality. And so he says here, here is the perseverance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. One way that to to think of what he's saying there Is look at all of this devastation that's been taking place, look at all of this judgment that's been poured out on the earth. Anyone who has made it through and is still trusting in Christ That's perseverance. Uh as yeah here's a problem. I have one train of thoughts and I have Rob's notes going in my head and they don't always mix, so forgive me if I kinda go back and forth. Jump ahead. But um the amazing quality of the faith of believers who are walking through the judgment of God is described there in verses uh nine, ten, uh eleven. It is remarkable. Uh you know, we we experience very little persecution in our situation here in the United States. Of course our believers who experience tort torture and and uh death and and whatnot around the world. Uh In fact, uh I was reading the article that Larry posted uh with regard to Nigeria and it was saying that a believer dies every two hours or so in Nigeria? D do I remember that right? So you know what our experience is in terms of ease is is not at all something that will change at the last day. No, it's it's already happening for many believers, and by God's grace there are many who are persevering and enduring the steadfastness uh of their faith. Um but how Much more when the entire world is uh set on fire uh by unbelievers against uh against those who worship the Lamb. So let's let's get into this. The phrase the perseverance of the saints introduces one of the most important comforting doctrines of Scripture. Um it expresses the truth that all those whom God has elected, called, and justified will never lose their Faith, but will persevere until death. That reality provides assurance, hope, and joy to every true believer in Jesus Christ and dispels fear and doubt. It also makes believers deaths blessed because death brings them into the glories of heaven. Now I don't know if you ever think about putting yourself in the shoes of someone who is facing torture or death. Someone who is actively being, um I don't know a synonym for torture, uh mutilated, um, you know, having f uh uh unspeakable pain uh imposed on their body with a f with The promise that if they would but deny Christ, all of this could stop. I don't know if you've ever put yourself in that position in in your mind and thought, What would I do? Could I hold out? Well, I'm sure you've heard this before. God doesn't give you the grace now for a situation that you're not in. Right, for the future. He he will give you the grace then to persevere and to endure. And it is a comfort, this doctrine is a comfort that God will keep his people and no one, it says in Romans eight, can snatch them out of his hand. Right? No matter what they do. And so these particular saints have endured incredible suffering and persecution, but by the grace of God he has caused them to persevere. Some refer to this doctrine as eternal security, others call it once they've always always saved. Those definitions are accurate, but they do not express this truth as clearly as the biblical phrase, the perseverance of the saints. Again, nothing wrong with those with those definit or with those terms, but the perseverance of the saints had it it expresses that uh we will not turn away from Christ No matter what happens. Uh of course, again, that's backed up by God's grace empowering us to endure, but uh it is an active and consistent trust in Jesus Christ. Christ no matter what persecution or hardships come. That's what God enables us to do. He doesn't keep us secure no matter what we do We we can't say, as many Christians throughout history have been tempted to say, Well, I'll just say I reject Christ, but I won't reject him in my heart. You know, because if I if I just say the right words, if I spout this little That they want me to spouse, that'll that'll end the suffering, but in my heart also worship Christ. Well that's a compromise. And so uh we we have to trust that when we f face that moment, God's grace will give us the ability to endure endure and withstand anything that comes. And that's what perseverance is. The persevering character of saving faith is never more clearly and powerfully seen than in this passage. No group of un of believers has ever faced or ever will face stronger association assault on their faith and the tribulation saints. This large group of believers will include both Gentiles and Jews. They'll be saved from the ministries of the hundred and forty four thousand, the two witnesses, and God will set a limit on the tribulation so that the elect will not suffer more That they can bear. There's no stronger evidence that saving faith perseveres than the reality that mo the most tested believers in history will maintain their saving faith until the end. Now just one translation note, the ESB says of verse 12. Here is a call for the endurance of the saints. And there are other translations. What does the New King James say, Morak? I don't know who's going to be able to do that. Oh, who I got. Who is the uh Patty? Yeah. Okay, so that's good. Who has something else? A different No other translations? Any message? Okay. Good. We're good. That was a test. No, so the ESV again says here's a call for the endurance of the saints. Other translations say like th uh this requires the endurance of the sayings. I don't remember what translation that is. Uh but there's a couple other English translations that insert a different verb. But the verb is the verb to be or this is. And it very simply says, I mean as the NES puts it, here is the perseverance of the saints. And so I don't know why the ESV and other translations put in a different verb or a different noun, like here is a call. simply saying anyone who makes it through the the judgment of God on the world and through that initial part of the uh or through the tribulation, that that is what characterized that is what what um Perseverance looks like. And it's defined as those who, on the one hand, keep the commandments of God. That that's how you know you're persevering is when you keep the commandments of God. It's not about again outwardly saying something to end your suffering and inwardly I'm I'm gonna still trust in Christ in my heart. No. Perseverance is continuing to obey God. Diane, well that's a really good point. And let me just kind of restate what you're saying there for the sake of the recording. Peter provides an example for us Of one who can deny Christ but then ultimately return back to him. And we don't just see that in terms of his actions, we see that remarkably in terms of Jesus knowing in advance And not preventing it, but using it for his purposes. And so when we in our own heart perhaps fear something like that, or if you observe something Someone else who you see turning away from Christ, uh we have to remember that until a person is no longer living on this earth, there's always the opportunity to repent and turn to Christ. And and again this is something that, you know, his uh history tells us that Christians would sometimes do, uh, when they were facing extraordinary persecution is they would say, Well, I'll deny Christ now but then I'll repent. And you never you can never justify sin by saying, I will repent later because you don't know what will happen later. Uh and so that is a that's a lie from the pit of hell. That's that's a lie of the flesh. Uh That's rebellion against God. But have if if we would ever get to that place in our own heart where we deny Christ either with our words or with our actions, and we m more often deny Christ with our actions than than our words and you alluded to that. Uh the moment that we are convicted about that, that we realize our sin and feel that conviction, there's the opportunity to turn back to Christ and uh and follow him. Larry. Yeah, thank you so much. That's that's very helpful. Th there's a massive difference between I'm I'm just repeating what you're saying, uh between a cavalier attitude, I'll just do this and God will forgive me, and what you're describing, Diane, of I I'm horrified at the possibility that I might turn against Christ. And I think um what what Larry's saying there and what I would affirm is if we have that that that sense of fear and horror, which I think is a right uh in a sense it's a right fear because if we love God we will fear displeasing him, right? Fear and love are two sides of the same coin. Um then that's showing that God's grace is at work in us. and his grace will empower us when when the time comes. Um, but even as we process that fear and as we think about uh the horror of what what if I do turn away from Christ? One of the ways we can draw comfort is to remember that God's grace is sufficient and his forgiveness is extravagant. Um and that uh he will now he will not allow us if we are truly his and the fact that we're having these thoughts indicate that we're truly his, he will not ultimately allow us to fail, but he will, as we'll sing today, hold us fast. Rex. Peter denied Christ before he was given the Holy Spirit. And that's another factor, yeah. narrow indication that once the Holy Spirit was given, that means he wanted to Yeah. No that that's another good point that uh Peter denied Christ before he had the Holy Spirit. Uh let me go to Richard and then Dean. So uh Uh I th I would consider those to be two different concepts. Denying Christ and blasphemy of the Holy Spirit would be two different concepts. Because Jesus said you can you can uh paraphrase you can say anything you want about the Son of Man and you can be forgiven. But the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit and and of course their the the question of what Jesus means by that is is a question for discussion. Um I agree with the view that that was really a sin that only those in the first century could commit because they were observing the power of Christ and instead of recognizing it as the power of God, the Holy Spirit, they assigned it to the devil himself. And so they attributed Jesus uh to be empowered by demonic forces. And that that's what was unforgivable because they they um they could not and they would not, they refused to acknowledge the true source of the power of of of Christ. Um but yeah those are I think those would be two different Yeah, so that's one example of Peter or Paul confronting Peter about denying the gospel by his actions. There's examples like John Mark, who was on uh a trip, I don't call it a mission trip, but you know what I mean. Uh with Paul and Barnabas and departed 'cause, you know, we don't know precisely but uh uh not good reasons. Obviously Paul thought he he abandoned the the work. Uh, but and God works in his life ultimately to to restore him. So while we don't ha have any examples in scripture of spirit and dwell people denying Christ, Rex is totally right about that. Again that doesn't mean that we don't deny Christ in other ways with our with our actions, with with our uh every time we commit sin, the truth is every time we commit sin we're denying Christ, right? And so um y uh which is obviously a very different thing than verbally saying You know, Jesus is not Lord, Jesus is not God, you know, Jesus did not rise from the dead. That's when we sin we're we're implying those things, but we're not saying those things. And so there's you know the Lord knows our heart, like Richard was saying. Uh the Lord knew Peter's heart, the Lord knows our heart. And um if we are his elect, he will keep us. He will preserve us. That's what it says in Jude, uh at the end of Jude. Um Jude twenty four. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. To the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ, our Lord be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before. So our perseverance, you know, we we may stumble as it you know it when when he says there you to him who's who is able to keep you from stumbling, that's not a denial of the fact that believers sin. Uh as though God's persevering work in our life presents uh prevents us from uh from sinning. If that were true then none of us could be believers, 'cause we're all sinners, right? You're with me on that? Okay. Might have to resign here. But uh but the that ultimate stumbling of of falling away from Christ. So perseverance here. Scripture clearly teaches that genuinely saving faith will result in obedience. Jesus says if If you abide in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. He defined those who truly love him as those who obey him. He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my father, and I will love him and disclose myself to him. And he also said, You are my friends if you do what I command you. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. So again, perseverance is obedience. And so those who make it through the tribulation, what characterizes their perseverance is that they obeyed. the commandments of God. And again, that's under the extraordinary pressure and weight of a world that was dead set against the commandments of God. That that wanted nothing to do with God. They did everything the opposite of God's design and God's purposes. They hated God. They lived lives of immorality and idolatry And so there were there was no greater contrast in history in terms of a worldwide uh antagonism and hostility toward God than here at the tr during the tribulation. And yet there were those Who persevered by continuing to mark themselves out as those who obeyed the commandments of God. A second way that they demonstrated or manifested their perseverance is through their faith in Jesus. They were They will remain loyal even under the tyrannical reign of Antichrist, even the threat of ex even the threat of execution will not cause them to abandon their faith like the heroes listed in Hebrews eleven. They will maintain their testimony until the end, even if that end is a horrifying Martyrdom. There these faithful dead believers are blessed because they live pure, obedient, joyous, exemplary lives for the Lord Jesus Christ. A life that even if there was no No heaven would still be the best way to live, but because there is heaven to follow this life for God's people, uh because there is heaven, the death of the tribulation saints will also be eternally blessed. So again the whole world is going after the beasts, going after, you know, uh following the false prophet, worshiping the Antichrist. They're taking the mark, they're they're committing idolatry, but these saints continued to believe in Jesus. So then we have verse thirteen. And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, so that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow with them. Um having lived with perseverance, the tribulations die with this promise. It's this is the sixth time in Revelation that John heard a voice from heaven, and you will hear a voice three more times. The voice, which is probably that of God, not an angel, commanded John to write. Uh twelve times in Revelation John is told to write. The apostle was under a divine mandate to record the visions that he saw. The heavenly voice ordered John to write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. These martyred these martyrs are blessed. Not only because they lived a life of obedience and trust, but also because they died in the Lord. And so John the voice informed John that not only uh those already dead are blessed, but also those who die from now on are blessed. The martyrs the martyr believers from that point on until the end of the tribulation will have nothing to fear. Their deaths too will be blessed. Now here the Holy Spirit is quoted directly in Revelation, uniquely, other than in chapter 22. And his emphatic yes shows he agrees with the heavenly body. voice that the dead are indeed blessed. As their sustainer and comforter who loves them and is grieved by their pain, the Holy Spirit longs to see that suffering end. He has two the reasons for the tribulation, martyrs, blessedness. First, the Spirit declares that they're blessed because they uh because they may rest now from their labors, which describes hard, difficult, exhausting toil. It can also refer to Bothersome annoyance or trouble. Certainly the tribulation saints will experience deep sorrow as they watch those they love, their children, parents, spouses, and friends, suffer torment and death, and all of that will come to an end. And the Holy Spirit also pronounces the tribulation saints blessed because their deeds follow with them Deeds refers to their service to the Lord. When these believers go to heaven, the record of their diligent labor will follow along with them. The Bible teaches that God will reward believers in heaven for their earthly service to him. Right. There's a number of passages that speak to the fact that we will all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, which is not his judgment to determine our eternal destiny, but his judgment to determine our eternal rewards. And the basis of that judgment, or rather the the outcome of that judgment, is based on The deeds that we did here in this life, uh whether they are good or evil, things that stand up to eternity or things that will last forever. Yeah. Thank you. I think it's in Corinthians Corinthians five, n uh ten. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ so that each one may receive what is due For what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. And that's just repeated a number of passages. Paul says it there in 2 Timothy, I have fought the good. I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. In the future there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge awarded will award to me on that day, not only to me, but also to have loved to all who have loved his appearing. And Jesus says in Matthew six Store treasures in heaven where moth and rust do not destroy, where things thieves breaking and steal. That's what he's referring to. Live as though eternity is real and invest in eternity. So those who uh the the dead who have lived in obedience and trust in the Lord will be blessed with rest and a reward after they die. Alright, that brings us then to verse 14, which uh brings us to the end judgment in these two pictures. He says, Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was one. one like a son of man, having a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. Now the the Bible doesn't make a distinction, but for what it's worth, uh there's uh there's two different words in English, I guess. Uh In terms of the tool that's referred to here, there's the sickle, which a sickle is typically a hand tool. And then there's the scythe Scythe. Scythe, and not sid, scythe. Uh which is more of the the long w which has a long handle. And w when you have the hand tool that requires much more personal involvement in the sense you've got to bend over. Uh the the videos that I saw, I wanna see how how does this work in real life. You have to bend over, you have to grab uh the uh a a s stack of wheat or whatever and then cut it with a scythe and you know move on. But the sorry, the sickle. Uh I'm sorry. No, you're right. The sickle is a big one and the science is we will be ventured. Uh are you saying Google led me astray? Okay. All right. So they just have sickle and science backwards? Anyway. But the scythe is, you know, with a long handle you just swing it back and forth as you kind of go down mowing mowing the uh the grains. Of course we see that image in our popular culture of the reaper, the grim reaper, you know, who has that that side. or sickle, whatever term you want to use. Sorry. I just breathe and want the long handle cutter and one's a shorthandle cutter. Exactly. Exactly. But he's holding apparently the the long handle one 'cause it it pictures him standing on the car th this is a vision that Daniel had, you know, the Son of Man, which even Jesus referred to when he was standing before the Sanhedrin um at his trial, and he finds So this is the vision that John sees here. It's a vision of the end time when it will when Jesus will return. And uh I guess you get back into the notes when I do this. Um so the familiar phrase I look and behold often introduces a new and important subject in Revelation. What caught his attention was a white cloud, an image drawn from Daniel seven, and John saw sitting on the cloud, one who was like a Son of Man, the Lord Jesus Christ, coming to establish his kingdom. White cloud symbolizes his glory and majesty. Of course we the disciples saw Jesus ascend into heaven on a white cloud, and what is it what did the angel say? The one whom you've just seen ascend will descend in the same way. So that's why Daniel sees 'cause that's exactly what's going to happen. So he's ready to take the dominion which Daniel prophesied, but for the moment At least in the start of his vision, this reaper, the Son of Man, Jesus, is sitting as he waits for the proper time to stand and begin the reaping. Son of Man was one of the Lord's favorite titles. For himself, as I said, derived from Daniel's prophecy. This becomes the last time Scripture refers to Jesus as the Son of Man, as it presents a marked, and it presents a marked contrast with the first use of that term in the New Testament. Testament where uh Jesus said in Matthew 8:20 that the Son of Man does not even have a place to lay his head. But now he's about to take possession of the entire earth. The reperts described as having a golden crown on On his head, this crown is not uh diadema or dema worn by a king, which re reflects the the jewels that are on the crown of a king, but Stephanos worn by Victors or Yeah, victories in war or athletic events. Uh pictures the Son of Man not in in his identity as the sovereign ruler, but as the triumphant conqueror, victorious over his enemies. He has this sharp sickle in his hand, a sickle with a long curved. sharp iron blade attached to a long wooden handle and the sickle was swept back and forth and the sharp blade would cut the s the grain stalks at ground level. And so the picture is of the Lord Jesus Christ mowing his enemies down like a harvester cutting grain. So then this angel comes out. This is now the fourth angel mentioned here in this particular chapter. And notice that he comes out of the temple. He comes out of the temple. of the temple representing the will of God to be declared to the Son of Man. Three angels, uh the first three angels proclaimed that judgment was coming. This fourth angel brings the command to execute that judgment. So he comes He comes from the throne of God, and in a loud voice he declares with urgency, power, and authority that's been given to him by God to the Son of Man. Telling him, put your sickle and reap, put in your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come, because the harvest of the earth is ripe. And I think it was Psalm 110, where the Lord says to David. David's Lord, sit in my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Again, verse fourteen says the Son of Man was sitting, and now this angel is declaring from uh being dispatched from the throne of God to tell The Son of Man, the time has come. It's time to harvest. The earth is ripe. So the angel delivers the message from God the Father to the Son of Man. It's time for judgment. So here's one of the most tragic and so. Statements in all of Scripture, that is verse sixteen. In response in obedience to the command of the Father, then he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth The frightening details of this judgment are unfolded in chapter sixteen, and they include the terrible and malignant sores of the on the worshippers of the Antichrist, the death of all life in the world's oceans, the turning of the world's rivers and springs of water into blood, the intensifying of the sun's heat until it scorches people, darkness of all the Antichrist overall the Antichrist kingdom, the dying of the Euphrates River in preparation for a massive invasion by the kings of the East, and the most powerful destructive earthquake in history. Rapid fire bullet judgment is marked marks the first phase of the final reaping of the earth. But then there's another angel that came out of the temple, which is in heaven, and he also had a shark. Verse 18 says, Then another angel, yet a sixth angel, the one who has power over fire, came out from the altar and he called with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, meaning the fifth angel, put Put in your sharpsickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth because her grapes are ripe. The vision of the grain harvest is followed by the vision of the gr grape harvest. Did I say that right? Um okay. So anyway. Which does not speak of the bold judgments, but of the judgment that takes place at the Battle of Armageddon. So, you know, we we can't read too much into these two distinct types of uh metaphors. Grain harvest and the and the grape harvest. But the grain harvest, you know, because of the the cutting down, the mowing that that represents, that easily pictures the bold judgments. Um and and there's no sense of gathering the In terms of everybody gathered together, it's like just the whole world is the field, and the the Son of Man um reefs the whole world in terms of cutting down his enemies. But then in Armageddon you have the world. coming against Christ and his city, Jerusalem, which would argue against, I guess, Jerusalem being the city of Babylon because they're coming against Jerusalem separate from the fall of Babylon. But um uh there there's a gathering and a particular uh destruction of the world uh the world's armies in one place. So the reaper in this vision is not the Son of Man as in the grain harvest, but an angel, the fifth one mentioned in chapter fourteen. Like the fourth angel, the fifth one came out of the temple, which is in heaven. Like Christ in the previous vision, And he also had a sharp sickle, and then there's a sixth angel, one who is described as the one who has power over fire. Now if you have the ESV it says the fire, that's because there's an article, uh the word the in front of front of fire in the Greek, um which grammatically you can depending on a context you can either translate it or not, but in this sense in this case it would make sense to to say the fire because Notice that it doesn't say in verse 18 that this angel came from the temple in general, like the angel in verse 17, but rather he came from the altar itself. So there's a particular fire in the t in the altar, and that fire in the altar, I should just stick with the notes here, represents the prayers of the saints. Here it is. That's where the incense is offered which would rise toward heaven, symbolizing the prayers of God's people, in chapter five, verse eight. So it's as though the angel is demonstrating the answer by God to the prayers of the saints. That finally the the saints who've been praying for the destruction of uh God's enemies, for the coming of the end of the world, their saints are finally being answered to you. So the reading is only referring to unbelievers? In this situation, yes. So then from less than dead, they've all died prior to this. Is that That's not an entire that's not entirely known. There were there will be those it would seem who will survive. Um and so the the statement of blessing is uh recognizing that what's about to happen is going to be so utterly devastating that it would be better to have died than to make it through. But there will be th that doesn't mean that Everyone, every believer will die, there will be some who will be alive. Right. Right. Because there will be those living in Jerusalem when Christ returns to establish his kingdom. And you know, perhaps through the the rest of the world is as well, but obviously a sm much smaller number than would be in the world today. Right. Yeah, the the salvation of the Jews of the one third of the Jews will take place really as the armies are coming against them and they are at their um sorry what praise for that um they have no hope until the messiah comes and what is I Isaiah fifth um not fifty one they will look upon him whom they appear and they will recognize uh the Messiah who has come for their salvation and they will turn to Christ in that final moment. Uh we don't have time to to go through this more quickly here. Oh, that's a bummer. Um Well, good thing that Rob reviews everything each week. You'll so you get the rest. Um come with a lot of questions and uh Yeah. Alright, well let's let's pray as we even consider these these realities. Um Father, it's uh there there's so much to talk about, there's so much to think through, to process. Uh you have revealed an incredible amount, even while there's still so much more you could have said, but you've given us enough to help us to know what your purposes and plans are, uh, to the degree that we can have confidence that judgment will come, that you will be faithful to exactly In fact, vengeance, as you have said, vengeance is mine, says the Lord, that you indeed will repay on that final day. And uh Lord, we we do pray for the nations. Uh we pray that the nations return to you, even as that call goes out. in Psalm two to all the kings of the earth to turn and submit to the Son of God and to bow to his rule, lest they be caught up in his wrath. And Lord we we pray for those believers around the world, those in Nigeria, those in all other nations where there is uh fierce and lethal persecution, um, that you would strengthen them even as they uh endure, that you would cause them to keep their eyes Fixed on Christ and fixed on eternity. Lord help us to be mindful of these end-time realities. That though we would believe that we will be in heaven with Christ uh during these events, not because you ha don't want us to suffer but because these are the pouring outpouring of your wrath. And so Lord uh help us to live today and in as witnesses for Christ, so that more and more people, those whom you have chosen would hear the gospel and believed uh believe and and be added to the course of the saints. Uh God, as we now transition to corporate worship, would you prepare our hearts to receive your word, to sing your praises, to fellowship to one With one another in the truth, so that Christ would be glorified and your spirit would work among us, sanctifying us, uh, so that we wanna might be uh more and more like Jesus Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.