Alright everybody. Let's um let's go ahead and get started. So um I can promise you that some of you have seen Scott Mahoney and I in a room at the same time. Just not usually this class, apparently. So Scott is traveling and I am going to cover for him today. And um next week when he returns, I'm traveling, so I won't be here. So just the joke I was just making with Nate right now, it's it's almost like I don't I don't like to see the aftermath of my teaching like the week after. So like, oh we got a trip, we gotta go. So, jokes aside, um we are going to continue in the conversation around the problem of pain, but really right now focusing in, because we've we've We sort of set ourselves in what the question is. We are going to spend more time again today in what the answer is. And particularly today, we're going to actually focus on the goodness of God. So what I've done with the notes which are with Jeff is I've actually left Scott's notes and I called it a reintroduction. And the reason is it's just it's very good to let the notes stand alone where you can just see like what is what what is the topic we're interacting with, what is the premise of the question. And very much for ourselves this morning. How do we as believers interact with this topic of pain and suffering? And what question does that bring in the world as to the nature of God? And what is the what is the What is the truth that Scripture has for us that is both for us and for the unbeliever next to us, right? It's all together I think you guys have gotten a sense of how I like to do the class a little bit. I think we're all the same people that have been in the class, but just as a reminder for the couple of new faces, I'm Daniel Ragav, so if you have any questions, just Find the afterwards, email me whatever whatever you want. Um and this is one of these things where it's so it's funny to me, so then I the joke persists. And I as I was writing it, I was just thinking that he can Seagan would think, like, is that joke still funny? And I was like, yeah, it's still funny. Yeah, yeah, I got it. Definitely still funny, guys. Um Today's topic on the goodness of God is one of those ones that's a little bit like a kid in a candy shop. There is so much that I can pull from. There are so many different things that I can interact with. What I'd really like to do today though is be a little bit systematic just in terms of like w what are we saying and what do we mean and and even before that why are we asking this question. So what you'll find um is as we go into it, I've interspersed some topics, some quotes from some writers on sort of this idea of the goodness of God, and then we're going to park ourselves in scripture on the back end. And I'm going to try to do it in a somewhat somewhat timely fashion. This is the other logistical thing I just want to mention. We put quotes I put quotes from authors in here where I agree with the thing they said and I like it. It does not mean everything they've said is everything necessarily that I agree with or the church agrees with They're not heretics, but there are, you know, like they're just they'll come down on different topics. So just as a reminder as you're going through it, just be like, this is a really good resource on this topic a Berean, a Berean approach to everything, right? Go back, test against scripture, test against is this good doctrine? Just as a reminder, just so it isn't like a, oh this was quoted in class, everything this person says is good. Like, nope, read it carefully whoever it is, right? Like um and end. Okay, so let me open our time in prayer and then let's get a little bit into the topic. Okay. The premise of the question that we are right trying to interact with is summarized right at the beginning is this this idea of If God is willing to prevent evil, is he not able? Then he's impotent. If he is able but not willing, then he is malevolent. So bad intention. He's not good. Is he both able and willing Why then is there evil? Right? It remains the question about well how do we interact with who the nature of God is? So what was the topic that we were talking about last week? Yeah. Great. God's sovereignty. Give me a little more. Well, like in the sense that you know God is evil and ultimate cause uh whether that means good or bad. Yes. So and sort of like is that able to prevent people? Yes. That can also cause people like how does that work exactly Ultimately yes, but in terms of proximal cause I don't think that would be answered. Yeah, and I think to put a little bit of a to put a little bit of sort of like a bold emphasis on this It's really sort of the idea of trusting in the idea and the truth that God is in charge of all things. And we use that word sovereign with the idea of he's a ruler. He is he is a king in his kingdom, he is creator, he is the one who all things come under his authority That idea of authority, that idea of question we understand as people, right? We understand what it is to have authority above us The picture of authority that we have above us, uh uh the human picture, if you will, is one where we look at the ruler and we ask questions about the nature of the ruler, correct? So when you have a king or in a timely way that I will not open this up to discussion for the record, a president in front of you or a election coming in front of you and you want to consider what is the nature of that person in authority in this place, the reason we ask about that nature and their I'm going to use sovereignty even though obviously in the States maybe it's like not as that's not the term we'd use. Why don't we ask about the s the nature of that person who has the authority? So it's perfect, right? We take God as sovereign. He is in charge of all things. Why do we ask the nature of his sovereignty next? Then I see it. Doug, you want to say something or no? Well i yeah, it gets down to um People um have a uh to borrow this word, are on the spectrum of goodness. Um and We we're gonna judge based on in in our country we're gonna judge based on how much they're looking out for my good intentions maybe. Okay. We're also then gonna be judging them based on whether or not we think they are good leaders or, you know, benevolent leaders and and things like that. And there's a aspect of where we have the idea of communicable attitudes with God. Yep. Where where we have goodness, but God is omnigood. And so there's a a stark distinction between those two things. And so we're we want to That's great. I very much appreciate sort of like taking me through with the analogy, right? Like we understand that in a human way and in a limited way as to Well what are we looking for if there's authority above us? And but then to to the point we were making before, when we consider the nature of God and sovereignty, And that was a perfect segue. Thanks for reading page two of the notes. No, I'm just kidding. I know you know. Um is one who is completely in charge, one who is completely sovereign, is also completely, or may I use the word infinitely good. So when we are taking the logical problem of evil as to if there's um an omnipotent, omniscient, omnevolent God How then do we interact with life? The question becomes, well, how do we understand who God is, and how do we understand his nature and the attributes of his nature? I'm going to pull this from Scott's notes still, the sovereignty of God and Providence. He had written, God's providence includes his omnipotence, so omnivalence, um omnibenevolence, and omniscience. Definitions below, but really we know it's all-powerful, all-good, all-knowing. Providence is the divine superintendence over all created beings, the care of God over his creatures So when we want to get into this conversation, I want uh so I'm already jumping right to second page of the notes. So at the top you have The goodness of God. And I wanted to start with exactly really close to what Doug was just talking about. How do we understand the attributes of God? So when we consider the nature of God, we have to be very careful not to try to over-emphasize certain attributes over others so we don't carry a slanted view of God. He who is holy and just is also loving and good and sovereign. So I'm a visual guy, apparently I've learned more about this in this class. And I again went for circles. And I drew these circles on the board. And based on what we just said, I want you to I want someone to just tell me why I would have drawn those circles on the board. Okay. So it shows it shows that there's I mean and I I mean forgive my drawing a circle But the intention here is if there is a distinction between the three colors, the three colors, the three circles, there is in fact no distinction here. So consider the attributes of God Which is the right view and why do I want us to have it? Just based on exactly what I was saying. This is not the Trinity, by the way, so be careful. Go ahead. Um makes me think like there you talk about um the omnipotence and benevolence omniscience like there's no he's not all powerful without being all good and he's not all good without Yes. All knowing without these others as well. Absolutely. If I take it and I and I just want to consider If I want to consider the holiness of God, and I want to consider the love of God, and I want to consider God's justice. There is not distinction. Justice wasn't directly after it wasn't for there. But let me take uh well no, I'm gonna take just actually Righteous, if you will, right? Holy, loving, just. They are not in distinction. to each other. There is not a realm in which he is only holy and just but not loving. There is not a realm in which he is only loving and just but has forsaken his holy Yes. He is, in fact, all of them at the same time and infinitely. Let me actually uh I'm gonna read to you there's gonna be a little bit of reading of quotes because honestly when you go to men and women who have written things very well, sometimes they just go directly to their words because they explained it. On the attribute of goodness, so this is A. W. Tozer. Now all this that I've said means that God is good All this he is infinitely. Why do I say that? Because infinitude is an attribute of God, and it is impossible for God to be anything and not be completely, infinitely what he is. It is possible for the sun to be bright but not infinitely bright. Because it doesn't have all the light there is. It's possible for a mountain to be large but not infinitely large. It is possible for an angel to be good but not infinitely good. Only God can claim infinitude. When I say that God is good, that He God has a kind heart, I mean he has a heart infinitely kind and there's no boundary to it. When I say that God is good-natured, good, and kindly of nature, I mean he is infinitely so. God is not only infinitely good, he is perfectly good. God is never partway anything. When I say God is kind-hearted, I mean that he is perfectly so. I do not mean that there are ever times when God isn't feeling good and isn't kind. He is perfectly That attribute. And he is perfectly each of those attributes simultaneously. And when your mind starts to go, how exactly does that work fully? I would encourage you as believers to find yourself at a place of worship. Because the problem that we have in this space is we immediately try to default to our models. And the models that we have in front of us. And we immediately go to, was God maybe like good some of the time, but he's not being good right now? It's not true. It's not what scripture says. Is God maybe like not just? There are some that we are, I will argue from the nature of like the teaching and just sort of like the the the spheres we run in, there are some that were like definitely really good about never giving up Uh forgive me in this, right? Like I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna paint with a broad stroke here and it's not a fair one, so it's not my intention But I think that sometimes we can struggle more with the idea of God's goodness than we can with the idea of God's justice. Sometimes I think we can struggle more with the idea of God's love towards us that we might struggle with the idea of God's holiness. It's not true, right? The struggle can go in any of the directions. But the idea here is, well God, what are your intentions in this circumstance? And when we ask that question, the question about what are your intentions, if we're being totally honest, The question is, are your intentions good here? Did you mean good for me? Did you mean good in this situation? And there is a danger to that thought, because one, you're not paying attention to who God is. And two, you will get yourself all wound up in looking at yourself and your circumstances and forgetting the one who controls all things, who is who knows all things, who is all good. Does that make sense? There is a there is a sense in which we need to ensure that we are looking precisely at who God is and not what we're trying to make him Because our models are broken and our and our um and we sometimes are trying to swap the images. So a place that I wanted to go with this is actually out of Matthew 7. And then I'm going to double back to something that actually Doug has already said. So Matthew 7, 7-11. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks, receive, and the one who seeks finds. And to the one whom knocks it will be opened. Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, we'll give him a serpent. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? You'll note in the the little sort of uh the n uh the note that I wrote above this verse was To be careful to take the analogy that the Lord is using for us to understand and to not swap it as the exhaustive definition. Why did I say that? What do I mean by that? What the Lord is giving an example is for those of you that are a parent in the room or those of you that are a a child that you know like had um a mom or a dad or both growing up or those of you that might not have and you've nevertheless had someone who gave you good gifts in a fatherly or motherly way When you read that verse and you understand it, there's something that you get with the idea of, well yeah, no, I no I do know what that is. I do know what it would be that if if my child or when I went to someone who loved me and I asked them or they asked me I was willing to give. Like that analogy resonates and it's good. What you don't want to do is then take every image you have of, for myself, I'll speak, being a father, and then say, God, this is how you're a father. What's the danger there? Yes. Well assuming we have limitations and failings that God does not have. Yeah. So There's always gonna be things that in our human understanding make sense and seem like the right thing to do. And when God doesn't do that, then we are confused and upset because he's not being behaving the way we expected him to. And it's like, well, you're not God. Excellent. That you you set a note in there, not behaving the way you expect him to. What did that idea pull at? We don't understand God completely. Okay. It means never built. There may be a bunch of attributes we can see and understand. There may be attributes we don't even understand. He's just beyond us. Yeah. I I think one other aspect I that comes into my mind is his plan, is how So all those attributes yield a plan. So when the the argument about um Is he willing to prevent evil? Well, his attributes said there's a plan. Sometimes he does, sometimes he doesn't. It's according to his plans and attributes. He's not or you whenever whatever this guy thinks. But there's a futuristic and time That he's already made a benevolent plan, a good plan, a just plan. But he's going to adhere to that. And that's missing from all these Yeah. That's that's great. Because it it assumes the question itself assumes putting ourselves in the place of God that we would understand how everything comes together and then makes a claim as to whether the way it comes together, is it good or is it bad. I think that's the thing that's really interesting, right? There's always a moral claim that comes with these kinds of questions. It's, well, is this thing good? And if I don't see that it's good in front of me, how could it possibly be good? Looking at the Lord, suffering and dying on the cross, with as many times as the disciples were told, and leading up As many times as it was written in Scripture, as often as God in His grace had revealed, this is the plan, this is what's going to happen, this is necessary. The disciples in looking at that assuredly thought, how could this be good? Is this good? When the disciples cross the line with the Lord in terms of like, don't do this, get behind me, Satan. That is a stark, stork comment to make, but it is one that associates the idea of questioning God's intentions and God's purposes as if we Are elevating ourselves to a level that we can be worshipped as Satan has. It's not true, but that's the idea behind it. But the encouragement there is that there is a good answer When I so I'm gonna give you a little bit of a personal story here. So I apparently I filled the need to introduce it like that. Um I grew up in the Middle East. I've talked about this before. My parents were Christians. I'm Egyptian. Being a non-Muslim in the Middle East is a very distinct thing. And so there is a lot of, and I'm saying that purposely, there is a lot of uh cultural associations with being a Christian Egyptian And I'm doing that in quotations only because I called myself a Christian for a long time before I was ever a believer. And I didn't become a believer until um until immediately after college. But when I was in college, I would go home to uh to Egypt and I spent time with my parents and I would get into these arguments I don't think I've told this story here before in class. So if I'm repeating myself, I'm sorry. Um I would get into these arguments and I would use the argument of Well how can Jesus be the one if there's suffering in this place or there is um You know, or there's a question about like, well, what about those people in that place who don't know Jesus? How did that work? And these are questions I would I would argue. And my dad, um who who we're we're we're just a family of argues a lot. So it's like uh it doesn't necessarily mean conflict, I just mean that like we're willing to be like, I don't agree with you. What do you think? And so we go back and forth a lot. Which for the record there's a lesson for me as a father in that, as I'm learning the thing. I'm asking these questions, I'm pushing them these questions, and my dad continues to just say I want you to look at the cross of Jesus. And I said, I don't understand what you're talking about. And he kept saying You need to look at who God is, that in his nature, he was willing to send his son to die on the cross for the sake of those who don't deserve his grace and his mercy and his love. And that is the nature of who God is. So when you have these questions, you we may not understand how that all works. But we do know the truth and we do know the gospel and we do know this is God is, and even more so he raised him from the dead, that there would be new life. My dad is knocking me with the gospel. I got so mad at him. And I was just like, that is a complete cop out. Like you are not answering my question. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. I became a a believer, maybe a few years afterwards, and it was a few years after that I was teaching in a youth group And the question came up and I gave the same answer and I thought, oh, I get it. And I remember because I was like in Virginia and I had to call my dad. and ask and essentially just apologize to them for something from like eight years before and just been like you were totally right I get it now. When I asked the question of how does the plan work, how could this be good How is there anything that can overcome this evil? The place I can look to is who is God What is the nature of the sovereign one? What is the nature of the good one? What is the nature of the Savior? And that's the place where we find not only our comfort, but eternal truth. And in a lot of ways, the you know the thing out there is as you're preaching that to yourself, that's the same thing we preach to people who Don't know who God is. There is a logical argument, and there is also the argument of like, but you need to understand what's true The goodness of God, the sovereign plan of God, how powerful he is is all right in front of us, and here's why it's true. So, and I sort of uh put myself into it. Why do we actually yeah, and then there's one other thing that I want to double back on for a second, which is what Doug had touched on before. When we consider these attributes, and I'm not going to be super hard-lined in these, but there are attributes that we can refer to from God as communicable, as in those that are shared with us more. And those that are incommunicables, like those that we don't share with God. And those just relate to the nature of who God is. And the goodness of God is definitely one of those ones where It's communicable. It's not only are we understanding that God is good, but we share in that nature. And as believers, he's empowered us also to be even more good. To be to be um As we're made in the image of God to continue to be better image bearers and those that are freed from sin and able to do so more. That warning, I just want to remind you, that warning about it's a shared attribute, but don't make your definition of goodness be the definition of God's goodness. I just I really want to punch that for you guys because it's really hard. I can be good and have good intentions towards my sons, but I make mistakes towards my son. And I can go from a moment to a moment where I was not good towards you in that moment. That is not the nature of who God is. The nature of God is not one such that he moves from a goodness to a lack of goodness towards you. It is one where he is never changing. He is the same yesterday as he is today, as he will be tomorrow. That goodness does not falter It's great. It's great to have. It is a blessing to have good examples of faithfulness and love in front of us. Each person in front of us, next to us, ourselves, we fail in that. There's grace for that, and I'm thankful for that. But that's why none of us ever go to each other as For the gospel. We go to the Lord, we keep it in Scripture, because that's the place where we'll understand truth If I'm being a little repetitious in that, I'm sorry. But on the other hand, I think that this was punched home for me all week as a reminder, but like, oh yeah God, I do need to trust in you in this. Yeah, this is a space where I have um Maybe I've given up a little bit of ground, if you will. So why do we ask ourselves if God is good? And we kind of talked about this a little bit. Why should we spend time on defining our understanding of good? Because there's a moral claim to be had. But the question is, who does that claim belong to? Is it actually our measure of goodness? Or is it an eternal measure of goodness? It is a claim of what is worthwhile that belongs to God. Why do we make that distinction? Because when we say something about the, you know, like fathers that fail, or well, you know Don't even take it like it's a conversation amongst believers in the room, just a conversation in the lunchroom at work or with someone in the park or someone in school or someone who doesn't know who the Lord is. We make moral claims. Everybody makes moral claims, right? If someone says, uh forgive the expression literative, but someone refers to something as a deadbeat dad. We know a little bit about what they mean, right? Which immediately points to there is an expectation of what a good dad is. Right? And that expectation, sure, there's there's a little bit of, you know, like there's there's shades in it And when you know the Lord and you know what it is to have a heavenly father, you push in the direction of like the perfect father. And then our idea of fatherhood, I'm going to keep using that example because it's my own and then that way I cannot put it on anyone else. As you move that direction, I go towards the best and the best and the best claim. But I don't actually have to go that far. I can talk to any unbeliever that I know And every single one of them that I've ever talked to, in sharing the gospel or anything, once we talk about family, there's an expectation of what you might have There are moral claims to be had. So the question is then when we consider the goodness of God and we say, what's the moral claim against God? And actually, who does it belong to? Is it ours? Or is it more Lord, we're made as we were made in your image so we understand what your goodness should be like. But we we keep swapping the image a little. So this is a quote from actually like a little bit of an article on C. S. Lewis's problem of pain. We all have some sense of justice. We all want evil to be punished, to be recognized for what it is, especially in others. Yet we deceive ourselves into thinking that all is well with us. Pain reveals the reality of our own evil and gives us a choice either to resist and rebel against the ultimate standard bearer or recognize our sin, repent, and surrender. Pain shatters the illusion that all is well, that what we have, whether good or bad in itself, is our own and enough for us. So then, how does our question of God's goodness and his sovereignty relate? My push to you all is to consider your heart and how you come to the Lord. In Mark ten, thirteen to sixteen. And they were bringing children to him, being the Lord, that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, Let the children come to me, do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on him. There's a couple things I want to quickly mention out of this. One, if you haven't recently just consider the nature of the Lord in his time In his time on earth and in earthly ministry, that in all that he did, in all his teaching, in all his um miracles, in the entire walk That his nature was one that children wanted to come to him and be around him. Just there's something to consider there, just as a reminder. But the Lord doesn't just leave it as the earthly example that the children want it to come to them and don't let them. But He put it to He put it to the disciples. You in coming to me, in coming to the Father, need to come like a child. When we consider The plans that God has, the nature of God, the intention of God, His ability to know all things And I think about this passage out of Mark. I consider the idea that a child who comes to their father, particularly when they're young Considers all these things about their parent, their dad or their mom. Well Obviously, mom or dad know everything. Well obviously, like I'm gonna get food when I'm hungry, or obviously they're gonna protect me, or take whatever it is, right? The kid gets scared what he does Runs through their mom's arms, runs through their dad's arms. You have questions, you ask your parent. You know that your parents gonna do has a plan for what the day is going to look like, the kid comes along with it. Note that for those of us, which includes every person in this room, that have seen some rebellion from our children, What do they buck against? Well, I don't want what you're giving me right now. Well, I don't think you know what's right for me Well, I don't think that you have a good intention towards what it is. And don't get me wrong, right, let us continue to confess that we mess up as parents. But the idea there is that the rebellion starts where they are no longer trusting in that same kind of relationship. Take that image and then put it in the perfect way that when we come to God, he is the good father who there isn't no shadow eternity, right? He is the one who knows all these things, who does all these things. This entire relationship is already built into the the very nature of how we do life as people To trust in the all-powerful, all-loving, all-knowing God is to trust in his person and character and that what he purposes and accomplishes are perfect in all ways. So my encouragement to you right here, I'm going to pause, is to consider your prayer life. And why am I connecting it directly to your prayer life? Why would this be the moment where I'm going to pause and just say, hey, so how's your prayer life right now? Ideas? What do you have, Mark? Your prayer life. really reflects on yourself on your relationship with God. Okay. In what way? Every concern, every need Yeah. Um whether it's your will or his, it's still goes to men. Yep. So in order to understand it, sometimes gotta ask for wisdom, frequently. Yeah. And sometimes to get through it, you gotta ask for the strength. Yeah. So, um that is very like to show Because when you're not walking with it, you can you have a tire through it all yourself. That's really well said. I appreciate it. What if you haven't been walking well with the Lord? You're a believer, but what if you haven't been well working well with the Lord also? I'm not pushing against what you're saying, I want to add to it, if that's okay. What if you're not walking well, Laura? What if those of us in the morning right now that we're talking about this and you considered your heart in getting ready for church or your heart in whatever it was this morning or last night that you were Sinful and fearful of, anxious of, preoccupied with. What if you're not walking well there? What of your prior life also Let me ask it another way. Can you still come to God? Yeah. Why? Um forget Sorry, I yeah. Cozy's loving and forgiving. What was it that you went to right there for that answer? I mean I know you just said it, but I just mean grace. You are leaning on what about God? What did you say? His nature. You are leaning on his nature. You are leaning on his truth. So as an encouragement in this morning, in the areas that you've not been trusting in who God is, and his intentions and his promises, but I encourage you that He remains the same, true and good. But I encourage you that in coming in your prayer in the areas where perhaps you have not trusted God in this area or you have sinned against him or whatnot. You can come to him and your prayers can be messy and they can be not well ordered and they can be in a space where you're just like, God, I just I just gotta talk to you. Because that's the other thing that kids do with their parents who they trust and love. is they talk to their parents. My encouragement to you there is you can trust in the goodness of God in your prayer life such that you don't have it all patched together and fixed such that you can come to him like you are perfect. You come to him because you're not perfect. What do you got, Joe? Um one of the things that I've been encouraged by the fact that not only that God has all these attributes, but he delights in exercising all these attributes attributes. And so what encourages me personally is when I come to him in repentance and whatnot, I know there is a sense of delight and joy in him receiving me. And and that is such an encouragement from my heart to be like, oh well I'm pleasing God, I'm bringing joy to God. And so that's a that's a blessing to me in my own personal life. That's such a great point. Thank you. That is such a great point. That it goes just beyond his nature that like this is what he desires, it's what he wants. Is there somewhere that he cannot reach that his promises are not true or that his nature has changed? Is there somewhere that he does not delight for you to come to him in? Whether it's praise or whether it's repentance, whether it's confession or whether it's need? Is there? There is not. So um I have a lot of compassion and uh and on Scott right now as I look at the clock and I'm like, oh okay, yeah, this is exactly what it's like. So, hey, why don't we define our terms a little bit on what goodness means? So I'm going to pull a little bit from um systematic theologies in these and just for us to understand it a little bit. The goodness of God means that God is the final standard of good, and all that God is and does is worthy of approval. When we say worthy of approval there, we do not mean that we get to approve of what God approves of, but rather it's his own approval. That being said As we walk with the Lord, as we understand him more, in fact he changes us. That we delight and actually Joel to lean from what you're saying, because that's really helpful. He changes this that we delight in what he delights in. That good thing that he has made in design, in perfection, it turns out that we we tend to love that thing too. There is no higher standard of goodness than God's own character, and his approval of whatever is consistent with that character. Nonetheless, God has given us some reflection of his own sense of goodness so that when we evaluate things in the way God created us to evaluate them. We will also approve of what God approves of and delight in things in which he delights. I should have read my own notes right before I quoted right ahead of time. It it's it's that it's that same thing. We we delight in these good things. So it moves the question It moves the question from just why is there pain, why is there suffering, why are things hard, to, but God, you're good, and I'm going to trust in you. And I believe that your intentions are good, and I believe that you don't change, and I believe that you're with me now I'm going to pull just one little thing here, which is he is in every way, this is a quote from Burkhov, he is in every way all that he as God should be, and therefore answers perfectly to the ideal expressed in the word God. This points actually what we were talking about just a little bit before. It's not a shade of what it should look like. It's a perfect completion of that. So let's spend the rest of our time actually in scripture a little bit. What I've done is I've just put a few verses. So it's not exhaustive. There's a lot to be mined in Scripture for the treasure of God's goodness and his faithfulness and his intentions. And so the whole idea here is just like these are some of the points that along the way I thought could be helpful. I think I'm going to switch it up a little. I think I'm actually going to ask some people to start reading some of these passages. Can I get a volunteer for Romans 8, 18 to 25, please? Thank you. Can you tell me your name, actually? Johnny. Johnny? Okay. Sorry, I I don't know that we've met before. Johnny. Um can you read that one and then can I get someone else to read 828-39? It's a little longer. That would be great. Can I get in the bike? Thank you. And then let's just do those two. Hey, just as a quick reminder, if I put a typo in here, I'm really sorry. So just yeah. Of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. To futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom Of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been growing together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits Of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoptions as sons, a redemption of our bodies. But for in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen as not hope for who hopes for what he sees. But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Yes, that'd be great. And we know that for those who love God. All things work together for good, for those who are called according to his commitment. For those whom he worth new, he also pretends to be performed to the image of his son. In order that he might be the first one among many brethren. And those whom he presented, he also called. And those whom he called, he also judged. Justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these angels? If God are for us, who can be against us? He who Who did not scare his pain, but gave him up for all but gave him up for us all. How will he not also witness graciously Give us all things. Who shall bring any charge against God to the left? It is God who justifies us. Who is to condemn us? Christ Jesus is the one who died. Than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us, who shall separate us from the love of Christ. Or distress or perse or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written For your sake, we are being killed over their life. We are regarded as to be slaughtered. No. In all these things we are more than common But I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rumors, nor things present nor things to come Nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else at all created Thank you. Hey, from those two passages we just read Is there any realm or sphere of our lives untouched? Is there any complaint? Is there any worry? Is there any anxiety? Is there anything that you can say? that these truths and this promise did not touch. There's not. It covers it all the way. I put these tiny little notes I I was going through these passages and I just thought like, okay, what am I thinking when I'm thinking about this verse? And like let me distill it. And I thought Well I think I'm actually just going to write the note on here and then you know it's not a summary of everything in the verse and context, but it's my intention for why would I put this here or why why is it A God whose eternal plan, Bill just thinking a little bit about what you were saying before also, a God whose eternal plan is perfect and grand. What's that last one I put? Personal. Personal. It the span of what Paul is writing about, even just in the space in Romans, covers the groaning of creation. To you will not be separated from the love of Christ. It's the full gamut. That's it. Alright, we're gonna keep going. I'm gonna be I'm gonna be disciplined here. Can I get someone to read um Jonah, that passage. Someone to read Job, which is one verse, and then the small section from 73. So I just need three volunteers. Yes, that would be great. And then who could the one verse can I read that can you read the one verse, uh Job first? And then Psalm seventy-three. Anybody? Thank you, James. Um before we start, um the Jonah verse and the Job verse Should be familiar a little bit because they were in and referenced in the sovereignty lesson last week And it was funny because Scott and I were talking about it a little, because he had put his notes together, and as I was reading it, I was just like, oh, it's interesting. And I went back to the context of the passage he had put for sovereignty. And so many times Where we understand the sovereignty of God in the proximal verse, right nearby, in the context, you will find the good intentions of God right next to it, because He is consistent. And so my encouragement actually to you, if you want a little bit of a, hey, I need a little space for devotional, whatever that looks like for you, go back into the sovereignty lesson from last week. Go through those lessons and spend a little time in those passages and just and just understand that every time God is talking about how he in his own right has rule over his creation, has a good plan, it comes out his love and his care for his people. So let's start with PowerPoint, please. But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant so that it whipped it. The sun rose. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah, so that he was faint. And he asked That he might die and said, It is better for me to die than to live. But God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the plane? And he said, Yes I do, well, to be angry, angry enough to die. And the Lord said, You pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow when it came into being In the night and perished in the night. And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons who do not know their right hand from And also much cattle. Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said. Psalm 73, 23 through 26. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward, you will receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart. Thank you. Hey Jonah, are you sure that your sense of righteousness and mercy and pity are up to snuff with mine? Are you sure that you pity like I pity? Are you sure that you love like I love? Are you sure your mercy is as good as mine? Take that and swap out Jonah's name with your own name. My name. God, are are you sure that you're good in the space? Is this really how you would show mercy? Have I not? Am I not more merciful? Do I not care more about these souls? Have I not sent my son? There is grace in the Lord's correction and discipline for his children, right? There's grace in having your thoughts realigned to be like, nope, you are more merciful than I. You are more good than Den I. The moral claim that a non-believer has or a believer has against God when we're not in the right space doesn't stand up to the goodness and the morality of God. Because his justice is better, his righteousness is better. And there's comfort for us in that. I call, starting in Job 38 I it's like, well why do I have to have a name for it? But I do. I call it I call it Job's SmackDown. It's just I don't I don't have a better way of referring to it, but it's just what happens. And you know what? When we were doing the sovereignty passage passages last week and there was the aspect of Job, I guess kept thinking about this idea, well but God, you answered Job. But you answered him. And the answer that he gets is this constant walk or the constant, it's this fairly thorough walkthrough of creation in terms of these like, were you there with me? Were you there with me? Were you there with me? And on the surface there's just a, it's, you know, like we know that it humbles Job, who's just sort of like, I'm not doing this again, I cover my mouth. I'm sorry. But on the other hand, there is so much mercy, and honestly, how beautiful it is that the creator is like, actually I'm going to talk to you a little bit about what creation was like, like from me. The Lord is one who speaks to us. The Lord is not a creator who set things off. And then just says, look at my creation, I'm nowhere with you. He says, look at my creation, and I'm going to say it to you because I'm right here. There is something in that passage that oh oh Lord, you answered Job. You talked to him, and you answered him in the best way he needed answered, which was not from the finite questions he had, but from the real answer he needed put in front of him. I am God. Understand that the answer to everything you have struggled against is that I am God. In this passage in Psalm 73, if you go, and my encouragement to you is to spend a little time in Psalm 73, There's a complaint at the beginning of Psalm 73. It's a sort of like implicit complaint where the psalmist is saying, I almost stumbled because I looked at people in their prosperity, I looked at them in the wickness, and I thought, how come it's so much better for them than it is for me? But the psalmist doesn't end there. And he takes himself down to, you hold my right hand, I am with you, you guide me Whom have I in heaven but you, and there is nothing on earth that I desire beside you? My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. You will not change and you are with me. So I can look at circumstances around me. I can try to understand how come they're not suffering in this way? How come they're not going through this in this way? And I can say, no, Lord, you're with me. You are with me forever. Alright. I'm going to point to these verses. Yeah, go ahead, Mark. God's answer to Job. Um I think for a long time right now, I just kinda looked at God's answer to Job as like it's kind of an answer for us all. Yep. Um But is it that and then also like simply an answer for Joke to like and what I mean by that is like you know we're all We Job had the struggle that he had. Yep. Um that was unique to him and we have the struggles that we have that are unique to us. God is the same. Um and as he was answering Job, there's something that We all could take away from that for sure. Yeah. But um is it also like this is the answer that Joe needed? And there's potentially beyond what we see in Jove um other answers to the struggles that we have that we need the science to I I think I'm getting the gist of your question. Um I the way I would answer that is the it is it is precisely God answering Job in like in context. It is the Lord's answer to Job directly, from which there are principles for us. Does that make sense? So it is God's truth. It remains, he's talking to the man Job, but he's also just talking about things that remain true to beyond that. Yeah. Does that answer your question a little? Yeah. I I guess what I was trying to say is like um God's answer for Job, yes, there's things that we could take away from it, um, all of us in our struggle that we face. Um But maybe there's a there is an answer also that's unique to us that's not all encompassed in the Uh uh answer to us that is not uniquely encompassed in Joe. Yes. Well I mean I I just mean that like I think I'm understanding the question. I may be struggling, we might need to catch up a little afterwards if I'm not totally getting it, but I guess what I'm saying is that the truth presented in Job is not exhaustive of all of God's truth. There is more beyond that Yeah. So while Job has an answer to sorry, while God has an answer to Job in the midst of his suffering there and there is an answer to be found there. That is not the exhaustive answer, though scripture has so much more. Does that answer that? It does. Okay. Okay. I'm gonna uh point to a couple of verses and then I wanna read two more, if that's okay. Actually we referenced this already a little bit in terms of James 1. And just the idea that every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father Light with whom there is no variation or shadow due to due to change. He does not change. He does not we we talk about this, right? I feel like I've been hammering this point over and over. And then to connect that every good and perfect gift that comes from him is is as a reflection of him. He is a father that does not change. He is a God. When we look at Genesis 1 that creates from his nature. And so God saw everything that had been that he had made. And behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. The um The temptation in sin is to replace the image is to replace the one who created with the thing that he created. Right? That is that is the temptation. I said a little funny. I thought Joe was saying let me say that right. He the temptation there is to swap that which God has made for himself. You worship an idol instead of God. And those idols become easy for us to point to when they're really, really stark and different. I'm definitely not going to have a statue that I worship in my basement in this way. That's an easy one. Hey, how's your focus on your career going? How's your focus on your parenting going? Hey, how's your focus on this going? Those things or treat them in their right place. Okay? Because otherwise it's that same idea of you're trying to replace What is a good God with a thing that's in front of you and saying like, well, this isn't perfect, then then God, you must not be perfect because this thing I've made an idol in front of you is not perfect. Well, that's because you swapped it, and that's uh that's not the thing Thanks, Holly. That was helpful. Um That Matthew passage was actually one that we had in sovereignty and nestled into it is this idea that there is a God who values that and whom he creates. That it is not just something that he makes and walks away from. It's that he delights in his creation and in goodness and in those that he loves. And then in Acts two thirty-eight We have a God who, as a reminder, which we talked about in Romans 8, we have a God who saves. And Peter said, repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise for you and for your children, for all who are very far off, this is uh Sermon of Pentecost, everyone whom the Lord our God calls himself. And with many other words as he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation So those who received his word were baptized and they were added to the day about three thousand souls. He is a God who saves. I put a little reference there. I was thinking about Pastor Gabe's sermons over the past few weeks where you have and it was written in a in a commentary actually out of John 4 that I'd reading that was just pointing towards if you look at there is Nicodemus and then there's the Samaritan woman and there is a gu there is a good gospel and there is a Lord who saves sinners that they might look like an esteemed religious leader or they might look like a social outcast who is in the midst of her sin. And there is a God who saves on any end of that social spectrum. So my encouragement to you in the last five minutes is where do you go from here? What is the thing that we as believers need out of this? Is love, trust, and obey. I pulled this a little thing out of Milton Vinson. He has a uh it's a book called Gospel Primer. Every time I deliberately disobey a command of God, it is because I am in that moment doubtful as to God's true intentions in giving me that command. Does he really have my best interest at heart? Or is he withholding something from me that I would be better off having? Such questions whether consciously asked or not lie underneath every act of disobedience. I put my own footnote here, which is Which is weird to add on to s what I find to be a very good book, but I've done it anyway, so I'm sorry. Um I just wanted to expand that disobedience to include your fears, worries, and anxieties and things that preoccupy your minds. That there's an aspect of that. I'm not trying to put um weight on the shoulders of someone who has anxiety or is worrying about something that is not my intention, like, hey, that's disobedience. But I'm trying to encourage you that you can obey the Lord by taking your worries off your shoulders and putting it on Him. And there is freedom in that The gospel changes my view of God's commandments in that it helps me to see the heart of the person from whom those commandments have come. When I begin my train of thought with the gospel, I realize that if God loves me enough to sacrifice his son's life for me, then he must be guided by the same love when he speaks his commandments to me. Viewing God's commands and prohibitions in this typo light, I can see them for what they really are. Friendly signposts from a heavenly father who is seeking to love me through each directive. so that I might experience his very fullness forever. When controlling my thoughts, as described above, the gospel cures me of my suspicion of God, thereby disposing me to walk more trustingly on the path of obedience to his commands. I've ended here in this John 15. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do nothing. I'm going to skip all the way down. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. Please listen to this last one. These things I have spoken to you that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full. This is the encouragement that the Lord is giving to the disciples in the upper room right before he is going to be crucified, right before they are going to endure something that they will question as to is this the good plan? And his encouragement to them is understand That not only that you won't have sorrow, that your hearts won't be troubled, which is how he starts in John fourteen, but that your joy may be full. And the encouragement to us out of this is that we can abide in him. We can live in him. We can draw all things with him and walk with him. So that is my encouragement for you out of this morning as we trust in the midst of the very real lives that we live and the struggles that we personally have, that we can trust in who God is in all things. So I'm going to close in prayer.