And we'll start with He is risen. Alright. Let's uh let's bow and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this day in particular That we celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. What a great day it is, Lord, to know that we serve a risen Savior. We thank you, Lord, for your entire plan of s of redemption. the way that you redeemed fallen mankind to yourself through sending Christ uh to live as a man, to to live a sinless life and to die on the cross For our sins. And then on the third day you raised him from the dead, and he sits at your right hand. What a glorious day, Lord. We thank you so much for this resurrection Sunday. We thank you for your word where you tell us all of these things. You tell us about yourself and your plan. of salvation. We also thank you, Lord, for this section of Scripture that we're about to study today about the end times. So the fact that you are sovereign over all things, from the beginning of history all the way to the end of history, and that You reveal to us enough for us to know at the end that the triumphant Lord Jesus Christ will come again. and reign on the earth as Lord of Lords and King of Kings. We thank you for all of that, Lord, and we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. So here we are on part 31, 31 of 39 parts, studying through the book of Revelation. Revelation of Jesus Christ. And today we're going to do chapter 17, and that's about the destruction of the final world religion. We saw the bold judgments in chapter 16, and then uh chapter 17 and eighteen is a little bit of a pause uh between the end of the judgments, the the bold judgment we've had the seal and the trumpet and the bold judgments, and Christ is coming again at the end of that But we have this um uh this little pause in chapter seventeen and eighteen to explain uh what happened to the Antichrist kingdom. In chapter seventeen we'll see what happened to his religious system and then we'll see what happened to his political and economic system. Uh that those things were all brought crashing down. Uh the Antichrist false religious system, his economic system, and his political system all crushed by the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we'll s we'll restart the timeline and we'll have the return of Christ. So that's chapter 17 and 18 are kind of. kind of a um go together here and what we're gonna study. So uh today we'll take a look at the destruction of the final world religious system, uh the final world religion, and as I said we'll get to the economic collapse and the political collapse after that. Uh we'll see this harlot, we'll get introduced to this harlot, the exposure of the harlot, the authority that she has, the alliances, the apparel, the abominations of the harlot, the accusation of the harlot. Then the angel will explain the harlot. and the beast as well. And then we'll get to the extermination of the harlot. So that's what we're going to study today. But first We'll take a look at chapter uh to take a look back at chapter sixteen, where we saw the final seven plagues, the pouring out of the bowls by the seven angels. So the seven angels we met first in chapter fifteen, and they were given their bowls. in chapter fifteen. Now in chapter sixteen, they execute God's final judgment. They go they're ordered to go pour out the the bowls of God's wrath on the earth. The first angel goes and pours out the the bowl and it's the loathsome and malignant soars. Uh Um the second angel pours out the bowl on the sea and it becomes blood and everything dies. The third angel pours out his bowl on the springs of fresh water and they become blood too, so it's the sea and the fresh water with the second and the third. Third angel. The fourth angel pours out his bowl on the sun, and the sun um uh is scorches with fierce heat. Uh so it's uh severe global warming all at once. instead of gradually. Um and yet the unbelievers, the uh the the general uh population will continue to blaspheme the name of God and refuse to repent in spite of all that's gone through Before this, in spite of the um the seal judgments, the trumpet judgments, now these bold judgments, uh which are God's prod to unrepentant sinners, they they continue to uh be unrepentant. Uh the fifth angel pours out his thr uh bowl on the throne of the beast, and there's darkness, and they continue to blaspheme the name of God uh and not to repent. Then the sixth angel pours out the bowl on the river Euphrates and it dries it up, and the text explains why that is. It's a preparation for uh the kings of the east to come across the Euphrates so they can come for the Battle of Armageddon. And then we have a pause between the sixth bowl and the seventh bowl for these three uh demonic spirits that uh uh are in the vision they look like frogs to John, but they're demons and their job is they have one job and that's to go out and gather the kings of the earth to come to the battle of Armageddon. And then there's the seventh book And it's poured out on the air, and you have a a big earthquake and hailstones, and those that survive continue to not repent. And so that was what we looked at last time, those seven bold judgments. Any questions left over from last time? Okay. So today we're going to get the destruction So as I mentioned, this is a pause, so we're not we're we're stepping away from the chrono chronological timeline and we're gonna and we're gonna get a description of how the Antichrist world kingdom falls. We'll start with his uh the false religious system, and as I mentioned, then we'll get to the economic and the political system as well. Uh Um so let's take a look. Let's uh open our Bibles to chapter seventeen, Revelation chapter seventeen. And read through this. Revelation chapter seventeen starting in verse one. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters. with whom the kings of the earth committed acts of immorality, and those who dwell on the earth were made drunk with the wine of her immorality. And he carried me away in the spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast, full of blasphemous names. having seven heads and ten horns. The woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls Having in her hand a gold cup full of abominations and of the unclean things of her immorality And on her forehead was a name, uh a name was written, a mystery, Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots, and of the abominations of the earth. And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. When I saw her, I wondered greatly. And the angel said to me, Why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. The beast that you saw was and is not, and is about to come up. out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will wonder when they see the beast that he was and is not and will come. Here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits, and they are seven kings Five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he comes he must remain a little while. The beast which was and is not, is himself also an eighth And is one of the seven, and he goes to destruction. The ten horns which he saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom. But they receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour. These have one purpose, and they give their power and authority to the beast. These will wage war against the lamb, and the lamb will overcome them, because he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those who are with him are the called And he said to me, The waters which you saw where where the harlot sits are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues, and the ten horns which you saw, and the beast, these will hate the harlot, and will make her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh, and will burn her up with fire. For God has put it in their hearts to execute his purpose by having a common purpose, and by giving their Kingdom to the beast until the words of God will be fulfilled. of the earth. Alright, so th uh in some ways a difficult passage, some things that are Perhaps a little bit uh difficult to understand, but we're going to try to unpack it all. So let's start with uh a few paragraphs from John MacArthur, his introduction to this section of uh scripture and his commentary. Uh John MacArthur says this, there is a certain element of truth in Karl Marx's oft-quoted statement that religion is the opium of the people. People are incurably religious because God created them to be worshipers. They will inevitably worship someone or Or something, if not the true God, than false gods of their own making. People are made with a God shaped vacuum that they are constantly seeking to fill. Into mankind's spiritual vacuum steps Satan, the father of life. Lies, and his demon hosts disguised as angels of light, and purveying doctrines of demons. Playing on people's religious bent, they energize religious deception. False religion's powerful appeal comes from its promise to secure. Satisfy man's longing for the spiritual realm without bringing him under God's authority. In their rebellion against the true God, and because of their love of sin, fallen men willingly turn to these damning satanic religions. But wonderfully. Grace graciously, mercifully, though man no longer seeks God, God still seeks man. Indeed, it was to seek and to save that which was lost that Jesus came into the world During the tribulation, people will desperately seek religion because of what will be happening in the world. As the hammer blows of God's judgment, the seal, trumpet, and bold judgments, devastate the earth and terrorize its inhabitants, people will turn in desperation to Antichrist as their Savior, aided by the false prophet and hordes of deceiving demons, Antichrist will establish a world religion. Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots, and the abominations of the earth. So that's uh John MacArthur to introduce this section, and I think he's got it pretty pretty well um nailed there. So let's take a look. Look verse by verse at what this scripture says. So verse number one, one and two. Uh then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, so we just saw in chapter sixteen, the seven angels poured out their bowls. Then one of the angels comes to John. saying, Come here, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth committed acts of immorality, and those who dwell in the earth were made drunk with the wine of her immorality So it's one of the seven angels, so it's continuous, it's connected to these judgments that have just uh happened in chapter 16, uh with us those uh last plagues, uh the last seven plagues with the bulls in chapter sixteen. Um and so as I mentioned the chronology kind of halts here in seventeen eighteen and the scene shifts to God's judgment of the Antichrist world empire in in three phases. The the religion religion, the economics and the politics. Um and so the first target is the world religion. And the great harlot is uh representative of that uh world religious system. This is not an actual prostitute, it's a metaphor for false religion. Spiritual defection, idolatry, religious apostasy. So that's what this harlot is representing here in this vision. False religion. Besides Babylon uh mention here, several cities in scripture are designated harlot cities because of their idolatry and pursuit of false religion. We get Nineveh in Nahum, chapter three, which we just read in uh service last week. Um uh that's a A uh Nineveh is compared to a harlot there. Uh also Tyre in Isaiah chapter twenty three and sadly Jerusalem in Isaiah chapter one is compared to a harlot and it's very specifically in all those cases is uh Because of religious apostasy, because of denial of the one true God and worship of false gods that they're that they're compared to using that imagery of harlotry, and the same thing here in Revelation. And the harlot here uh sits on in a position of authority and sovereignty like a king on a throne beside many waters. The phrase many waters does not refer to a geological location. Uh we get an explanation later on in this chapter. In verse fifteen, the w Uh the angel comes right out and says, The waters which you saw with Arthur Tits are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues. So we don't have to wonder in this case, does it Is this geography? No, it's not geography. Uh the the scripture very specifically tells us that this that will those waters are not a place, but our peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. We get that in verse fifteen. So the harlot will not merely influence but will dominate the unredeemed peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues of the earth. So this religion will will uh be perpetrated this false religion through all the peoples and tongues and nations and uh that's what uh the the angel is showing John that there's go going to be a false religion. We don't know if it's a region a religion that currently exists or one that will exist. exists in the future, but it will be spread throughout the entire world to all these peoples, this false religion. Uh the harlot's authority therefore, this world religion will will uh will have religious authority and it will be Universal. The entire world will be committed to the false worship of this Babylonian system rather than the true God. That's what the angel is showing John here. Uh her association with the kings of the earth reveals the scope of her influence to be immense. Um i it's double imagery here to show all the peoples and tongues and tribes and nation, but also the kings, all the way up So from the bottom of society all the way up to the top, this religion is going to hold sway. Um the phrase used here the that's translated here to commit sexual immorality is porneo Um it's the Greek verb that means to commit sexual in immorality from which we get the um the English word pornography. Uh so that's the imagery that's being used to show uh to talk about false religion. Um and so the and this of course is all going to be tied to the false prophet, the Antichrist and Satan, who are ruling fr uh from around the world will be uh rulers from around the world will become obsessed With the Babylonian harlot, this world religion, that will be part of Antichrist's kingdom, the religious component of Antichrist's kingdom. We saw before that eventually there there will come during the tribulation a time when um according to Revelation chapter thirteen, all who dwell on the earth will worship Antichrist, everyone whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world on the book of the earth. of life in the book of life of the Lamb who has been slain. So that's Revelation 13, 8 that we studied, that everyone will eventually worship Everyone that's not a a believer will eventually worship the Antichrist. But having joined themselves to the harlot, economically, socially, militarily, politically, and religiously they will share her fate. And so we'll see her fate here in a minute, uh at the end of this chapter Um that this is the wrong place to put your faith. Um we'll see that i it it will become a disaster uh for all those who follow the the harlot. So the harlot will not just be allied with rulers. She will be allied with rulers and influential people. But as we see later, it's those who dwell on the earth, all the unbelievers, were made drunk with the wine of her immorality. So all the unredeemed uh will be caught up in this final false religion. Not just leaders, leaders for certain, but also everybody. And they're gonna give themselves heart and soul to this Babylonian harlot, this false religion. Um and so of course this is uh um imagery, uh representative imagery and it's not physically drunk, it's not physically wine, it's not uh physical immorality, although that I'm s I'm certain that will be occurring. Um but instead it's talking about false religion. Intoxicated with Antichrist false religion. So all of this imagery, that's what it's focused on. So make sure you get that big picture. This is talking about false religion. Uh the some of this imagery arri uh i is you can map it to Old Testament imagery just like with many other images here in the book of Revelation, uh though not direct quotes, the imagery itself is often borrowed from Old Testament passages. passages. We've seen that over and over again in Revelation. In this case, Jeremiah chapter fifty-one in particular has many of these same im images. So fifty one seven for example, Babylon has been a golden cup in the hand of the Lord, intoxicating all the earth. The nations have drunk of her wine, therefore the nations are going mad. That's Jeremiah 51, 7. And it's this the same kind of imagery of uh a harlot and intoxication and a gold cup in her hand. It's the s it's very similar And other places in the Old Testament have similar imagery as well. And I'll show you some of that in a minute. And so then he continues, and he carried me away in the Spirit into the will. into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns. So the scene in John's vision changes And the angel carries them away into the spirit, into the wilderness. The wilderness translates Aramos which describes deserted, desolate wasteland. And so in this place, now he's taken in a vision, he sees a woman. And this is the Babylonian harlot, whom the angels just described in verses one and two. And she's sitting on a scarlet beast. And the description is exactly the same as the description we've had of the Antichrist in the past. In Revelation chapter thirteen and fourteen and sixteen we've had description of the Antichrist as this beast. Um the same uh description of uh This beast. Uh with seven heads and ten horns and blasphemous names, all that is description of the Antichrist that we've seen before. But now we see the woman sitting on this beast. We didn't have that before. So that's new. Um and so th the the beast is supporting her. She's sitting on this beast Uh so the initial unifying controlling factor of Antichrist Kingdom evidently will be religion, with the heavens and the earth being ravaged by God's judgments and the world's political, economic, and military Might crumbling, people turn to the supernatural, they turn to religion, and here comes the Antichrist with a false religion. uh to, as MacArthur said, fill the vacuum, uh the god the God shaped vacuum in the heart of human beings. Um here's the Antichrist with a false religion to fill that. Um and that's this woman riding on the on the beast. Um the false religion, the the the Antichrist bringing a false religion with him. That's what the angel is is showing John. The beast and the woman coexist for a while, but eventually, as we'll see, the beast will hate the harlot and make her desolate and naked and will eat her flesh and will burn her up with fire. So uh evidently there is a world religious a system that helps the Antichrist that he he uses and it helps him rise to power, but eventually um he hates the harlot, makes her desolate, eats her flesh and burns her fire, and he's sets it up so that only he, the Antichrist, is worshipped. So he uh himself extinguishes the f the original false religious system that that helped him rise to power. Uh so it will be at that point that the false prophet will make the whole world uh worship antichrist. We saw that in chapter 13, and everything will be one in the beast universal and comprehensive rule. He uses a false religion to rise to power Um but then he destroys that system to place himself as the only object of worship. Scarlet, uh the color of the beast, is the color associated with luxury in 2 Samuel chapter 1, with splendor and royalty. It's also the color of sin in Isaiah chapter 1. And of course the hue of blood. And so Antichrist will be like a boastful, sinful, bloody beast that we've seen before in chapter 13, chapter 14, chapter 16, full of blasphemous names, just like he was in the description. in chapter thirteen. Um and he eventually will deify himself, the false prophet, and he will uh set himself up, the Antichrist, as the only object of worship and and uh assume to himself names and titles that belong to God alone. And so as we've seen in the Old Testament prophecies of the Antichrist, for example in Daniel chapter seven and chapter eleven, the Antichrist will speak out against the most high and will speak monstrous things against the God of gods. Uh Daniel seven and d Daniel Chapter eleven. And so we see that here with the blasphemous names on the beast. and the beast is the image. This image is the Antichrist. So we have this demonic scarlet beast, and he's further described as having seven heads and ten horns. And so we've seen that description before. Uh and it shows the extent of his alliances, his kingdom, essentially. Um as we'll see later in verses nine and ten of this chapter, the angels uh Reveals what these seven heads are. And he uses a double imagery. He says, the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits, and they are seven kings. Five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he comes he must remain a little while. Uh so the there's an explanation coming about what these seven heads are. Uh seven mountains, seven past, present, and future governments. The ten horns represent ten kings. We'll see that in verse twelve, who will rule under the Antichrist, verse thirteen. Um so the harlots alliances She's supported by this beast and the beast has these alliances with everybody, all these rulers. Um so they're it's comprehensive. Once again we get this imagery that it's the whole world, it's everything. So it will encourage All the r uh un the the unredeemed from kings and rulers all the way down to common people uh in this false religion. They were all s worship and smith to her religion, and then the Antichrist will do away with her and set himself up as the only object of worship once the whole world is worshiping the harlot, who he supports. And so church and state will be united as never before in human history. So the Antichrist will have this world religion that will be um at first help him to rise to power but then will be personified by him. So he's the ruler of the world politically, and as we'll see, also economically, if you don't have the mark of the beast, you can't trade. So absolute economic control, absolute political control, and absolute religious control is the picture that's being painted here. And then we'll see the absolute destruction of this worldwide religious system, worldwide economic system worldwide political system. Um yes, with the return of uh the Lord of Lords and King of Kings. Alright, so uh verse four. So going on to verse four. Uh the woman's clothing 'Cause then we've got a description of the beast, then we get a description of the woman. The woman was clothed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a gold cup full of abominations and of the unclean things of her immorality. Wow. So um of course prostitutes all throughout history have usually dressed in order to attract attention to themselves. Um and metaphorically the harlot Babylon will be no different. So the false religion is clothed up in uh in attractive ways to draw people to the false religion. Just as a prostitute dresses herself up to draw attention The false religion is dressed up in such a way, but it draws people's attention. That's the the imagery that the the uh angel is giving here. So John Caesar clothed in purple and scarlet, the covet the colors of royalty and prosperity and nobility and wealth that we see throughout the Old Testament and many different passages in the New Testament, uh these uh colors kind of clothing is associated with royalty and prosperity. In Judges chapter eight, Nestor chapter eight, Lamentations chapter four, Ezekiel twenty three, Daniel five. Uh over and over again this imagery is used in the Old Testament. And so we see this um As I mentioned m many times, but it's worth repeating, John doesn't often directly quote from the Old Testament, but these images are all things drawn from Old Testament images. Uh she's adorned with gold and precious stone. and pearls, portrays her as a prostitute who is both attractive and has plied her trade successfully and become wealthy. So the false religion is not only attractive, but it is working. It's attracting people. Uh that's the in the image of her as wealthy as this false religion is is working in attracting people to itself. The harlot has in her can hand a bold cop. Um and uh again I I quoted Jeremiah fifty one seven before, but this is an image drawn directly from Jeremiah fifty one seven. Babylon has been uh has been a golden cup in the hand of the Lord, intoxicating all the earth. The nations have drunk of her wine, therefore the nations are going mad. And so the Angel in this case is using imagery from the Old Testament. So the angels know the scriptures well, and they are using, this angel is using Old Testament imagery. Uh and the this gold cup is full of the abominations and unclean things of our immorality. Um and of course all idolatry and false worship is abominable to God, and this antichrist false religion will be the worst ever. We've got bad false religions now. But whatever this thing is at the end is gonna be worse than the false religions that we've seen uh up to now. Any let me pause. I've been uh doing all the talking here for a while. Yes. Yeah, that's that's a good point. Uh and I'll I'll talk about it a little bit more in a f in a few minutes, that um some commentators have have have way too narrow a focus on this thing. And and they s they think of the Roman Catholic Church as this uh world religious system. But but that's too narrow. Um the the Roman Catholic Church doesn't um it doesn't have everybody following the Roman Catholic Church, for example. Never has and there's no indication that it ever will. Um so yes, I think that's probably a a false way of looking at it. And yes there was when President Kennedy was elected, um, some consternation and uh including among people who interpret this passage as being the Roman Catholic Church, oh here it is taking over the United States of America. Um and Of course that didn't happen. Um yeah. And now we have another Catholic president now. Yeah, so that's a good question. We don't uh we're not given any um any way I don't think to determine uh right now what what exact religion this is. Whether it's one of the current religions like Islam, for example, that gets bigger and bigger and bigger and takes over the whole world Or whether it's something new that we haven't seen yet. It could be e either one of those things. But you're right, there are you know, religious extremists that have been um perpetrating atrocities, it seems, more and more, uh these days. And in fact that could lead to um this kind of world religion, but I don't think we can say that for certain, uh, from from these passages, w what exactly this world religious system will be. Any others before we romp on? Okay. Okay. Um and so verse five, and on her forehead a name was written, a mystery, Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots and the abominations of the earth. Um and so, as was customary in the Roman world. Um uh for per prostitutes to identify themselves. Um so this harlot, uh this imagery of a harlot has a name written on her forehead. Uh and that also uh is the same as Jeremiah 3:3. And the name John sees is Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots and the abominations of the earth. The harlot is called Babylon. And in many contexts in Revelation, as we'll see, it's talking about a city, a real city. But this is not. This is obviously not talking about a city. Um it doesn't refer to a geographic location. Ancient Babylon The Babylon of John's Day or the rebuilt Babylon in the end times. There's lots of things about the rebuilt Babylon in the end times, but this is not it. This is not it. The details of this vision can't be applied to an actual scissor. This is talking about a religious system. So this Babylon is the symbol of all worldly resistance to God. And it actually goes back to the Tower of Babel as a symbol of resistance to God, a universal symbol of resistance to God, um and false worship. Babylon um is at the general location of the Tower of Babel And that was the initial intense um um rejection of God in the post flood world uh to set up a tower uh to go up to heaven. Um and so that's the symbolism that's used here, uh resistance to God and not a uh particular not the city of Babylon here is in view. Symbol of worldly resistance to God, described as the great because of its far-reaching influence here with this worldwide false religion. Um and the fact that it's got great influence. It's the mother of harlots and of the abominations of the whole earth. Um, the source of false idolatrous worship in the end times. That's what this name on the on the harlot means. Uh her designation of the mother of harlots is appropriate. Uh harlotry in scripture often symbolizes idolatry. We've seen that before. Uh here's a couple of other passages, Judges 2, Judges 8, 1 Corinthians 5. 2 Chronicles 21, 1 Chronicles 5, 2 Chronicles 21, and Jeremiah 3, we've got imagery of a harlot representing idolatry. And um as was mentioned before, the the whole the life of the prophet Hosea was set up as a symbol of of of matching uh harlotry with religious idolatry. And then he the vision continues and John sees another thing. He sees the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood So John's astonished by this part of the uh the scene that's before him, the the vision that he's seeing Uh so this of course she's drunk but not with alcoholic beverages. He's drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. So once again this is a false religion that is persecuting and killing Christians. And so false religion, represented by the harlot, is a murderer. It's killed millions of believers over the centuries. Uh the history of the church has demonstrated that apostate Christianity is relentless in its persecution of those who hold to true faith in in Jesus Christ. Apostate churches have been martyring true believers for centuries. Um Paul did. Saul. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, so uh Saul of course was um a Jewish religious leader And he persecuted uh the true faith until he was himself was converted. Um, and so uh the world becomes drunk with lust for her, the harlot becomes drunk with the blood of God's people, uh the vision is appalling to John. He's he's astounded, he's astonished by what he sees here, uh, and he wonders greatly. Uh he's confused, shocked, astonished, frightened by this ghastly vision of this woman drinking down the blood of uh of the saints. Um and so the angel then says to John, why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. So we're about to get an explanation. From the angel. And so the angel says, Why do you wonder? And here I'm going to explain it to you. Uh there's no need for John to remain puzzled uh by the relate relation of the beast and the woman. He's seen the beast before, now he sees this woman and he's and he's uh kind of wondering about it But the angels about to explain to him about the woman. Actually in verse 18 he'll explain uh who the woman is, but he'll spend several verses before that from Verse 8 to verse 17 explaining the beast to him. So uh the apostle already understood the woman represented a false religious system and that the beast was the Antichrist. He had seen that all the way back to chapter 13. Uh Uh but he didn't understand what was the relation between them. Um Seven Heads and Ten Horns, uh he had seen that before, he'd seen this beast before. But what he didn't understand was w what what is connecting these two? How how why is this woman riding on the beast? And why is she drinking the blood of the saints? And so he had been John had had seen in a previous vision that the whole world would worship the Antichrist. He saw we saw that in verse in chapter 13. So John John knew that from the previous vision. So what is this woman doing here? Um that have may have raised the question in the in the in the John's mind about, well, how does this woman fit in the picture? Uh particularly how does that the beast is carrying her? seen this beast before. Why is it carrying her? And so the angel starts to explain. So here here's the angel's explanation, and starting in verse 8. about the beast. Verse 8. The beast that you saw was and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will wonder when they see the beast. that he was and is not and will come. So um w w what we've seen that before, right? We saw the beast have a false resurrection Right? We saw that. He had a wound that was healed. And so, first of all, this praise, those who dwell on the earth, describes unbelievers. Uh in Chapter three, Chapter six, Chapter eight, Chapter eleven, Chapter thirteen, chapter fourteen, and here in chapter seventeen, the same phrase is used to describe unbelievers. And then we get a secondary phrase to make sure it's very clear. It's those whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world. So they're unbelievers. So we get this double phrase that makes it really clear. Um and so amazed and deceived by the Antichrist, the f his followers will wonder when they see the beast that he was and is Nod and will come. So that's the fake resurrection. Uh so the Antichrist seeming miraculous return to life after receiving an apparently fatal wound. We saw that in chapter thirteen, and so the angel is referring back to that again. Only the elect will not fall for antichrist deception. Everybody else will be fooled by this fake resurrection. So the beast will he was He was not. And then he comes again because he has a fake resurrection. And so the angel then goes on to say in verse 9 Here is the mind which has wisdom. And so here's an explanation. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits, and they are seven kings, five have fallen. One is, the other has not yet come, and when he comes he must remain a little while. And so this vision of course is being given to John When? When is when is John living? Something the late uh first century AD. Um that's important to keep in mind. So uh here's the mind which has wisdom invites John and his readers to pay close attention to what follows with spiritual discernment. Um the expression uses a difficult and complex aspect of the vision, and it will take wisdom and spiritual insight to understand it. And perhaps only those who are alive at the time will fully comprehend it Uh as often happens in prophecy, there's a um there's a there's a part of it that the people that originally heard it can understand, but there's also a part of it that can't be understood until the time when it's fulfilled. And that could be the case with this kind of prophecy as well. The thing that needs to be understood is that the seven heads of the beast are seven mountains or hills on which the woman sits. That's how the angel starts off. Some commentators associate the seven head Seven mountains with Rome, famous for being built on seven hills, and identify the woman as the Roman Catholic Church. But such an interpretation is too narrow Something more than just Rome must be in view because the Antichrist Empire is worldwide. All such speculation is unnecessary because the text plainly identifies the mountains as seven kings and not geographical formations. The seven mountains are seven kings. The scripture says that. So there's no reason for us to get wrapped around the axle about it being Rome or there's seven hills around Rome. The angel comes right out and says, those seven mountains are seven kings. Seven kings. They're not geological formations. And so the text is really clear. The seven mountains are seven kings. Um okay. Uh it gets more complicated from that, but but the the the original thing that the mountains are not geographic formations is pretty clear there Um so there's seven kings, and five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and so uh it's not it's the geography is definitely not in view here. The angel's call for spiritual discernment would have been pointless if the seven mountains were an object. geographical reference to Rome. No spiritual um um discernment is necessary To figure out geography. But that's not that's not the case here. It's kings here. Mountains are also sometimes used metaphorically in the Old Testament to represent rule or power. We see that in Psalm 30, Isaiah 2, Jeremiah. Jeremiah 51, Daniel 2, and here they represent seven world empires embodied by their rulers. The angel tells John that five have fallen, one is, the other is not yet come. So the five Gentile empires that had fallen by the time. time of John's vision in the end of the first century AD are Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Medio, Persia, and Greece. Some people say, well what about uh China and India and the Incas and other empires like that. Um that's a it's a it's a worthwhile question to think about. Why why is it that those are nothing to do with Israel. They had nothing to do with Israel, right. So the criteria is empires that directly affected uh Israel um and and God's people. And the Incas never had any interaction with God's people. And neither as far as we know did China or India. Uh it's not because they weren't empires, it's because these empires in particular were the ones that were involved with God's people. Um the one that existed at the that time of course was Rome. Uh and the other one that has not yet come is Antichrist's final world empire. So that's the seven kings, the seven kingdoms, uh which this is talking about. what the scripture passage is talking about. Uh any questions about that and about how the people have uh gotten this false impression that this is talking about Rome And the woman therefore must be the Roman Catholic Church. So I I think that this is talking about um the seven kingdoms that ca that are here before the return of Christ. I think that's what the angel's talking about here. Um And I think that because this whole thing is focused on the Antichrist kingdom. Um and we get here in chapter seventeen and chapter eighteen a description of the religious, economic, and political layout of the um the Antichrist kingdom. And then in chapter nineteen we get the return of Christ and the and the destruction of of all So I I think that's probably what it's talking about. And when he comes, uh the angel goes on, and when he comes, talking about the Antichrist, he must remain a little while The beast which was and is not is also him is himself also an eighth, and is one of the seven. And he goes to destruction. So the Antichrist is an eighth king and one of the seven. How does that work? So this requires spiritual discernment. So uh first of all we see that his empire will be short-lived. Um and we saw all the way back in Revelation 13, he's given authority to act for 42 months. That's a pretty short kingdom. Forty-two months. Second half of the tribulation. Then the angel offered the strange comment that the beech was and is not, is himself an eighth, and is one of the seven and he goes to destruction. So uh these seven kingdoms include the Antichrist kingdom here. But he's also an eighth. How can he be the seventh and the eighth? How can the beast be an eighth king and also one of the seven? The answer Lies in the phrase, the beast was and is not. So he's one of the seven kings before his supposed demise and resurrection, and he's an eighth king afterwards during the second phase of his rule. That's why it requires some spiritual discernment to figure out what he's talking about here. This is once again referring to the Antichrist's fake resurrection. Seventh King and the Eighth King, because he died Seventh king is dead, uh the king is dead, long live the king. You got a new king. Well the new king is the same king because he came back came back to life. He was resurrected. Um so he's the seventh king and the eighth king because of his fake resurrection. That's what the angel is sh is talking about here. So um i there's there's I think there is um Room for uh there's there's not we can't be r uh terribly specific about events uh that are described in the book of Revelation in some respects. There are some things that we can't understand. Um the the general path of things I think is is laid out pretty well the the the seventy year tribulation period, the the judgments that God gives, the rise of Antichrist, the ri rise of a world political, economic and religious system. But the details of that I think are um they're open to a little bit of speculation, uh, in in my opinion. Uh so we have this Antichrist uh who is According to the angel, he's both the seventh king and the eighth king. He's the eighth and also the one of the seventh, um in the second phase of his rule. So as noted earlier uh Antichrist will go to destruction. So he's going to destruction. Eternal damnation in the lake of fire. We'll see that play out in chapter nineteen, chapter twenty. Uh unlike the first six empires, his empire will be destroyed by a direct act of God. Course everything's under the sovereign control of God, the rise and the fall of empires. But this one is a direct act of God to destroy this empire, uh which is different from the others. Uh and now now we finally get to the who the ten horns are. Uh the question that we had earlier. So uh verse number twelve the ten horns which he saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom But they receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour. These have one purpose, and they give their power and authority to the beast. So he explains that the ten horns are ten kings They cannot be known to any earlier generation because they have not yet received a kingdom, since they are part of Antichrist's future kingdom. So we don't know who these kings are. So an any any attempt to try to tie them to particular kings and kingdoms, I I think is futile. Um because they haven't been given a kingdom. That's what The angel tells John. So these are not kings kings or kingdoms that you know about, John. These are kingdoms that will be in the future that you don't yet know about, because they haven't received a a kingdom. And so um to say that they are that the Assyria and Jordan and Saudi Arabia and all that sort of thing is um you know, you can make guesses about who they might be, but I think the angel's telling us here that these are future kingdoms. These are kingdoms that will arise in the end times. Now, who knows exactly how far in the future the end times are, and by now Some of these kingdoms may exist. They didn't exist in John's time, but now they may exist, but there's no identification of who these kingdoms are So perhaps they are, but the ten toes on the statue, even in Daniel aren't aren't identified, so they haven't yet come. And and in John's time they didn't exist. They weren't kingdoms yet in John's time. Um who knows whether some or all of them exist in our time But the angel specifically tells John that they have not received the kingdom yet. Yeah, so I I think that's important. I I think it's it's important to have a little humility before the Word of God. That um you know, that that there are some things that the the scripture makes really clear and uh I try to point point those out. But there's other things that are left um uh uh not quite uh perfectly revealed. So So a and and so the God and the Holy Spirit who inspired this, uh he he did that for a reason. You know, we we don't we don't get to know everything. Uh that's frustrating for us sometimes. So we don't that God won't tell us everything. thing. Um and as I mentioned before, um he he actually almost rubs our noses in that with the Seven Thunders uh because he he could have left that out of the scripture entirely, the fact that there were even were seven thunders. But he reveals in scripture that there were seven thunders that said something to John he's about to write, and I was told not to seal up what the seven thunders said and don't write it down. And so God is deliberately going out of his way to tell us that there's stuff that he's not going to tell us. And so that that's that's a lesson for us. It really is a lesson for us that that the God who really does know everything is in control. And um I I think the lesson is W we need to have faith in that God. Um it's not blind faith, it's faith in a God who's over and over and over again shown himself to be reliable and righteous and and good, uh he's good all the time and so he he deliberately leaves things out, in my opinion, to to make sure that we uh get to exercise the faith muscle um in all sorts of different aspects. Um and so there's not i everything is not explained to my satisfaction. I want to know more, Lord. But the the answer is my grace is sufficient for you. So these kings then uh they r uh they will receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour Um and perhaps there are ten administrative districts or ten sub kings that rule under the Antichrist, it's not clear. Uh but the one hour of course is a figure of speech and it and it speaks to the brevity of this uh this worldwide empire. And during this reign then the angel reveals that they have one purpose. For one purpose, these kings arise and they end times. To give their power and authority to the beast, to be under the beast. um and do his will and his will alone. And so what is that purpose? And then the angel says what that purpose is In verse fourteen, these will wage war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, because he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. And those who are with him are the called and the chosen and the faithful. And so that's the believers are going to be coming with the Lord. Lord. Uh so there's one agenda for the king, like that of Satan and the Antichrist, is to wage war with the Lamb, and that's gonna be the Battle of Armageddon, which we'll see um coming up. Uh we saw in the last chapter that there are three deceitful, powerful demons. who will gather these kings uh for that battle. We saw that in chapter sixteen. Um and John describes the battle itself, the battle of Armageddon in detail in chapter nineteen. We'll see that in a in a subsequent vision. But here in chapter seventeen he just notes that the Lamb will overcome them. So he just gives us the the the general outcome of the battle without the details. The details come later in chapter 19. And of course the Lamb uh the the the the the all these forces can't defeat the lamb because he's the lord of lords and the king of kings. Uh with Christ when he returns will be the called and chosen and faithful, a reference that applies to believers. So that's that's us. That's uh he's coming back with all the all the saints and the um um the holy angels as well. So he will effortless effortlessly crush the greatest the armed force ever assembled when he returns. Um and we'll see that in chapter nineteen. Verse fifteen, and he said to me, The waters which you saw where the harlot sits are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues. And so there's a explanation Uh there was kind of uh we I referred to that before. Uh he brought it up uh at the beginning that the harlot was sitting on waters and he waits to the end to explain what that means. Uh that it's not a geographical location, it's peoples. Um The woman whom you saw is the great city which reigns over the kings of the earth. And so the angel returns to the harlot here at the end. Um the waters which you saw are peoples. Verse eighteen identifies the woman whom John saw as the great city which reigns over the kings of the earth. And So this is coming back to uh the physical city. The the name written on the the uh the harlot is um uh a representative of her as a uh false religion. But when the angel circles back to Babylon the Great, the great city and and um um uh the representation of reigning over the kings of the earth, this is what Once again going back to uh the actual city of Babylon. And you can see that by comparing verses in the talk about Babylon in Revelation seventeen and eighteen with Old Testament imagery. You can see you can compare Revelation seventeen one with Jeremiah fifty one You can uh compare seventeen verse two and verse four with Jeremiah fifty-one, seven, and eighteen, seven. And uh i i i I'm sorry. Uh chapter 18 of Revelation, verse 7 with Isaiah 47. Chapter 18, verse 2 of Revelation with Isaiah chapter 13, and Jeremiah chapter 51. You can compare Revelation 18 verse 4 with Jeremiah 50 and 51. Revelation chapter 18 verse 5 With Jeremiah 51, 9, verse 6, with Jeremiah 50, verse 15, and 51, 24, and Revelation 18, 21, with Jeremiah 51 All of those verses in Revelation chapter 17 and Revelation chapter 18 refer to Old Testament imagery of the city of Babylon Specific references to the city of Babylon in the Old Testament are repeated, the same imagery in Revelation chapter 17 and 18. And so in those cases, other than the case of the name written on the harlot, it's actually talking about the city of Babylon. Um and we get we're g we're going to get next week in when we talk about ch uh when we go through chapter eighteen, we're gonna get a a detailed description of Babylon's destruction. And it's obviously a a city uh a real city that it's talking about. Uh so thus a rebuilt city of Babylon will be closely identified with Antichrist World Empire. Finally, uh almost done. Uh the ten horns which you saw on the beast uh uh these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked and will eat her flesh and burn her with fire. So eventually the ten horns, the ten kings who rule under Antichrist and the Antichrist himself will come to hate the harlot, the world religious system that helped him come to power. Uh having used the false religious system to gain control of the world, the Antichrist will discard it and he will set himself up as the only object of worship. Uh setting up the desolation which causes abomination. Um so no doubt he covets the vast wealth of this false religious system. He's using the wealth, he's using the uh the religion to to to bring people to himself and to rise up in this empire. But eventually he turns on her, uh and burns her flesh and eats her up eats up her flesh and burns her with fire. Um and so this is graphic kind of extreme violence language that's used here. Uh that he's gonna abolish uh obliterate that whatever that religious system is that helped him rise, he's gonna completely do away with it and set himself up as the only object of worship. And we saw that in Revelation chapter thirteen that uh he sets up an image of the beast and everybody had to worship it and if you didn't worship the image of the beast you were killed. Death penalty. If you didn't get a mark on the beast you couldn't um you couldn't trade. Um this is talking about about that the fact that he's going to discard whatever this religion is that helped him rise, it's going to be discarded. And the purpose is given by the angel. The angel says, For God has put it in their hearts to execute his purpose. All this is under God's sovereign control. They have a common purpose, and by giving their kingdom to the beasts, until the words of God will be fulfilled. So the Antichrist evil actions ultimately work in accordance with God's sovereign plan. And we see that throughout Scripture. We see that with the life of Joseph, for example, and the actions of his brothers, evil actions by his brothers, used by God as part of his sovereign plan. So God puts it in their hearts, the angel says. He's going to put into the hearts of these minions of the Antichrist to do what they do in order to bring about God's sovereign purposes. So God's sovereign will is behind the rise and consolidation of this empire and its destruction. Um he he's in control of all things as always. Uh And of course all the words of God, every pro prophecy of Christ's return and the setting up of his kingdom will be fulfilled completely. Um and so antichrist religious empire will be judged and destroyed. And we're gonna see that. We're gonna see m more detail Of it in uh chapter eighteen and the final destruction in in chapter nineteen. Alright, any questions? We have a couple of minutes left. Alright, let's close in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time. We thank you for what you've revealed, and we thank you for what you've kept secret as well. We trust you, Lord, because you are absolutely worthy of trust. Uh you are sovereign over all things and and you are good and you're good all the time and and so we uh we have faith in you, Lord um because of who you are, because of what you've done, and because of what you will do. We thank you for this Sunday, this resurrection Sunday, where we get to celebrate uh the resurrection of Jesus Christ. What a wonderful day it is, Lord. And we pray, Lord, that the worship that we offer you is a corporate body of Christ that we're about to offer you will be acceptable in your sight. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.