Amen. Well, I would invite you to take your Bible and turn with me to John chapter 4 for this message entitled The Savior Reaps a Harvest. We ended our time together last week considering what it means that God is seeking those who worship Him in spirit and truth. Namely, that God doesn't wait for people to come to Him. Rather, He takes the initiative to save people and turn them into true worshipers. In our text for today, John 4, 25 to 42, we see God doing just that with these Samaritans. John chapter 4, verses 1, all the way down to verse 42, is really one unit. Your Bible might have some headings along the way there, but it's one complete unit. It tells one story about Jesus. But there's so much richness that this is now the fifth and final message as we walk through this section. And truth be told, it would not be difficult to break up this section into multiple messages, but Since today is the last Sunday that I'll be here until September, thought it best to wrap up this whole section so we can start fresh with the next section Come September, Lord willing. Follow along as I read John chapter four, verses twenty-five to forty-two. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I am He who speak to you. Just then his disciples came back, they marvelled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek? or Why are you talking with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work. Do you not say, There are yet four months, and then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that the sower and reaper may rejoice together For here the saying holds true: one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored and you have entered into their labor. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there for two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed The Savior of the world. Let's pray. Well, Father, may the prayer that we just sung together Be the genuine cry of our hearts. Would you show us Christ? Would you teach us from your word that we might see your glory? That we might know you, love you, become like you. And Lord, if there's any here who does not know you, that they would come To know you because you are the Savior of the world. Glorify yourself as we renew our minds by your word. Amen. Isaiah fifty-five verses eight and nine says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts. And neither are my ways, your ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. We typically quote that verse or those two verses to explain the inexplicable. We use it to console ourselves that even though we can't understand what God's doing in our lives, why he's allowed this suffering. into our lives, whatever it might be, we say, well, God's God's thoughts are not our my our thoughts, his ways are not our way our ways, so I just gotta trust in him But if you look at the context of those verses, it specifically refers to salvation. The verses right immediately preceding it refer or is a call to repentance. And the verse right after tells us that God's word, as it goes forth, never returns void. And so those two verses of eight and nine are intended to explain Why God pardons the wicked who turn to Him If someone were to hear the call to the wicked where it says Let the wicked man forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, verse seven. And let him turn to the Lord, and he will have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. If you if you hear that call And you ask, why should I turn to God? Will He really pardon me? Does He know what I've done? Or if you hear that call and you wonder, how could God do that? Why would God pardon someone like that? The answer is, my ways are not your ways. And my thoughts are not your thoughts. We see that principle at work in our passage. The unexpected discussion between Jesus and the Samaritan woman comes to its highest point in this section. And it unexpectedly produces an abundance of spiritual fruit. All of Jesus' patience with this woman's lack of understanding and the nurturing of her soul results in a large portion of this Samaritan town coming to believe in Jesus. And in all that takes place, there are lessons for you and I to learn about sowing the gospel. and reaping a harvest. So in the chapter, so far in the chapter we've worked through the the dialogue between Jesus and the Samaritan woman. In this section, as we've read, there's a lot of activity and a lot of people. And so rather than logical divisions, we're just going to walk through this passage in three sections, really three scenes, if you will. In the first scene of verses 25 to 30, we're going to consider that under the heading The Savior sows, or rather, the Savior plants the seed. The Savior plants the seed. The second scene in verses 31 to 38 is the Savior prepares the workers. In the third scene, verses 39 to 42, the Savior reaps a harvest. That'll help us keep track of where we are and where we're going. The Savior plants the seed, the Savior prepares the workers, and the Savior reaps. And from these interactions between Jesus and the Samaritan woman and his disciples and the people of Sikar My prayer is that we will be encouraged and emboldened to be faithful witnesses for Christ to those that God has put in our lives So let's begin by considering the first scene the Savior plants the seed. Look again at verses 25 to 30. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. And Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek, or why are you talking with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and came to the people and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? Jesus does here what he does with virtually no one else He directly and clearly reveals himself to be the Messiah. And in doing so, he plants a potent seed in fertile soil. That will spring up to the salvation of souls. He's prepared the soil of this woman's heart by progressively speaking truth to this woman She hasn't understood it all as we've seen, but the accumulation of Jesus' words has slowly opened her mind, uh her eyes to see that Jesus is not your average Jew as she originally assumed Let's remind ourselves what Jesus has said to this woman up to this point. Back in verse 10, Jesus revealed to her that he is the fountain of living water, and that she should be asking him for that living water. And then in verses 13 and 14, he describes this living water is that which fully satisfies the soul and produces eternal life. Now she doesn't understand his meaning, but she at least recognizes that she desperately needs whatever it is he's offering. And then in verses 17 to 18, Jesus reveals what she's been trying to keep hidden. He shows her that he knows everything about her. He knows her dark past and her immoral present. His initial request for For drinking uh uh for water, that is, and his engagement in conversation with her was not out of ignorance as to who she was. He knew exactly who she was and what kind of life she had lived. And yet That didn't stop him from treating her with dignity and compassion and grace. Then in verses 21 to 24, Jesus patiently addresses her question. About worship. But he doesn't give her the c the answer that she expected. She he he addresses the real issue of true worship as not being limited to a physical location. But as a matter of our whole being in all of what we do. Though this woman came to the well on this fateful day hoping for nothing more than a jar full of water, In a very short period of time, she's been given a rich meal of spiritual food. And she's finally come To see that. Jesus did not give her the answers that parroted everything else that she's heard before. He gave her truth that she has never heard before. And that leads her to say what she says there in verse 25. I know that Messiah is coming. Now take note of the fact that when she asked her theological question back in verse 20, she asked it by making a sharp distinction between our fathers meaning the ancestors of the Samaritans and the modern Jews. That question was not personal to her She wasn't asking about the place of worship because she wanted to know where she could go or where she should go to worship. But here in verse 25, she speaks more personally. She says, I know. Now the verb I know is actually in the perfect tense, so you could translate it, I have known. And she's actually more likely meaning something like I've always been taught. In other words, she's not likely expressing a strong personal view. Her her life doesn't indicate that she held strong theological convictions that shaped her life And so she has a loose affiliation with this idea of the the coming of the Messiah Even those loosely affiliated with religion carry with them ideas that they claim to believe. It shouldn't surprise us when we talk to people. Who don't go to church or who have never read the Bible and yet they have some opinion that they declare, yes, this is what I know and this is what I believe, even if it has zero impact on their life. People, and you and I are just the same, like to think that we have right opinions. And they often speak with confidence about things that they don't understand. And so, if you do any evangelism at all, you're going to encounter this people with opinions about God. Now, even though people have loosely held opinions, That's something we can work with. We can graciously nudge people to either see the folly of their convictions by asking questions like: how do you know that to be true? Or if they feign to believe in something that's true, you can urge them to fully embrace what they claim to believe. And that's really what Jesus does here. What does this woman claim to know? She claims that to know that the Messiah is coming. Messiah is the Hebrew and Aramaic term, so the Apostle John, who's writing this gospel, provides a translation of Christ, which is the Greek Like the Jews, the Samaritans had their own messianic expectations. They too were looking for the promised deliverer from God. But their expectations were different than the Jews. In actual fact, we know very little about the Samaritan messianic expectations beyond what the woman says right here. The Samaritan religion didn't last very long after this this period of time. What we do know though that they did not use the term Messiah. The term Messiah comes from the Hebrew scriptures that the Samaritans themselves didn't acknowledge. specifically Psalm two. Instead, they re refer to the one to come as Tahib, T-A-H-E-B. The woman likely uses Messiah here in deference to Jesus, knowing that that's the lingo he would understand and he would certainly prefer to use. Well, what would characterize the Tahib? What would characterize the Messiah? She says it there at the end of verse 25. When he comes, he will tell us all things. The Samaritan Messiah would be a revealer of truth. The word tell is most often translated in the New Testament as declare, which means to proclaim or to disclose. So their expectation of the Tahib or the Messiah would be that it was that he would be a preacher, if you will. Not one who proclaimed old truth, but one who would bring new revelation from God. Now what was their basis of this expectation? It comes from Deuteronomy chapter 18. In fact, put your finger here and turn with me to Deuteronomy 18. Deuteronomy is the fifth book of Moses, which he wrote as Israel was preparing to enter into the Promised Land. Moses knew that he was not going to join them in the promised land. He was not going to cross over with them. And so here in Deuteronomy 18, he begins to prepare them for that reality. Deuteronomy eighteen verses fifteen to nineteen, Moses declares to them The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Verse sixteen. Just as you desired of the Lord your God at Vorab on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me uh let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God or See this great fire any more unless I die. And the Lord said to me, You are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words, that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. When he refers to Horeb there, he's speaking about Mount Sinai when the people We're afraid of the fire and the and the thunder of the presence of God, and they told Moses, Hey, you talk to God on your own. We'll stay back here and you can talk to us later. And so Moses is saying that when he is absent from them, God will replace him with another prophet. This is one of those prophecies that has a near fulfillment and an ultimate fulfillment. We know that Joshua Moses' successor was not actually a prophet himself. He was uh a leader, he was a warrior, but he was not a prophet. There were prophets that arose after the time of the judges, uh Samuel and Nathan and Isaiah and others Prophets declared the word of the Lord to the people of Israel. That's what Moses did. At least that was part of his role. There was yet no prophet after Moses like Moses. There was no prophet that stood at the head of the nation before God as a king like figure, or that matched the extent of revelation or the display of power that they had received or experienced from Moses. And since the Samaritans rejected the scriptures after Deuteronomy, they themselves didn't recognize any of the actual prophets that had come after Moses. So, according to their distorted views, they were still looking for a prophet. To them, it was as if God had never sent a prophet at all since Moses. So they were looking for a prophet. Notice what verse 18 says. Again, I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. As we get further into the Gospel of John, we'll see that Jesus uses this language to identify himself. to the Jews. In fact, while you're looking at Deuteronomy 18, listen to John chapter 12, verse 49, as Jesus is speaking to the Jews. He says, For I have not spoken of my own authority, But the Father sent, the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. That's an exact fulfillment of Deuteronomy 18, 18. So when speaking to the Jews, Jesus was not shy about connecting his ministry to the promised prophet of Deuteronomy 18. Well, coming back to John chapter 4, given the conversation that Jesus has had with this Samaritan woman, the unique truth that he's spoken to her, you can imagine the thoughts churning in her mind, wondering. This whole encounter has been so unexpected, so unlike any she's had with any other man in her life. It's been so lofty and rich. He's not only had the unusual courtesy of being kind to her, and he did so knowing all about her life But his words conveyed grace, and there was a unique power in what he said. She's already perceived that he was a prophet, and he she said that in verse 19. But maybe she's thinking, maybe he's not just a prophet, maybe he's the prophet. Now notice she doesn't ask questions, she just simply makes that statement, almost leaving it out there for Jesus to grab hold of, and that's exactly what he does. Look at verse 26. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Earlier I read it in the order of the Greek, which is literally, I am who speak to you. If you read all the gospel accounts, it is rare to find Jesus clearly and directly acknowledge that he is the Messiah, the Christ. In fact, the primary exceptions are when Peter himself affirms that Jesus is the Christ. So, why does Jesus reveal to this woman what he seems to avoid saying to so many others? Expectations The Jews expected the Messiah to be a political figure. They were looking for someone to overthrow the Romans and establish Israel as a sovereign power over the world. And if Jesus claimed to the Jews to be the Messiah, they would expect him to lead an army against Rome. But the Samaritans had no such expectations. They were looking for the fulfillment of Deuteronomy 18. So Jesus is glad to declare to her, Yes, I am the Messiah, I am He. Now the words I am he are literally I am. Ego ami. There is no he in the Greek. This certainly calls to mind the covenant name of God where he reveals himself to Moses as I am who I am. That's a name the woman would be familiar with because Exodus 3 is part of the five books of Moses, which is part of the Samaritan scriptures. It's the universally understood name of God. But it's actually difficult to know if Jesus intended her to make that connection. It's over a dozen times that we find the phrase, I am he. in the Bible, and six of those, almost half, are in the Gospel of John. And in every case, whether it's the Greek Old Testament or the New Testament, it's simply a goemi. I am. without the pronoun he. Now in some cases it's pretty obvious that it's intending to declare the name of God. In other cases it seems unlikely. And so here it you could argue either way, but whatever the case Jesus has clearly affirmed to this woman that he is the Messiah that the Samaritans have been waiting for. So this the seed has been planted on fertile soil. And it's at this epic moment of revelation that the disciples come back. And you can imagine the scene. They're some distance, maybe a quarter mile or so from town. They likely saw the disciples coming their way. But now the disciples arrive into their presence And the disciples have some thoughts. Verse 27. Just then his disciples came back, and they marveled that he was talking with a woman. But no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? To emphasize just how remarkable this whole encounter was, it says they marveled that she was talking with a woman. As I mentioned in our previous studies, the Jewish leaders really had a a wicked, wickedly low view of women. It was taboo to talk to women in public, sometimes even your own wife Many believe that women should not and could not be taught the truth of the Word of God, that they were simpletons and unable to comprehend the things of God. So the disciples were amazed. This is still very early in Jesus' ministry, so they were not used to uh how Jesus interacted with people. They didn't yet fully understand how much Jesus hated human tradition that violated the Word of God. And thankfully they kept quiet and didn't challenge The woman by asking her, what do you seek? Nor did they challenge Jesus by asking, why are you talking with her? Well Whether prompted by her uh their arrival or the amazing statement that Jesus had just made, the woman takes off in haste. Look at verses twenty-eight to thirty. So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? And they went out of town and were coming to him. It's likable uh rather it's likely that she had a a sizable jar. You don't walk a great distance with just a small jar for water. And she left it because she didn't want to be slowed down as she rushed back to town because she was eager to tell the people of the town about this encounter. The seed that Jesus planted in her soul, she began to spread to others. And notice the simplicity of her message. Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. She didn't understand anything else that Jesus had said, but she could at least declare that he had told her about her own life. And her brief testimony of her encounter was enough for the people to have interest, and some of them, many of them, even believe. And then others want to hear more from Jesus. And there's an encouraging lesson here: your lack of understanding. Or your lack of ability to explain the gospel is no hindrance to God in using you to draw others to himself. We simply need to be faithful to open our mouths. We'll say a little bit more about that in a moment. Well, this takes us from the Savior plants the seed to the Savior prepares his workers. Look at verses 31 to 39. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has any one brought him something to eat? And Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say that there are yet four months, and then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that the sower and the reaper may rejoice together For here the saying holds true. One sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. Jesus prepares his disciples here by teaching them principles of work in the kingdom of God. Again, this is early in Jesus' ministry, and the disciples have not uh engaged with the ministry of Jesus much more than uh experiencing the baptism of many Jews just a few weeks earlier. And that ministry of baptizing those who came to have the baptism of repentance was nothing like what they were about to experience. And so these lessons that Jesus teaches here would be essential. For the rest of their lives, and they are essential for us as well. The first lesson that Jesus teaches his disciples is that doing the Lord's will is more satisfying than food. Whereas Jesus puts it in verse 34, my food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. The disciples had gone into town specifically to buy food. We learned that early in the chapter. Not only was Jesus left at the well, thirsty, tired, he was also hungry. But the divine appointment with the Samaritan woman and the coming crowds took away his physical hunger and gave him satisfaction. Perhaps he had in mind Deuteronomy 8, verse 3, the familiar words, Man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth. Jesus epitomizes here the words of Job who said, I have never departed, or rather, I have not departed from the commandment of his lips I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my portion of food. Jesus was on a mission. He was on a mission to do the Father's will. And those of you who have been on a mission for your country know that when you're outside the wire, the concept of three meals a day goes out the window. But there's more to Jesus' lesson than the need to focus on the mission. There's a real and particular satisfaction that comes when doing the Father's will. Think about it. When you're doing the Father's will, you're doing what you were created to do. I wonder if you've had this experience in your life based on your gifts and skills and education and and and abilities and experience Where where you're doing what you love most and what God has gifted you and empowered you to do, and you just have this great sense of I am doing what I was created for. And that feeling Fills you with a rich sense of joy and energy. In the same way, falling in line with the Father's will creates an energizing joy produced by the Holy Spirit. that propels us forward in ministry. Also, doing God's will is not only doing what we're created for, it's also doing something of eternal value. Whether something has eternal value is not determined by the act itself, but rather by the heart behind the action. 2 Corinthians 5, 9-10 says, so whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one will receive what is due for what uh receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Anything that we do in this life is or can be an act of true worship, no matter how mundane. And if it is an act of true worship, it has eternal value. And that realization propels us forward in ministry. Related to that, doing the Father's will also means you're bringing glory to God. Again, as we said last week, when you're worshiping in spirit and in truth, anything you do from the most mundane chores around the house to the greatest acts of ministry is an act of worship. And so in all that we do, we are to work heartily as for the Lord and not for men, Scripture says. And when we do that, that temporary experience we have of a a job well done, as we might call it. The satisfaction that we get from that is superseded by the satisfaction of knowing that the one true and living God has been glorified by our work. And so when you're doing what you're created to do, and you're doing something that has eternal value, and when you're glorifying God, the physical pains of hunger and thirst and weakness take a back seat to the task that's right in front of you. I know not all of you were here, but many of us witnessed this principle at work in our founding senior pastor's life, Pastor Lee. As cancer progressively sapped strength from his body and replaced it with extraordinary pain, we observed the remarkable strength that the Lord gave him as he got behind the pulpit. In the same way that doing what God called him to do gave him, you could almost say supernatural strength, so is doing the Father's will more satisfying and more strengthening than food. Well, the second lesson Jesus teaches his disciples here is that the work of God in salvation is unpredictable. The work Of God in salvation is unpredictable. Look at verse 35. He says, Do you not say, there are yet four months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Some take these words of Jesus as referring to the time of year and the condition of the fields around them, but by saying there, do you not say It seems that Jesus is reminding them of a common saying that regardless of the time of the year, you uh uh uh sorry, regardless of the time of the year, su uh things that get started have a period of time before they end. And we don't have to be a farmer to understand that when you plant a seed you have to wait for the harvest. There's some lengthy period of time required for the seed to grow. There's no forcing seeds to grow faster than they can grow. And it's a relatively predictable amount of time. You know seed time, you know the harvest time. It's just the way things are made. But it is not that way in the kingdom of God. Sometimes the seed of the gospel grows quickly. Sometimes it grows slowly. Sometimes a person hears the gospel a hundred times before they believe. Sometimes they believe the first time they hear it. And that's what's happened here. Jesus points to the people of the town as they're coming out to see the Messiah. And because he knows the heart of man, he can see the seed that he had planted in the woman, which she has spread to others, has led to a ripe harvest instantly. But that's not how it always is. The rest of Jesus' ministry, the disciples will observe that people are drawn to Jesus because of his miracles. They certainly enjoy the blessings that come to them, especially when they're healed. But that doesn't translate to belief in many cases, at least not immediately. When the gospel is proclaimed, whenever it's proclaimed, there's always a mix of responses, such as In Acts seventeen, when the Apostle Paul preached in Athens, there were there were three explicit responses. The text tells us there were those who heard of when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. It's one response. Others said, we will hear you again about this. They were intrigued. And then some men joined him and believed. Those are basically the three responses that the gospel gets. Mockery, interest, and faith. Because the response to the truth is dependent on the mysterious work of God in each person's heart, we cannot set expectations of how or when people will respond. As a result, we need to be ready to harvest right away, or we need to be ready to keep plowing if that's what's needed. Because God's work of salvation is unpredictable. This is what Jesus taught Nicodemus in chapter 3, verse 8, when he said, The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. So Jesus teaches the disciples here that doing the Father's will is more satisfying than food. The work of God is in salvation is unpredictable. And third, the reward for ministry. The reward for ministry is in eternity, but the joy begins today. Look at verse 36. He says, already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that the sower and the reaper may rejoice together. Proclaiming the gospel and seeing people come to faith in Christ is an investment in eternity. There is no way to calculate the impact. of a life rescued from hell at the moment of rescue. And if we were somehow repaid in that moment of Salvation for whatever role the Lord gave us the privilege to serve in that person's life, we would only get to enjoy that reward for the short years of this life. So in the wisdom and grace of God, when we participate in God's work of salvation by faithfully ministering the gospel, then speaking truth into people's lives. We are storing up treasures in heaven where we'll be able to enjoy which we're we'll be able to enjoy for all eternity. That's what Jesus means there by saying that already we're receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life. You get what's coming to you, but it's stored away until eternity. At the same time, though, there is a unique joy that comes immediately to those who are involved in seeing the work of God unfold in a person's life I mean we know the blessing that it is to hear the testimony of God's saving work at baptisms, do we not? How much more are we blessed when the Lord gives us the gr the grace to play a role in his work in someone's life? We know elsewhere Jesus said that there is great joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. In the same way, there is great joy the Spirit produces in us when we have a role in the salvation of sinners. So joy is our greatest earthly reward. Joy is our reward on earth. This is not only biblically true, this is the lived experience of those who receive financial compensation for work in the ministry. Being compensated for the ministry is not the reward. That simply allows you to focus and spend more time doing the work. The reward in this life is joy. The Apostle Paul often referred to churches or specific individuals as his joy. You are my joy. Even to the Corinthian church, which probably causing the most heartburn, he said, In all our affliction I am overflowing with joy. Why? Because of how they responded to his corrections. I can say without hesitation that I and of course our family are very grateful for the provision our family receives by working here at the church. But I don't come to the office every day counting down the days until my next paycheck. So I can somehow be motivated to keep going. Our bank account neither adds to or detracts from my motivation to serve the Lord among you. I can honestly say that I press on because of the joy that it is to serve the Lord here at Hope Bible Church. It's a joy to see what He is doing in your life And in our church, and as we even saw what he's doing around the world that we all participate in through our financial support and prayer support. And that's the testimony of all those who serve the Lord. It is a joy to serve the Lord. That is our earthly reward. Well, the final lesson Jesus teaches his disciples in preparation for the harvest of souls is that in God's kingdom each person plays a divinely appointed role. Look at verses 37 and 38. For here the saying holds true, one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor In God's kingdom, each person plays a divinely appointed role. In this case, the disciples are about to reap a harvest sown by Jesus. Down the road, they will be the ones sowing the seed of the gospel. Whatever our role is, we must embrace it and be faithful in it because we're involved in God's work. We all have different gifts and different roles. But we are all God's fellow workers. Paul says in First Corinthians three, so neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth He who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive his wages according to his labor, for we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building. God's, or rather the kingdom of God has a flat org chart. There is God and everyone else We are all sinners, saved by grace, standing side by side at the foot of the cross. It's wrong to elevate others because of how God has gifted them, or to lower yourself or others, because Of how you perceive God hasn't gifted you. Rather, we are to embrace our God-given role in the kingdom of God. And Jesus said here to them in verse 38, I sent you to reap. In Matthew 10 and Luke 10, he will tell his disciples to go and sow, to proclaim that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And on those two occasions, he will give them instructions for what they are to do if people respond positively, and what they are to do if people respond negatively. And that tells us that they were not responsible for the outcome, or rather for people's responses. They were simply responsible to proclaim the message Jesus commanded And respond to the God-ordained outcome accordingly. We fill our role and we let God do His work. Well at this point in Jesus' ministry the disciples get this crash course on kingdom work. Jesus teaches them that doing the Father's will is more satisfying than food, the work of salvation is unpredictable, the regard for gospel ministry, or rather the reward for gospel ministry, is in eternity. But the joy begins today, and in God's kingdom each person plays a divinely appointed role. And these lessons will be important for them as they minister to the Samaritans over the next couple days, which they do not yet know is about to happen. This brings us then to the final scene. The Savior reaps a harvest. The Savior reaps the harvest. Look again in verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with him, and he stayed there two days, and many more believed because of his word. And they said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this indeed is the Savior of the world. There's a sharp contrast here between the response of the Jews earlier in the Gospel of John and the response of the Samaritans here. The Jews, as we saw from John 2, claim to believe, but that's because of the signs that they saw They saw signs, but their belief was shallow. They loved the benefits, but they didn't trust the Savior Here we don't learn of any miracles that Jesus performed. We're not told that he healed anyone. It's possible that he did, and we're just not told about it, but the focal point of their belief was in his words. Which corresponds to their conviction of what the Messiah would be. Some believe simply on the testimony of the woman, others Her testimony led them to listen to Jesus for themselves, and on the basic basis of his more extended teaching, they believed. Let's consider these two responses quickly. Look again at verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. Now I said a moment ago that Jesus didn't perform any miracles. Let me nuance that. He didn't perform any uh healing miracles that we're told. But what we read here is a miracle. Many Samaritans, it says, not one, not few, not a not some, but many Samaritans believed in him, sight unseen, simply because she shared her testimony of what he had said about her life. Now again, think about this. She wasn't going around town proclaiming the gospel. She wasn't even speaking out of her own strength of conviction. At the same time as saying, He told me all that I ever did. She asked. Could this be the Christ? She wasn't sure herself. But on the basis of hearing that Jesus had told her all that he had ever done, many believed in him. My friends, this should be an encouragement to us. One of the common reasons people don't share the gospel with others is because they lack confidence in explaining the gospel. I wonder if that's you. Are you afraid of saying the wrong thing or leaving certain things out or you don't know how to start a conversation So you decide to leave evangelism to the professionals or those who can clearly explain the gospel. If that's true of you, let this be an encouragement to you. God can use you to save others. You don't need to be a Bible scholar. You don't need to have all the answers. You don't need to be able to explain the gospel from A to Z with precision and clarity. The Lord may simply use your own testimony to draw. to himself, the person you're speaking to. And this again speaks to the different roles that in the wisdom of God he allows us to play. It may be that someone else has shared the gospel with a person, and your role is simply to tell about how God has worked in your life. And God uses that to grant them saving faith. Now obviously there's no promise here. Not everyone believed. No doubt there were those whose hearts were hardened toward this woman. They refused to accept what she said. And that happens in life today. One of our members was told me recently of he was having lunch with a co-worker and as they were heading back to the office he broached the subject of the gospel and instantly there was a an angry response by that co-worker. Well, that's a hard moment to deal with, but that's okay. We are simply to be faithful to speak and to witness and to tell others about Jesus in whatever way that we know how, and let the Lord determine the outcome. Well, on the basis of her testimony, they asked Jesus to stay longer, and he chose to stay for two days. Now we don't know what he said, it doesn't tell us, but we can assume that he said what he always says, the word of God. Verse 41 says that many more believed because of his word. Verse 42, we have heard for ourselves. What did they hear for themselves? What did they become convinced of This is the Savior of the world. That particular statement, that conviction indicates to us that Jesus spoke the word of God. to them. For one for one thing, the Savior of the world is not a title that you'll find outside of this passage and one time in the uh in 1 John. It's not a title in the Old Testament or in the books of Moses or uh in the rest of the Old Testament. The title, though, reflects the work of the Messiah. So Jesus must have told them the fullness of what the Messiah would do. He must have Exposited for them perhaps Genesis 12, where God promises to Abraham that through him all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And then Genesis 22, where he says to Abraham again, in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. Perhaps Jesus opened their hearts to accept the rest of the Old Testament so that he could teach them from Psalm 22, where there's many references to the Messiah, but it says, All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord And all the families of the nations shall worship before you. Perhaps they opened their minds to Daniel chapter 7, which spoke of the Messiah, saying, And to him, the Son of Man, the Messiah. was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him Whatever he said to them, their messianic expectations matured from simply looking for the fulfillment of Deuteronomy 18. To one who would deliver them from their sin and turn them into true worshipers. And so they embraced Jesus as their Savior. Well, on this day, this little town called Sikar was harvested for the Lord. Not everyone believed, but many believed because of this woman's testimony, and then many more believed from Jesus' teaching. And again, I say this whole encounter is utterly unexpected. This is a small town, small enough that we don't really know for sure where it is today. It's in the middle of Samaria, the arch enemies of the Jews. This encounter begins with the longest recorded interaction between Jesus and the least likely individual. And it ends with the salvation of people who you would never expect to embrace the Jewish Messiah. And because of those factors, it's a reminder to us that, again, God's ways are not our ways. God saves people that we don't expect. And God saves in ways that we don't expect. But all this happened because Jesus was faithful to do the Father's will. He treated the Samaritan woman with kindness and grace. He spoke the truth, and he pointed her and the people to the Word of God. You never know what an unexpected encounter with a random person will accomplish in the course of life. We can't calculate how our faithfulness to give our testimony or to explain the gospel or speak truth to someone will have an impact on them and on the lives around them. And so, beloved, as you go throughout this summer, whether you're traveling like Jesus was, or whether you're doing things around town, Let's be faithful witnesses for Christ. Let's be bold and start conversations. Let's be wise and turn conversations to spiritual things. Let's help people to see that Jesus is the fountain of living waters, that he is the giver of eternal life, that he is the one who deserves true worship, and that he is the savior of the world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are amazed at your work of salvation, whether it's the people here in Samaria, whether it's our loved ones, whether it's we ourselves. The truth is, no one deserves to be saved. But you are a saving God. And you accomplish that work in ways that not just put on display your your saving power, but the creativity The humility, the kindness, the grace, the love. That is all of who you are. Lord, help us as a church, as a people. To not keep the message of the gospel to ourselves. To not think that our faith is a private faith. This is a public message. This must be heard. Our neighbors need to hear it. Help us, Lord, to overcome whatever fears are in us. So that we might be faithful witnesses for Christ and see you work in the lives that you put in front of us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.