Well good morning ladies. Um I'm excited about this message. I'm I'm I don't necessarily relish being in front of a group. Some of you guys know me and I'm not a very outgoing person. But what I do relish is us being able to think about the mercy of God together today and and how good the Lord is to us. And it's been a pleasure as I've been studying just to really think about um God's mercy. Um, so before I start, I would like to pray um one more time and then I'll get started. Okay, so pray with me. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this opportunity, Lord, this time for us to meet together and to reflect on your mercy. Lord, you show mercy to each one of us here in this room. You're a good God, Lord, and your word pours forward for us just praise for who you are. I pray that you would help us to think on these things today, and that the result would be even more praying. being offered up to you for who you are. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Um I'm gonna be taking these on and off. I need them to read but not to see you. Um okay. So first, um, our topic for today is the character of God and why the love of God compels our hands and feet to move toward hurting. And we're going to see um in our m in in this time how mercy is Anonymous with the very name of God, and we're going to go over examples of God's mercy toward the herding and how the spiritual gift of mercy compels us to do the very same thing. So first um I wanted to go over some different definitions of mercy that come directly from the dictionary. So the the dictionary um defines mercy as compassionate or kindly forbearance shown toward an offender, an enemy, or other person. Compassion, pity, and benevolence. Um the second definition is the disposition to be compassionate or forbearing. The discretionary power of a judge to pardon someone or to mitigate punishment, like instead of maybe giving the the death penalty, sending the person to prison instead I'm kind of lessening the sentence. Um, or an act of kindness, compassion, or favor. Um, in the Bible, often we see the word um mercy and the the word there that's used in the g in the Bible is Elion and Elion means pity, mercy, or compassion. And I just wanted to point out that um in the sermon that I heard by John MacArthur, he points to the fact that mercy has to deal with misery or or um someone going through a difficult time or in a state um in which one cannot help oneself. It's situational in a person's life. Um first I want to start off with just the fact that mercy is an attribute of of God. And if you all remember from Exodus chapter thirty four, um when God proclaimed his name to Moses, there's this time when Moses said, you know, God I want to see your glory. And you know, God told him, you can't you can't see me, Moses, or you'll be dead. So but what I'll do is I'll put you in the cleft of the rock and I'll pass by and I'll proclaim my name And in that passage, when God passed by, he said, The Lord is the Lord God, compassionate and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in faithfulness and truth, who keeps faithfulness for thousands, who forgives wrongdoing, violation of his law and sin. And then it goes on and says that he will no mean by no means leave the guilty unpunished. And then it goes on from there. But you'll notice that in there he says that he is merciful. And the word there for compassion is rahu. Which means full of compassion. So he's just not, oh I have love. It's that he is full of compassion. So first I want to look at God the Father and how he is indeed merciful. When we look at Psalm 145, verse 8 to 10, it says, The Lord is gracious and merciful, that he's slow to anger and abounding and steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made. And again, the word there for mercy is Rahoom. It's that full of mercy that he says. As an example of his mercy, in Ephesians chapter two, verses four through ten, God shows us mercy before our salvation in Christ. And I remember um last time when when some of us were together And Hong Fein um was giving an example of um of faith. Um Diane pres presented faith as a gift and then Hong was um called up to give a testimony and within her testimony she was talking about the murder And that's what's pointed out in Ephesians chapter 2. So Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4 tells us that God showed mercy to us in saving us through Christ, moving toward us, rich in mercy. And the word rich there is abounding So it's abounding in mercy. So again, God is not just merciful, he is abounding in mercy. Psalm 145, verse 14 says, the Lord sustains all who fall and raises up all who are bowed down. Meaning that the Lord supports those who are downcast and comforts the downtrodden. the humiliated and the distressed. And I don't remember who it was. I think it it was it could have been Pastor Gabe. May it may have been Pastor Week, I don't remember, but one of them was explaining what downcast means and I never knew this when they said I was like, Oh wow And some of you guys might remember that it was described as as a s it's like a shepherding term, that a downcast sheep is one that's on its back with its feet up in the air. And poor sheep, they they don't we're we're often called sheep and now I understand. understand why God calls those sheep. But the poor sheep is on its back with its feet up in the air, and apparently it will die like that if the shepherd doesn't come along and pick it up and set it back up on its feet. It's helpless. And so when we're helpless, God reaches Psalm 34 verse 18 tells us that the Lord is near to the brokenhearted And that he saves those who are crushed in spirit. It means that he is at hand or close by to those who are suffering And then in Genesis chapter 16, verse 19, um I was reading this recently. Um it said that the Lord showed compassion to Lot when he hesitated. You know, God told him to the angels that This place this this place is toast. I'm I'm just gonna I'm destroying Sodom, it's a mess. Um, but I'm going to save you and I'm gonna save your household. And it says that Lot actually hesitated to leave. And so it says, God in his mercy reached out with his angels. His angels grabbed Lot and cr grabbed his kids, grabbed his wife and brought them out of the city. So that was God's mercy. He could have said, you know what Lot you're hesitating. I gave you a chance, you didn't do it, toast. But God didn't do that. He brought them out and rescued them. And then finally, God showed merci well not finally, because God is merciful in many ways But a final example. Um, is that God showed compassion to Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias, allowing her to bear John in her old age. And um within that culture it was almost shameful if you couldn't have children. And here she is in ch in her old age and she hadn't had a child. So God showed the mercy to Elizabeth and allowing her to bear John. And John, we know, was greatly used by God to point to Christ. Um so she didn't just, you know, have a baby. God really used that child. And then Mary also in her song to the Lord when she was expecting Jesus said um um my sorry Luke chapter one verse fifty and his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation generation. He has shown strength with his arm, he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away. Empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. There's that word again, Elios, mercy, compassion. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. So we see that God the Father is compassionate, and now we're going to move on, we're going to look at God the Son, Jesus Christ. Um so here are a few examples of how Jesus showed mercy while he walked on the earth. First we're going to look at the man with leprosy and what Jesus did. So it says in Mark chapter forty, sorry, chapter one, verse forty through forty-one. And a man with leprosy came to Jesus, imploring him and kneeling down. And saying to him, If you are willing, you can make me clean. Moved with compassion, Jesus reached out with his hand and touched him, and said to him I am willing, be cleansed. And we know people you didn't you didn't touch people with leprosy. You know, they had to walk everywhere, Unclean, unclean, stay away from me. It was very lonely, it was very scary and, you know, it was revolting. to the in the eyes of those, you know, who would have seen Jesus at first reach out and touch him. What are you doing? you know? But Jesus did that. And he actually warned the man, you know, don't go around spreading this and the man disobeyed. Um And he went around and he spread it everywhere. Look what Jesus has done. Look what God has done. God has done this. And it gave glory to God. And that's what God's mercy does, is that it gives glory to God. Um okay, and then there was the man who was born blind. Um we're gonna be paying attention to how, again, how God's mercy gives him glory. Um the man who was born blind, in John chapter nine, verse one through seven, and then twenty-four to the end, I'm not gonna read that whole passage. Um, but it says that there's a man who was there who was blind and people were, you know, kind of showing him to Jesus. You know, there's this man, is it is it his fault? Is it his sin? that causes blindness? Was it his parents' fault that causes blindness? And Jesus specifically said, No, it's not not either of those things, it's that God's glory might be shown. And so it said that God healed the man. And then As we kind of look through that account, again which I'm not going to read 'cause it's very long. But Pharisees wanted to know, you know, who did this? Who saved you? How did it happen? You know, we know that this man, this Jesus over here is you know, he's He's a sinner, he's not you know, how did he do this? And, you know, Jesus like I mean, the man realized and recognized that this man was from God. Um and he was, you know, kind of honoring Jesus and the man got cast out At the synagogue they're like, You go away. Um, you know, you can't be here anymore 'cause you're getting honors as Jesus. But it says Um down here in the passage in verse 35 of chapter 9, it says Jesus heard that they put him out of synagogue. And upon finding him he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered by saying, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have both seen him And he is the one who is talking with you. And he said, I believe, Lord, and he worshiped him. So again we see that God's mercy points to who he is. People recognize that God is worthy of worship. And they would have to mark in praise and in worship. Jesus also reached out um to a widow in the city of Name. I'm going to read this. It says in chapter 7 of Luke 11 through 17. Soon afterward, Jesus went to a city called Main. And his disciples were going along with him, accompanied by a large crowd. Now as he approached the gate of the city, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother And she was a widow, and a sizable crowd from the city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he felt compassion for her and said to her, Do not go on weeping. And he came up and touched the coffin. And the bears came to a halt. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. And the dead man sat up And began to speak. And Jesus gave him back to his mother. Fear grit at them all, and they began glorifying God. saying, A great prophet has appeared among us, and God has visited his people. And this report about him spread through Judea and in all the surrounding region. So again we see that the people recognized that this was of God. I mean there's a dead man who sat up and they gave glory to God. They said, God has visited his people And they knew that God had done a great thing. And for the widow, you know, it says that that Jesus didn't just You know, he wasn't just compassionate, that he didn't just, you know, feel some pain for her. But the word there for compassion is spaditsumai, which means move to the very bowels f very deeply felt. So when Jesus feels for us with a compassion and when he felt for it here, um with this widow, he felt it physically. He wasn't just over here somewhere. He felt it very deeply. And that is how our God encounters us. He doesn't just see us. He really loves us and he really feels feels for us. Um and then another example is the man with a withered hand. And we see Jesus' reaction in this um in this example, not just that he loved the man and cared about this man, but also he was grieved by the Pharisees who had no compassion. So Mark chapter three, verses one through five Um there is this man who came in with a withered hand. And the Pharisees were sitting there and they probably looked at this man and they saw the man coming, and they looked at the man And they looked at Jesus and they're like, Mm-hmm, we wonder what Jesus is going to do. It's the Sabbath, this lawbreaker, what is he gonna do? And Jesus, of course, was who he is. So it says that the man entered the synagogue And a man was sorry, Jesus entered the synagogue again, and a man was there whose hand was withered. And they, the Pharisees, were watching him closely to see if he would heal him on the Sabbath, so they might accuse him. Said to the man with a withered hand, Get up and come forward. And he said to them, Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath or to do harm? To save a life or to kill. But they kept silent. After looking round at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored. So we need to remember that to God mercy is very important And the Beatitudes Jesus said, Blessed are the merciful, so they for they shall obtain mercy. Here the Pharisees obtained Christ's anger because they weren't merciful. So those who just examples of our God and how our God is merciful toward us. And now I just want to focus on mercy and the body of Christ because we've we've spoken about God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit has So the Lord uses our different person. The whole point is that it's all about God and all the glory goes to him and we're just his hands and feet and we are just walking in a way that we can encourage and love on one another in a practical, tangible way. Um and Margot you did a really good job describing mercy when you said um that it is it's extended towards those who are in a state of m misery. Um I would say even anybody that's in a state of n any kind of need. It doesn't have to be extreme. Um But there's this compulsion to ease their difficulties, um, even if it's just loneliness or or something like that. So it I'm gonna give you a verse. I just love this verse. This is one of my um foundational verses for my walk in the Lord. Ephesians two ten says God has prepared good works in advance for us to walk in them. And no matter where I go or what I'm doing I know that God has a good work for me. So like when I go to the grocery store, you know, I mean just you know there's people there Um, I used to run into this lady all the time at the grocery store from our church back the previous church. We would spend thirty, forty minutes ministering in the aisle at the grocery store. But she just had a lot of things going on in her life. And that's just where I ran into her all the time. And that happened to be so um it just happened to be a time when I could listen And um and she just that just was what she needed. She didn't need more than that. She just needed someone to listen at that time. Um so I'm gonna give you, since I've been here at hold. I'm gonna give I'm gonna bring in some other people because God doesn't just use one person. He just like pulls them all together. So you know Mildred Who says Amen? join church and hallelujah, yes, that's her. Um so we're in the Thursday night fellowship group together and she discovered a man that lives down the hallway from her, Mr. Kim And he was taking care of his wife who had had two strokes and they're an elderly couple and um she had Alzheimer's on top of that. I can't remember, she had more going on too. Deaf or blind, one of the two, she just had so much going on and they were gonna they were being um not passing inspection. for their apartment there in the building. And Millie found out about it, contacted Margot. Margot started looking for people that we could maybe go help this man. So she called me up And then Millie and I went over to his apartment and spent four hours cleaning his kitchen and just removing the buildup and just Trying to make it so that if someone came in and was gonna inspect that it would be you know, it would take care of things. We weren't able to do everything that day. Um so I con I told him I said I'd be in touch and he was so overwhelmed with gratefulness. He couldn't understand how perfect strangers would do this for him. Um the next day I contacted the building manager to find out what Mr. Kim needed to do to pass inspections. So I set up an appointment and then Wanju is Wanju here No, I don't think so. Wanju came with me and we met with the manager and we went up to Mr. Kim's apartment and he showed Mr. Kim everything he had to do and then I was and I set a time for a couple days later then Wanju And my husband and I were gonna come and help him finish cleaning so that he could pass inspection the following week so he wouldn't be evicted. So we did that. But um he just and then Wanju So sweet 'cause she could translate so she um was able to share the gospel. He had a couple of Bibles on his shelf with other religious books too. He had a whole slew of things. But um she was able to share the gospel and he's still in touch. He's still in touch and he's it's just it's the hands of God. Um, loving loving people. If it's it's all it is. Um, do you want me to end? I don't want to take up too much time. I have more, I could. All right. Um I also wanted to say that it's sometimes gotten me in trouble because I see someone in need and I just want to just take over and solve their problems and I wanna just carry everything that they have and some you can't You know, God doesn't want you to do that. He maybe wants you to pray, or he maybe just wants you to just encourage that person in their growth. But it's really easy to just wanna take over because it's painful. It's really painful to see someone suffering. Um so Elsie asked me if I wanted to be part of the um retreat committee, planning committee. I I just like, oh our women needed us. I said yes. And so I went to the first meeting and uh freaked out completely because I am not gifted in organization. And I just started getting really overwhelmed and I was like Whew and so I called her and uh the next day I said, Sweetie, I gotta back out. I can't do this. I can't do this. Um, I can help if you like I can't organize it, but if you have something that needs doing Like I'll help, but I just can't be in charge of organizing this. And everybody's gonna be very thankful that I backed out. Um anyway, I'm gonna uh step down so that is Teresa ready? Um yeah, I'm hoping so. Alright, I do have another example. If she's not. Okay, well Okay, so I have um I know you guys maybe some of you know me, some of you don't. So we have seven children. six daughters and then a son. So all my girls are in their twenties. Um and it's really easy for them. Um they're they're all over the place and they're It's hard to connect in a church. You start going to church, you're alone, you're not part of a family, you don't know anybody, um, and there's clicks in place or it's hard for people families to invite you into their inner sanctum or whatever. Um so I have a really heavy burden at this time for young women who are in that position where they They're coming to church, they love the Lord, they're kind of they want to serve, they want to minister, but how do they plug in? And uh my heart just goes out to them. I've been trying to meet one on one with many of them. And um then I in Linda Hong and I were talking about it and um Margot and then Glenn Waller and we just put our heads together and we're trying to meet with these ladies once a month. We're trying to build community and just encourage them also to minister in the body. So these are just the ways that God has um I think just pushed my own heart and I think all of us, you look around and you see a need, well do something about it. Go over there. Say hello. You see someone you've never met before. Go say hello. Introduce yourself and it's uncomfortable, sure it's uncomfortable. But you know what? You are blessing them so much just by um showing that you notice them even or that you care about them. So I'm gonna be This is my daughter Teresa who is a missionary in Togo and we'll be explaining I guess how the love of Christ works through her and the usher other missionary team workers who are there and how God again is glorified. here and how X are tied to sharing the gospel. And so I started thinking about it, um, and as I shared already, the two can't be separated because it's through We see that the heart of the word is showing and his heart is for us to know him and that's the whole goal of Macy on it. The worship receives the the act of mercy will be able to see God's heart and his character and his love and him through it. Um, I'll share one example at least and um that comes from this past year um when I got to go with my friend Sakina and our son ahad to the States at the end of September and into October and some you were praying for this little horse. God who had a heart condition um which led us to the seat to see if he could benefit from heart surgery and he ended up not being able to undergo the operation for a number of reasons. Um person may um and a removing sheet your post work process. But there is one point in which Um a hard had been he was delivered at that point and um were really unsure about his future, um, health wise and I heard we're looking at Sakina and telling her, you know, Sakina, this is why the whole is so important because we can do all that we can. Um I've had basically every opportunity for healing. Um in terms of what we could do humanly speaking. We brought him out of his home country where heart usually wasn't possible and um the word led us to pursuits where it was potentially possible, um, but still it still wasn't enough. Um his heart was still feeling and ultimately even if he had gotten the surgery um all of our bodies feel one day, which is why the hope of paternity is so important. And so when I was talking with Sakina I was hearing this is why Christ died. We came to die and to rise again, um, in our place and to remove the consequences of our sin. That's not something that he had to do, um, but he he did it out of compassion and mercy. So that we hope on him, um, we can have eternal life and that goes far beyond um this current life. And also beyond that, um I was sharing with Akina and it removes my prayer for her and her that in the midst of coming to know Christ they would see God as a compassionate father and really see his heart because in comes from the Muslim background and often they can say, Oh that's But I know the Lord's will we'll we'll accept it. Um if it was our how we said it was God's will that he died and it's true that was ultimately outside of God's will, but that doesn't mean that the Lord is calling and distinct and apart but he is present and he cares and he grieves when he sees the the suffering of this world. Um and when Jesus walked this earth he was able to experience that first hand and so when uh the Bible says that Jesus is praying for us um as a great high priest, he understands in a personal and a real way and not just laying it um in his mind in kind of a rude sense but in a very present way which is amazing to me and it's a huge gift that I think I'll really be able to comprehend. And so in that situation Lady from Sikina and her family and in a company to the state and um seeking God's um will and trying to provide an every opportunity and possibility for his physical care, um, the prayer is that they will be able to see the the mercy and the heart of the father. And so we divide physically um as best we can, but also that's where the truth needs to be shared. Um because if you show acts of kindness without sharing the truth at the end of the day of their lives um is eternity and without the hope of Christ life is empty um even with the best possible chances of uh a healthy physical life. Um and I spent too much time on it because so much of its truth was already shared, but um in my chapter six when Jesus has compassion for the crowds and starts healing their sick. Um, the same word is used as Mm Lady Shared, which references being moved to the bowels and Jesus heals their physical wounds. Um but then after that those opportunities of teaching um as he talks with his disciples and even in that moment um the scripture says that Jesus saw the crowds as um sheep being scattered, um having no shepherd and so as I think about the heart of Christ for the herding and for the lost. It's so beautiful to see his heart for their physical needs and wanting to heal heal them, but then also see the need to know him. And um John seventeenth June says and this is eternal life that they know you, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent. And so, um, that's that's the hope that we have, right? Having eternal life, having um a relationship with the Lord and getting to be in uh yellow being which there is no more sin and suffering, but also to know the Lord um someone who's a compassionate elder that we can run to and find rest in, um, both in the midst of our suffering but also rest from um trying to please God on our own because we'll never be able to do that. And so as we're here trying to provide physical care at the hospital of hope and um and relieve some of the hurting and suffering We don't do that perfectly um we're also trying to um share the hope that we have in Christ so that one day people will will be able to know the Father and so that's what we seek for, that's what we pray for. And I know for me I don't do that perfectly. I think we've got many days this past week in which um in order to be suffering and was focused on physical care, I missed opportunity to share the hope that I have for Christ. And again, that's that's not the reason why here. My hearing is only to try to treat sicknesses, um, with God's help, but um ultimately we're here to help to put people's place 'cause in the end that's only what's going to matter and last and that's how God objections for them to see his heart, um, which provides true healing and life and joy. So I see you all, I'm a little clean for you. Um, thank you so much for listening and enjoy the rest of your time together.