Uh let me start us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's Day and the opportunity we have to get together and worship you. Uh we also thank you for mothers uh for how you've designed the family and each and every one of us has As a mother, uh we thank you for designing the family that way with uh uh with someone that um that you've designed to nurture and love each uh each child as the child comes into the world. Uh so we thank you for our mothers. Uh we pray for comfort for those who have lost their mother, whose mothers have uh have passed away. Um we thank you for uh the gift of uh motherhood and uh we also pray for those that um uh that wish they could be mothers and and haven't been able to uh to experience the joy of motherhood. We pray for them as well, Lord. We just thank you for your great love in all circumstances. We thank you for your word and the opportunity that we have now to uh gather around it and study We pray that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on each and every one of us so that we could really learn what you want to teach us from your word today. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So happy Mother's Day. And if your mother is still with us Make sure you call her today. So we've come to part 37, uh which means we have two more. Uh so next Sunday and the Sunday after, so the last two Sundays in May are our last two to study the book of Revelation. And so that means it's time to start registering for next quarter's classes. And so I think you've probably all seen in Life at Hope or or other places that there are courses available for next quarter now. Uh so today we're gonna s we're gonna look at the capital city of heaven, the New Jerusalem. Uh we're gonna look at the end of chapter twenty one and the beginning of chapter twenty two and uh Um you'll see that this city is big. Big, big, big, big, big. Like 1500 miles wide and fifteen hundred miles long and fifteen hundred miles high So that's a big city. And we're going to look at the general appearance of the city. We're going to look at the exterior design of the city. We're going to look at the int internal character of the city, and we're going to look at some of the privileges of the inhabitants of the city. The New Jerusalem coming down from heaven. But first we'll take a look back at what we did last night. week and so last week we saw the Great White Throne judgment and we saw the new heavens, the creation of the new heavens and the new earth. Um and so this Great White Throne judgment is uh there's a chronology in the major events here at the end of the book of Revelation, there's the Second Coming in chapter nineteen, there's the Millennial Kingdom in Chapter 20, and then there's the the uh great white throne judgment at the At the end of chapter 20 and the new heavens and the new earth at the beginning of chapter twenty-one. Um and so we have the father and the son d both depicted as sitting on the throne, but in particular we see Christ as judge here, Jesus Christ as judge in this great white throne judgment. And we know that because we've been told previously in Scripture, In John chapter 5, for example, that not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. So that's really clear. But you do sometimes get today this skewed picture of Christ as only the gentle and lowly, and not also as the judge. But we have very clear in the scripture that Christ is the judge. And so that's what we see in this great white throne judgment. Um further on in in uh John chapter 5, we have just as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself, and gave him authority to execute judgment. And so the scripture is really clear and we see the the culmination of that with the great white throne judgment. We see the the gathering of all the unbelievers before this great white throne. Um we see books open that that list their deeds and then they're judged according to their deeds. And so God's just punishment falls Calls on all sin. For believers, Christ paid that penalty. For unbelievers, they get to pay that penalty of themselves in like a fire. Uh so th the the big point is that all sin gets punished. Um that that a holy God cannot look the other way. w of uh i it at sin. Uh he does he has to judge and punish sin because of his holy character. Um and so either that judgment and punishment will fall on Christ on the cross or it will fall on the individual individual sinner in the lake of fire. Um and so we see what happens to those who will not come to Christ uh at this great white throne judgment. Um and so it doesn't matter how they died or where they died or when they died. Uh we get this comprehensive view that whether they're in the sea or on the land or in Hades, it doesn't matter. They get resurrected for this great white throne judgment and at the end of the great white throne judgment, death and Hades are thrown into the lake of fire. They're no more Also. Uh there the old heaven and earth pass away, and so God creates a new heaven and a new earth. Um it um it's different, this new heaven and new earth. First we see it doesn't have a sea. And so the everything has to be different. There's no hide hydrological cycle. Um it's different. Uh radically different. Um we have this loud voice then that comes from heaven that says uh that God's tabernacle, the tabernacle of God is among men. And so that's different, once again radically different. God is only in the Holy Holies, can only be approached one day a year, only by the high priest. And now he's living right there among the the the people. Um and the angels m s has three or four different ways of saying that same thing That God will be among his people. Then we get uh some some things that are not in heaven, in the new heavens in the new earth. Uh no tears, no crying, no death, no mourning, uh all those things have passed away. And then God says it's done. It's done, which is reminiscent of Christ. It's finished on the cross. And he proclaims himself the Alpha and the Omega, just like Jesus did in chapter 3. Revelation chapter one. Um and then he he talks about the springs of living water. Uh and Jesus had alluded to this living water in the past. Uh Pastor Gabe talked about this in his sermon last week that the the woman of the well, Jesus said, if you had known who it is who's talking to you, you would have asked for asked him and he would have given you living water. Um and so here we have this living water in Revelation as well. Uh And then of course at the end of the passage that we looked at yesterday, uh those who overcome will inherit these things, all these things that we've just been talking about, this wonderful uh life in heaven. Who is it for? It's for those who overcome. Um and those who overcome has been a uh a uh standard way of saying believers. Uh what is it that overcomes the world? Our faith. Um and so and also those who overcome will be my son, God says. So we have the the doctrine of adoption that's there all along. Uh from the time that we're saved, we're adopted into his family, but it it's fully realized in heaven. Alright, any questions about what we did last week before we dive into this week? Um Okay. So uh so let's take a look. We're gonna we're gonna look at the last part of chapter twenty one and the first part of chapter twenty We're going to look at the capital city of heaven, this New Jerusalem. So if you're opening your Bibles to Revelation chapter 21, And we're going to start in verse 9 and we're going to go all the way through to chapter 22, verse 5. And we're going to take a look at the New Jerusalem So Revelation chapter 21, beginning in verse 9. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will show you. Show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Having the glory of God. Her brilliance was like a very costly stone, as a stone of crystal clear jasper. It had a great and high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names were written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the Son of Israel. There were three gates on the east, and three gates on the north, and three gates on the south, and three gates on the west. And the wall of the city had twelve foundation stones, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lord. Lamb. The one who spoke with me had a gold measuring rod to measure the city and its gate and its wall. The city is laid out as a square, and its length is as great as its width And he measured the city with the rod, fifteen hundred miles. Its length and width and height are equal. And he measured its walls, seventy-two yards, according to human measurements, which are also angelic measurements. The material of the wall was jasper, and the city was pure gold like clear glass. The foundation stones of the city wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone The first foundation stone was Jasper, the second Sapphire, the third Chalcedone, the fourth emerald, the fifth Sardonyx, the sixth Sardius, the seventh Chrysalite, the eighth barrel, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysopras, the eleventh Jacenth, the twelfth amethyst. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each one of the gates was a single pearl And the street of the city was pure gold like transparent glass. I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its temple And the city has no need of the sun or of the moon to shine on it. For the glory of God has illuminated illumined it And its lamp is the Lamb. The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it In the daytime, for there will be no night there, its gates will never be closed, and they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it And nothing unclean, and no one who practises abomination and lying shall ever come into it, but only those whose names are written in the lamb's Book of Life. Then he showed me a river of the water of life, clear as crystal, coming from the throne of God and of the land. In the middle of its street, on the either side of the river was the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit every month And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. There will no longer be any curse, and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it. And his bronze servants will serve him, they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. And there will no longer be any knight And they will not have need of the light of a lamp, nor of the light of the sun, because the Lord God will illumine them, and they will reign forever. and ever. This is the word of the Lord to tell us what heaven is like. Okay, so uh first let me just give you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur To introduce this section of scripture, uh MacArthur puts it this way, on the night before his death, the Lord Jesus Christ made a wonderful promise to all who believe in him. He said, Do not let your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself that where I am, there you may be also. John fourteen, one to three. So Jesus promised the night before he died to his disciples was he was going to go and prepare a place in heaven for them. And he he uses strong and repetitive language to make sure they understand that he really, really, really means it. And if he didn't mean it he would have told them otherwise. But he's telling them this because this is what's gonna happen. Because why is he telling them that What's about to happen to the disciples? Well, what's about to happen to Jesus? He's about to die. And the disciples are gonna become extremely discouraged when Jesus died. They've got three days uh of extreme discouragement. So Jesus leaves them with this promise right before that's about to happen. But the Holy Spirit recorded it in scripture, so all All of us can see that this is the way it is, that Jesus has proclaimed that He's going to prepare a place for us. And now we get to see a little glimpse of what this place is like. Just as the person preparing to travel to a foreign country desires information about that country, so believers long for a glimpse of that glorious place where they will live eternally Knowing their eager sense of anticipation, God has provided believers with a description of heaven. Though only a select few details are given, they are staggering, mind-boggling, and overwhelming. As the vision of the New Jerusalem unfolds, history has ended, and time is no more, John and his readers are transported to the eternal state, having described the fearful eternal destination of the damned and lake of fire in Chapter twenty, the vision takes the beloved exiled apostle to the blissful eternal resting place of the redeemed. Because it is the capital city of heaven, and the link between the new heaven and the new earth, the new Jerusalem is central to the vision And it's described in far more detail than the rest of the eternal state. That's John MacArthur. So uh let's take a look at the scripture uh verse by verse. So starting with verse nine In chapter twenty-one we have then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. So angels we've seen over and over again playing an important role in the book of Revelation. And this is one of the angels that was involved in the tribulation judgments. So just to recap, we have the seal judgments and the trumpet judgments and the bold judgments, and this is one of the seven that executed the bold judgments. One of those seven angels that we first saw in Revelation chapter 15. We also saw in chapter 17. One of these seven angels, maybe this one, maybe one of the other six, we don't know for sure, but one of these seven angels uh introduced the judgment on Babylon. in chapter 17. It was one of these seven angels, either this one or one of the others. And so he's going to give John a personal tour of heaven. here in a vision. Um and he says, Come here and I'm going to show you the bride, the wife of the lamb. So the New Jerusalem is described as the bride because of its occupants. So the occupants consist of the bride of the lamb. Uh that title was originally given to the church in chapter nineteen, but now it encompasses the redeemed of all ages, who will live forever uh in heaven. Verse ten, uh, and he carried me away in the spirit So this is the vision and he's in the spirit and the angel is showing him what heaven's like in the spirit. Uh so in the spirit he goes in his vision to a great and high mountain and he sees the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Having the glory of God, her brilliance was like a very costly stone as a stone of crystal clear jasper. So first he's carried away in the spirit, so it's another vision. Uh so it's not a dream, it's a spiritual reality that he's being shown. shown. Um and he's i is similar to what Paul in Second Corinthians describes, being caught up into the third heaven. So the first stop is a great and high mountain, and then the angel shows him this uh n Holy City, the New Jerusalem. Um and he repeats an observation that he made in verse two in our last lesson in the first part of chapter twenty-one that the New Jerusalem is coming down out of heaven from God. That's how it's described in verse 2. It's how it's described here as well. And so this emphasizes the divine origin. It's the cities whose architect and builder is the Lord, from Hebrews chapter 11. The most distinguishing characteristic of this city is the glory of God is in it. That's the characteristic. And so we get different descriptions of the glory of God and different ways of uh how it's seen this city, but this is really the key that we get right up front. Uh the characteristic of this city is the glory of God is in it. And so the glory of God reaches its full expression here. It will be unlimited and unconfined, flashing from the city of this recreated um uh universe. Uh and the glory of God of course really is a summation of the total of his attributes. Um there are many attributes of God, um his loving kindness, his mercy, uh his grace. His uh judgment, all these attributes of God, uh his justice, righteousness, are all summarized by his glory. Um and the the attribute that um really among all of his attributes that h that really stand out are his holiness. Uh and we've seen this described in the book of Revelation before. Um God's attributes are spoken of all throughout Scripture, uh but the only one that's that's um uh that's emphasized threefold when it's when it's when it's spoken of is his holiness. Holy, holy, holy. Uh we don't have a description of righteous, righteous, righteous or loving, loving, loving. We get but we do get holy, holy, holy. So his holiness and his glory uh really summarize the rest of his attributes. Okay. Yes. In the Old Testament, that's what Moses asked. Show me your glory. Yes. Yep, he did. And and so here we get uh In heaven you get to see the full glory of God. Um and uh e even Moses couldn't see the glory of God. He can only see the backside with the hand covering and that sort of thing. But in heaven we'll get to see the full on Glory of God. And that's really the the first thing and the most important thing about heaven is that God's glory is there and we get to see it. Uh okay. Uh verse ten, he carried me away to the spirit to the high mountain, showed me the holy city. And verse eleven, having the glory of God, her brilliance was like a costly stone. So uh this brilliance Brilliance is like a costly stone, a stone of crystal clear jasper. This Greek word brilliance, uh phoster, uh it refers to something which radiates light. Um the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, uses this Greek word in Genesis one uh to describe the heavenly lights being created, um that same Greek word brilliance. And that's the brilliance that we see uh also describing this uh heavenly city. So it appears uh brilliant light of God's glory streaming from it. That's the picture that that we get uh at the beginning of John's vision. Uh Jasper um probably doesn't refer to the modern stone of the same name which is opaque. Iaspis, which describes a translucent stone. So not the Jasper of today that's opaque. Um so it's probably best understood as a diamond, a perfectly translucent stone. Um a very costly one. Because it's crystal clear and unblemished. That's the description here. And then we get further description of the city. It had a great and high wall and twelve gates, and the twelve gate at the twelve gates were twelve angels. So we have twelve gates in the city. Um we have angels. Angels standing by the gates. Uh we have names written above each gate. So twelve gates. Each one has the name of the one of the tr uh twelve tribes of the sons of Israel above it. And we'll see later it has one of the twelve apostles and the foundation stone under it. And the th the whole thing is symmetrical, three gates on each of the four sides. So it's got specific dimensions. It has limits. It's a real place, in other words. Uh there's angels stationed there to attend to God's glory, to serve his people, as we saw see in Hebrews chapter one, uh at each gate. Uh there's names written on them, the twelve sons celebrating for all eternity God's covenant relationship with uh Israel, the people of promise, the covenants, the scripture, and the Messiah. Um three gates, as I said, on the east, west, south, and north. Uh and that's reminiscent of the way the twelve tribes camped around the tabernacle. in Numbers chapter 2. And also the allotment of tribal lands around the millennial temple in Ezekiel chapter 48 uh similar things we see uh this inscription. And then we get um the twelve foundation stones. So we've got this wall and it's got twelve gates, three on each side, and then we've got twelve foundation stones uh all the way around the wall. Uh and on each of the twelve foundation stones is the names of the twelve apostles of the Lion. And then we have a measuring rod to measure. So the massive wall is anchored with twelve foundation stones, and it's the twelve names of the apostles. So those stones commemorate God's covenant relationshi relationship with the church of which the apostles are the foundation. So and we had at the top of each gate we had the one of the names of the T twelve tribes of Israel and under we have one of the names of the twelve apostles, um, the foundation of the church. All gonna get his name in dead or was it the Judas what so uh who replaced Judas Matthias Matthias. Yeah, so Matthias praised replaced Judas. We don't hear any I don't think we hear anything more about Matthias after that, but the twelve apostles are Here. Um and so no, I don't believe that Judas is going to be one of the names on here. Um I think it w I think it will take one of the Paul or Matthias. I think it'll be Matthias Yeah. I think it'll be the twelve. Yeah, I mean it could be Paul. Um Paul could still make it. Yeah. It it could be. Yeah. Uh yes, uh absolutely, yes. So it could be the Apostle Paul instead of Judas, even though Matthias was the one that was directly chosen to replace him. Uh yes, it that's possible it could be Paul. But it's definitely not Judas. And we'll find out when we're there when we walk up to the gate we can you can walk all Yes, it would be very hard to walk around. But but you have an infinite amount of time. Infinite amount of time. So uh y yeah. Fifteen hundred, fifteen hundred, fifteen hundred, fifteen hundred, so six thousand miles. You have to walk six thousand miles to get all the way around. You won't be getting tired, you have an infinite amount of time, so you could do it. exploring. So the layout of the city pictures God's favor on all his redeemed people All the way throughout history, both under the old covenant and under the new covenant. And then we get a curious thing. We have the angel has a gold measuring rod to measure the gates and its walls. So it's reminiscent of measuring the millennial temple in Ezekiel chapter 40 and measuring of the tribulation temple in Revelation chapter 11. Um and the significance of all three of those measurements is that it marks out what belongs to God in all three cases. Um course everything belongs to God. But this is something that Belongs to God, it's his city, it's where his throne is. And so the angel's got a measuring rod and he's going to measure this thing out. Well, John watches. And so we get further description of the city in chapter in verse 16. The city is laid out as a square. Its length is as great as width. And he measured the city with the rod fifteen hundred miles. Its length and width and height are equal So it uh so here it adds that the height is also fifteen hundred miles. Length and width and height are all equal. Um okay. So uh the results of the Angels measurement uh of this city is in the NAS, I'm using the NASB here, it says 1500 miles. The Greek text literally says 12,000 stadia 12,000 stadia. And stadia is a Roman measure of distance. And some of the Roman measures of distance were they ri eventually get down to the pace. how how long a pace is. And it's generally understood to be about 607 feet to a stadia. Uh to a stadion. 607. 15 is the most precise measurement I saw. And so if you m multiply twelve thousand by six hundred and seven point one five, you get about thirteen hundred and eighty miles So the English translation translates it to English measurements and kind of rounds it to fifteen hundred. Uh more precisely it's more like thirteen hundred and eighty miles of width and length and height. R it's really big. So it's really big. Um so yeah, so the the measurements are are actually in Ancient Roman measurements of twelve thousand stadia in the text of scripture. Uh the NASB translators took a little bit of liberty there. It is. Uh uh yeah, it goes from well it's more than halfway. Uh it's it's It's yeah, it's a little bit more than halfway. It's like Colorado to the east coast. Yeah. Or from here to Saint Louis for I think. Yeah. So it's um it yeah, i yeah, think about it, it's a straight line though. And so uh often when we're we're driving, we're not going in a straight line, and so if you drove from the east coast to St. Louis, it might be 2,000, but if you were actually able to go in straight line for 2,000 miles, you would get further west than St. Louis. just can't do that on a road. Um so um uh Henry Morris wrote a commentary called the Revelation Record And he made some assumptions. You gotta make us some guesses about how many people. Uh but he he was an engineer and so he liked to do these kind of calculations. And he calculated that each person in heaven would have a cube that's seventy-five acres Seventy five acre cube and seventy five acres high or whatever. So y a big a big space. Everybody gets a big space. Uh in I mean you don't get just a little uh little house, you got a big big seventy five acre farm each. Anyway. Of course that that really what what does that depend on? That depends on the assumption of how many people are gonna be saved. Yeah. So he had to make some guess Yeah, that's a that's a good one. Yeah, you don't want to mow your seventy five acres of uh grassland uh there. But it's all gold. Uh so the ground's all solid gold. Um so uh where the city is superimposed on present day United States it would extend from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. and from Colorado to the Atlantic Ocean. So it's a big city. All the way from the northern border of the United States all the way to the southern border and from Colorado to the to the uh to the Atlantic Ocean. It's a really big city. Um and it's also as tall as it is high. So it goes like o all the way up into the stratosphere. Um so that's a really big city. Uh really, really big city. Yeah. You could have really, really tall skyscrapers. Um 1380 mile tall skyscraper. Um so uh obviously God's designed the student of Jerusalem with plenty of room, just as Jesus said There's gonna be room for everybody there. Uh it's a big city. Uh and then he measures the wall, uh 72 yards according to human measurements, which are also the angelic measurements uh the material of the wall was Jasper and the city was pure gold like clear glass. So the angel measures the wall. Now the uh seventy two yards is what NASB says and this one's pretty good because it's literally a hundred and forty four cubits. And a cubit is 18 inches, so 144 of those is 216 feet, which is exactly 72 yards. Now it doesn't say whether it's 72 yards thick wall or a seventy two yard high wall. Uh seventy two yards two hundred and sixteen feet. So it's it's either a two hundred and sixteen foot high wall or a two hundred and sixteen feet thick wall or both. I don't know. I don't know w it doesn't say which direction he was measuring. How thick the wall is or how high the wall is. Either way, that's a big wall. Two hundred and sixteen feet high or two hundred and sixteen feet wide. Um so he's Emphasizing these dimensions these are m literal dimensions here. Uh because we get this parenthetical expression that it's human measurements he's using, uh which are also the angelic measurements. So a yard is a yard, a foot is a foot, a mile is a mile, a stadium is a stadion and a qubit is a qubit, which is what was originally there in the Greek. Okay. So the material was Jasper. So the same diamond-like stone that was mentioned in verse eleven. So the wall is translucent. The city itself is pure gold like clear glass. So the wall is clear and the city is clear. And so and why is that? That's so that the entire city can radiate with the glory of God. You can see the glory of God everywhere, radiating through everything. Um some may be concerned that the city's translucent will preclude privacy. But there will be nothing in heaven that calls for privacy. No reason for the we have reasons for privacy. privacy in today's world there's no reasons for it in heaven. So uh then we get a description of the foundation stones. The foundation stones are adorned with every kind of precious stone. Uh and then we get a list of the of the stones. So we whoops, what was that? What have I done here? I'm going backwards. I don't want to go backwards. Let's go forward. Um so every kind of precious stone and twelve of these precious stones are named here. Uh we have um Some of the s the the stones that are mentioned here have changed through the centuries, so we have to kind of guess at what these stones were then, what he was describing. Um interestingly enough there are twelve stones listed here, and eight of them are the are uh ones that appeared on the high priest's breastplate uh in Exodus chapter twenty eight and then repeated in Exodus chapter thirty-nine. So Jasper, as we previously said uh said is most likely a diamond uh or diamond like stone, sapphire is a brilliant blue, uh Chalcedony is sky blue with colored stripes, emerald is bright green, sardonyx is red and white striped stone. Sardius is a quartz stone found in various shades of Red. Crystallite is transparent but kind of gold or yellow stone. Beryl is a stone found in many different colors, including green, yellow, and blue. Topaz is a yellow-green stone, Chrysopray is a gold-tinted green stone, Jason the blue or violet colored stone in John's day. The modern equivalent is a little bit different color. And the amethyst is a purple stone. And then we get a description of the gates. The gates are twelve pearls um and each one of the gates was a single pearl. That's a big pearl. The wall's huge It's either seventy two yards high or seventy two yards thick. And it takes a big gate to go through a wall like that. Uh and each gate is a single pearl. Um and then we see the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent. glass. Um so we see this uh description of the city continuing. We've we've seen the wall, we've seen the size of the thing, we we've seen the foundation stones, and now we see the something about the gates. The twelve pearls. Uh from once we get the the pearly gates. The pearly gates. Um uh so so we have twelve pearls. Uh pearls were highly prized and of great value, of course. in even in John's day. Um and these pearls were like no pearls ever produced by an oyster. Uh big enough to be huge gates and these huge walls. Uh single gigantic Pearl. And so now he's seen the city from a distance, and now the angel's going to show him what it's like inside. And the first thing he sees, probably from outside, but looking in is the street. Uh and the street of the city was pure gold like transparent glass. And so made of high quality pure gold, uh which like everything else in the city was transparent like glass. because it has to show the glory of God. So uh translucent goal is not something that we have today. And there's no such thing as clear gold that you can see through. But there is in heaven. There's gold that's clear that you can see through. It's not something that we're familiar with in the present heaven, in the present earth. But in the new heavens and the new New earth and the new Jerusalem, there will be transparent gold. Uh everything there is transparent to let the God the light of God's glory blaze through unrestricted. Goes in. Uh the angel takes him into the city to see what it's like inside the city. And starting in verse 22, we get this description: I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. are its temple. And the city has no need of the sun or of the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God has illumined it and its lamp is the Lamb. So inside the city, the first thing got John noticed, he's looking around, hey, there's no temple here. So up to this point there's always been a temple Right, there's a temple in heaven all throughout Revelation, chapter 7, chapter 11, chapter 14, chapter 15, chapter 16. We always have a temple, temple, temple, temple. Uh but there's no need for a temple in the New Jerusalem. Why not? For the Lord God God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple. God is right there. There's no reason to have a special location because God is there in his city everywhere in his city. No need for anyone to go anywhere to worship God. Life will be worship and worship will be life. So we'll be constantly in the presence of God No need to go to a special place. He's there. Um So we're in his presence, always in perfect and holy communion with the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb. So there's no need to go to a temple or a cathedral or a church or a chapel or any other house of worship. God is right there. And that's the first thing that John notices. when he goes into the city. Next he notes that the s the city has no need of the sun or the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God has illumined it and its lamp is the Lamb. So the new heaven and the new earth are radically different. from the present earth, which is totally dependent on the sun and the moon. But in the new heaven and the new earth they're totally unnecessary. We don't need the sun, we don't need the moon, um because God is illumining everything. And then we get some uh some other curious descriptions which require some explanation. So starting in verse twenty four, we get The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it in the daytime, for there will be no night there Its gates will never be closed. So this reference to the nations and the kings of the earth has led some to view this passage as a recapitulation of the millennial kingdom. But that doesn't really work because there's Mm specific language in here that shows a progression. Uh as I mentioned before, we have a chronology, these especially this phrase of Kayedan, then I saw Um there's a chronological progression and that millennial kingdom is gone. The the the whole universe that was then is gone and there's a new heavens and a new earth And so that's uh this is not that. Um so uh in in this commentary, which I really like, um this this commentary by uh Robert Thomas, and that's That's actually the commentary they use at the Master's Seminary to teach their course on Revelation. And uh Thomas says this there is one theory that seems to satisfy the available criteria best that the nations are composed of saved people who survived the millennial kingdom without dying and without joining Satan's rebellion and who undergo some sort of transformation that suits them for life in the eternal state. So you remember we talked when we got to this point that w what happened to so what happened to the believers that were still alive at the end of the millennium? Those who had come to Christ during the millennium? Because we we have different groups of people we have um The church was was raptured and then came back with Christ. Um you had those who uh rebelled during the millennium and they were killed mm, fire came down from heaven and consumed them and they all get tossed into the lake of fire. But what about those who came to Christ during the millennium and were still alive at the end of that? What happens to them? Um according to Thomas This is the clue. This is the these the nations are are this is that's what is referred to here. Um that those who were alive had to be somehow transformed, translated, uh raptured in some way into this eternal state, uh, because their physical bodies couldn't uh survived the uh going out of existence of the old universe. This is not all that there is in the new heavens and the new earth. This is one part of it, there's still the rest of the new heavens and the the new earth. And so yes, there evidently there's a way to go in and out of the gates. And so there's more than just the city. Um and so we have nations walk and we'll see um that they can come in and out of the gates and one theory is that these are those who um became believers during the millennium, didn't rebel with Satan and then they get uh translated or raptured into the n into the uh eternal state. They're going to heaven, um, but they're not the church and they're not um the Old Testament saints. This is a different group, uh different group of people. So according to this n this view, the statement the kings of the earth will bring their glory into the new Jerusalem refers to the translation of those believers before the uncreation of the present universe. Um so they're bringing their glory into the new Jerusalem. So they're coming into the new Jerusalem, um, but that's who they are, according to to Thomas. Uh nations here translates the Greek word ethnos, uh which also means people, most frequently translated in the Bible as Gentiles. And so uh when you see nations here, make sure Make sure you do not get a picture in your mind of some political organization. That's not what this is. This is ethnos, this is ethnic group, this is people group. It's talking about people, not political organizations. So it's not nations, it's not the nations that are lined up in the United Nations, for example. It's people, people groups, groups of people, ethnos. Ethnos is the word here. Throughout this chapter, when it's nations, it's always ethnos. It's not a political thing. It's a group of people. So the idea is not that the national identities will be preserved in the eternal state, but rather the opposite, people from every Every tribe and tongue and nation, Jews and Gentiles will be united as God's people, and all will be fully equal in the eternal capital city. Um the king Um my guess is that it's rulers of these groups of people, these people groups that are coming. Um that's my guess. There's no further information uh for us to go by. Um so we get all the people groups uh that coming in. Um and so uh he adds this John adds a this uh Uh this further description, further detail, um that there's a never ending daytime, there will be no night, uh and the gates are never closed. So wha how much of the new heaven in the US has created the So this says it comes down out of heaven. Um and so um my guess is this that thing there is already there And it comes down out of heaven. And it becomes right. So where is God now, for example? So God is everywhere, but but we have all these descriptions of his this throne as a place. Uh he's got his throne in heaven, for example. Um and so uh i it's it's another one of these circumstances where Uh our our word where doesn't fit very well. Um it's n it's not a physical location. Um I I don't believe already created. I I think God already has a throne room. And the whole city or just the so y so yeah. I I think this whole thing is something that God has already made. So Jesus said I'm going to prepare a place for you. And so that uh seems to indicate that that's happening. Um and it's already gonna be ready for us when we when we come. Yeah, so remember this is a vision, so John's seeing things in a vision as they will be, and we've seen um a description of it coming down from heaven in the Vision Well, what does that mean for time? Well, by this point, time has stopped. There is no more time. So God Himself is outside of time. He he existed before there was any such thing as time and he's outside of time and he can come he can be at any time he wants to be at any time. Uh but i it but this is beyond time. Um and so It's y uh we but we but we only understand things as progressions of time, uh as finite human beings and so many times I think we get descriptions of things that involve time. Uh we'll get to one in in a minute here. where where the tree has a fruit every month. Well there's no months in in heaven, so that's a uh a description that's for us to be able to understand something better, um, it's what we call uh anthropomorphism. It's a man-centered view of something that's beyond our man centered understanding, but it has to be mentioned in terms that we understand. Yeah. Um so y yeah, so there is a great white throw judgment and there's um So we're with Christ, we're we're raptured, we're we're with him. But there's also m other believers who are not raptured because they're not believers yet. So during the millennium we have uh during the tribulation you have tribulation saints and so they end up getting um The first resurrection describes those tribulation saints, and then they're with Christ. But they're also described as under the altar Right? The the martyrs from the tribulation are under the altar, so that's where they're with Christ. And but the but we're there with them because we're already raptured, and it seems the tribulation saints are there with him as well because they're under under the altar and that's right where the the lamb is. The lamb is described as right there. Um and so remember what Jesus said to the thief on the cross? He said, Today you will be with me in paradise. Um And so that's believers are with Christ from the time you you die. Um and so we're we're we're raptured and so uh the the believers that are still alive are with Christ, but those who have died in Christ are with Christ. Those that died during tribulation are with Christ. Um yeah, so uh believers are with Christ. Th we we really are, yeah. Yeah. Okay, so yeah, very difficult things to to rustle our our per wrap our minds around. Um uh but what we get this description of heaven And we get the fact that there's no night, uh, because it's always light streaming out of uh God. Uh gates are never closed. Uh in ancient cities of course during John's time they would close the gates to keep invaders and marauders and crazy criminals and dangerous people out during the nighttime. But there's no night in eternity, and the gates are never closed. Um and so this depicts a city of uh complete security There's no reason to close the gates because there's one hundred percent total security. Place of rest and safety and refreshment for God's people, um, to rest from all their labors as re as Revelation fourteen thirteen says. So the new heavens and the new earth are outside the city. So yeah, so there's still other there's uh so that's a good question. So what is it that's out there? Uh we don't get much of a description But there is something out there. There's gates and you can walk in and out, so there's something outside the city, so it's not all of the new heavens and new earth, it's the capital city of the new heavens and the new earth. Yeah. It's a good question. It's a good thing to think about that that the This is not all of it. There's something outside. That's why there's gates. Alright, so then we get uh um and they will bring the glory and honor of the nations into it, and nothing unclean or no Uh no one who practiced abomination and lying shall ever come into it, but only those whose name are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. So who's that? That's all believers. Only believers will come in because what happened to the unbelievers They got tossed into the lake of fire. So the kings will not be the only ones who surrender their earthly prestige and glory when they enter heaven, glory and honor of the nations. Once again this is ethnos, people, not a political organization. People. Ethnos. People. Yeah. So these um uh so we get the people, people groups coming in, and they bring in their glory and honor. Uh so um the glory and honor of the nations will also dissolve, as it were, into the eternal worship of God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Like the twenty-four elders, all who enter heaven will cast their crowns before the throne of God. So all heaven will be perfectly holy, therefore nothing unclean, no one who practices abomination and lying will ever come into the New Jerusalem. The only ones who ever will come in are those written in the Ryme's Book of Life. And of course we've already seen in chapter twenty that everyone else has been judged at the Great White Throne judgment And thrown into the lake of fire. So there is nobody else. There's only those who are and so that's really just saying that again in another way and emphasizing it once again. That there's this this uh black and white binary choice. Either you're in the Lamb's Book of Life and you're in heaven, or you're not in the Lamb's Book of Life and you're tossed into the lake of fire. There is no other option. There's no purgatory. There's only heaven and hell. Um and the Bible's really very clear about that over and over again. Alright, we have a few minutes left to do this first few verses of chapter twenty two. Um and so now we're John has been taken in his vision into the city and he's seeing various things inside the city. Then he showed me a river of the water of life, clear as crystal, coming from the throne of God and of the Lamb. So in the city is the throne and notice on the throne is both God the Father and God the Son on the throne. God and the Lamb and and and there's this the river river of uh of water of life flowing in the middle of the street on the either side of the street. Street was the tree of life. So he shows them this river, the water of life. So there's no sea, so there can't be any hydrological cycle. And so this is not ordinary water Uh water of life is most likely not water as we know it. Uh but it's th the water of life. It's a symbol of eternal life. So like everything else in the New Jerusalem, it's crystal clear The walls are crystal clear, the streets are crystal clear, this water is crystal clear. Everything is crystal clear. Uh it's coming down from the throne of God and the Lamb dazzling, sparkling, never-ending stream of this living water. Symbolizes the constant flow of everlasting life. And where does that life come from? It comes from God and it comes from the Lamb That's where it comes from. And it goes to God's people. Um the phrase in the middle of the street uh really means in the middle of its path, uh and it connects with the next phrase which is on either side of the river was the tree of life. So the tree of life is the celestial counterpart of the tree of life that was in the Garden of Eden in in Genesis. And so this tree provides for those who are immortal Now we get to our why do we need healing leaves in heaven? So so first we get a description of this tree having twelve kinds of fruit yielding its fruit every month So this really speaks to the infinite variety. So God is an infinitely creative God. If you think about it, uh why did he make uh like a thousand different kinds of butterflies instead of just one butterfly. It's because he's a creative genius and he wants to display his creative artistry. Why did he create uh thousands of different kind of flowers instead of just one Because he wants to display his creative genius and artistry. Uh and the same thing will be there in heaven. We have all different kinds of fruits uh in heaven. Uh the term month does not refer to time because there is no more time in the eternal state. Um it's an anthropomorphic expression uh of the joyous provision in heaven. Um and so the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. Once again this is peoples, not a political nation, its people, ethnos, the healing of the peoples. At first glance that seems confusing, since obviously there will be no illness or injury in heaven that would require healing. So what is this Greek word that's used here? Healing? Therapea Therapea is the Greek word translated here, healing. It does not imply illness, that word Greek word therapia. Uh a better way to think about it or translate it would be life-giving, health-giving, or therapeutic. the tree could be likened to supernatural vitamins, not to treat illness, but to promote general health. So it's not healing sickness. That's not the um the connotation of that Greek word. Um it's not healing in terms of sickness. Um so that's the explanation about what that uh what that phrase means. And so Um you know, I don't I don't know if people are going to be actually eating those leaves or or what, uh what the leaves do, but there will there could very well be eating. We see uh Um the angels ate with Abraham and Sarah in the book of Genesis. Jesus after his resurrection ate with his disciples. Um so it could be there's actually eating. So, um Y yeah, so it's um i it's I think it's all the everybody's coming in, everybody's able to come in and out. This is heaven. we're we're talking about and so it's only believers. There's no unbelievers left. Unbelievers are all tossed into the lake of fire. There's no unbelievers left. Um so um so we've got Yeah, so there's no unbelievers left. But they're the normal humans, right? Because they survived the triple A. No, remember the the f the previous the previous heavens and earth has passed away. Completely uncreated. So there's no ordinary human beings as we are today left. No nothing can survive. First Peter the whole thing is destroyed in fire, every element comes apart. There are no human beings surviving that. So So the way those human beings were, as we are today, nobody's nobody like that is described here. Because there can't be anybody like that left. So that's why I mentioned that this theory that uh that Thomas put forth that that these are people that made it all the way to the end of the millennial kingdom and they somehow had to be translated. They had to be translated from the kind of human beings we have today to some kind of body that's suitable for eternity Um and they're believers. And so believers in heaven are not going to be subject to illness and injury and sickness and that sort of thing. Uh yeah. That's right. There's no sin. So uh believers are righteous and holy. at this point. This is our glorification. So we're free from the penalty of sin because of the cross. We're progressively becoming uh free from the power of sin and our sanctification process through the Holy Spirit, we'll be free from the presence of sin and our glorification in heaven. Yeah. Right. So w yeah, so we've got a new body, so some kind of new body. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Uh and so continuing along with this uh description of what heaven's like, there will be no longer be any curse. And the throne of God and the Lamb will be in it, and his bondservants will serve him, and they will see his his face and his name will be on their forehead. So uh there's no curse. The curse is done away with in this uh new heavens in the new earth. Uh in heaven so We have the removal of the curse who will end forever the sorrow, pain, and especially death, um from the curse from Genesis chapter two. Um so, um there's no temple, uh But the throne of God is still there. So we still have the throne, but there's no temple. um his um from his throne over everything that exists. And everything that exists now is a new heavens and a new earth, uh by the time we get to this vision of John's. Um and so his servants, his bond servants, that's do law or his slaves uh will serve him forever and spend eternity carrying out whatever he whatever tasks he has to give us. And of course we will be there face to face. And so Moses really wanted to see God's glory. And he couldn't s really see it. He could only see his back after he had passed and God put his hand over him. But in heaven we'll see his glory face to face. Uh this is such a wonderful description here. Um and and we'll be in his presence without being consumed, um, which would be impossible for uh a physical body, uh uh uh a body as we have now. And th his name will be on our forehead, he'll own us. Um that word dulas means slave. He's he's gonna own us. Um and so and they're no longer any night, um and there there's no need for any light because um the Lord God will illuminate So John repeats his earlier description that there's no longer any night. We seen that once before at the end of chapter twenty one. Now we see it in chapter twenty-two again. No longer any night. It's always day because the brilliant radiance of God's glory is there always. Always, always, always, always shining brightly. It's always day because of that. And so and there's of course it doesn't end. Just like the lake of fire. Goes on forever, the glorious state in heaven goes on forever and ever is the way it puts it here. So it's a place of unbelievable, undescribable, unimaginable beauty. uh which John tries to describe the best he can here, uh in the book of Revelation. Uh but the big key is the glory of God, the presence of God is there, shining forth. Uh Um and it's the most the most glorious reality of all is that sinners who are made righteous through the blood of the Lamb will enjoy this fellowship with God and the Lamb and serve them and reign with them forever and and ever and ever and ever in joy and praise. So that's the s the story that we get here in this section. Yes. So that's a good point. What what does it mean to rain when all there are is believers. Uh what does that mean? And the the short answer is I have no idea. I have no I really I really don't know what kind of government do they have in heaven, for example. What government do you need? um you know, y you have God ruling directly. Um but it also says that we will reign with him forever and ever. What does that mean? What uh what does it mean that we're gonna reign with him? I really don't know. Yeah, no politics, that's true. Yeah. We can also think about um the dominion given to many creation. Yep. Yep. That's true. That's yeah, that's true. That it could be uh part of uh caring for the new creation, uh the way Adam and Eve were taught told order to care for the old creation before the fall. That could very well be That's us. Yeah. Yeah, and it's uh the the word there in English is bond servant. In Greek it's doulos, which means slave Yeah, so that's what it means. And and it throughout scripture, um that word that Greek word doulos is used a number of times to describe our relationship to God. And in the sense that he made us Created us, that makes perfect sense. Now, if you try to extend that to human relations, it makes no sense I I didn't make any other human being, so what right could I possibly have to own another human being? There could be no possible right. But God who made us does have a right to own us because he made us. Yeah, so there there will be things to do, yes. So evidently there will be things to do, yes. We'll be serving him You know, the angels are servants, messengers, they serve the Lord, and we will serve the Lord in heaven as well. But angels will also serve us Book of Hebrews tells us that angels will serve both God and uh the redeemed in heaven as well. Um yeah, I've I've read that in a number of commentaries that we'll still eat even though we won't technically absolutely have to. We won't eat because we we're getting hungry. We'll eat for the joy of it. So God made food uh th we need it for our bodies, but he also made it pleasurable as well. And and I've read a number of commentaries that say that will continue in heaven. It's like a celebration. Yeah. Praising God. Yeah. Alright. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this glorious description of what it will be like in heaven. And the most wonderful thing about heaven is that you are there. Uh and that we can be in your pl presence and and see your glory face to face. What a wonderful day that will be, Lord. We thank you for that promise and this description. Of what heaven will be like. We also thank you for the warnings that are in here about the lake of fire and what that's like. And we pray, Lord, that it would motivate us to proclaim the gospel to those around us that's so designed. Desperately need the hope that's contained only in Christ Jesus. We thank you for this opportunity we're about to have to worship you in corporate worship, and we pray that our worship would be acceptable in your sight. And we pray these things in Jesus'. Jesus name, Amen.