And so having recently celebrated Resurrection Sunday, having contemplated The eternal life made available through faith and the accomplished work of Christ Jesus. I want us to reflect on the implications of this new and everlasting life by looking at 1 Corinthians 13. Specifically. The implications the truths found therein have on fellowship So when I answer the question, all right, I've come to faith in Jesus. I'm here at this local church. It sounds like fellowship is something I should be intentionally engaged in, but how What's that about? What does that look like? Or maybe you've been struggling to differentiate between friendship and fellowship Fellowship and social gatherings. So perhaps you haven't yet fully worked out what fellowship in your season of life right now looks like. Or maybe you're here today thriving in fellowship. You're thriving with those around you and you're eager, eager to abound still more in your love. For the church. Wherever this message finds you today, it's our hope that this text will help you to grow in your love for Christ and his bride because love. is the lifeblood of true fellowship. And so as you're opening your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 13, allow me a moment to orient you to our text. Acts chapter 18. Those first seventeen verses there describe Paul's ministry in Corinth during his Second missionary journey, right? He spent about 18 months at that church there in Corinth, planting and ministering, and then a few short years later began receiving reports. That things weren't going so good back in Corinth. We see Paul mentioned that in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 11. For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. And so before writing the letter that we know as 1 Corinthians, Paul had already written a previous letter. It's now lost to us, but It addressed sexual immorality, but the church at Corinth there misunderstood his instructions. We see him referencing that in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 9 through 11. And so after that, the church at Corinth sends another letter to Paul, seeking his wisdom on several contentious topics Marriage, food, sacrifice to idols, spiritual gifts, corporate worship, and the resurrection, just to name uh the big ones. The letter we know as 1 Corinthians is Paul's response to the church based on that letter. And so we think this letter was written around 55 A. D. , that is 1 Corinthians. Chapters 1 through 4 depict a gifted but divided church. Chapters 5 through 6 describe the gross immorality that was happening in the church and how Christians there were suing one another in pagan courts. Chapters 8 through 10 depict a church confused and divided about things the Christian has been given liberty over. And chapters eleven through twelve depict that the confusion and division in the church had even affected the most intimate expression of Christian fellowship, that being the Lord's Supper. Further, the Corinthians were treating spiritual gifts like competitive sports. So at the end of 1 Corinthians chapter 12, There in verse thirty one, Paul concludes a long teaching on spiritual gifts by saying this but earnestly desire the higher gifts, and I will show you a still more excellent way. This most excellent way isn't a substitute for the gifts there that were being expressed in Corinth. But they were the essential atmosphere in which the gifts were to operate. Fellowship is standing together on common ground and striving together for a common cause. We talked about that a few months ago. And this morning, I want us to focus not so much on what Christian fellowship is. But how Christian fellowship happens. Christian fellowship is standing together on common ground. It's striving together for a common cause, but what makes it possible? Answer. Love. So the main point is short and sweet this morning. Love is the lifeblood of Christian fellowship. It's the supernatural how, the very grace through which we stand, and the divine strength through which we strive So I want to suggest to you that without love, your fellowship that is the Pointania or sharing in the life of Christ is little more than a social club. And given the great importance love is to have in our lives as followers of the God that so loved that he gave his only begotten Son to die in the place of sinners. Let's consider the more excellent way of love. And so we'll begin where Paul begins by first considering the negative. Or the opposite aspect of this more excellent way that God's going to present to us this morning in His Word. But before we do that, I want to turn to the Lord in prayer to seek his blessing on this time in his word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are a needy people We are a helpless people apart from your work of grace in our lives It's nothing short of a miraculous thing, the lives that you have brought together in this very place at this very time, Lord, and we give you thanks and praise for it. You know everything that had to happen. You ordained everything to happen, to lead to this very moment, Lord, and we humbly come before your throne of grace, asking, pleading for your help. Lord, we seek to know you more. We desire to love you more. And God, we ask that you would bless us in our response to your great love for sinners like us. Lord, we pray for those who do not know you, that they would be so Taken aback by the selfless love of the perfect one who gave his life for you. But the only response would be to love you back. We pray for those who are faithful and steadfast in their love for you, that you would strengthen them, that you would be building them up But you would be causing their love for your people to bear witness of the miraculous work of the mighty God who saves and sustains his people. God help your messenger this morning. Help me to be faithful Help me to employ all that you've entrusted to me for the sake of your people, for the glory of Christ. God, magnify yourself in this place. Put aside any distractions, Lord, and help us to honor you in this time. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. First Corinthians chapter thirteen, beginning at verse one. The wrong way. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging symbol And if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but not love, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Now, right off the bat, we need to recognize that Paul is using hyperbole here. He's trying to make a point, and he's giving these extreme examples, that is, speaking in all languages. That is, uh, languages that would be known by men, even languages known among angels, that is understanding all mysteries and knowing all, exercising faith so great that he can literally move mountains, he's giving all of this. To emphasize a single point that the life devoted to loveless acts of religious heroism or Spiritual performance is in the economy of God completely worthless. Look at what he says. Speaking he's able to say if I were able to speak in the tongues of man and of angels, but not have love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. Now we know what he's referring to here when he's saying the tongues, he's referring to coherent languages Coherent languages of men spoken by Christians has occurred during the early church as a sign gift of the Holy Spirit. In Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost, we're all familiar with this. Acts 2 chapter 4, all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues. Right? Remember that, the day of Pentecost. Holy Spirit comes, you got the the the fires, uh the fire, the tongues of fire, and and this happens. As the Spirit gave them utterance, they were speaking in other tongues, languages. And it was in response to these loud proclamations of the gospel in all the languages of the people in earshot that the people we read about in verse 6. of Acts chapter 2. They were bewildered because each one was hearing them, that is the disciples who were now prophesying, speaking in his own language. And they were amazed and astonished, saying, are not all these who are speaking Galileans? Later on in verse 11, we see that these ones who are marveling at this go on to say, we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God. The tongue is the literal translation of the Greek here. But the word, if you're here over the weekend, you've got to preview this. This is your $5 word. Is a metonymy. It's a metonymy. It's a figure of speech where a thing is referred to by the name of something closely related to it. In this case, the organ used to produce sound, the tongue And so, like when we say a person is silver-tongued, we're not saying they're literally walking around with a silver tongue. We're meaning that they're eloquent and they're verbal communication, they're persuasive, right? Or when we ask a person about their mother tongue. That's the full asscent. And I got senmeter. That's it. That's all the manner I know. But that's literally like what is your mother tongue, right? The idea is we're asking someone about their Their language, right? Like what language did you grow up speaking? In the Roman world at that time, loud gongs and cymbals were used in pagan worship. It was used in pagan worship to wake up the gods or to create a religious frenzy. It was an emotional appeal. And Paul is telling the Corinthians that if they speak in tongues or perform miracles without love They aren't being super spiritual. They're acting like the pagans they used to be. Their worship and ministry is just noise. It's nonsensical noise. Now the love that Paul is referring to here, it's agape It's a gate, right? It's not eros, uh referring to the romantic kind of love that we often associate uh with sexual attraction. That's the love that takes. Uh it's not Philia Uh referring to the love shared among close friends? You think that as the love that gives and takes? It's agate. This is referring to God's love and the love Christians are supposed to emulate. This is the love that just gives So though this word, agape, is the most commonly used word for love in the New Testament, the word wasn't coined by Christians to communicate God's love. Just in case you were kind of wondering about that. But we don't want to confuse what Paul is saying here To the believers at Corinth with what Jesus warned in the Sermon on the Mount. What do I mean by that? Look at 1 Corinthians 1, verse 2. First Corinthians chapter 1 verse 2, to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, to be called saints, together with all those who are in every place Call upon the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, both their Lord, and ours. Paul's clearly addressing believers here But contrast this with what we see in Matthew chapter seven, where Jesus is addressing professing believers. Matthew chapter seven, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of the Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? Did we not cast out demons in your name? And do many mighty works in your name? And then Will I declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. These Wolves in clothing were those who have an outward appearance of religious piety, but lack inward regeneration. Their works were of an ear over an unrepentant heart. Such ones rely on their own works as proof of their standing while simultaneously rejecting the lordship and will of God in their life. In our text this morning, Paul is addressing believers, not unbelievers. And so he's calling into question Not their salvation, but the spiritual value of their ministry He's calling into question the spiritual value of their ministry, not their salvation Paul's already established that a believer can build, look back at chapter three of First Corinthians one. Paul's already established that a believer can build on a foundation, that being Christ, with gold Silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become manifest for the day. That is the Bhima seat. That's the day we look forward to, right? Not the great white throne of judgment, but the Bhima seat. Each one's work will become manifest for the day, will disclose it. Because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on, the foundation, or if the work that anyone has built on, the foundation survives, you will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he'll suffer loss, though he himself will be what? He'll be saved But only as through fire. And so the first three verses here of chapter 13 describe the type of ministry that will be burned up It's service done in the flesh. It's service done for self-exaltation rather than love. The point here is that every believer has been given at least one gift from God to be used in the building up of his church. You see that in 1 Peter 4. But the loveless exercise of that gift is indicative of a believer's failure to walk in the Spirit, not the absence of the Spirit's indwelling life And so for us today, this should be a sobering warning. Fellowship is destroyed by pride. The self-centered exercise of our God-given gifts is worthless We often measure ministry success using metrics that give little to no attention to the love the saints or the love of the saints engaged in that actual ministry. And so Paul here is reminding us that even a church with the most extensive programs, even a church with the smartest teachers and the most eloquent preachers and the biggest budgets and the most packed out buildings can be nothing in the eyes of the God who loves, who is love, if they don't love themselves as He does So it's easy to fall into the trap of doing the right thing for the wrong reasons Fellowship isn't just getting together and being together. It's loving together. And so if you want to know if your fellowship's healthy, don't look at your output. How many times am I doing things? How many activities am I accomplishing? How busy am I? Look at your heart. So are you serving your brother or sister because you love them? Is your service a response, an abundant overflow of God's love in and through you for his glory? Or is it because you want to be seen as useful? Or is it because you're trying to make a name for yourself? Having described now the wrong way the church at Corinth was employing their gifts in the church, that is, showing us what love isn't, Paul then goes on to describe what love is. So look with me at the more excellent way God would have his people employ their gifts in the church, starting in verse 4. You all know the verse. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or bust. Almost like everyone read it together, right? It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way, it is not irritable or resentful, it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things Hopes all things, endures all things, love never ends. I kind of went into verse one or verse eight. We're going to end the very beginning of verse eight there. Love never ends. Just a show of hands. How many people had that verse in your wedding? They're okay, alright. Alright, cool, yeah. So we we need to oh man it's coming loose. Here we go. We need to understand Paul wasn't writing a love poem He wasn't writing a greeting card. He wasn't just telling the Corinthians what love looks like in a vacuum. He was showing them that their fellowship was actually a series of direct violations of the character of God. He was providing the Corinthian church a character audit, and every word here is a direct rebuke for their behavior. Love is patient. Yet the Corinthians, as we see in chapter eleven, verse twenty-one For eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal, one goes hungry, another gets drunk. So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, Paul says, wait for one another. Love is patient. But they're rushing ahead, not w not waiting for one another during, of all things, the Lord's Supper And the Lord's Supper back then wasn't as we know it today. It was more akin to what we would know today as a fellowship potla. So as best we can tell, it sounds like the wealthier members of the church at Corinth would arrive early to the love feast. They would eat all the good food, right? Because the good food it's their th they probably brought it, right? It's a potluck. So they eat all the good food. They drink all the wine to excess before the members who were the working class and those who were slaves arrived And so by the time the poor members arrived, there was little to nothing left of the fellowship meal. That was their Lord's Supper. That was their communion. Such behavior is a far cry from the wardrobe of grace that should characterize the Christian. Look at Corinthians Colossians chapter 3, verses 12-14. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts. kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. Bearing with one another. And if one has A complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these, put on what? Love. Put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony. Love is patient. Love is kind. Yet, the Corinthians were shaming the poor and acting with indifference toward the weaker. 1 Corinthians 11, 22. What? Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you for this? No, I will not, says Paul. But could you imagine if Boaz had treated Ruth as some of these more wealthier Corinthians were treating the poor? But praise God. Boaz went above and beyond what the law required to show kindness to a destitute foreigner who would go on eventually to become the great grandmother of King David. Love doesn't envy. Yet there was jealousy and strife among the Corinthians over those spiritual over whose spiritual gifts were superior First Corinthians 3:3. For you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? A beautiful picture of the right aspect of love. This unendious love is seen in the person of Jonathan, King Saul's son. Throughout Jonathan's friendship with David, he only ever shows love to David, despite having a fleshly reason to envy and even want to kill David, even as his dad did, right? Love does not boast. That's exactly what the Crimsons were doing. You heard it read earlier today. About in whom our boast should be. Yet 1 Corinthians 4 7, for who sees anything different in you, what do you have that you did not receive? If you then received it, why do you boast as if you didn't receive it? Paul would actually go on and write 2 Corinthians, right? And he would talk about a thorn in his flesh. But the Lord refused to remove that thorn in the flesh. And God's response to his pleading for that removal, we read in chapter 12, verse 9: But he said to me, My grace. is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. And Paul's response to that grace is, therefore I will boast all the more gladly in my weaknesses. So that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Love's not arrogant Yet the Corinthians were puffed up and arrogant we read, despite there being rampant sin in their camp. Uh 1 Corinthians 5 2. He literally just calls them, and you're arrogant, right? It it it's the exact opposite of what we see in the person of Christ. Think on Philippians 2, right? The Christ Hymn, uh with referring with reference to Christ, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped But emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Love is not arrogant. Love isn't rude. It doesn't act unbecoming or out of form, is the idea here. Rather, love behaves with proper decorum and respect Never acting in a way that dishonors others. Yet at Corinth, things have become so chaotic and so disrespectful. That it had become regular for discontentment and arguings to happen within look at 1 Corinthians 14, 40. All things should be done decently and in order. There was no decorum. Things were out of hand. Love doesn't insist on its own way. Yet there were many Corinthians so insistent on exercising their right to exercise their Christian liberty that they were trampling the faith of those weaker brothers and sisters in their midst We read about that in First Corinthians eight, right? Love isn't irritable As a parent, meditating on that one was really hard the last couple of weeks. As a sinner, meditating on that has been really convicting these last couple of couple of weeks. The idea here is love doesn't have a short fuse. Love isn't easily offended. And we get to the heart of why things get us Irritated. Did it look like you're angry. That's what it is. We're angry. Oh, that angers me. Why? Because it's not going the way I want it. Love isn't easily offended. Yet in Corinth, there was constant quarreling, clicks, dissensions. We saw that earlier in chapter 1, verse 11. Love isn't resentful. It's actually an accounting term there in the Greek. Paul's saying here that love doesn't keep a ledger of wrongs with the intent of using past sins or offenses. as ammunition against a brother or sister in the church. That is not love. Could you imagine if God dealt with us like that But that's exactly what was happening in the church. Again, this isn't to unbelievers. First Corinthians 6. 7. To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather just suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded of not keeping a record of wrongs to then bring before you in a court of law Love doesn't rejoice at wrongdoing. It doesn't rejoice at unrighteousness is the idea here. Rather, it mourns over sin. And it certainly never finds secret satisfaction in the failure or downfall of others. And so clearly the Corinthian church was failing to live up to each aspect of love that Paul is describing in these verses. I think I've sufficiently demonstrated that to you, but for the sake of this message, we're going to move more quickly through the remainder of these points. Alright? So love rejoices with the truth. Love and truth are inseparable. The truth Paul has in view here isn't simply a factual truth. But the truth is revealed in God's Word. Okay, so therefore, love can't tolerate wrong doctrine Love bears all things. That word bear there refers to covering as with a roof or uh to protect by covering. The idea there refers to love covering the faults of others and protecting the reputation of that brother or sister. First Peter 4 8, above all, keep loving one another earnestly since love covers a multitude of sins See that same principle picked up in the Old Testament. Well actually Peter picked it up, but it's in the Old Testament, Proverbs 1911, right? To the glory of man overlooking offense. Love believes all things. Paul is not saying that love is gullible. He's saying love refuses to be cynical. Love refuses to presume upon the motives of others. Love believes the best of others and gives them the benefit of the doubt is the idea here. Love hopes all things. It never gives up. Love never gives up on God's ability to change a person or a situation. Love endures all things. That's actually a military term for holding a position at all costs. Love stays the course is the idea. Love never ends. Now Paul's really making one major point, beginning there at verse 8 to the end of verse 13. And it's that love is eternal. That's really the main point he's making there. Love is eternal. And Paul's concluding argument here in this section that we just went through. contrasts I'm sorry uh that he's about to enter into that that concluding argument he's making in this section contrast the temporary sign gifts of the early church with the abiding hallmarks Of the believer in this church age. That is the time between Christ's resurrection and his return, the church age. And so Paul here is contrasting these temporary sign gifts with the abiding hallmarks of the believer. So your translation in verse 8 might read, Love Never Fails. I want to address that because we need to be clear that Paul is not saying that love will always have a positive effect on its object. It'll never fail. Just just just love. That's not what he's saying. Jesus loved perfectly But there were many who rejected him then, during his earthly ministry, and there are many who today continue to reject him. And so Paul's focus here isn't on the who we loved. He's not saying that everyone loved by the church will automatically be reconciled to God. Just love, because it never fails. That's not what he's saying. He's saying That love is the gift from God that Christians enjoy both now and through eternity. It never ends. So if a character audit like the one we just kind of ran through, looking at all these attributes of love that were really used as points of contention To these Corinthians, if such a character audit were performed on your life right now, what do you suppose the findings would be The Greek forms of all these words, these properties of love, are verbs Paul's emphasis wasn't so much on what love is, right? But rather what love does and what love does not do. The adope love that Paul's been elucidating here. Isn't abstract. It isn't passive. Fellowship, tying this back to our point and focus of fellowship, fellowship is built and sustained by agape. And so biblical fellowship is the practical application of Christ's character. I'll say it again. Biblical fellowship is the practical application of Christ's character, patience, kindness, humility. If you were to replace God for each of those attributes of uh if you replace the word love with God, it would be true. And so we'd be wise to seriously consider the rich meaning of these aspects of love presented to us this morning. Not just to inform our minds with knowledge. But to convict and compel our hearts toward greater conformity to these characteristics of God So we should do as the Corinthians probably did themselves after receiving this letter, and honestly measure our lives against the standard of love given us. And seen most clearly in the life of Christ. Now Paul goes on to contrast the permanence of love With the temporary nature of the spiritual gifts, beginning at verse 8, the second portion there, 8B. So he says, As for prophecies, they will pass away. As for tongues, they will cease. As for knowledge it'll pass away, for we know in part and we prophesy in part. But when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away. When I was a child I spoke like a child and thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man. I gave up childish ways. You see the Corinthians here were spiritually immature They saw their spiritual gifts, these partial spiritual gifts, as permanent status makers Now let's make no mistake. This was a gifted church. The grace of God was given to them in Christ Jesus. We read that in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 5 through 7, that in every way you were enriched. This is Paul to the Corinthians, in him in all speech and all knowledge. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed among you, so that you were not lacking in any gift, as to wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. So this was a gifted church. But Paul made it clear. Look at verse or chapter 13, go back to verse 8 through 10, right? As for prophecies, they'll pass away. As for tongues, they will cease. Prophecies will pass away. Tongues will cease. Knowledge will pass away. Paul's clarifying that prophecy, tongues, and knowledge were partial because they operated in the present age of brokenness. The gift of prophecy here that Paul's been referring to throughout this letter wasn't primarily about predicting the future, but about forth telling, forthelling God's revealed truth for the gathered church. 1 Corinthians 14, 3. On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding, encouragement, and consolation. This is the idea of the prophecy that Paul has in mind here. It's a spirit-empowered proclamation that brought God's word to bear on the immediate situation. That's what Paul's talking about. With respect to knowledge, knowledge didn't refer to mere academic theology. Right? It wasn't just truths about God or scripture But a spirit given insight into the mysteries and purposes of God. Look at verse 8 of chapter 12. For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge, according to the same Spirit. And so Paul acknowledged that both knowledge and prophecy, these were vital gifts to the church in that present age. Yet he called them partial. He called them partial. They were a supernatural means to an end. Yet the Corinthians were treating them as an end in and of themselves It's like if God gifted the Corinthians for the purpose of building up his kingdom, and prophecy and tongues and knowledge served as temporary scaffolding during one particular phase of Jesus' church building. So Paul essentially is saying that that partial scaffolding, a reference to prophecy and knowledge, let's be crystal clear on that, with reference to prophecy and knowledge, will get removed once the perfect comes. Whereas the scaffolding of tongues will cease sometime before the perfect comes. It's clear in the Greek. Also clear in church history that no legitimate expression of the gift of tongues has occurred outside of what we read about here in 1 Corinthians and the book of Acts. Slight mention of it in the end of Mark, but that's a different thing. And so now whether the perfect here refers to the completed canon or the completed Christian at Christ's return is a discussion for another topic, another time. But what I want us to make clear today, and what I want us to understand today Is that Paul described these gifts as partial and temporary? That's the main point. So whether those gifts ended in AD 100 or will end when Christ returns at the Perusia. They're not the goal. They're not the main point. To overly concern oneself with the gifts is akin to a child getting caught up in childish manners. It's like I'll talk to the kid sometimes like why are you so flustered by this? This is like a like oh my my shirt isn't right or my shoes aren't right and like the whole day is ruined The whole day. You're just like it's just a shoe. Like, you can take it off, we can get different ones, but it's as big it's it's it's like this, like you're missing the whole point, church. Hence, Paul's reference which kind of comes out of left field if you're not expecting it, verse 11. When I was a child, I spoke like a child, right? I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish things. A child's speech, a child's thinking and reasoning are appropriate for childhood, but maturity requires leaving them behind. Leaving the childish things behind. And the Corinthians were acting like spiritual children, clinging to the showy gifts instead of pursuing Christ-like maturity. That's the point here. And so if property if prophecy and knowledge were lamps in the dark, think of that as like the early church without the completed canon of Scripture, today we now have the sun. Today we now have the sun, the completed word of God. And we don't use a flashlight when the sun's out. As the word says, the scripture is sufficient to make the man of God complete, equipped for every good work. So we should be careful. We should be careful to not idolize programs, to not idolize platforms, to not idolize our preferences. It's all scaffolding. It's all scaffolding. Fellowship isn't sustained by shared hobbies By shared political alignment, or even perfectly curated worship services. It's sustained by shared devotion to Christ and a shared pursuit of love. So when we confuse the temporary and the eternal, we fracture the church. We elevate opinions over persons, we build fences instead of tables. So hold your gifts loosely. Use them to serve, not to secure status, invest in eternal things Prayer, scripture, reconciliation, mercy. Let our fellowship be a training ground for eternity, not a showcase for today. Must not be like the builder who fell in love with his hammer but forgot how to build a house And so if love never ends and the partial past is away, what does our present reality look like in light of what's coming? Paul's going to conclude here regarding the eternality of love by contrasting it with two of the greatest temporal gifts given to believers. Look with me in verse 12. For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face, now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known. So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three, but the greatest of these is what? is love. The greatest of these is love. Paul uses a metaphor here that was familiar to the Corinthians, right? Polished bronze mirrors. Gave a dim, distorted reflection. Wasn't really clear what you were seeing in the reflection, but it was good enough. Our current spiritual vision is a lot like that. We know God through scripture, through his spirit, through our reflections of him in the lives of his people But not yet face to face. We know in part. As we are proclaiming God's word, We're proclaiming God's word in part. But a day is coming when the veil will be lifted. Then Paul delivers his closing triad. Faith, hope, and love abide. That idea there for that word is to remain, to dwell. Yet love is greatest. Why? Because eventually faith is going to become sight. Faith will one day become sight, and hope will one day become possession. But love is the very nature of God's eternal kingdom. It's the one thing that bridges the present age and the age to come. It's deeply eschatological, eschatological. Right? We live in the already and in the not yet But faith is our anchor, Hebrews six, nineteen. Hope is our forward gaze, Romans eight, twenty four through twenty five, and love is our present posture and future reality. Look with me, Revelation twenty-one Look at how everything ends, right? And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself Will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. In that eternal state we will know As we are fully known. Love as we are fully loved and worship in unbroken fellowship This is where we practice. Love is greatest not because it negates hope and faith, but because it fulfills them. Do you see that? We're never told that God is faith. God is hope. Rather, John First John. First John 4, 16. There it is. God is love. Right? So when we love each other in fellowship, we're doing the most godlike thing possible. How do we live in light of this reality? How do we do this? Well, we embrace the tension. We embrace the tension of the present while fixing our eyes on the future. Sometimes it's uncomfortable. There's this beautiful illustration of rocks in a tumbling rock tumbler that you put these rocks, these stones. uh into this tumbler and you tumble it for days sometimes and the rocks are just banging and clanging and they go in there a hot mess and they come out. These beautiful what are they? Gemstones or whatever. They're just beautiful. And it's like, wow, I didn't know that that was gonna be the out well, I didn't know. But the people who threw 'em in there knew, right? But that was the result of all the banging and clanging and doing the life together is the idea, the picture I'm trying to paint. My sin rubbing against your sin, your offenses rubbing against my offenses, we're all being together reconciled to God and conformed. That word conform there might not feel good, but we do that within the context of Christian fellowship Embrace the tension and fix your eyes on the future. Love is described as the bond of perfection. We saw that earlier in Colossians 3. 14 above all put on love, remember, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. So are you embracing this reality or are you quenching the spirit of God in you? We should forgive quickly because we've been forgiven fully. We should serve quietly because we will be seen by Christ. We should love sacrificially because love is the language of eternity. In fellowship, this means creating and nurturing communities where grace outweighs perfection, where truth is spoken gently. And where the weaker cared for, not left behind. So let our fellowship be shaped by the face-to-face reality to come. Practice the love of Agape to come in this present age of the partial And so in conclusion, 1 Corinthians 14, just that first part, pursue love. Paul is writing to a fractured church. He's writing them to call them back to the only thing that truly sustains fellowship, Christ-shaped love. Not love as the world defines it, right? Sentimental, conditional, self-serving, but love as God defines it. Patient, kind, enduring, truth-aligned, eternal Fellowship in our ministry theme this year is something we're desiring and hoping we embrace not just this year. This year and every year thereafter. And so let's not forget that fellowship without love is just meetings, just social gatherings. Love without fellowship to theory. But when our fellowship's built upon God's word And when we're intentionally and sacrificially serving one another according to the character of Christ, when we're discarding our ledgers of resentment in favor of the patience of the cross? And yielding our personal rights for the love that bears all things and never ends when this is happening in our gatherings We're serving as a living witness to the gospel. And so when we love one another as Christ loved us, the world sees something supernatural. They see a community that forgives when it's costly. They see a people who stay when it's hard. We see a church that bears, that believes, that hopes and endures. So how do we get there? Yeah, look to the cross. Look to the cross. First Corinthians 13 isn't a moral to-do list for us. It's a portrait of Jesus He's patient with our failures. He's kind in our brokenness. He doesn't keep a record of our sins because he bore them on that tree in our place He believes the best in us because he's already secured our redemption. He hopes for our glory because he is raising us up He will complete the good work that he began in us and helps us to endure to the end. And because he first loved us, we can love. So examine your heart this morning. Repent of loveless service. Pursue love as your highest calling. Let it shape your words at home. Your posture in conflict, your generosity with your time, your possessions, and your commitment to this church. And when the scaffolding of this age falls away, when gifts cease, when programs fade, when even our best efforts are remembered only by God, love will remain. And we will know fully even as we have been fully known. Let's pray. God, we thank and praise you for the great love. That you demonstrate in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Lord, we don't take for granted the great gift it is to be able to gather in the name of Christ to worship you in truth and spirit. And Lord, we pray that you would work mightily in our midst. Here this morning, and even home, with those watching or listening at some future time, Lord, we pray that you would work mightily in the lives of your people. That you would be bringing sinners to faith and that you would be sanctifying your saints. That the witness of our life would be, wow. Those Christians love like Christ. God, glorify yourself. In our midst we pray. And we give you glory for all that you were accomplished. In Jesus' name. Amen.