Our Creator has given us the wonderful capacity of imagination. Along with imagination, the ability to dream, to invent ingenious things, to create artistically We can even use this mental gift our Lord has given us to create a world of dreams, a fantasy world. You know, fantasy as a form of entertainment wed now to modern technology is exploding in popularity. I'm sure you have noticed From realistic computer games to virtual experiences, simulation rides, it is all being developed at an amazing rate. Perhaps nowhere on earth has fantasy been advanced and developed more than in Disney World, in Florida Yes, our family is fresh back from visiting there. We're celebrating Sue's parents' 50th anniversary. They always wanted to take their grandchildren there, and we had a great time. What a place to visit it is. A kid's dream world, not so bad for adults too. A lot of fun. Their very slogan written above the highway as you drive into, which is virtually their own world there with their own highways and lakes and everything, is Where Dreams Come True And they have worked really, really hard at creating a fantasy world The first night we saw the Main Street parade, you know, the Cinderella castle in the background all lit up and dressed with icicles, changing colors. It was just picture perfect. Crowds lined both sides of the street all the way to the circle in front of the castle and then came the parade of the various carriages all lit up with hundreds of lights overflowing with Disney characters. You can picture it. It was just beautiful. Mickey Mouse, Minnie Mouse, then came Snow White. They were all there, the whole world of dreams. Little Mermaid, Aladdin, just one after another after another, and the kids were so excited And those involved in the parade were just as excited as can be, waving with much energy and excitement. And of course Cinderella herself came along. All of it was punctuated with a grand fireworks display at the very end, well choreographed again to inspiring music, telling everyone there to fulfill their dreams, their dreams. It was really something. It was fantastic. It was great to be there. Maybe feel like going yourself. No, I wasn't paid to give them a commercial or anything like that. They don't need me to do that. They attract tons and tons of business, for they've worked hard at making a fantasy world come true. Fantasy is not wrong, per se. It is a God-given capacity. Down there, all of the rides and the props and the shows, they're well worth seeing. They're done extremely well. There's a lot of thought and talents and care and detail put into all of them. But here is the thing. When people start valuing their fantasy experiences more than their life lived out in truth, when they began elevating fantasy to the degree that we're seeing in our society to replace Other things of greater importance, when they even begin to believe in their fantasy that it will come true, first of all they need a reality check because we all know that our dreams are not all going to come true, are they But secondly, and more importantly, a life focused on fantasy ultimately is going to diminish what is true. A love for the truth. We see this happen every Christmas time, don't we? Most people really do, for all practical purposes, substitute Santa for a savior. or reindeer for redemption. They don't get what the season is about, and they're living in a fantasy world. They approach the entire celebration of Christmas that way. in order to hang on to the fun of a fantasy, which will never bring them the fulfillment they desire, because it's just that. It's a fantasy. It's not reality. They have chosen, whether they realize it or not, to lessen or cheapen or weaken their focus and their love for truth. Fantasy, when dwelled upon, can actually push out of our minds truth And that can become dangerous if we're not careful. What our unbelieving world does not understand, and we Christians must always keep clear in our own hearts and minds, is that more fantastic, if I can put it that way, than any fantasy that man could ever invent is the truth. The truth is fantastic. The truth truly is worth getting excited about. Light shows and waterfalls, they're great. Fireworks and thrill rides, I saw them, I went on them. But they all are eclipsed by the stunning beauty of what God is doing, what God has designed. God's imagination made real in this world. In Ephesians 3. 20, it says God is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine. And God indeed has imagination, and he has set it to reality in this world. Now it's Christmas time. And you know what that means, right? No, not presence, not eggnog, not all the rest. It means that God has visited this planet It means that we must remember one of the most amazing works of God in all of human history, if not the most amazing work of God. And this morning we're going to turn to the Gospel of John to be reminded about that. In chapter 1, we actually read the entire text for our responsive reading this morning, verses 1 through 14 I'm going to focus only on verse 14 this morning. We're going to read it. We're going to open it up to our minds. It's fantastic truth. We're going to dwell on it, and I just pray that it will impact your heart today. John Chapter 1, verse 14, since all of it has already been read, I'm just going to read verse 14 for us again. Focus on these amazing words, one of the most important verses in all of the Bible. It says, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. Now you've heard the tales of frogs turned into princes, haven't you not? Or pumpkins turned into carriages. There's a nice one. A little boy made the fly with tinkerbells of magic dust Yes, that's exciting, people say. That is amazing. And they ooo it all over that. Listen, verse 14 speaks not about a dream, it tells of the eternal God of this universe. The Almighty and Infinite and Majestic Supreme Being, the one who made every single thing that we see in this world flung the galaxies into existence. The one true and living God of the heavens became a man. Now that's amazing. That's right, he became one of us. He lived right down here among us. He was seen. He was touched. He was handled. He was held. He was spoken to. He was even known by name. Did you hear? That is the wonder of Christmas time. Now tell me who would ever think of something like that in fantasy land? God became a man. In fact, that's the purpose of John's prologue. The opening of this great record of the life of Jesus we call the Gospel of John. The prologue extends from verse 1 all the way to verse 18. And it says, God became a man, and he was seen and he was testified to But here in verse 14, we have the most concise statement of what we call the biblical doctrine of the incarnation. And it is the truth. And the truth is truly fantastic. Oh, I pray that each one of you would listen from your heart. and you would grow in your understanding of this and believe. There are two fantastic works of God here mentioned in this one verse. Two fantastic works of God, the fantastic incarnation and the fantastic revelation. Big words, but they mean something simple. God became man and he was revealed to us. the fantastic incarnation and the fantastic revelation. Let's enliven our souls and feast our minds on these two truths this morning. First the fantastic incarnation. Look again at the beginning of verse 14 and look at it carefully. And the word became flesh. John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, records this. Chi halaga sarks a genata. The word became flesh. That first word, and chi in Greek. is a little marker that takes the reader all the way back to the beginning of the gospel. All the way back to verse 1. Do you see that? Why? In the beginning was the word it says in verse 1, right? And the word was with God. And the word was God. You see reference to the Trinity. With God and was God simultaneously. Father and Son. And then you have in verse 14 the word and, and it says, and The word became flesh. Don't miss that connection. Even that little article, the word the, the word became flesh indicates which word John is writing about. The word. What word? The same word who was with God and who was God is now the word who became flesh. You know when John used the label the word for Jesus, that was kind of fascinating. A fascinating choice of terms. Who would ever call a person the word? Oh, there's the word. We wouldn't call a person that. But God did through John. The term word in Greek is the term Lagos, the philosophical Greeks, generally speaking, used the term Lagos to speak of the eternal principle of wisdom which they believe permeated the entire world. And they're thinking Lagos was very important. It was the central principle of the universe. The universe was designed and it was created and it was made and so they saw wisdom in all of it. To some of the philosophers, Lagos was the ultimate reason. Now, John's not taking that Greek idea and superimposing it on the person of Jesus, but he did, guided by the Holy Spirit, choose to use the same and very important term. Why? To point to what the true wisdom of this universe really was like. See, the Greeks, just like many people today, who get educated and they have lots of degrees and they go through lots of learning. They're ever learning and they're debating with one another, they're writing their books, they're boasting in their wisdom, but they were never able to come to the knowledge of this wisdom. They were never able to come to the knowledge of the truth, like so many today. The Word was the real eternal wisdom, but they never knew. See, the Word was continuously and forever. the all-wise creator of the universe. Look back at verse 3 just for a moment. It says, all things were created by him, him referring to the word. And then notice back in verses 1 and 2 it says he was God. Was is the verb that was used. That is A continuous existence for the word in that state. The word was. That's an indicative imperfect verb in Greek. That means something in Greek. It indicates that he always was this and always continued to be with God and equal to God simultaneously. The eternal word was there with God in the beginning, skillfully bringing into existence all that exists and he was God and He was that continuously. You say, how can that possibly be? Well you know the creation story in Genesis 1. We can see God's relationship to His Word way back then when God spoke, Genesis 1 tells us what happened. Things were created, right? God said, Let there be light, and what? There was light. God spoke, and the words came out of his mouth, and his words created. There was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was creating. The word was God. We see that picture there Let the earth bring forth vegetation and it happen instantly. The languages of an instant creation by the power of God's Word Let the waters teem with living creatures, and on and on it goes in Genesis 1. And those things were instantly so, the Word of God, the eternal word of God, creating all things And so the eternal word was with God working, for the word was the creator of all things God and his triune existence that's beyond our understanding. God's Trinity. He exists in three persons, yet he is one God. That is the teaching of Scripture. And so God works with God. God working along with God, for God is one. And here in verse 14 of the Gospel of John For the very first time since verse one in this prologue, the word is mentioned again by John. And this time the verb that he uses is not the word was, but is the word became. Do you see that in verse 14? It's an indicative heiress, not an imperfect. It comes from the verb genomai, he became the word, though having that continuous existence As God and with God now became something. He now changed in some way. That very simple and common verb became marks a moment in time. A change. It speaks of something the word was now made into at this point. Now please do not misunderstand. It does not mean the word all of a sudden ceased to be the word. But that the word became something else also. In other words, the eternal word took on something onto himself The word took on a new nature to himself, a new kind of existence, an existence he did not have before. And what is that? Human flesh. Human flesh. The word did not merely assume a physical appearance so as to fool people, pretending to be a man, pretending to be human. That would be nothing spectacular at all. Angels have come out of the realm of the Spirit that have materialized and they've been seen by men. The Old Testament even tells of an angel cooking food and doing other things here. That's nothing special God Himself has granted visions of some aspect of Himself and His glory to other people recorded in Old Testament times. They are called theophanies, manifestations of God. An example is when he visited Abraham and talked to him by his tents. Those were very special appearances of God, but this goes way beyond any of that. Furthermore, if all John meant is that God seemed to appear like a man and he did not actually become a man, well that would have continued to promote that false dualism the Greeks. believed in. They believed spirit was superior to the physical world and and spirit was pure, it was untainted by evil, and so spirit could never become flesh without spirit becoming corrupted by the flesh. They could never conceive of the great pure spirit, whatever form that was, becoming flesh. That was unthinkable to them. It was ugly to them. But again, John's choice of words are clear. The word did not become like flesh, the word became flesh. Oh, please don't be so familiar with the Christmas story that you don't miss how shocking this statement in verse 14 is. There is no ambiguity at all in John's words. John tells us the most fantastic and fascinating thing ever. The eternal, all-wise Spirit God, the second person of the Trinity, became flesh You mean like human flesh? Like us? I mean like a b that's exactly what he means. It's not talking about sinful flesh. you and I have to deal with the sin nature that the Bible talks about in other contexts that we battle as believers that captivates fallen man. Just talking about flesh as in humanity. Flesh is the noun sarx This is a term often used simply to mean human flesh. In other words, a real, living, tangible human being. He became flesh. John, guided by the Holy Spirit, he could have chosen another term. He could have chosen the Greek term soma for body. He had a body. Or he could have said he became a human being, anthropos But he uses a very stark and a clear term. Some scholars say it's a crass term. He became flesh to show he was the real thing. Down to his very flesh. Notice even how John uses the term flesh in the previous verse. Look back to verse 13. He speaks of the new birth we are to have as believers. And it says we were born not of blood. Do you see that? Nor of the will of what? The flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. So flesh refers to humanity, that which has blood inside of it, is of man. Paul uses it the same way in Romans 1. 3, referring to Jesus. He says he was born of a descendant of David according to the flesh. In 1 John 4 2, in defending this doctrine, John also wrote and he said, By this you know the Spirit of God, every spirit that confesses to Jesus Christ has come in the sharks in the flesh is from God. They didn't get that. They were false teachers. They were of the Antichrist, he writes in that letter. That obviously means the word took on a human body. Hebrews 10:5, sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. Jesus said to the Father. So verse 14 speaks of the infleshing of the eternal Creator Word. He made the creation and now he steps into the creation. You got it? That's what it is. It's amazing. Just as John was so clear about the deity of Christ In verse 1, the word was God. There's no letter A in there. The word was A God. The letter A is not in there. There's no A in Greek. So now he is clear about the humanity of Christ. The word became flesh. God became human. It's startling. It's amazing. It's unthinkable. John is writing this entire gospel about a human being. His name's even given in verse 17. Look at it. Grace and truth were realized through What's his name? Jesus Christ. Jesus does not just appear as a human. He was a human, as human as you and me, born of a real human mother. Galatians 4:4. When the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son born of a woman. It's through the doorway into humanity that the word took on a new state of existence. This is beyond man's fantasy, and even if man could have thought of it, he could never have done it This is God's imagination at work in reality. The amazing mind of God. Now please remember: when the Word became a man, the Word never ceased being the Word. He just took on flesh. He expressed the word through the human flesh to us so we could see and understand. More on that in a minute. If he had ceased to be the word when he took on flesh, he would not then be able to express the word to those in the flesh. He would just be another man of flesh, not the word made flesh. He had to be both word and flesh, both God and man. One hundred percent God. Nothing Missing of what makes God God, whatever that is. His attributes, his omnipotence, his omniscience, his omnipresence, his eternality, his immutability, his sovereignty He was the Son of God, one with the Father, and 100% man, nothing missing of what makes man man. So succinctly, Colossians 2. 9 states, in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. In the incarnation, God made man. Nothing of the divine essence was ever at any moment surrendered. Nothing was lost. Nothing was left behind. For God ceasing to be God would be a meaningless statement, anyways, people. Yes? For if God ceased to be God, by definition, he never would have been God. God is the eternal, unchanging I am, the uncaused cause of all things, the infinite, everlasting Spirit And he necessarily always just is. That's what he is. That's who he is. He'll never be anything else. Yet here he became a weak human, in every way like us, refusing to use his eternal powers, which were his He hungered and thirsted, experienced fatigue, chose to have to grow up and learn. Later he'd bleed and die for the sins of man, rise bodily. He became like us in every way. Except what? Sin. Because sin is not inherent to humanity. Otherwise Adam, before he sinned, wouldn't have been a human being. Kind of interesting how the four gospel writers work together to give us a perfect picture of the Lord Jesus. John doesn't tell us a thing about how he became flesh. You'd kind of like to know, wouldn't you? Kind of like, how did that happen? Well, we're told. That's why we're given Matthew and Luke. Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 23. I'll just give you snippets of it here. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows Here's the Christmas story. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, therefore they came together, before they came together, she was found to be with child by The Holy Spirit. And Joseph was later told, The child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. So he is. Jesus Emmanuel. Luke chapter 1, verses 30 through 35. The angel said to Mary, Do not be afraid, Mary. For you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. I don't know how the angels said it, but that's how I would have said it. Probably not that loud. Mary would have already freaked out enough as it was. Mary said to the angel, How can this be since I am a virgin? The angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. And for that reason the Holy Child shall be called the Son. Son of God. And that's all the explanation that God wanted to tell us. And it's amazing. It's amazing. It's beyond amazing. It's unthinkable what happened. there. John just gives the fact. God became a human being. That is the fantastic Incarnation. Second, the fantastic revelation. Last part of the verse. Most of the rest of the verse. All the rest of the verse, actually. And dwelt among us. And we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. Well he didn't just become flesh. He dwelt among us in his body. See, this is where it connects to us. This is where it starts to get personal to you and to me. That verb dwelt in Greek is skeina'o, it means to fix one's tabernacle. to have one's tabernacle to abide or to live in as in a tabernacle or a tent. It refers to putting the stakes down as they would. You put your stakes down, this is now where I live. You got your tent over there? You got your tent over there? I'll put mine down right here. This looks like a good spot. You stick your stakes into the ground, and now this is where you live, among your comrades, among your people. And so he came down here. If they were familiar with the Old Testament, they would have known that it's it brings to mind the tabernacle where God chose to live among the people of Israel, the tabernacle that could be lifted up, it could be packed up and it could be brought along and then be brought down again and always wherever the Israelites were there was the tabernacle and God's presence was among them. It was also called the tent of meeting In Exodus 25, 8, God lived with the Israelites, and God gave this command. He said, Let them construct a sanctuary for me that I may dwell among them. And so the tent of meeting, the tabernacle, was constructed. God also revealed his glory to the nation of Israel as he lived among them. Exodus 40 and verse 34 says, Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. And the glory of the Lord, that is the shining brilliance, filled the tabernacle. It glowed. Some light came out of it. And just as the tabernacle was there among the Israelites, revealing the glory of God and his presence to his people, Jesus came and pitched his earthly tent, so to say, his body, and lived among us And revealed God's glory to us. You know, in Old Testament times they really didn't get to see God. Moses saw God's backside It says he spoke to him face to face, but he never saw God's glory in that sense. The revelation of God's glory was lesser. But notice down in verse 18, Jesus reveals the invisible God. Jesus is the very glory of God, you see. Jesus has now taken the place of tabernacle and temple and all of that. He is now where people meet God. Where's God? He's in Christ. He's in Jesus. He is a greater manifestation of the glory of God than anything given before. All the ways that God lived among his people before were transitory. God has now been made flesh, and that's permanent. That didn't change when he was raised from the dead. And he now lives among us. John is emphatic in his testimony about this. We beheld his glory. Imagine if you could write that. See, the us and the we refer to those who saw Jesus, lived with Jesus in the first century They saw, literally beheld Jesus. That's the verb that means to be a spectator, the A'omai, to behold, to be a spectator of. It refers to real sight with real eyes. They saw him. With a real physical eye. We perceive Jesus today by faith. We read of him in the scriptures. We think of what he was like. We see him in one another. His spirit lives inside of us. But we didn't see Jesus like what he means in verse 14. We beheld. We saw him. He's emphatic about that testimony that the apostles gave to the rest of the world. Indeed, Mary and Joseph held the eternal word in their hands as a baby. It's no wonder those wise men traveled so far and came and bowed down just to see him. There was nothing better to see. People travel a long way, go to Disney World, or go to the Great Wall of China, or whatever it is that they want to go see. These wise men were wiser than most men. They traveled from afar so they could see God in human flesh. Amazing. Just amazing. 1 John chapter 1, the letter of John, he opens it this way. He says, What was from the beginning? Note how he parallels the Gospel of John. What was from the beginning, what we have heard. What we have seen with our eyes, what we have looked at and touched with our hands concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested to us, and we have seen and testify and proclaim to you The eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. God's glorious presence and eternal life were communicated To them through this one man that they may proclaim it to us. So, beloved, I say this is now the way that God relates to man. Through Jesus. For he is the God man. As they beheld Jesus, they beheld God's glory. The word glory, doksa, means his brightness or his splendor. When it was used of someone's character, it would mean fame or greatness or renown. Again, in times past, we read in the Old Testament, we see many ways that God made revelation to men, numbers of ways, and dreams and visions and all kinds of things. But this time the revelation that God made was greater and it was more profound. The glory was more manifest. God came down to speak to man as a man. In other words, the fantastic revelation was dependent upon the fantastic incarnation If he hadn't become a man, we wouldn't have had that aspect of God revealed to us as clearly. We know God and understand God and perceive God through Jesus because he was made a man. All revelation made before the entrance of Jesus into this world must pale in comparison, and any prophet who thinks there's a greater revelation after this doesn't even understand this revelation. You can't get brighter than the brightest star. He is the bright and the morning star. He is the light of the world. He is truth and life incarnate. In striking similarity with this passage in John is Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, where it is declared, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers in the prophets in many portions and in many ways in these last days has spoken to us in his son. And he, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world, listen, and he that is the Son is the radiance of God's glory. And the exact representation of his nature. Do you hear that? Jesus is the radiance of God's glory. Jesus is the exact representation of who God is. You can't improve upon that picture. There's nothing to improve on, there's nothing to add, there's no greater message that can ever come. There's no other statement God will ever give to this world than that. If they don't know God through Christ, they'll never know God. God sent us a picture perfect frame picture of Himself at Christmas time. Here in this one human being, from swaddling clothes to the cross at Calvary and Beyond, is the exact glory of God on display. When people ask you, What is God like? What do you think? You just say He's like Jesus, because that's God's answer. You want to know what I'm like? God said. Here I am in a body. Study me, know me. Believe in me, trust me. He is the Word of God. He is God's message to us. How wonderful a revelation of God we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. How fantastic it is. You know, his glory is further explained in the rest of the verse. His glory is described as the glory of the only begotten of the Father. That as of part there, as of the only begotten of the Father, does not mean as if it were the real glory. It's not putting some note of doubt there. But rather it defines the exact glory that John is referring to. The glory as such that belongs to the eternal Son of God is what he means. Glory as of the only begotten, that kind of glory. Actually the term only begotten, Mananganes, according to more recent analysis. would be better translated as the NIV has it or the ESV has translated it, the one and only son, or the only son from the Father. Monon Ganesh refers to Jesus' unique sonship. The term is used of the widow of Nain. Her only son in Luke 7. 12 and Jairus' only daughter in Luke 8. 42 is also used of Isaac in Hebrews 11. seventeen who was not Abraham's only begotten son, for he also had Ishmael and others, but his dearest son, his son of promise, his special son, his unique son, his only one of a kind son Jesus is the one and only dear Son from the Father. Jesus stands in unique relationship to God the Father. Jesus alone is the same exact essence of God. Look down again at verse 18. No one has seen God at any time. Only one of God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him. He's that close to God. John 3, 16 For God so loved the world he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. At his baptism, Matthew 3. 17, a voice out of the heavens said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Sometimes people refer to themselves as children of God. You hear that when you're out witnessing, we're all children of God. You know, we're we're all sons of God by creation. This is true, but we're now also fallen in creation. We're sinful, we're no longer pleasing to God, we cannot get to God on our own. We believers, better than that, are called sons of God by adoption in Jesus Christ through the salvation given freely as a gift. Greater still, though, is Jesus and this category of sonship. He is the eternal Son of God, one in essence with the Father. He perfectly reflects God. He is God's one and only son, his dearly beloved son, his son of the exact same essence. Jesus declared what you and I could never declare in John chapter 10 and verse 30: I and the Father are one. Peter said in 2 Peter 1, For when he had received honor and glory from God the Father, such an utterance as this was made to him by the majestic glory. is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. And we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven when we were with him on the Holy Mountain, referring to the Mount of Transfiguration. No one is like Jesus Christ. No one is in his class. Jesus is sovereign God above all. He's totally unique in person. The incarnation has no parallel. There's nothing like it. There's nothing to point to that's like it. There's not a second incarnation or another one that's a little bit like it. It's just unique. It's what it is. It is the one time in human history where God became a man to reveal himself. It can't be repeated. It won't be repeated. No one else stands next to Jesus. No one else helps Jesus to do this. He is above all and alone and unique. And beloved Jesus is not a fantasy. He is reality. He is truth. He is real. You and I one day are going to see him one way or the other. We're going to see him. We're going to see him in his resurrected glory. And we're going to say, Lord, I believed in you. I hope I served you well. Or some are going to see him and realize that they didn't live their life for Christ, and they'll be condemned because Christ, being above all, will also be the judge of every man, woman, and child. Fortunately, the Lord Jesus is full of grace. Full of grace, it says. What is his glory like? I believe that phrase actually modifies his glory. His glory full of grace and truth. full of grace and truth. When we think of the Lord Jesus Christ, we have to think of him as full of grace and full of truth We can't just think of him as full of truth. We can't just think of him as full of grace. We have to think of him as full of grace and full of truth. For together they express that glory of God that He came down into the world to show us. The word full, play race, just means abounding, filled, full. This is who he is. He's overflowing with grace. He's overflowing with truth. You know, uh they got a glimpse of his eternal shining glory one day. Remember that? His eternal power up on the mountain there, which was just referenced. For Matthew 17, the Mount of Transfiguration it's called, we don't know which mountain it was And Peter, James, and John were up there and they saw this man Jesus, and they saw his his garments change as he prayed to the Father in the nighttime, and light started coming out of him, and it began to shine brighter and brighter with brilliance. And all of a sudden they perceived who he was. His flesh, which veiled his deity to a degree, all of a sudden was opened up and his divine nature was being seen by eye and it shone forth. And Jesus chose to give that to his closest disciples, that revelation of himself. But most of the time, the glory that they saw of Jesus was just a man going around doing good deeds. Showing mercy and kindness and grace and serving other people, speaking words of truth, expounding the scriptures, preaching the word of God. His grace was seen in his everyday life. Grace is unmerited favor. It's a gift. It's what we don't deserve. He's full of giving us things we don't deserve and can never earn on our own. You know, it's interesting that John in his gospel doesn't go on to use the term grace anymore. Paul does, but John doesn't in all the chapters. Instead, he shows what the grace is in Jesus' acts of mercy. In his benevolent miracles done to heal a blind man and help other people, his service for other people, his emphasis in his teaching on sacrificial love and of course his great demonstration of sacrifice on the cross. By becoming incarnate, God gave his greatest manifestation of his love for his people, his grace. Nowhere do we see the grace of God more than in the incarnation. Nowhere is the love of God poured out more than in the person of Jesus. He gave up the glories of heaven to come down here? Are you kidding me? To suffer? To die? To be ashamed? To be spat upon? To be beaten and ridiculed? To be killed as a common criminal? To save us from the wrath of God against our sin. How could he ever love anybody more than that? How could God demonstrate his love more than that? How could he reveal his heart to mankind more than that? Search all the world of religion. Study it all, read it all, every great man, woman, whatever. You will never find the love of God like this anywhere else. But the glory is not just grace. Oh, and how much are modern preachers need to hear this today? For if we preach a Jesus, who is a Jesus of grace only, we only preach half of Jesus, and then we don't really have a real Jesus at all. Because when we only talk about grace, we begin to think we deserve grace. We begin to think grace really isn't grace. Grace is what we just get. God loves us, it doesn't matter how we act or respond in any way at all. That's just it. There's God, and God is loving, and that's where it ends. It's nice to see people get excited about the baby Christ child at Christmas time, isn't it? Lovable cute thing. Look at him there. So harmless and meek and mild, no crying he makes. That's something you can cuddle up to. That's something nice. That doesn't challenge you. Doesn't mean you have to change a thing But he also was truth. Beloved, he was truth. No, he was full of truth. That was so evident in Jesus' words. Read them. They rang with clarity and authority. He spoke from God and he demanded repentance from sin. But he didn't just speak what was true, he spoke the truth. For he was ultimate truth himself. Grace is giving. Truth is demanding. In John 3. 21, later in this gospel, it talks about truth must be practiced in life. God requires truth in the innermost being of a person, according to Psalm 51, 6. Jesus revealed truth perfectly, for he himself was truth, and he required his followers to listen to his words, to take his words into them, to believe his words. They're true. With no mixture of error. They're infallible, they're trustworthy, they're reliable. Read them, study them, know them, believe them, take them into you. Know the word of God and practice the truth. Someone put a sign up on I-95 on our long drive back. I think it was somewhere in North Carolina. It just asked, you know, are you lost? And then another one uh asked, Are you deceived? And then underneath it, referring to Jesus, it had John 14, 6, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Jesus stood before Pilate at his trial. Therefore Pilate said to him, So you are a king. And Jesus answered, You say correctly that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. Jesus revealed God's glory through his character. And his character was full of grace and truth. You know that's another hint that John is referring to Jesus as deity because in the Old Testament God summarized his own character in the same way. He often is said to abound in mercy and truth or loving kindness. This is the very description that God gave of himself to Moses when Moses requested of God, Show me thy glory, and the Lord came along. Remember, allowing Moses to see his backside as God passed by, God proclaimed this in Exodus 34, 6 The Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in loving kindness and truth There it is, grace and truth, full of grace and truth, Hesed and emet, loving kindness and truth. Or grace and truth. One commentary says, taken together these words emphasize the attributes of kindness and fidelity reflected in the character of God. These attributes have the fullest and most exquisite display in Jesus. He incarnates God's favor and communicates God's truth. People, Jesus is the glory of God. He is full of grace and truth. The paradox is that such great glory lived among us in such simple human flesh. This revelation was made to you and to me. It was made for us. It was made so that we would see and believe and understand. That's the whole point. That's the meaning of Christmas. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity, pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. Yea, Lord, we greet thee, born this happy morning. Jesus, to thee be all glory given, Word of the Father, now in flesh appearing. Oh come, let us what? Adore him. Anyone who does not accept the grace and truth that Jesus radiated And put their wholehearted trust in Jesus alone, not in religion, not in some church, not in some denomination Not in some spiritual leader, not in a baptism, not a trust in the Eucharist, not in good works, not in trying to be good, not in any of those things, but in Jesus alone Well, if they don't do that, then they have a lie at the very core of their being and they continue to live in darkness, even though the light is shown in this world Jesus willingly left the glorious heavenly existence and took on the ignoble surroundings of humanity. He suffered and died shamefully to pay for sin in order to save you, to save all of us, to save everybody who would believe. He came down here on a saving mission. That was the whole point. He testified in John 6, verse 38, I have come down from heaven. Not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Why was he sent? John 3:17. For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world. But that the world might be saved through him. Religion can't do that for you Church can't do that for you. Jesus Christ is the Savior. He is the object of faith and he alone. Rationalism. What will that do with all of its intellectual posturing and speculation founded upon a lie to start with? Irrational mysticism, which Holds the unfounded promise of perceiving truth apart from truth. How can that ever bring us to truth If we are to know God, if we are to know our Maker, the one who designed us, the one who knows how to make us happy and joyful and peaceful and give us everlasting health and life, we have to come to Jesus We have to bow low as the wise men did and confess this baby who grew up to be a man, the Lord, the Savior. Confession just the way the disciple Thomas did at the end of the Gospel of John when we read his confession after doubting Christ and doubting his resurrection, he bowed before Christ. And he said to him, You are my Lord, and you are my God. And so you must give over the leadership of your life to Jesus and confess him to be your Lord. And your God. It is not good enough to call Jesus a prophet. It is not good enough to call Jesus a great religious teacher. It is not good enough to see in him some lofty inspired idea. All of that is dishonoring to Jesus when he is so much more. We must, as we're told in the Christmas Carol, come adore on bended knee, Christ. The Lord, the newborn King. May He be your Lord, your King, this Christmas as you focus on His majestic glory revealed to us in flesh. Almighty God, thank you for this amazing record of true history. Your coming into this world. Oh, how Satan has played with this story. and tried to relegate it to the world of fantasy while getting man to focus on his fantasies which can never become true Rather than focusing on your truth, which is our salvation. May we believe, may we understand, may we know May you bless your people with joy. May you lead the loss to yourself through this message. If you would be so pleased, our God and our Father, we thank you for your loving expression in Jesus Christ. We pray this in his name, Amen.