It doesn't matter all that much who a person claims to believe, or what a person claims to believe, or who he says that he follows. What a person listens to Who he patterns his life after, that is what reveals who a person's real teachers are, and who he's really listening to, and where he thinks true wisdom is found. Who are you listening to? Who are your teachers? The Proverbs speak of treasuring wisdom from God more than gold and silver. That makes a nice plaque on the wall, but how many of us actually believe that? How many value God's wisdom more than silver and gold? Really? Who does? How many spend their time and their energy pursuing God's wisdom from Scripture? How often Christians who claim to follow God's wisdom turn instead to the world's wisdom. To the worldly wise man, give me advice about life. Our television set, the nightly news, the pundits on television, polished politicians. Boy, they can talk, can't they? Business training courses, some of you are forced to take. The latest movie, even video games, they all espouse the world's way of looking at things, their wisdom. And professed believers turn their ears toward those things and listen listen a lot more than we ought. Maybe you value the world's wisdom more than you'd like to admit. Sometimes the world's wisdom even comes to us from family members or friends who pass on well-meaning but skewed advice. They don't know any better. That's what they learned. Sadly, these days, you're likely to hear the world's philosophy taught from a pulpit or purchased in a Christian bookstore. The relentless subtleties of the world demand that we make sure that we know God's wisdom and that it is firmly planted within our minds and our hearts So we can be wise in the midst of a foolish age. That's why, for a third time, I believe we need to return to the same passage we've been in the last two weeks, read it again, and study the end of it again. A great, great text of God's wisdom greater than the world. Look again, and we're going to read the whole passage again just to give us context. Verses 18 through 31 of 1 Corinthians chapter 1. 1 Corinthians 1, 18-31. Paul writes, for the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater? of this age. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For indeed, Jews ask for signs And Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To Jews, a stumbling block, and to Gentiles, foolishness But to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong, and the base things of the world, and the despised God has chosen. The things that are not, so that he might nullify the things that are, so that no man may boast before God. But by his doing You are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. So that just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in who The world's wisdom is opposite God's wisdom. That's what the passage says. If you want to go to sleep, go ahead and go to sleep, but remember that. The world's wisdom is opposite God's. That's what this is all about. How God thinks and how the natural man in this world thinks, don't mix. Take a poll, ask humans what they think is wise, get the majority results, God disagrees. That's why we've been finding in this passage a series of upside-down statements, reverse propositions, if you would. Which expose human education, learning, wisdom for the foolishness that it is. It is a tough lesson, I agree. A tough lesson lesson for the pride of people to learn, but it must be learned. Now we've already covered six of these statements in our first two messages, so I have to refer you to the past two messages. You can get caught up with that if you missed them. But there's four more we're going to learn today for a total of ten. Four more reversed or upside-down statements Paul purposely makes in this text to expose the foolishness of the world. Reverse statement number seven. A rejected man is the power and wisdom of God. A rejected man is the power and wisdom of God. Now we're picking up in verse 24. He says there, but to those who are the call, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom. Now some might object to Paul at this point in his argument with all that he's been saying and saying, well, since the Jews really do stumble over this message of the cross, they have a tough time with it, a crucified king, a messiah that's helplessly hanging on a cross. And since the Greeks with all of their wisdom really did find such a message to be quite offensive to their minds, why not rethink things a little bit? Let's give the world a a little bit different of a message. Less offensive, you know, more upbeat. Let's work on uh making it marketable for the people to understand Let's make them acclimated to this message, make it a little easier, a pill for them to swallow. Well, why he doesn't do that, one answer comes right in this very verse. The reason why we don't change the message about Christ and the offense of cross is, listen, because it is the power and the wisdom of God. Why would we change that? The cross, despite its seeming weakness and foolishness to men, nevertheless demonstrates and unleash God's power and wisdom. That makes it a pretty good message to stick with. I don't think the church should tamper with it. This is the way that the God of heaven looks at the cross. of his son. And Paul's trying to help these proud Corinthians not to have such an earthbound carnal perspective when they're doing all their debating and having disunity in their church. They need to know what true wisdom is and learn. So he's pointing them, look at the cross. You said you believed in it. But I don't think you've got it yet. Look at it longer, focus on it more, and understand it more deeply. I hope that you'll do that with me today also. Notice the strong antithesis again we see in this passage with the word but there in verse 24. But to the world it's foolishness, but to those who are the called, that cross is looked upon quite differently. Now let's pause a moment and remind ourselves who the called are. He calls us the called. And who are they? Well, the called are those people that are called by who? By God. God's calling them. And what are they called to? They're called to salvation. So the called are the ones who are hearing the preaching of this message, the word of the cross, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. They hear it heralded and proclaimed throughout the world, and they come to believe in it, to trust in it, to depend on it. And so they are the ones that are called or even summoned by God out of the unbelieving world, out of their perspective, into God's perspective to be God's people. Now I want you to be really sure of this, so I want you to notice that the called ones here in this passage are parallel with those who believe that are already mentioned back in verse 21. They're called believers in verse 21. They're called the called here in verse 24. It's also paralleled if you look all the way back to verse 18 with the us who are being saved. So they are called by God, they believe in the message of God, and they are saved by God. It's that simple. Believing is our responsibility, right, people? God commands us to believe in his son. We have to believe. That's our responsibility. But it's done in response to when God calls a human soul to believe. God does the calling and God does the saving. We have to believe. It is God's will we believe. And since those who are called are also the ones who believe and get saved, the call then, in this passage, listen, does not refer to that general call that God makes through evangelists Throughout the world, where he calls on everyone to repent, because a lot of those people, though they're called outwardly and they hear it with their ears, they never repent and they never respond and they never believe and they die and they perish. So it's not referring to that It's referring rather to an inward call by God that's not heard with these ears on our heads, but with the ears of our heart. We respond to that external message and we understand inwardly it's true and we believe, and so we're called. We are the called. It refers to the effectual call of God. It is God's summon to faith and to believe, and it's given only to a certain select group of people. He grants them eyes to see, and he grants them to believe. Now that's how Paul used the term way back in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 2, if you look all the way back up there. He calls them those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus saints by what? Calling. You're called by God, and that refers to everybody who's in the church who's a true believer. They are the called. They're saints by calling. Romans one six. He begins that letter this way. Among whom you also, talking to the Roman believers, are the called of Jesus Christ. Their way of talking about him. They're believers, they are the called Even Jude uses this. He says, to those who are the called, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ. So they're not only called, they're loved, and they're preserved. And the important point here is that they, those who are the call, have a much different opinion of the cross than those unbelieving Jews and Gentiles There is a group who, rather than rejecting the cross as weakness and foolishness, joyfully accepts that message and believes in it with all their might. See, we might ask, why is it that anybody ever believes in a message like this? Who would have thought that a lamb would rescue the souls of men? What what kind of a message is that? Some Jew died on some cross a long time ago and he delivered all of mankind forever from the wrath of God. Who thought up that? What is that? That's the message we proclaim today? Man, that thing needs a lot of help, doesn't it? What's that gonna do? What kind of a message is that? Somehow it just keeps getting preached century after century after century. It just seems keep keeps hanging around and people keep believing it and keep getting saved and the kingdom of God just keeps growing. The answer is that God calls people into the light, into the knowledge of the truth. For when God opens their eyes and the scales of blindness fall from their eyes, then they see the beauty and the majesty of the cross and they believe. It is wonderful. Well, what is it that they see? Well, they see power. That's what it says in verse 24. Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. They see power. Power? What are you talking about? Power? Where's their power there? Power that comes from God, that's what we're talking about. And that's released through this message of the cross. You know the greatest threat to mankind is not a nuclear holocaust. It's not terrorists, it's not aliens. It is the righteous, fiery wrath of God that definitely will fall on this world. That's a danger. The cross saves us from it. The cross is the only thing that saves us from it. Why do you think Paul wrote in Romans 1. 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel? I'm not ashamed of preaching the dead Jew on a cross that was crucified, executed as a criminal way over there in that obsolete little land called Israel. I'm not ashamed of that message, he said. Why? Because it is what? The power of God. Getting too excited. I'm spitting up here The power of God listened for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first, they get to listen first. It was their Messiah, but also to the Greek. The Jews wanted a power sign, remember? Well, they got the resurrection. That's not too bad. That was the greatest sign of all. But God gave them another sign, the weakness of the cross, and said, there's power. You want a sign? A miraculous miracle there is power. And he did it just to confound their pride, because they couldn't figure it out. The same is for anybody. When anyone, anyone here, anyone at all who's who's hearing this message, anybody who believes the power of God is released for them. You listen to a simple message of Jesus hanging on a cross, dying to pay for your sins, which you really owe to God. And he did it because he loved you and he wanted to set you free from judgment. You listen to that message, you believe it, you bypass all the halls of learning anywhere on this planet, or ever will be. Every single seminar, you could skip them all. Because they're not going to tell you how to be right with God. This little message alone does it. No dissertation do you ever need to read to figure that out. It's all right there in the simple message of the cross. You hear a powerful message that will effectively save your soul, and it works for anyone, anyone who will believe, anybody at all. In fact, God has made the message that unleashes his power in your life so simple, just to mock those who think that they're so bright. One ounce of gospel accomplishes more in your life than a million megatons of concentrated learning from the lost and the blind. One ray of the light of the good news is more helpful to guide your soul than billions and billions of miles of darkness. If the Jews really wanted power, they would see the power and the effectiveness of the sacrifice of their Messiah to save not only their nation, but also the world. The hidden conquering power of the cross. They couldn't see it, but it was there See all the dazzling miracles in the world that they could have asked for. You know, get the popcorn out. Let's see one after another after another. Jesus, give us all kinds of miracles. Let it go on for seven years. Not one of those miracles would have commended them towards God at all. They still would have been dead in their trespasses and sins. They owed a mass of debt to God for their sin. The power of the death of Jesus Christ for sinful men paid an enormous debt that you and I owed to God. His blood poured out long, long ago, rescues you and me today and in the future from the torrents of a real hell. That cross reconciles us to a holy God, and there's no other way to be reconciled God. There's no other way to get there. No good works of men, no religious sacraments or spiritual meditations performed anywhere in the world, doesn't matter how long and how vigorously can ever accomplish that. Martin Luther figured that out trying to climb the stairs to the Vatican on his knees, trying to do everything he possibly could do, flailing his back, trying to do everything that a good Roman Catholic monk would do. And he found that there was no way to be reconciled to God in any religious attainment at all. It had to come completely by the mercy of God in simple faith. God's demands are too high for the folly of human religion to achieve anything before Him. They can claim they do, but the one who's going to tell is God, and God has already told us you're saved by grace through faith, and that is it. And it's as plain as day, right there in the Word. There is a power of God, but that power is found in the weakness of a cross, and in confessing Jesus of Nazareth as the Almighty Son of the living God. You know, and if the Greeks were really searching for true wisdom, they would have marveled at the wisdom of the cross. For true wisdom comes from God, and it is displayed in that cross. People today might boast in being street-wise, book smart, market-savvy, psychically empowered. But the only true understanding is divine wisdom, and divine wisdom comes to a soul from the cross. God accomplished the communication of a reality while all of the philosophical systems of the most brilliant thinkers the world has ever known utterly failed to even know who God was. Take Plato and Aristotle and Socrates, build on their insights through the centuries, throw in Descartes, Hume, Locke, and Kant. And they still couldn't understand what God was up to. The mystery of life is still bolted on the other side of an iron door. They can't penetrate it. Only the cross brings you true wisdom and understanding. That's it. God won't allow it any other way. You often hear those brought up in strict Christian homes, those poor kids, you know, they're sheltered from real life. You know who the ones sheltered from real life are those who are in a bubble of ignorance. They know nothing at all of the true God and what's going to happen to them. They're out of touch with the real world. They're like those living in a dark cave Trying to explain what the outside might look like to use Plato's analogy. But they don't know. One glimpse, one glimpse outside through the cross, and you know. The Greeks loved their pursuit of wisdom, but Daniel in the Old Testament said, Let the name of God be blessed forever and ever. For wisdom and power belong to him. It is he who changes the times and the epics. He removes kings and establishes kings. He gives wisdom to wise men and knowledge to men of understanding. It is he who reveals the profound and hidden things. He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. First John says, God is light, and in him is no what? Darkness at all. The wisdom of God's holiness and justice and righteousness, the wisdom of how he communicated his mercy and his love and his grace, the wisdom of his plan for mankind The meaning of man in this world, the very meaning of life, they're all communicated to us through the cross. The cross is at the same time both so simple to understand and amazingly sophisticated. Jesus gave his life for us because he loved us to save us. There's the simple message. But in doing so, the righteous judge of the whole world found a way to pronounce guilty people innocent while still remaining just himself. Transferring the sin of the world to an innocent man while imputing the righteous life of that one man to the many, thereby satisfying his holy wrath, wrath in effective propitiation. He united a sinful man to a holy son of God, thus reconciled us because we were estranged, and imparted to us new life that lasts forever, and in so doing displayed his amazing grace to angels and demons alike. It is a profound and detailed plan. So it is for both Jews and Greeks. We're the Greek Gentile side of things, most of us Anyone here you're willing to believe in that, God will impart to you wisdom. Jesus Christ is the answer to life. Upside down statement number eight. A weak and foolish God is greater. A weak and foolish God is greater. Would you look at verse 25? Paul writes, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. And here I think we reach the clearest statement of Paul's argument since he started the latter part of verse 17. In case anyone up till now missed the point he was trying to say, here he's going to state it very plainly. God is both wiser and stronger than men. There it is In fact, the worst that God can be, if we're even allowed or permitted to think of God that way without being blasphemous, would be far better than anything man could ever do. Paul keeps intact the upside-down language of the passage. God's folly outsmarts the best of man's wisdom. God's weakness still accomplishes more than all the strength of men put together. Comparison's not even close. Driest day at the end of the dry season, at the end of the driest year, the ocean is still going to have more water in it. That all the water men can gather with their buckets. So God is like that to men. What does Paul mean here by the foolishness and the weakness of God? It's kind of strange, isn't it? Well, he's referencing again the way the world looks at God and what he did on the cross. The foolishness of God refers to the way the world understands God's truth. God isn't foolish, we know that. God never acts foolishly. God has no foolishness in him. And Paul knows that. Listen to what he wrote in Romans 11, verses 33 and 34. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God How unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord or who became his counselor? Revelation 7:12. Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. That's pretty clear. But the world calls it foolishness. They mock it So Paul's saying, mock God's truth and word all you want, world. Make as much fun of it as you want to, in any way you want. It's still wiser than anything any civilization has ever produced. The educational systems of men cannot tell you who the true God is or unite you to him. Gordon Fee in his great commentary says Thus played out before human eyes is the scandalous and contradictory wisdom of God. Had God consulted us for wisdom, we could have given him a more workable plan, something that would attract the sign seeker and the lover of wisdom. As it is in his own wisdom, he left us out of the consultation. We weren't invited to the planning meeting. Our wisdom and experience wasn't needed. actually exhibits his greatest power and greatest wisdom. The Jews rejected the cross. The wisdom-seeking Greeks were blind to God's wisdom. Today, secular and evolutionary Thinkers completely misunderstand what God is doing if they even believe in Him. Muslims have no understanding of the greatness of the cross They deny that God would actually become a man. They deny that he would be crucified. They deny that he was raised from the dead. They follow the foolish wisdom of the world and they reject God's wisdom. Many, even in the realm of Christendom, are ashamed of the cross or misunderstand it and preach it incorrectly. They twist the cross to promote riches and wealth Or to market their own self-esteem and worth, their wholeness. The cross is a secret for success and business. Live your best life today One ancient church even continues to offer up Jesus as a sacrifice week after week after week on the altar, which effectively denies the power of that cross, that one sacrifice long ago. And the cross is denied and misunderstood and rejected by all of false religion. But what Paul writes is still true. The weakness of God is stronger than men. A weak Christ hanging upon the cross. Did more for this world than any invention, any discovery, any battle, anything ever done Helpless as it seems, he was, unable to save himself, mocked, beaten, sworn, spat upon, crown of thorns on his head, not even able to quench his thirst. He released more of God's power on that moment than all of man's attempts and religions combined. So man, go ahead. Build your starships. Go ahead and build your space colonies. Do your good works. Study and research medicine for the next 10,000 years. Muster up your most mighty prayers, invent the greatest and the grandest gadgets, computers, whatever you want. None of it will save you. None of it will grant you eternal life. It's all impotent. Only the weakness of the cross will impart to you the power of eternal paradise. That's it. Number nine. God chooses the lesser things, not the greater things. God chooses the lesser things, not the greater things. This is in verses 26 through 28. Again, please follow along. For consider your calling, brethren, he's directly addressing. The Corinthians now. That there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble But God has chosen the foolish things of the world, to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world, to shame the things which are strong, and the base things of the world, and the despised. God has chosen the things that are not, so that He might nullify the things that are. Now there's two C words in here that bring all this together, the word calling and the word choosing. God called, God chose. The word calling is the same one we just looked at. Paul wants them here now to consider their calling. What does that mean? Look back to the time where you were called into Christianity. Do you remember what you were in the world? Do you remember what the world thought of you at that point in time? Consider what's going on there at Corinth. You guys weren't all that impressive, but God called you anyway. And then there's choosing. Why is it that Christians these days have such a hard time with God choosing people? Why do we have a hard time with God making choices? Doesn't he have a right to do as he pleases? Isn't this his universe? Aren't we his creation? Doesn't he just get to do whatever he wants to do? Why would we have trouble with that? You know what the word chosen in verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight means used three times Ek Lego. It means chosen. You can't do any better now. They looked up about I looked up about ten English translations and chosen, chosen, choose, chosen, chosen. That's the way to translate it. What it means. God chooses people. He picks them. He elects them. Not all. You have trouble with that? Too bad. It's God's universe So but I don't know how all that fits together. I don't either. I don't have to. It's just true. People ask me, do you believe in election? It's like saying it's a false teaching or something. Of course I believe in election. The Bible clearly teaches it many times and in many places, like right here. Yes, but what does that mean? You don't think he picks some and then doesn't pick others, do you? Well that's exactly what it means. It can't mean anything else. What does choosing mean? He elects. But that's not fair. Listen, as I've said many times before, we don't want God to be fair that way. Because all of us deserve hell and wrath. You could just say, well you know what? If you're not going to allow me to pick some, I won't pick any of you. And we'll get what we deserve, for we've been disobedient. But God is gracious, and so he faves some. Who does he elect? Well, the same ones he calls. Or I should say he calls the ones that he already elected. It is assumed that those who are called, by the way, in this passage, are those who are chosen. Those two C words go hand in hand. The one he picks He also calls to himself. The reason that they were called in that inward effectual way is that they were already chosen. So this clearly speaks of that effective calling again, that summons to salvation, which is never resisted by the human will. but is latched onto in response to God's sovereign election. Just as a plant naturally turns its leaves towards the sun and basks in the sun, so a soul that's lost in darkness, as soon as the light shines on them, turns towards them and believes. The soul responds. You say, who are the ones that God chooses? Well the answer is given right here. You have a great answer right in this text. When it comes to God's choices, God looks at the world and he flips it upside down and he starts with the bottom and says, I'll pick that group. The least likely candidates he chooses. Paul ought to know. He was one of those least likely candidates. After all, he was persecuting the Church of God, trying to stamp the whole thing out. I don't think he was very likely to become the most effective apostle that ever lived. But he was. Why? Because God likes doing things like that. That's what God does. Here, Paul is chosen by God. He didn't go out looking for Christ. God picked him, and now he's preaching and teaching Christ. Why? Because God picked him. And Paul tells the Corinthians to think about who's there in that church. What kind of impressive people you all have there in Corinth, in Achaia? Check out the membership role. Who do you have registered there? Got any distinguished politicians among you? Any nobles there worshiping on Sundays? Maybe you have some great Olympians there, members of the elite Sofist Society. Powerful landowners, members of Caesar's household, great retired generals of Rome? You got any of those there in Corinth? I don't think so. What do they got there? Well, hey, they have three kinds of people. This is who they had there at Corinth. First, they had foolish people. A lot of foolish people. Foolish ones of the world, he says, well that's real impressive, isn't it? The ones less likely to have a decent education. Not cutting edge kind of people, just your average Joe, kind of bland. Nothing impressive. Even looked down upon. Foolish people. They had a lot of those there, Corinth. They also had a lot of um the weak there. In corn. These are not people that are going anywhere in the world, not very well accomplished, not known for might and valor, not carrying much weight in this world, not too much worldly influence, but they had a lot of them there in corn Third kind of person they have there, let's see if it gets any better. They had the base and the despised. That's what they had. Those two go together The base, that is the bottom of the barrel, the despised, the dregs of society, slaves, the less fortunate, homeless, vagabonds. The opposite of noble. The word noble there is euganase, well-born. They weren't those kinds. Many of these Corinthians had come from extremely poor moral backgrounds, in fact. We know that because of 1 Corinthians 6 Verses nine through eleven, just listen to this. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Paul asks. Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers Nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor squindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Such were some of you Not a great resume. But you were washed, but you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Spirit of our God. Not a lot of aristocracy there in Corinth. Not a lot of purple garb being worn on Sundays. God had a really bad church growth strategy there. He picked all the rejects. What kind of a general manager is God? He chose, in fact, the things that are not, you know what that is, the nothings. To shame the things that are those that were the somethings. In that society, it wasn't much of a middle class. You were either something or you were nothing. He chose the nots, not the R's. Well, some of them might have been rich or powerful or beautiful. There were some that owned homes there, but they were the exception, not the norm. Isn't this how God has al always done things? Jacob was the younger of the two, remember? Moses was cast away in a river. Gideon was the youngest, and complained about being the least of his family and of the tribe and all the rest of that David was the youngest of eight brothers. He wasn't even brought by his father to stand before Samuel when he came to anoint the king. John the Baptist walking around out there eating locusts and honey, what kind of a man is that? Jesus said he's the greatest man ever born of women. Born of a woman. Hannah knew this about the Lord. She sang in 1 Samuel 2, 7 and 8, God raises the poor from the dust, he lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with nobles. And inherit a seat of honor. She knew God. Mary echoed the same theme about 1200 years later. He has done mighty things with his arms. He has scattered those who are proud in the thoughts of their heart. He has brought down rulers from their thrones and has exalted those who were humble. He has filled the hungry with good things and sent away the rich empty-handed. Remember how Jesus started the Sermon on the Mount? Blessed are the who? Poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who humble, who are humble, and on and on. Beware of the church which honors and makes spokespersons out of its famous athletes. It's Hollywood personnel. It's great singers. It's politicians. It's local football and basketball stars. Rather, if we would like to accentuate the grace of God and glorify him in election, let's ask the former prostitutes to give their testimony at the next crusade. Put the drunkards forward, the persecutors, the adulterers, the revilers. Put them forward. That's where the grace of God is working. God needs no valedictorians to build his church. So often church people today, we think so worldly, if only so-and-so would become a Christian and come to our church, how much they could really help the kingdom of God Think of what recognition we would get. Wouldn't it be great if some rich guy came to the whole Bible church and gave us a facility? God does not build his church on the back of human aggrandizement, but on his grace to the poor, the weak, the ugly, the rejected. Parents, why do we boast about my son is an honorable student at such and such a school? Why don't we boast in this, that our daughter or son knows God as his Savior? You ever wonder why our evangelism doesn't seem to work? I think it's because we spend most of our efforts trying to reach the people God's not choosing. The kind of people around us that we like, same level society, kind of like us, like more of them in our church. I'm a witness to them. They're more like me. I feel more comfortable talking to them. We need to put our energies out there for the poor, the lonely, the outcast, the needy, the sick, the imprisoned, the homeless, the weak, the less fortunate Do that here and do that abroad. The fishing in those ponds will yield a better catch. To God, a grand human vessel is a poor location to pour his sweet oil of grace. To God, a grand human instrument is a bad choice for playing his wondrous music of mercy. Are you one of those people who thinks the church ought to be thankful that you're here to help them? You don't know anything about God. John MacArthur writes, a simple, uneducated, untalented, and clumsy believer who has trusted in Jesus Christ as Savior and who faithfully and humbly follows his Lord is immeasurably wiser than the brilliant PhD scoffs at the God. So next time you come to me and say, Ah, I can't do that, Pastor Lee, you're a prime candidate for God to work. Consider yourself recruited already. Either way, I got you. If you say you can do it, you're gonna do it. If you say you can't do it, God's gonna use you. God doesn't just root for the underdog, he makes sure the underdog wins. But to the world, there are two words also, did you notice there that describe what God does to them? God shames them and God nullifies them. He shames them and nullifies them. This is terrible. They lift themselves up in pride. God shames them. They express their self-worth. Oh my, they're good at that these days, aren't they? God points out their faults. Unless you go to a church that doesn't like to talk about sin anymore. How can God point out faults when you don't talk about sin? They count their successes. God tells them their whole life is a failure. They act like they're so wise, God confounds them. They look utterly foolish. Because the wisdom of the world regarded the cross of Christ as foolishness, God purposely bypassed them and shames them. By the way, to shame someone is a terrible thing. To be shamed is to be publicly seen as foolish. And that shaming is happening now in many ways. It's also coming upon the world in judgment. Psalm 31, 17. Let me not be put to shame, O Lord, for I call upon you. Let the wicked be put to shame Let them be silent in Sheol. Isaiah 41, 11. Behold, all those who are angered at you will be shamed and dishonored. Those who contend with you will be as nothing and will perish. And God nullifies them, katar geo, render them inoperative, abolishes them. Now you and I ought to be both humbled and encouraged by what we're hearing here. This threefold description of you that's right here and the two-fold description of what God does with the proud, for God can use you precisely because you're not qualified I'm really so thankful for what God is doing at Hope Bible Church, what I see Him accomplishing in your lives, looking at your faces while you worship, volunteer, so many neat things that God is accomplishing here. And he's accomplishing it because you're giving yourself to the Lord. You're listening to the truth. You're not wanting me to tickle your ears. You're asking for the truth, you're coming for it, and God's working in your life, and I can see it, and I know Alan can. And it's neat to see what's going on in you. It's a joy to be a part of. I just like being around you because I know Jesus is at work in you. And it's exciting. You're the kind of people that God does his amazing work through. Well, a further answer as to why God does not choose the more beautiful or strong or smart or successful comes next. And this is our last reverse statement of the passage, number 10. True religion is not about us, but about Christ. Verses 29 through 31. True religion is not about us, but about Christ. All of that was said, why he chose, who he chose, verse 29, so that, and those words are pretty important because they show God's purpose in all of this. So that no man, and yes ladies, you're included in that, no man may boast before God, but by his doing You are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that, just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. So that no man would be able to boast before God so that we would boast of God Man, the word man here, by the way, is literally the word flesh. And I think Paul, by wording it that way, was reminding us again of our weak position. We are flesh. Flesh is human, it's m it's mortal. Frail flesh has no business standing in the presence of Almighty Spirit and boasting. He's nothing The phrase there, before God, means in God's presence. God will not allow a little piece of dust to stand in front of him and boast. Boast is the word kakaomai. It means to glory in or to exalt or to lift up or to honor to brag. The foolish and the unbelieving, of course, boast in themselves. They do a lot of praising and glorifying and singing, and it's about themselves. Their most wise and excellent selves. You know, when they send out a compliment, it seems to have a boomerang. It comes right back to praise them. Psalm 49 speaks of evil ones who boast in the abundance of their riches. That's why Christ said, how hard it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. Because they get so trusting in their riches and they think of themselves so much greater than others they can't stoop low enough to enter into the kingdom of God You know, the boasting of the rich man can come loudly and vocally, or it can come quietly. Sophisticated, a little snobby look. It's still a boast. You see it in the eyes of models, you see it in the eyes of rich people, their facial expressions all the time. That arrogance is there. It can also come with flaunting wealth, the very thing prosperity preachers now are telling people to do. See how much riches I have! God loves me! Psalm 94, verses 2 through 4. Rise up, O judge of the earth, render recompense to the proud. How long shall the wicked, O Lord, how long shall the wicked exult? Sick and tired of saying it. Psalmist is saying. They pour forth words, they speak arrogantly. All who do wickedness vaunt themselves. You know, people these days have turned themselves into walking billboards Advertising themselves, have you seen it? The way they strut down the street or the hallway, pose for pictures, sing and dance. Even the way they score a touchdown these days. It's all about them and how great they are. You hear it from their lips all the time. Gordon Fee again writes It is not that God cannot or will not save the affluent, but for Paul the glory of the gospel does not lie there. Rather, it lies in his mercy toward the very people whom most of the affluent tend to write off, the foolish, the weak, the despised. And then as he's building to his climax here, he says, But by his, that is God's doing, you are in Christ Jesus. All of our blessings come to us because we're in Christ Jesus. How did we get in Christ Jesus? It was God's work not out. Everything we have, we have because of Christ, because we're in Christ and not ourselves That's why people who don't talk about Jesus Christ in church don't express a love for Jesus Christ in their life, and they're still coming to church, and you know they're a false brother or sister because they don't love Christ. They don't understand everything in their life is from Him. They deserve nothing. It is only through that personal attachment to Christ, you see, that any of us gains anything. Christ here is going to be said to be the very wisdom of God, the very expression of his righteousness, the only means by which we can be sanctified, that is set apart to God, the one through whom our redemption is one. Four things there about Christ that He is for us. Christ has become for us wisdom from God. We live foolishly. We now have Him. We have wisdom from God, wisdom for life Wisdom for eternity, wisdom for the best education we can get today, clear understanding of our times. We even are given the mind of Christ, the end of chapter 2 says. In 2 Corinthians 4, 6, it says, For God who said, Light shall shine out of darkness is the one who has shown in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. Christ has become to us wisdom from God And he's also become to his righteousness. What did we do? We practiced disobedience to the law of God, but he has given us a righteous and innocent standing before his courts of heaven. Justification, being declared innocent, clothed in the righteousness of Christ, not in the shame of our own sins, all of that is given to us because of Christ and because we're united to Him. We have sanctification. We were vessels of impurity, but he has decided to clean us up and set us apart and pour forth his very son to live within our lives. And we have redemption. Redemption is a neat word. Apologosis, the buying back. We were in bonds to sin and to Satan, then he has made us free. Colossians 1 says he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption. forgiveness of sins. Ephesians 1 7. In him we have redemption. How do we get it? It says through his blood. There's the cross again. Psalm 130, verse 7, O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is loving kindness, and with him is abundant redemption. Purchased back by God because of Christ. He's become this to us. Jesus is the one who grants us all of the riches and the status and the privileges that we need for all of time and eternity Not us. It has nothing to do with us. Not our religion. Not our goodness. Not our wisdom. He didn't use it. Not our self-determination, not our status, you could care less, not our pedigree, not our upbringing, not our will as if somehow it could make us save, not our dreams to live by, not our plans, not our power. Paul had to ask the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 4 7, for who regards you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? Every single occasion of boasting has been removed by God. Ephesians 2, 8. 9, for by grace you'll be saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God. Not as a result of works, so that no man should what? Boast. No one boasts. Please notice the conclusion is that No boasting of any kind is allowed. The conclusion is not that boasting is always evil. It doesn't say no human boasting allowed at all, but rather verse 31 That just as it is written, let him who boasts, you want to boast, you want to brag, then do it this way, boast in the Lord. This is more than a permission, by the way, folks. This is an imperative. It is required of those who have gained wisdom and power from God that They boast. And that they boast in the Lord. I think he had Jeremiah 9, 23, and 24 in his mind when he This is sort of a loose quote from there. Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast of his might, let not a rich man boast of his riches But let him who boasts boast of this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth, for I delight in these things. declares the Lord. Paul used those same general categories that Jeremiah did. Don't boast in anything you bring but in God. Boasting is glorying. When we glory in God and we praise Him and we sing of His greatness, we're boasting in the Lord. That's what it is. Man is nothing. There are no songs here to glorify man. God is everything, and he communicates everything good to us through Christ. 1 Samuel 2, here's some boasting. There is no one holy like the Lord. Again, this is Hannah's song. Indeed, there is no one besides you, nor is there any rock like our God. A lot of bragging going on in that song. Boast no more so very proudly. Do not let arrogance come out of your mouth, for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and with him actions are weighed. Bold boasting. From a woman. Psalm 511. But let all who take refuge in you be glad, let them ever sing for joy, and may you shelter them that those who love your name may exalt. In you. Psalm 34. My soul will make its boast in the Lord. The humble will hear it and rejoice. O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. A truly humble man or woman glories in Jesus Christ, not himself. John Calvin wrote of this passage. In short Man brought nothing in his own estimation. I'm sorry, in short, man brought to nothing in his own estimation. And acknowledging that there is nothing good anywhere but in God alone, must renounce all desire for his own glory and with all of his might aspire and aim at the glory of God exclusively. Beloved, the humble believer sees the cross and he looks at it. And he understands what it's about. That's the rejection of mankind. That's what God thinks of people. They reject it. But this one did it for us because he was innocent. The beloved one that God accepts is now being rejected by God so the rejected ones can be accepted God does not have unconditional acceptance. He loves, but he does not have unconditional acceptance. You want to be accepted by God? You can't the way you are. You're rejected Adam was driven out of the garden. Eve went to. We're a rejected race. God pushed us away. We're rejected of God. That's what it means when we say we're sinners. The only way back is through the cross to look and say. That's true about me. I'm worth nothing. Should be me up there being crucified. It should be wrath on me. The humble believer looks at the cross. And the humble believer sees in the cross the power of God and the wisdom of God. And he is firmly convinced that he is but a foolish and weak and base thing of the world, saved only by Christ and that foolish cross. So he believes not in himself. How can we believe in that which is foolish and perishing? But he believes in the cross. And he believes in the Christ of the cross and in the resurrection. And he's willing to receive from that cross sanctification and redemption. He sees in the cross a magnificent greatness that he sees nowhere else, hidden to the eyes of the world, but great before his eyes, opened by the Spirit of God. And then in that cross, and in the name of the one who hangs on that cross, or who hung on that cross, for he now is victorious over death, in that name and in that symbol, he boasts. Be one of those braggers, along with me, the glory of Christ. God, we pray we would understand your greatness, that we would be more humbled than before. That any who came in here thinking that they were righteous in your sight because of their involvement in church background, baptism, or whatever it may be, they may see themselves as wretchedly naked in your sight and repent today and receive mercy. We pray for all of us that we would not boast in anything, but understand that your power is available here for us in our families and church the same way it was available for those in the first century. If we would but humble ourselves more and believe more. Give us a greater vision and understanding of that blessed cross. May we never treat it lightly. We pray Christ's name. Amen.