The thing that comes to my mind, first of all, when it comes to spiritual gifts, is First Peter 4:10. Which you may have already covered in one of your lessons here, but it says, as each one has received a special gift. as it was referring to special uh uh spiritual gifts, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. So God has given us these gifts as an expression of His grace, His manifold grace, and our duty is to be good stewards. Of how he's gifted us. My experience, however, is that um it's hard to be a good steward of your spiritual gift if you don't know what it is And a lot of people don't know what their spiritual gift is. So I hope this this series that you've been having has helped you to get grounded on what the spiritual gifts are, what how they're unique, how they're used, um, so that uh that can maybe begin or accelerate the process for you to understand how God's gifted you and so that you can be a good steward of that. That is the point, right? being good stewards of it so that the church can function the way God has designed it to function So, with that, I want to ask another question. How many of you think there's a possibility or you know that you have the gift of evangelism? A few? Okay, good. How many of you have been commanded to evangelize. Absolutely. How many of you think you may have or you know you have the gift of giving? A few, okay. How many of you have been commanded to give? Right. So what do you think? Why is it that God has given some people specific gifts that we're all commanded to be doing anyway Ever think about that? Well, we're going to talk a bit about that today, particularly in the context of evangelism and giving. But uh I understand that you've been given copies of these sections of my notes. Uh I'm not gonna go over every single thing here necessarily. It's more of a resource for you, but We're introduced to the gift of evangelism in Ephesians 4, verses 11 through 12, where it says, and he gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelists. Evangelists and some as pastors and teachers, why? For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ. That's generally true of all the gifts. God has given us these gifts to build up the body We need one another. By God's design, we need each other. Uh not just in our personal lives, but as a as a church We need each other to function well to grow to um become more Christlike and to fulfill the ministry that he's given to us. And so the the the bottom line answer to the question why did God give gifts to certain people in areas where he's commanded everybody to be involved is for the equipping of the saints for the work of service. And so those who have the gift of evangelism or the gift of giving, as in today's topics, can help those of us who don't have those gifts to develop in those areas. both by their their teaching, their example, their um organization of of events uh about these things, whatever it might be. Um You you can't say, well, I don't have the gift of evangelism, so I'll let other people do that Right? You can't say, I don't have the gift of giving, so I'll let other people give. No. Those people are there to teach us, to uh motivate us, to provide an example for us so that we would actually be faithful in those areas ourselves. Right. So an evangelist. What is an evangelist? Well it gets back to the word um gospel. In in the Greek the word gospel is young, which um Is made up of two words. One is angel. What's an angel? A messenger And w and the EU prefix to that is the prefix meaning good, like Euphemism or eulogy or um there are bound there are lots of others as well As that gets transliterated into English, the EU becomes EV And so it's evangelism. It's st evangel is good news. uh in the in the Greek form it's Evangelion, but it means good news and so an evangelist is what? Someone who shares that good news. the good news, the gospel. And evangelism, therefore, is the process of proclaiming that Um, I don't know if you've noticed, but there's been some confusion about some of the adjectives that are related to this. Evangelistic is an adjective about uh something having the character of Spreading the gospel, like a meeting or a tract or or something like that. Evangelical is actually Traditionally, its its definition is that it's it's a um a doctrinal position That is adherent to the inerrancy of scripture. The supremacy of the gospel, the pure gospel and the Word of God, as opposed to other positions which under play the the relevance of Scripture, the inerrancy of Scripture, or anything like that, uh or depart from the true gospel. So evangelical used to mean an adherent to the true gospel and the word of God. These days it's been watered down to mean almost anything. And that's a shame. But um uh so there is sometimes confusion between evangelistic and evangelism or evangelical. And I thought I'd clarify that. Okay, so what is the gift of evangelism? It's a special God-given ability and passion to communicate the gospel regularly and clearly to others. And to train, equip, and motivate others to do so as well. And so We see a lot of examples of evangelism happening in Scripture. Obviously, uh the the apostles, a lot of the early uh leaders of the Christian church, by God's design, were gifted in multiple ways. One of them was evangelism. And we see lots of of evidence of that. We see Jesus himself, actually, uh, in in a number of situations, and one that particularly comes to mind is with the woman at the well in John 4 And uh you see here, I'm I'm looking at I think it's probably numbered page 31 in your notes. uh that extended passage from John four, where when we look at Jesus' approach, his his method, uh we see a number of things that are pretty relevant to us today. We see he takes the initiative and he interweaves in his conversation some challenges to her. uh very pointed challenges. Uh we might not have quite the omniscience to be able to challenge people the way he did here, but um evangelism Can involve challenge, forcing people to think, really. But in the context of that He said, Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. What's he providing there? Hope. Yeah, there's a challenge. There is this problem of sin, but there's hope. Hope in Christ. And as he proceeded in the conversation, he provided very specific teaching, setting her mind straight on things that like worship and and so on But you see some great principles in what Jesus covered there. Other examples, Peter You know, when uh he and John, shortly after the the birth of the church, uh were going to the temple and uh they healed a lame man there and they were questioned about it. Peter said, I on the basis of faith in his name, it is the name of Jesus which has been strength which has strengthened this man whom you see and know. And then eventually he says in verse 19, Therefore repent and return, so that your sins may be wiped away. So he turns it to the need to repent. It's it's pointing to Christ, the problem of sin, and the need to repent. Uh it didn't take him long at all to cover those basic points. We see the example of Philip, sometimes called Philip the Evangelist, in Acts 8. uh he sees the Ethiopian eunuch and um he runs up to him. Heard him reading Isaiah ho how many times have you run up to somebody who's reading Isaiah fifty three? Right? Talk about a softball Um but he says, Do you understand what you're reading? And the guy says, No How could I unless someone guides me and supply that's an open door? Right? And so but at the end Uh it says here in verse thirty-five, Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this scripture, he preached Jesus to him. So it wasn't just Isaiah fifty-three that he um spoke about. But much of and and when it says scripture here, what is it referring to the Old Testament, right? He's walking through various places of the Old Testament that spoke specifically of the ministry of the Messiah and was proclaiming Jesus as that Messiah. And as you know the story, Philip or the the eunuch believed and was baptized and and uh went back to his country, presumably an evangelist himself. Yeah, uh numerous examples of Paul uh involved in various kinds of evangelism and it's an interesting contrast sort of in Acts seventeen where in in the beginning of Acts seventeen He's going, as was his usual practice, into the synagogue. And why would he go to the synagogue if he was a uh an ambassador uh an apostle to the Gentiles? There weren't many Gentiles in the synagogues, right? But there were God fearing Jews there. And many of those God fearing Jews became Christians and were very uh key, uh many of them leaders in those early churches, because they were already rooted in Scripture and they came to faith in Christ. Anyway He goes into the synagogue, according to his custom, according to verse 2, and he went to them, and for three Sabbaths he reasoned with them from the scriptures. Explaining, giving evidence that the Christ had to suffer and rise from the dead, and saying This Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you is that Christ, the Messiah. That's a good example of knowing your context. He was in a synagogue. These people were very familiar with the scriptures. Very familiar with discussing the implications of the scriptures, and it became just an obvious route for Paul to point to Christ as fulfilling those scriptures. And as was often the case, some believed, but many didn't. That's okay. That's up to God. But he knew his context. Whereas later in that chapter, he's in Athens, on Mars Hill. where he's addressing people who have no clue about the scriptures. They're Greek philosophers, they're they're uh wanting to do nothing more than just argue the latest arguments and um he kind of meets them where they're at. He doesn't open um Isaiah to preach to them, but he covers the essential ground on terms that they can understand. So he he says, Men of Athens, I observe that you are very religious in all respects. For while I was passing through and examining the objects of your worship, I also found an altar with this inscription to an unknown God. Therefore, what you worship in ignorance, this I proclaim to you. The God who made the world and all things in it Since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and boundaries of their habitation, that they should seek for God, if perhaps they might grope for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us. For in him we live and move and exist. Even some of your own poets have said, for we are his children Being, then, the children of God, we ought not to think that the divine nature is like gold or silver or stone and an image formed by the art and thought of man Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should repent. Because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. Man, I don't think he said any more than what was actually recorded here. And he got from So it's com some common ground and understanding to some logical implications of the fact that we didn't just appear, we are created. Our Creator is Lord of all. We're accountable to Him. We've all blown it, but He has provided a way. Through a man whom he has appointed, and because of that, we need to repent. Man, succinct. And as you probably remember, there were three responses to that. Some people sneered Other people said, you got us thinking. Maybe we can talk more about this. And others believed. That's all it took. And God was working in the hearts of of each one of them there. Um A couple examples here in in Romans and First Thessalonians where uh the Roman Church and the Thessalonian Church Their evangelism, their spread of the gospel was known far and wide, which is a great testimony to them. So that's just kind of a little bit of an overview from scripture of evangelism in action. A lot of principles there that we can all follow. But I guess the bottom line question for uh this topic is If someone has the gift of evangelism, what would be some practical ways for them to exercise that in the life of the church? So obviously if there are various outreach efforts, outreach ministries, that would be a natural thing for them to participate in, maybe even to lead and instigate and so on. Also probably to be a trainer or a mentor. So going out in evangelism, taking people along with them to uh gain experience, competence, and and so on Some might be called to full-time work as an evangelist missionary, whether it's locally or or globally. Uh it might involve uh developing materials that could be used to um Things like tracks or um um things on the web or whatever that can be used evangelistically to introduce people to Christ. Or maybe materials that others can take with them to um in their evangelism to answer questions or to point them to to Christ. There are lots of examples of ways people can exercise the the gift of evangelism, but it's not just the process of them evangelizing. That's not really equipping the saints for the work of service. The equipping role of an evangelist is to bring others along with them to uh teach them in more formal ways perhaps as well, but to uh recognize that all of us are commanded to evangelize and therefore those with the gift of evangelism are instrumental in helping equip all of us to do that. Now, having said that, someone who is sure they have the gift of evangelism Doesn't necessarily, or isn't necessarily as proficient in evangelism as they will be one day Any more than someone who has the gift of teaching will be uh uh proficient at teaching without practice and study and and so on. Um But what it does mean is the person with the gift of evangelism has that passion and so is driven to be involved in evangelism and to and to broaden their experience to bring others with them and learn together, to sit under the teaching of more experienced evangelists so that they can sharpen their skills and their understanding of scripture and applying it to evangelistic situations. So even those with the gift of evangelism will be growing in it, but they can also help others to grow in it. And that's true of every every gift. Um uh you may have a passion. In fact th th th having a passion in a particular area is one indicator of being gifted in that area. I I know it it's often the case that Someone asks themselves or maybe others why is it that other people don't seem to have the same passion I do for such and such Well the answer is God's gifted you there, He's given you that passion, and others are are um uh it's not that others are not interested in that But they've God's gifted you and you have a role to help them because of the passion He's given you for that area of ministry. Okay. Um I want to cover the the gift of giving before we open it up to questions. So Uh I think you have that as well on your sheet So in Romans 12, for example, again speaking of spiritual gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, each of us is to exercise them accordingly. If prophecy according to the proportion of his faith, if service in serving, or he who teaches in his teaching, or he who exhorts in his exhortation, he who gives with liberality He who leads with diligence, he who shows mercy with cheerfulness, and so on. And in that context of 1 Corinthians 12 through 14 where Paul's correcting their understanding and application of spiritual gifts, in chapter 13 he gives um A sequence of hyperboles. You know what a hyperbole is, right? That's not one of those funny curves on a graph. Hyperbole is a an exaggeration. To make a point. And so he says with regard to several of the gifts, if I had that gift in the extreme But I don't have love, what good is it? Right? And so when he gets to giving, he says, if I give my all my possessions to feed the poor, and I surrender even my body to be burned But I do not have love, it profits me nothing. So it's well understood that God had uh provided among the gifts the gift of of giving. And it doesn't mean that someone who has the gift of giving has to offer themselves to be burned at the stake. It means that we need to be good stewards of our gifts and uh exercise that passion well. So what is the gift of giving? The verb used means to impart to give a share of and um so you can define it as it prompts Christians to share his time, talents, and treasure in a godly fashion for the advancement of God's kingdom and the result that others follow his example. Um usually when we think of giving, what do we think of? Money. And it certainly includes that, but that's that's not at all the sum total of what God has in mind here. It's even for for all of us, it's the giving not just of money, but a giving of our time uh our our service, our uh talents and and so on, uh and any other resources God's given to us So I've included here an extended passage from 2 Corinthians nine that highlights a number of key principles related to giving. And the context here is financial giving, but they apply to all those areas. Time, talents, and treasures as well. So the context here in Second Corinthians nine is that there were um uh there's a a great need in um Judea for um um um material support uh because of uh I think in this particular occasion it was um famine. But Paul was was in his contacts now with multiple new churches that have sprung up through his missionary journeys was um uh e exhorting those who were not affected by it to to help those who were in need. And so He writes, it was superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you, to the Macedonians, namely that Achaea has been prepared since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them. You see how the example of some can spur others on to the same kind of thing? But I have sent the brethren in order that our boasting about you may not be made empty in it in this case, so that as I was saying You may be prepared. So there's something. Be prepared. Someone who has the gift of giving will always be prepared to give when a need arises Otherwise, if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, will be put to shame by this confidence. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that they would go on ahead. to you arranged beforehand your previously com uh previously promised bountiful gift and so there's a prior commitment So it's being prepared at any time. There's a prior commitment that would that would be followed through. And picking up in verse 6. Um now this I say, who he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully And so there's this principle of sowing and reaping. And as Jesus said, you reap what you sow. Not only quality, but also quantity. And if you reap sparingly, you will um or if you sow sparingly, you'll reap sparingly here. Okay, so there's this this sense in which our giving is to be characterized by being uh not sparing, but um unsparingly. Right, liberal, generous. Um Verse 7. Each one must do just as he has purposed his heart, again, going back to this prior commitment, not grudgingly or under compulsion. For God loves the cheerful giver. So again, our giving needs to be without compulsion, it needs to be voluntary, it needs to be um Um willing, volunteering it, you know, that kind of thing, not begrudging. Verse eight. And God is able to make all grace abound to you so that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. As it is written, he scattered abroad and he gave to the poor. His righteousness endures forever Now, in verse 10 it says, He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness, and you will be enriched in every Everything for all liberality which through us is producing thanksgiving to God. So I don't know if you thought about this illustration of Sowing and reaping, it's it's a farm agricultural analogy, right? Um So we've got a farmer who is sowing seed. Where does that seed come from? He went up to the 4-H or whatever the the place is and got his seed? No. That seed comes from last year's crop. Okay, so from last year's crop he is not consumed at all. He's not sold at all, but he's set some aside. for next year. He's looking ahead, right? Um he's not consuming all of it, if he were to consume all of it, he'd be out of business. Right? Um so he's setting some aside And when it comes time to plant, he's putting that seed into the ground. If you didn't know any better, you'd think, why are you wasting that? Throwing it into the ground. What's he doing? He's he's exercising faith that okay I can put it in the ground, but God's the one who brings it up. And multiplies it. So he's exercising faith in two ways. One is he's living on not the entire crop But he's setting some aside. And secondly, he's putting what he set aside into the ground at the right time so that God can take over and multiply his effort. And I think Paul's using that example here in the in the context of giving to emphasize that it's about faith and it's about what God is going to do with your gift. With what you set aside God can multiply it. Just like a farmer's seeds can be multiplied. If we're selfish, what are we going to do? We're going to consume it all Or we're gonna sell some of it and trade it in for a Mercedes, whatever our our proclivities are. But no, it needs to be by faith in what God wants to do, what his priorities are, and um and follow through in faith, just like a farmer would. Farmers have to do a lot of work But they understand absolutely that they're not the ones who are causing those seeds to grow. God does that. Okay, and then uh Verse 13, because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience To your confession of the Gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all So there's obedience here. It's following through in our commitment to Christ and obeying his commands when we give. Then we see some other principles, sort of here, but certainly highlighted elsewhere. In the previous chapter, 2 Corinthians 8, Paul writes, I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability, they gave of their own. own accord, begging us with much urging for the favor of participating in the support of the saints So um again, illustrating both the liberality of it but also the sacrificial nature of our giving. In uh Matthew six, the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus highlighted the need for it to be private. It's not about show, look how much I gave, right? Uh beware of practicing your righteousness before men, to be noticed by them. Um But when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. What is he saying? Don't let it be for show. Uh let it be from the heart. And so on. Your so your giving will be in secret. Your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Okay, so that same passage, interwoven with these various principles about the quality and nature of our giving, indicates some of the the results. of godly giving. Verse six, this is back now in in Second Corinthians nine. Verse six said, You'll reap bountifully Verse 7, you will experience God's love more fully. Verse 8, God will make all grace abound to you And then 8 through 10, you'll have an abundance of um for every good deed. So your resources will even multiply in many cases. You'll be enriched in everything Others will offer thanksgiving and glory to God because of your faithfulness and giving. Others will pray for you. You see how it all works together? We need each other. Even if they give cookies. Even if they give cookies or four kinds of sausages. Right. Um Okay, so um I think the applications of the gift of giving of our time, talents, and treasure are pretty obvious because all of us need to be good stewards of those things, right? Uh why are we good steward uh why are we to be stewards? Because everything belongs to God. What is a steward? Someone who manages someone else's resources And we're managing God's resources when we manage the portion of those resources He's put in our hands. Or even our hands ourselves. So uh um even we are God's resources. We are bought with a price. We are his. And um the word steward is sort of just a uh it emphasizes the management of resources, but it's sort of a gentler word than what we really are, which is slaves. God's slaves We are bought with a price. We're to honor God in all respects. And that includes all the resources He's given us, including our time, talent, and treasures. And um some he has gifted particularly in that area of stewardship. And Uh we need those people to sharpen all of us, to provide examples for all of us, uh to teach and to provide other other ways of strengthening the body in this area. Okay. Well, in in that respect they're just very similar. In fact, all of the gifts that are still operational today have that character where the one who is Gifted is to be um instrumental in helping the rest of us in that area. With the end result that by God's grace as time goes along, more and more of us are more Faithful in all of those areas because of the work of those who are gifted to help us in those areas. Um have a long way to go to be fully um effective in all those areas of gifting and so we need each other in the process.