Well good morning, ladies. Those of you who are on Zoom and those of you who are here, I really need to pray before I begin. I know Laura just prayed, but I need to pray again. So if you all will join me just for a brief second. Dear Heavenly Father, I just thank you, Lord, for your holy word. I thank you, Lord, for this opportunity to get together as women of faith and as body in Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would just use me as a mouthpiece this morning, Lord. I am one of your sheep and I'm learning along with those who are here. And just help us to gather around your word together. I just ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So I have to admit as I begin that 2020 was a year in which I realized I actually need to grow in being gracious. So I'm learning with you this morning. So I'm thankful for God's mercies, as it says in Lamentations 3, verse 22 and 23. So I'm looking forward to approaching this topic with you. And before I begin, I wanted to share the resources that I used for this lesson. The Bible, of course, is our main resource. But then this is the book that we're using this year, for the most part, Becoming a Woman Who Pleases God by Pat Innes and Lisa Tatlock. And again, this is not a book that you have to read for this year. We're just kind of taking ideas out of this book. I didn't follow it strictly when I put the lesson together, but there are things that I did pull from it. Loving God with All Your Mind is a book by Elizabeth George. This is one of my favorite books that I actually like to share with kids when they graduate from college. I mean from high school to go into college. Um My Utmost for Is Highest by Oswald Chambers. Um Becoming a Titus II Woman, and this is by Martha Peace. Many of you are are familiar with that book. And one more, which you may not be as familiar with, which is called For Women Only by Shanti Feldham. And I'll talk a little bit more about this book later. So first I wanted to begin with the definition of gracious. Gracious means being kindly disposed or showing favor and mercy. to someone usually by a person of superior position or power. And of course the person who is in ultimate superiority of power and who is perfect And who is the most gracious gracious is our Heavenly Father. So we learn to be gracious by following his example The Lord is gracious to us, those of us who are we are all undeserving of His of His kindness and goodness Psalm 103 verse 8 says of the Lord that he is merciful, gracious, slow to anger, abounding in mercy Psalm 145, verse 8, says that the Lord is gracious, he's full of compassion, slow to anger, and shows great mercy. And Psalm 116, verse 5, says that the Lord is gracious, righteous, and full of compassion. This passage in his word from where the Lord showed the back of his glory to Moses, Exodus 34, verse 6, says, Then the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in faithfulness and truth. So there's a trend there, and we find out from the Lord that that is one of his main characteristics, is that he is gracious. And the word gracious is closely associated with the word kindness, or being kindly disposed toward another. How has the Lord demonstrated his grace fully undeserved to us? We can think of several ways First, we can think of how the Lord gave clothing and provided Ad provided clothing for Adam and Eve and provided for their means, even when they disobeyed him. And that's in Genesis 3 verse 15. And ultimately, even then, the Lord said that he would provide a way for us to be reconciled back to him through the sacrifice of his son. in Genesis three verse fifteen. We see the Lord taking care of the Israelites in the desert, giving them food and water, leading them on to a lic a good land running with milk and honey, even though they were constantly grumbling In Exodus 16, they grumbled for food. In Exodus 17, they grumbled for water. In Numbers chapter 11, verse 4, they grumbled even when the Lord supplied them with manna. Because they said, What is this stuff? And even after they got the manna, they disregarded God's rules about not picking up leftovers. And in the midst of all that, the Lord still chose to be gracious to them and to provide for them. Because that is who God is. He's loving and he is kind. How did Jesus show kindness to his mother? He showed respect for his mother in the way he addressed her first. He called her woman And it says from the website Bible Ask, it says, Mary, the mother of Jesus, was addressed as woman by the Lord. In the Orient, a person calling his mother woman was a customary, dignified, and respectful form of address. Jesus was not being disrespectful when he addressed her He who had commanded men and women to honor their parents was himself a living example of that principle. And for thirty years he had been a loving, obedient, and the prince of sons. And then Jesus was very kind and gracious towards his disciples, gently teaching them, even when they were cluffish. In Mark chapter eight, they were on the boat and they had just finished feeding, you know, the four thousand people. They had finished feeding the five thousand in one instance and the four thousand in another instance And they were on a boat and Jesus said, Beware the leaven of the Pharisees and immediately their minds went to, Oh no, we forgot to bring bread, what are we going to do? And instead of Jesus saying, Oh, you thickhead, you don't understand anything. Why do I have to tell you everything? You know, why don't I go get some other disciples who can think on their toes? Instead, Jesus was gracious and kind toward them, and he helped them to understand what it was that he was talking about, first by addressing what they thought, and then gently leading them to understand what it was that he meant. And then there was Jesus with a leopard. Leper. Not the leopard, the leper. He was very kind and gracious. Jesus took time not only to heal the man who had leprosy, but even touched him. And this is somebody who would have been ceremonially unclean during that time and something that someone else wouldn't have done. So we see we see the graciousness of Jesus there And then Jesus entered into the place of grief with people who were in mourning. You see him with Jairus, who lost his daughter, whom Jesus raised from the dead. You see Jesus with a woman who lost her son, who was a widow, and he came alongside and stopped and raised him back to life. You see Jesus with Mary and Martha and he wept at that point Even though he knew that he could raise Lazarus, and he did. And finally, Jesus took care of his mother when he was even dying on the cross in John 19, verse 26-27. Ultimately, God showed us the most grace by redeeming us, poor, lost, filthy sinners. In Ephesians 2, verse 4 through 8, it says But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we are dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. So as those who have been redeemed and saved by our Lord, our motivation to want to be more gracious is to be more like the Lord who saved us. Matthew 5, verse 48 tells us, you therefore must be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. From the reading from January 23rd, in my utmost for his highest, with 2 Corinthians 3 verse 18 as a focus. It says, But we all with unveiled faces, looking as in a mirror at the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord the Spirit. Chambers states, by being filled with the Spirit, we are transformed, and by beholding we become mirrors. You always know when a man has been beholding the glory of the Lord You feel in your inner spirit that he is the mirror of the Lord's own character. Beware of anything which would sully that mirror in you. It is nearly always a good thing, the good that is not the best. So our goal as redeemed believers is to be better reflectors of our glorious Lord. And to be about his business of declaring his good news of salvation to those around us. So, how can we set about reflecting the gracious attitude of God In our resource book, Innocent Tatlock, they point to Proverbs 11, verse 16, and it's a verse that says, A gracious woman attains honor. From the blue letter Bible, a gracious woman is described as one who is a woman of grace and favor. In other words, one who by her meekness and modesty and prudence and other virtues renders herself acceptable and amiable to God and to man. So first we must understand that living in a gracious way that reflects our Lord cannot be done with a heart out of sync with him. From our blog or from her blog, Joannaweaverbooks. com, Weaver describes the example of a friend of hers who reflected Christ in her gracious, welcoming manner toward friends and toward strangers. She would observe her friend and her friend was always just very welcoming, looking her friends and strangers in the face and calling them out, How are you doing? and applying the word of God to to their hearts. And then she gives some pointers, and then I've added some thoughts of my own from this. First, spend time with the Lord. And that's from Acts 4 verse 13. In Acts chapter 4, verse 13, people recognized as they observed Peter and as they observed John as men who had been with Christ. There's just something about the way that they spoke and the way they they interacted with people that Christ was reflected. And they said, they've been with the Lord. Secondly, invite the Holy Spirit to change you from the inside out. That's from Galatians 5, verse 24 and 25. We are told in those verses to reflect on the fact that in Christ the flesh and passions of the past have been crucified, and we are now to live and walk in the Spirit. Third, cultivate a genuine interest in other people. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 4, it tells us to look out for the interests of others even above your own So when you're listening to the stories and experiences of your friends, do you take time to truly listen to them and find out how they're doing, or do you listen for ways to kind of top their story with what you're about to say? So it's very important to listen to and to try to find out how your friend is really doing. Fourth, and this one is really hard for me, is to be available. Sometimes we can get caught up in our own busyness. I know I can. But take time to be available. Christ was always available to those who called to him. Whether it be the blind man by the side of the road, or the widow who we already mentioned, who lost her son, or even children who came to be with him and who just wanted to be in his presence Fifth, give God all the glory. Luke chapter 8, verse 39. If the Lord works through you, give him the glory. Don't try to use the praises of others to exalt yourself. And then one additional thought that I had is to be filled with his joy and thanksgiving at all times. And that's from Ephesians 5, verse 19. Um, I know I tend to have a bit of a melancholy type of a personality. That's just my personality. But it's very important for me to remember to be joyful and to reflect on who the Lord is, which fills my heart with joy as I read his word. And we're told to address one another with songs and hymns and spiritual songs and to have joy in our hearts, the joy of Christ. And that's from Colossians 3 verse 16. So in addition to what I've just stated, Innocent Tatlock expounds on some of the characteristics a gracious woman will display First, a gracious woman is trustworthy. So for those of us who are married, Proverbs 31 speaks of a woman in verse 11-12 whose husband trusts in her. I mean it's said that he trusts her, um and can have confidence in her and that he can feel safe and secure with her. She she doesn't go out and tell tales about him or um you know, she builds him up wherever she is These verses also say that she does him good and not evil all the days of her life. So to do good there, the word good comes from the word Tov in Hebrew. And it refers to being pleasing, joyful, beneficial, pleasant, favorable, happy, and right. And then for us all, whether we're married or single, Proverbs 11, verse 13 speaks of a trustworthy and untrustworthy person. It reads, He who goes about as a tale bearer reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy conceals a matter. A gracious woman is the latter, and is someone whom a friend can securely confide in. And Proverbs 27 verse 5 says, Better is open rebuke than love that is concealed. So a gracious woman will know how to be an iron sharpen sharpened iron type woman who will come alongside a friend and encourage and help them to grow in Christ and who will not talk about a friend behind her back. So then also a gracious woman is energetic, engaged in good deeds, according to Titus 3, verse 1-2 and verse 8. And then in Galatians 2 verse 20, a gracious woman will live by faith in Christ and not with her own agenda. Matthew 5, verse 16 says that she will let her light shine before men, and that light will point to Christ. In Romans chapter 12, verse 10 to 13, she will honor others and be diligent in service and in hospitality. She will also be unselfish. Um 1 John verse chapter 3, verse 18 speaks of being self-tax official. And then Matthew chapter 7, verse 12, says that she will treat others the way she would want to be treated. And then in Philippians 2. There will be a lack of selfish ambition in relationships. She will be humble, loving, looking out for the interests of others. Again, as our Lord did, even while hanging on a cross. He is our ultimate example. The gracious woman will be spiritually prepared. She'll be in the Word of God, and she will be abiding in Christ. Physically she will not be idle. Proverbs chapter 31 speaks of the woman um who is gracious not being idle and working well to the ways looking well to the ways of her household. And then mentally she'll be remembering all along that she's been prepared for good works. um that the Lord wants us to be walking in. And then she'll also be lovable. The gracious woman is not like the contentious woman in Proverbs chapter 21, who's hard to live with. But she'll be kind, like the Titus II woman, who is modeling lovely ways and building others up, mentoring others, and teaching a woman in Christ and her children. 1 Peter 3, verse 3-4 speaks of the adornment of the heart that a gracious woman will have. It's okay to put on, you know, jewelry and debraid your hair. I once had someone approach me and say, you know, the Bible says a woman shouldn't wear jewelry or lipstick or And I'm thinking, I don't think that's what the Lord meant, and that's not what he meant. But what he did mean was to make sure that your heart is prepared at all times and that Christ is at the center. And that you're adorned with Christ. The gracious one will also be prudent. Prudent means exhibiting good judgment and discretion. Colossians 4, verse 6 sums it up well. Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned as it were with salt. so that you will know how you should respond to each person. And I like the way that it says each person because every person needs a different type of response. Somebody who's in mourning may may need no speaking at all. They just may need you to come and sit down with them for a few minutes. Or someone who needs approof, you may need to speak to but graciously. someone who's in authority over you, you need to know how to approach them. So there are different ways in which you need to pray first and know how to respond to each person who you encounter. And there are a lot of verses that are there. I won't go over those, but those are some verses that you can look at later. The gracious woman will also be God-fearing. Psalm 25, verse 14 says, The secret of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he will make them know his covenant. So seek to follow the Lord's example from Exodus chapter 33, where he speaks of his character. Remember also that people are God's image bearers. So we cannot honor the Lord by dishonoring and mistreating those who are around us. First Corinthians ten verse thirty-one says, Whether then you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. This verse reminds us to be aware that we live in the presence of God at all times. Colossians 3, verse 1-4, and verses 12-17 are other verses that say some of the similar things. And then, finally, have a heart of gratitude. A gracious woman's heart will be filled with gratitude. 1 Thessalonians 5 verse 18 tells us to acknowledge the Lord's grace in your life daily. And we must remember the dangers of a complaining spirit and how it affects everything that we do. And one practical thing that we can do is we can meditate on Psalm 103 that talks about so many things that we can praise the Lord for. Um I'd like to read a paragraph from the Patlock book, Patlock and Innis book, um, on gratitude. And they say, um, real gratitude expands the ministry opportunities of our wise woman. The more thankful she is, the more she is aware of her many blessings. If she only offers praise and thanksgiving when things go her way, she develops tunnel vision If she is grateful for all that her Heavenly Father brings into her life, then her horizons are expanded and her ability to sincerely offer praise, regardless of the circumstances, entreason. We want to be thankful in our lives. So there are ways in which we can be gracious to those who are around us. So I wanted to take a moment to do that. But before I do that, I wanted to talk about an example that came to mind of of Corey Tinboom's sister. Some of you guys know the story of Corey Tinboom and how um how she and her family helped to shelter many Jewish people in their home during the time of Nazi Germany. They l lived in Holland and the Nazis came in and they were rounding up people of Jewish descent and putting them in concentration camps and and really mistreating them Um and so finally it was discovered that um Corey's family was was hiding Jewish people in their home and they were taken, um Corey and her sister Betsy were taken to a concentration camp in Ravensbrook Um and um Betsy's sister who was very frail, um, was always sorry, Corey's sister who was very frail. Her name was Betsy and she was always very thankful. She kept her eyes on the Lord even when things were very difficult And she would just offer up these different praises. And finally Corey said, How can you be so thankful in the midst of these terrible things? You know, what about fleas? How can you be thankful for fru you know, for fleas? We have fleas in our body and, you know, rice and So Betsy said, Well, I'm thankful for the fleas because when we have the fleas in here, the guards won't come in here and we can study the Bible that we hid and that we were able to bring in. And we can even have time to translate the Bible, you know, word for word for all the different people in here who speak other languages And so even in that terrible place, Betsy was able to create a gracious atmosphere for those who were there with her and to keep Christ as the center. So when I read that I thought, wow, what do I have to complain about? Um But okay. Being gracious towards people in our own lives I wanted to start out speaking with you all about the elderly and how we can take time to listen to those who are older than we are, especially the elderly who are much older. Remember that they have a lot of wisdom to share. And I say that because now that we're in this technology age, sometimes those who are older can appear not to be as smart or something because they they can't use computer or You know, we need to help them with things like that. But when we take time to listen to the stories and experiences that they've had and um I think a lot about my mom who went through the depression era, for instance, and she's now eighty seven. I was looking up here 'cause I was hoping she was going to join us today. Um she was going to try, but I think it didn't quite happen. But um she has a lot that she lived through and a lot to share about surviving and about um just how to make it in in life. Um and it's really important for us to respect the elderly. And as they get older to think of how we can come alongside them and help them without taking over. I see my friend Jan who's in the room and we were just talking about that this morning. Um we need to make sure that we're giving them their space and giving them respect. I read this book recently called Being Mortal by Atul Gwande, and it's not it's not a Christian book, it's not by a Christian author. Um, but he is a doctor and he gives some of his experience of experiences from working with elderly patients and from just helping with his own father. And one thing he was saying was to make sure that you're able to help the elderly hold on to what they're able to do as much as they can and what their um decisions that they're mable that they're able to make allow them to make those as much as they can. I mean at some point you may have to do more but just treat them as well as as you can and with respect. And then there are a lot of verses um just about respecting the elderly in the Bible. Like Leviticus nineteen verse thirty-two tells us to stand up before the gray head. And I I think of honoring them. You know, if somebody were to come into the room and you're sitting down and they're older, you know, people used to stand up and they would greets elderly person. So just remember them. And um there are a lot of verses that you can read that are there. Um besides elders, I was going to say something I mean elderly, I was going to say something about our elders in our church. And this is just one verse from Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17. Whether your elder in your church is old or young, he's still your elder in Christ. So it says to regard our elders and teachers in the church with respect. And then I wanted to say something about respecting the men in our lives. So this is an ongoing area of learning for me. Um I did not grow up with my dad in the home. My parents were divorced when I was very young. I think I was maybe two Maybe two or three. And so learning how to respect men is something that I've had to understand. Um But it's something that's very, very important. I mean I didn't really know how important this was until I read it in this book, actually by Shanti Feldham, and I'm going to read an excerpt from that book in a moment But Ephesians chapter twenty two verse twenty-four, for those of us who are married, um, it speaks about respecting our husbands. Um and it's commanded in the Bible for us to do that. We need to be gracious toward our husbands. with our tone of voice and the way that we approach them. So going back to Ephesians chapter twenty-two, there's twenty-four, we were told to respect our husbands. Um, I would say you have to find out what that means for your husband. It will mean something different for each husband. For my husband, um One of the things that I'm I found out really he does not like and nobody likes this actually is rolling your eyes. You shouldn't ever do that. And so last Saturday I was at home and there was bad weather and I'd been outside running errands all day and it was just a really at the end of a really crazy busy week for me. And I came home from errands and I was at the d at the sink and I was washing dishes and I thought, you know, my hands are in this nice warm water and I have a moment by myself just to be quiet and wash dishes So I was standing there thinking, headspace, headspace, you know, and my husband comes up and he says, so what does the rest of this day look like? And my eyes went up and they did a somersault and it was just very rude because I was thinking, I just want a minute to think, honey, just but that was rude You know, and I had to apologize later. You know, he walked away. He just kind of I saw it in his reactions kinda like, What was that about? you know And he walked away and I just had to go back and and apologize to him and say, you know, honey, I'm really sorry. That was so rude. Rude of me. Um So and then the other thing that I've learned, um, some years ago my husband and I went to a conference. It was one of those um family life kind of conferences that we went to, marriage conferences. And the speaker was talking about tone of voice and how different people respond differently to tone of voice Um and they went from like level one was very soft to level five being, you know, kind of loud, actually yelling. Um so they were saying, you know, for you You might be, you know, a level one. So when someone's talking to you, you want them to speak in very soft tones. And if they get to level two or three, it sounds like they're yelling, and and you don't do very well with that. Well my husband is Max level two. I mean max level two. You just you don't go above it. And so I've hit level three before. You know, people say Marble, you're soft spoken. But when I'm upset, I can I can hit level three and four. Um so for him I I don't I know that I cannot do that and respect him So for your husband, you know, maybe find out what that is. Maybe you could even ask him today. You know, um, you know, one to five, where where would you fall? And then try to keep your tone of voice right there. And sometimes it's not even how loud you are, it's it's how your voice comes across that I found out. So anyway And then I realize that there are some of us who are not married, um, but this also transfers for our single women who are in the room and who are at home. Um when you're speaking to your brothers in Christ. You know, when you're talking to them, you don't want to pull them down because respect is very important. Hmm? Your mom just got on. Doesn't my mom just come on? It's dad's mom. Oh, it's dad's mom. Okay. And and my sister-in-law, I'm sorry. There's there's LaFon and and my sister in law's and my mother in law is in there somewhere. Bobby. Hi Okay. Um we are just talking about respecting men. So this is about your son in law. I mean my your Your son. Yeah. Oh my goodness, you guys. Okay, so for those of you who are single You want to make sure that even when you're meeting with your brothers in Christ, maybe you're on a committee with them or you work with them and then they come up with an idea and maybe you don't agree with their idea, you know Something that you need to avoid doing is, that's not a good idea, you know, because that will cut them down and it it really affects them in a way that you may not realize. So listen graciously and then maybe kindly, very gently suggest that that's an interesting idea. Maybe maybe let's think about it this way. You know, and it's not being manipulative, it's being kind and finding ways to to draw them out without being rude. I know in my life besides um my husband I I work with children and often I work with like preteen boys. I used to teach middle school and here at Hope Academy I teach kids who are still in about that age, teaching them music. And I need to be very careful with them to make sure that I don't make them feel, you know, silly if they make a mistake. Playing music can be kind of awkward. It's loud. It's it's out there and if you make a mistake, you know, s everybody hears it So I have to make sure I don't look at them like that you, you know. Um but just, you know, let's let's go back and fix that. And if I ever get that look on their face of, wow, you just really embarrass me, then I I need to apologize and that's That's what I do. So anyway, um, young women who are maybe not married, um, be careful about that. And with your father, you know, for all of us. you know, whether we're young or old, if our fathers are living, be careful with the way that you approach your dad and how you respect him. You're no longer at a place where you have to obey your father, but you do need to respect him and listen to his advice and his counsel. Okay. So finally, let's talk about respect toward our children, those of us who have kids. Um, we need to remember at all times that they are a blessing from the Lord. Um verse one chapter one twenty-seven in the book of Psalms, verse three through five, says that they are a reward. Um and That's not just when they're being good. They're always a reward. And then in Psalm 139 we need to remember that they were fearfully and wonderfully made, just like we were. They're one of God's little sheep. We need to take good care of them Um, and we need to give them grace to grow and foster an environment in which they can grow. And so I was going to share two examples and I I did asked for permission to share these two examples of my two daughters who are in the room. One bad example and one good example. So the bad example was when they were really little and I forgot to pray first. They got a hold of something called hairdressing. So for African Americans, our hair is very dry. The Lord made us our hair very dry and very curly. That's why it is curly, because it's dry. And we use stuff like hairdressing and moisturizers. So one day my girls got a hold of the hairdressing and they dipped their little hands in there and they rubbed it on their hair and it was dripping down their clothes and they decided to finger paint it on the wall. It's very oily and very greasy. I was in the kitchen. We lived in a in a house at the time where the kitchen was here and then I couldn't see what they were doing around the corner So our house was childproof, but I couldn't see what they were doing. And they they got a hold of that. And I came out of the kitchen and there they were, green goo everywhere, walls. bodies. So I picked 'em up and I stuffed them in the tub. I I stuffed them in the tub, okay? And and gave them their bath. And that was not gracious and it wasn't loving and it wasn't kind And I didn't pray first. The Lord was not in there at all. Um, so I repented later. Boy, it was it was bad. It was a very sad time Um, but the good example where I remembered to pray first, because remember we can't do anything without the Lord. We just cannot. We cannot, especially not parenting. Um but the good example was the day when My daughter, my oldest daughter, who's an artist, um, brought me into the room and she said, Look, mommy, I want you to see something. Look, mommy, and I went in the room and I kid you not, from like here to there, on the wall, she had drawn a mural. And maroon crayon on the wall. All over the wall. And then there was this little spot down there where Teresa said, Look, mommy, that's my part. Right there. That's us at the park. And I thought, okay. So I prayed first. I thought, Cleon, it's not gonna come off. The woo, it's not gonna come off. Um, but the Lord helped me to remember at that moment, this is a budding artist. And you guys know Jessie, she is an artist. And you know that her side kick to me so they're very good friends. And so I had to remember that that, you know. So we talked about it. I said, Yes, that's That's that's very good. Now, next time, let's use paper. And so that time, you know, the next time if she ever drew on the wall, she would know. But this time we kind of let it go. So we need to remember to give grace to our kids. And again, I wanted to share this poem because it it struck me Out of here. This is out of the um Feldham book again, but it almost brought tears to my eyes when I read this It's called Only One Childhood. And if you guys can remember, especially those with young kids, if you can remember this, it says, I stopped to watch my little girl busy playing in her room. In one hand was a plastic phone, in the other a toy broom. I listened as she was speaking to her make believe little friend, and I'll never forget the words she said, even though it was pretend. She said, Susie's in the corner, because she's not been very good. She didn't listen to a word I said or do the things she should. In the corner I saw her baby doll, all dressed in lace and pink. It was obvious she'd been put there to sit alone and think. My daughter continued her conversation. As I sat down on the floor, she said, I'm all set up. I just don't know what to do with her anymore. She whines whenever I have to work and wants to play games too, and never lets me do the things that I just have to do. She tries to help me with the dishes, but her arms just cannot reach, and she doesn't know how to fold the towels, and I don't have time to teach. I have a lot of work to do and a big house to keep clean. I don't have time to sit and play. Don't you know what I mean? And that day I thought a lot about making some changes in my life as I listened to her innocent words that cut me like a knife. I hadn't been paying enough attention to what I hold most dear. I'd been caught up in responsibilities that increased throughout the year. But now my attitude has changed because in my heart I realize I've seen the world in a different light through my little darling's eyes So let the cogwebs have the corners and the dust bunnies rule the floor. I'm not giving, I'm not going to worry about keeping up with them anymore. I'm going to fill the house with memories of a child and her mother, for God grants us only one childhood, and we will never get another. So then finally, um grace toward one another. There is a blog that I read, which I'm not going to actually share. But again, the Proverbs 11, verse 16 Verses came to the blogger's mind and she shared them in this one, which says that a gracious woman attains honor Um and she was giving examples of just again during this information age making sure that when you respond to people over the internet or as you're texting or or however you respond to them, make sure that your words are gracious. And it can be hard because when someone's not in front of you, um, it's just I think it emboldens us sometimes just to say whatever we're thinking and we have to be careful about that. And also we have to be careful about our tone of voice as it's written, because sometimes when you write it, it's not people don't have you in 3D form and they can't pick up exactly what it is they're s what you're saying. They can't see your face and your expressions. So think through just how you go about putting things in writing. And that is about all I have to share today. I want to thank you all for allowing me this opportunity just to share what the Lord's been teaching to me on this subject and for learning along with me. And I pray that we'll all just continue to learn from our Lord how to better reflect in Christ in our everyday. So if we can pray. Okay. Dear Heavenly Father, I just thank you, Lord, for your holy word. I thank you for your example. I thank you, Lord, that you're always gracious and kind. Um, to us, Lord, who are so undeserving and that you're so gentle with us and that you teach us to be more like you. Thank you for the gift of your Holy Spirit, Lord, that continually works in us. And that you have promised, Lord, to continue to sanctify us until the day that we're in your presence. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.