Okay, let me uh let me get us started with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this day that you have made. We thank you for the great privilege as of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you together. And uh we thank you Thank you for this opportunity in particular to gather around your word and to worship you through the study of your word. We thank you for your word, for all the truths that you reveal in it, for all the promises and the warnings, and uh for this uh particular piece of scripture that we're studying now that tells us about the end times. We ask Lord that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on each and every one of us and open our hearts and minds so that we can truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your Word today and Lord let us be not just hearers of the word but doers to put everything into practice to uh take these things to heart so that we're motivated to spread the gospel uh to make disciples and to teach uh those disciples everything that you commanded your disciples. We thank you, Lord, for your sovereignty over every inch of your creation and every second of your history. And we pray these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen. All right. So part twenty-nine. Uh we've come to part twenty-nine in our study of the book of Revelation, um in our thirty-nine part series um of Revelation. So Uh I wasn't here last week and so uh Pastor Gabe uh uh s uh uh was up here for uh uh to teach and so I was at my mother's eightieth birthday party. So so my father decided to have a surprise birthday party for my mother for her eightieth and so uh that's us at uh at their place. That's me and Alex obviously and then my father and my mother. Um So yeah, mom's eighty now, uh dad'll be eighty three later this year. Uh and they're they're both in uh pretty good health. Praise the Lord. They live in Akron, Ohio. So we were in Akron, Ohio. Uh they may have, uh southern Ohio and uh Indiana and Kentucky, uh they did. But not in the north where where they were. So that's where we were last week. Uh coming up this week is uh in in uh movie theaters is an actual movie uh from from the Bible. A movie about uh uh Noah's flood. Uh and also the movie makes particular um uh mention, particular particularly the flood to the end times. Just like uh Peter did, uh and Peter of course did it in imitation of Jesus because Jesus did as well. Um it's showing in theaters on uh this week on Wednesday and Thursday, uh one showing each of those nights. Seven PM, one showing. Yes, morning. So do you know the people that mean this? Um I know some of them, yes. Okay. I do. I think so. So yeah, I'm I'm going and I'm um my entire small group is going. Uh Wednesday night's our small group night and so instead of a regular small group we're gonna go to this movie. Yes. Yeah, so there's a there's a group uh a couple of groups that put it together, um and there are a number of scientists that consulted on the movie to make it uh realistic and uh I know a number of those guys. the scientists that were consulting on that. So I think it's worth it. And if you go to know it's web dot com um and you type in your zip code, it'll tell you w what the closest theater is that has it uh to you. And then you can follow That has links to be able to to buy tickets on that. Yeah, so I I know it's at the Columbia Mall I know it's at the Egyptian twenty-four and arundel mills. Um Walk Chapel too. Okay. Yeah, so there's a number of theaters th that it's it's playing in around here. Uh okay. So on to the lesson. So um today we're going to call the lesson Temple of Doom because we're going to see the Tabernacle in Heaven. And uh it's the chapter 15 is what we're going to study this time. So chapter 15, the entire chapter is only eight verses and so we're gonna do the in entire chapter. So we're gonna talk about the vengeance of God, we're gonna talk about the character of God, and we're gonna talk about the plan of God, because this is really a precursor, um, a celestial Prelude before the seven bold judgments. Uh but let me review what uh Pastor Gabe went over last time. So last time uh you did the the last half of chapter fourteen. Uh we had And the perseverance of the saints, that was the first part of it, this um comforting truth that all those who were elected, called, and justified by God will persevere until death. And so we gotta we get a great example of that with the tribulation saints who face um tremendous persecution and and yet persevere. Uh we have this heavenly voice that says, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. Uh this voice tells John that um not only those who are already dead But those who will die in the Lord from now on, from then to the g to the end, will also be blessed. So not only that, but of course their deeds will follow them. The dead who lived in obedience and truth. Trust in the Lord will be blessed and rewarded is what the takeaway from that is. John also sees a vision of uh this one like the Son of Man coming on a white cloud Uh this is the Lord Jesus Christ in fulfillment of Daniel's prophecy. Daniel chapter seven gives this same image. Um and then we have the the the dual visions of reaping. So we have a uh a weed harvest and a grape harvest, uh, essentially. Uh so the first reaper is the Lord Jesus Christ and he's got a sharp sickle and he he swings the sharp sickle and the grain is harvested. And then we get an angel, uh And this is a fourth one mentioned in this chapter 14. We had one in verse 6, one in verse 8, one in verse 9, and now we got a fourth one. Comes out of the Holy Temple from before the throne of God. And the angel delivers a message from God. the Father to God the Son. So remember angels are messengers. He comes from the throne with a message from God the Father to the God the Son telling him to reap. And he reaps. So we have the vision this grain harvest. Then we have The um uh the grape harvest, um and so there's a fifth angel. Uh fifth angel comes out of the temple which is in heaven. Uh he also has a sharp sickle, just like Jesus had a sharp sickle, um, and then there's a sixth angel and the sixth angel is the one who has the power over fire. He comes from the altar. And so the angel that had this the second the one that has the sickle um swings his sickle and harvests the grapes, uh does the grape harvest. And this is a uh prefiguring of the Battle of Armageddon. We'll see when we get to the Battle of Armageddon, uh the little huge numbers uh involved in it and huge slaughter. And uh this is a um a prefiguring of that battle and talking about the blood up to the horse's bridle from the Battle of Armageddon. Uh any questions about last week? before we roll on to this week. Any any? Okay. Then let's move on to chapter fifteen. So the Temple of Doom. So let's open our Bibles to Revelation chapter, yeah, it's a reference to Indiana Jones, yeah. Um yeah. So yeah. An ancient uh pop culture reference. But I think almost everybody's here is old enough to remember remember that movie. Um so let's open our Bibles to Revelation chapter fifteen, um and we're gonna read through the whole chapter. Revelation chapter fifteen, starting in verse one. This is the word of the Lord. Then I saw another sign in heaven. Great and marvelous, seven angels who had seven plagues, which are the last, because in them the wrath of God is finished. And I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire. And those who had been victorious over the beast and his image and the number of his name standing on the sea of glass, holding harps of God. And they sang the song of Moses, the bondservant of God, and the Song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are your works, O Lord God the Almighty. Righteous and true are your ways, King of the nations. Who will fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. For all the nations will come and worship before you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. These things I looked, and the temple of the tabernacle of testimony in heaven was opened, and the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, clothed in linen, clean and bright, and girded around. their chest with golden sashes. Then one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God. Who lives forever and ever. And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power And no one was able to enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. So that's our our text for today, chapter 15. And uh as usual I'll give you a little uh piece of uh John MacArthur's intro to this section of scripture from his commentary. So MacArthur says this, when they think about the future, people worry about many things. The destruction of the environment, global warming, political unrest and instability, terrorism, crime, economic and financial collapse, and the c continual decline in moral values That destroy all relationships are all causes for concern. A further cause for anxiety is the sense of forlorn emptiness fostered by the anti-God philosophy of humanism. For those who believe there is no personal God, there is no no one home in the universe. So they have nowhere to turn for ultimate answers, help, or meaning. But what is truly frightening about the future is not any of those things. What should stop the heart of sinners is what God will do. God's judgmental anger and fury is a terrifying reality. That looms just over the horizon of human history. Throughout human history, God has poured out His wrath and judgment on sinners. Adam's sin and Eden brought the entire human race under judgment. By Noah's day, people have become So wicked that God sent the cataclysmic judgment of the flood to destroy the world. God's wrath and judgment were the constant themes of the Old Testament prophets. They frequently warned of the coming day of the Lord, whether an image Historical judgment or the final eschatological day of the Lord, all the historical day of the Lord judgments were previews of the last and most terrible day of the Lord. But throughout the entire historical outpouring of God's wrath from Eden to the final explosion of his eschatological wrath, a strange paradox exists. God is busily working to save sinners from his own wrath. God's nature encompasses not only righteousness and holiness, but also grace and mercy. Even during the devastating judgments of the tribulation, God will call sinners to salvation. He will do so using the 44,000 Jewish evangelists, the two witnesses, a host of redeemed Gentiles and Jews, even an angel flying in the sky. As the outpouring of divine wrath escalates, God's evangelistic efforts will escalate as well. The result will be the greatest harvest of souls in human history. A redeemed Israel and souls from all the nations will be saved, many to survive the tribulation and enter the millennial kingdom. Chapters fifteen and sixteen present the specific phenomena of the final outpouring of God's wrath before. That wrath is expressed by the effects of the seventh trumpet, which are the seven bold judgments described in chapter sixteen. Chapter fifteen, the shortest in Revelation, forms an introduction to those rapid fire judgments. Thus John MacArthur. So uh that's MacArthur's introduction to what we're about to study. Okay. Uh and I really liked his m his comment Terry and also the one by uh Robert Thomas, which I've used quite a bit. Um so uh let's look at this verse by verse then. Let's uh let's take a a close look at what we have here in this scripture. So uh starting with verse one. Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels who had seven plagues, which are the last Because in them the wrath of God is finished. So we've been seeing these sealed judgments, these trumpet judgments. Now the last are going to be these bold judgments. And so we have a scene in heaven which anticipates. Those bold judgments. Just as we did in the case of the seals and the trumpets, there was a there was a sign in that we got in chapters four and five, and then in chapter eight, right before the seals and right before the trumpets. We get the same thing, it's the same pattern. pattern here before the seals. So this is the and this is also the third heavenly sign uh that's pers particularly set off by that word sign. Uh we see we saw it in chapter twelve before this two others, uh just in in this this brief little interlude between uh when we were first introduced to the seventh trumpet and when the seventh trumpet's the effects of the seventh seventh trumpet will come about. So in uh in chapter twelve, verse one, we had the sign of a woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet and on her head a crown of twelve stars. And then a few verses later in twelve three we had the sign of a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven diadems. And so now we have another sign. So he uh since we've just had these other two signs John identifies it as another sign. The terms great and marvelous express the importance of this sign, the tremendous importance of this one, as it contains the final outpouring of God's wrath on unrepentant sinners. on the earth. The sign itself consists of seven angels who had seven plagues. That's the sign. The same beings who care for and minister to God's people, we see that in Hebrews chapter one, that that's what angels do, will bring God's wrath to the sinful world. And we've s we saw Jesus talk about that in Matthew chapter 13. So uh the word that's used here, plague, uh translated plague, the Greek word plague, literally means a blow or a wound. Um and is is used like that in other places in Scripture, Luke chapter 12, Acts chapter 16, uh 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Chapter six and chapter eleven, um it's that same Greek word is translated blow or wound. Uh we also see it in uh Revelation chapter thirteen translated that way, and in verse three and verse twelve describing the beasts. fatal wound. It's the Greek word plague. Um and so plague doesn't necessarily mean a disease. It means a blow or a wound. Um so thus the seven plagues are not necessarily or or or literally diseases or epidemics, but powerful deadly blows uh that will strike the world. So these seven plagues, which will be the seven bold judgments, are the last and worst plagues. Because in them the wrath of God is finished, is what the scripture tells us. So it's important to note that the fact that they are called the last implies that the preceding trumpet and sealed judgments are also plagues, they're blows or wounds on the earth. They were also plagues expressing the wrath of God. So the wrath of God has been poured out in all these different ways, and these are the last. God's wrath extends throughout the tribulation, is not confined to a brief period at the very end, as some argue. This is the last, implying that there were others before that. There the last indicates that the bulls come after. After the seals and trumpets in chronological sequence. Verse 2. So going on to verse 2, and I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire. So something else that John is seeing and trying to describe to us what he's seeing. And those who have been victorious over the beast in his image and the number of his name standing on the sea of glass, holding harps of God. So the division continues Continues, and he sees something like a sea of glass. So uh what he probably saw was some sort of transparent crystal platform before God's throne, shimmering and glistening like a tranquil sunlit sea. We've seen this image before. John saw this same sea like crystal platform in Revelation chapter 4. Before the throne there was something like a sea of glass like crystal. That's how John described this what was before the throne. thrown in Revelation chapter four. Moses, all the way back in Exodus twenty four, saw the God of Israel, and under his feet there appeared to be a pavement of sapphire as clear as the sky itself. That seems to be describing the same thing. Ezekiel describes it as something like an expanse, like the awesome gleam of crystal in Ezekiel chapter one. So we get the same image. people are trying to describe something that's essentially indescribable, but they're describing they seem to be describing the same thing. But the sea was mixed with fire of God's judgment, which was about to be poured out on the earth. Who reject God's grace face a terrifying expectation of judgment and the fury of a fire. Hebrew ten Hebrews chap chapter ten. Because our God is a consuming fire. Hebrews chapter twelve. So uh the rapture. And so we get the same thing, the sea of glass is mixed with fire. He saw he sees gathered around the throne those who had been victorious over the beast. So we've seen this before, uh Tribulation Saints. These are the believers redeemed during the tribulation. We've seen those These described in Revelation chapter 6 and chapter 7 and chapter 12, chapter 14, they will be victorious over the beast because of their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we went through that uh the week before last. Uh not only will Tribulation saints triumph over the beast, but also over his image and the number of his name. So remember the details. The false prophet sets up an image of the beast, which will he will order everyone to worship on pain of death. We saw that in chapter thirty. The false prophet will also require everyone to receive a mark representing either the beast's name or the number of his name. And so these things that the false prophet set up for Antichrist worship. the tribulation saints will be victorious over those things. The tribulation believers will by God's power eternally triumph over the schemes of Satan as administered during that period by the beast, the Antichrist, and the false prophet. Both of them spokespersons for Satan. And they end up holding harps of God. uh as John sees here in his vision. Uh verse it's uh verse three. Any questions so far? What we've done in ch verse one and two. All right. Uh verse three then. And they sang the song of Moses, the bondservant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are your works, O Lord God, the Almighty. Righteous and true are your ways. King of the nations. So this is the Tribulation Saints. They're singing, um, the glorified saints singing before the throne in an anthem of praise for God. Um and they're praising what he's about to do. Uh the ultimate motive of God's wrath is his holy, righteous character, which demands that he judge sinners. It is God's holy nature soon to be revealed in judgment against their persecutors that elicits this song from the redeemed. So, um, this is about God's character. So stop and think about the character of God and the God that we worship and the fact that that character includes holiness such that he must punish sin. So think about what what a God who didn't punish sin would be like. A God that could look on the horrible things that one person does to another and shrug his shoulders and not punish uh the terrible things that people do to one another. That would not be a God word Worshiping. And his character is such that he he cannot ignore sin. So sin must be punished because God is holy. And the tribulate Deem tribul tribulation saints are praising God for that aspect of his character, his holiness that is going to be revealed in his punishment of sin, his pouring out of wrath. So they say to Two different songs here, so let's take a look at those. So the historical background for the song of Moses, of course, is the time of the Exodus Um and Moses is described as the bondservant of God and he in that capacity he led the people out of captivity in Egypt. And so Exodus chapter fifteen is the is where this comes from. God delivers the people from Pharaoh. They um the we have the ten plagues and then we have the actual Exodus uh after the uh the Passover and the tenth plague. And then Pharaoh's army chases them And God parts the Red Sea, the Israelites go through on dry land, and then the sea swallows up Pharaoh and his army. um crashes back down and collapses and drowns them. And once they're across, the Israelites sing a song of praise to God for their deliverance. And that's what we call the song of Moses. And you can see that in Exodus chapter 15. It's uh Exodus chapter fifteen, verse one through eighteen. And they're praising God for his not only for his deliverance, but also for his pouring out of his wrath on his enemies. He's destroyed his enemies and theirs. So it was a song of victory and deliverance for the righteous and at the same time of judgment and wrath for God's enemies. That's the original song of Moses that's being referred to here in the book of Revelation. Both deliverance and judgment. Uh the tribulation saints, gathered in triumph, will sing the same kind of song of deliverance sung long ago by the people of Israel, uh their deliverance and also God's wrath against his enemies. So in addition but in addition to singing the song of Moses, who led Israel In the redemption from Egypt, the saints also uh will sing the song of the Lamb, who is their eternal redeemer. And that song we first saw in Revelation chapter 5. Chapter 5, 8 through 14, we see this song of the Lamb. Like the song of Moses, the Song of the Lamb expresses the themes of God's faithfulness, deliverance of his people, and judgment of his enemies. And so that was at the time of the uh seals, so uh breaking of the s of the seals. Um we had this uh this um image of John weeping because nobody could open the seal, but then there was the Lamb who could open the seal and there was this song that came in chapter five uh called the Song of the Lamb. uh about his faithfulness, deliverance of his people, and judgment of his enemies. The words of the song, the actual words of the song here, do not match exactly either the song of Moses in Exodus fifteen, or the song of the Lamb in Revelation five. It's not a word for word copy of those songs, these words that we sing. But the themes and many of the key terms are very similar. You can see that they came from the same place. So let's take a look at that. So the song kind of adds some new stanzas to this uh age-old triumphant song of God's redeemed people that goes all the way back to uh the time of the Exodus. And even though they're a little bit different, uh, every one of its lines and phrases has an echo in the Old Testament. So, for example, uh, the phrase, great and marvelous are your works, uh is reminiscent of Psalm 139, which says, Wonderful are your works, and my soul knows it very well. The title Lord God, the Almighty, appears over and over again in Revelation chapter one, chapter four, chapter eleven, chapter sixteen, chapter nineteen. Chapter 21, we see Lord God the Almighty used in Revelation. And that title, God Almighty, uh was the name by which God first revealed himself to Abraham, uh Genesis seventeen, Genesis thirty five, uh, Genesis forty eight. He uses that title uh over and over again for himself, God Almighty. uh in the old testament. Then the exclamation, righteous and true are your ways, reflects the Old Testament truth that all God's works are true and his ways just. And we see that in Daniel chapter four. Deuteronomy thirty-two and Hosea fourteen. So these phrases here are phrases that John gets from Old Testament imagery. And we get this uh this is a a constant thing that we see in the book of Revelation is John uses Old Testament imagery, but he doesn't necessarily quote word for word from any particular Old Testament passage. But he's using imagery that's clearly available to him from his knowledge of the Old Testament. And you can trace back and see which particular areas of the Old Testament he's referring to, even though he's not doing direct quotes. And that's what we see here in this song as well. Okay. And God is called the King of the Nations in Jeremiah chapter ten. And so all of these phrases that are in this song are from Old Testament imagery, although not necessarily quoted uh verbatim, as I said. Uh then the rest of the Psalm, chapter Verse 4 continues, Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name. For you alone are holy, for all the nations will come and worship before you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. So the song, of course, extorts God's character as the omnipotent, sovereign, perfect, righteous creator, and judge. And it uses phrases uh that come from once again Old Testament imagery in verse four, just like in verse three. So the phrase, Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name, is from Jeremiah chapter ten, which is really a reflection from Psalm eighty six. Um So Jeremiah is is in Jeremiah chapter ten is really referring back to Psalm eighty-six. The truth that God alone is holy is an off-repeated Old Testament theme. We see that in first Samuel Chapter 2, Psalm 22, Psalm 99, Psalm 111, Isaiah chapter 6 and 57, and Habakkuk chapter 1. So over and over again we we get this uh theme that God alone is holy And so we see that in this song, uh the continuing um praise for God as the Holy One. He is holy, he alone is holy, um, and that is not new. And John is using the same Old Testament imagery that we see that he has seen and heard over and over again, um, going all the way back to uh the time of Samuel. The phrase, for all the nations will come and worship before you is from Psalm 86 and also Jeremiah chapter ten. While the phrase your righteous acts have been revealed Echoes Old Testament passage from Judges, 1 Samuel chapter 12, Psalm 103, Daniel 9, and Micah 6. And so once again, not a direct quote from any of those, but the same imagery used in all of those Old Testament passages about um God's righteous acts being revealed. Um so that's how this that's kind of the um the flavor of this song. All this um praising of God's character, uh, echoed from the same kinds of praises of God's character that come out in Old Testament passages that are very similar. And then at the end of the song we get um this joyful anticipation of the millennial reign of Christ when all the nations will come and worship before God. And that's of course similar to what's in Psalm 66, all the earth Will worship you and will sing praises to you, they will sing praises to your name. And so it's it's a remarkable thing to study the scriptures, to think about a book that's written over thousands of years by multiple authors and different cultures and different languages and to see how it all fits together. Um and the reason why it fits together is because it's all really written by who? By the Holy Spirit. So men carried along by the Holy Spirit, uh by verbal plenary inspiration. Uh this story is consistent from beginning to end. From Genesis to Revelation. And we see that manifested here in John's vision and the kind of things that he sees and the way he describes them that all are in perfect alignment with what God. has been revealing in his word all the way through the Old Testament. Um and it's just a really wonderful thing to see and gives us wonderful comfort about the Word of God. Um no no book that was slapped together by human beings would ever be able to fit together like this. There there's just no possible way. It it um it it it's really ludicrous to think that this book that fits together like this could possibly have been um an accident. A an accident that somebody from uh thousands of years ago like Moses and from uh the time of Christ and afterwards like John would be able to fit this together uh in their own uh mind and power. Yes. That's right. That's a good point. So when God sees when John sees this uh spectacular vision uh what pours out of 'em is Old Testament imagery, uh really. Um yes, that's that's a good point. Um and so of course there's two points to this. There's there's one, there's the human author Um, but he's also being inspired by the Holy Spirit as he writes this as well. Just like the Holy Spirit inspired those Old Testament writers, the Holy Spirit is also inspiring John. And so uh it's working together. John and his knowledge of Old Testament Scripture and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit who wrote that Old Testament scripture, uh, working together to make this come out such that it's the perfect word of God. else questions, comments? Yeah, and so it it's always important to remember that um that regeneration is a work of the Holy Spirit and so um everybody who is born again um born of the Spirit, um, has the indwelling Holy Spirit, and it's a work of the Holy Spirit to regenerate the person that you're talking to when you're doing evangelism. Um and so It's the Holy Spirit in you and it's the Holy Spirit working in that other person. So so who who is it that's gonna know what that other person needs to hear for regeneration? Well it's the Holy Spirit. Well who is inside you as you're speaking? Well it's the Holy Spirit. And so the Holy Spirit's got the whole situation surrounding in that case, uh, when you're evangelizing the lost Um and so it's important to I think to keep that in mind as we evangelize. Um that it's not my tricky words that will um or my wonderful words that will um convince that person uh that will argue that person into the kingdom. It's the regeneration of the Holy Spirit. Um and the words, the right words to say are not necessarily the clever words that I would think of, but the scripture that the Holy Spirit brings to mind. Um as Carrie points out. Good. Very good. Any others? Alright, let's continue then. Verse 5. So verse 5 tells us, so we've got this vision, and so now we come to something new here. After these things I looked, and the temple of the tabernacle of testimony in heaven was opened. And the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, clothed in linen, clean and bright, and girded around their chests with golden sashes. So here's something new. Um and so we get this over and over again, uh this particular phrase, after these things I looked. We see that in uh chapter four, verse one, six, verse two, five and eight, seven Chapter 7, Chapter 14, and we'll see it again in chapter 19. This phrase, after these things I looked, and it introduces a new vision. So we seen this vision of the tribulation saints and they're singing the songs and now this is something new Uh after these things I looked. Something is about to draw John's attention away from the redeemed saints, singing their praises before God's glorious throne. And so what is that? This new vision will reveal it to him. him the bold judgments, which are going to be unveiled next chapter, chapter 16. But first John saws the sees the angels who will carry out the judgment. So chapter 16 is going to be these bold judgments. Here in chapter 15 we get a preview. We get to see the angels Uh who will carry it out. Uh and so he watches, and the temple, the tabernacle of testimony in heaven is open. What is that all about? Uh so we he's seen a similar vision uh earlier. Um in chapter 11. eleven. In Revelation chapter eleven we saw this The Temple of God which is in heaven is opened, and the Ark of His Covenant appeared in his temple, and there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and an earthquake and a great hailstorm. That was chapter eleven, and that was ch uh the introduction of the seventh trumpet. So chapter eleven was the introduction of the seventh trumpet, about to be sounded, and and then we got this, this description of the temple of God being opened. And now we've come back to it. Now John has come back to it. So we had this interlude, chapters twelve through fourteen, and now he comes back to what he was talking about in chapter eleven of the temple being opened. Here in in uh in chapter 15. So uh this ver this this word naos um refers to the Holy of Holies, the inner sanctuary where God's presence dwells, emphasizing that God is the source of these plagues or blows or wounds that are coming. The tabernacle was sometimes referred to as the tabernacle of testimony. So John's using the same imagery again Uh tabernacle of testimony is what we see in Exodus 38, in Numbers 1, in uh Numbers chapter 10, and Acts chapter 7, uh the the tabernacle is referred to as the tabernacle of testimony. Because the most important item in it was the Ark of the Covenant, sometimes called the Ark of the Testimony. In Exodus twenty five and twenty-six and thirty, in Leviticus sixteen, numbers five, numbers seven, and Joshua four, the Ark is called the Ark of the Testimony. So John is going back to this Old Testament imagery of the temple on earth, which is a reflection of the heavenly temple. But using that same phrase, um, the tabernacle of testimony. It was so named because it contained the testimony, the two stone tablets on which God had written the ten commandments. So that's why it's the testimony. Uh in an earlier vision here in Revelation, uh of God's throne room being open as so the faithful could see in, Revelation uh chapter four. That's how chapter four started. uh God's throne room opened. In this vision the heavenly tabernacle, of which the earthly tabernacle is only a copy, as we see in Hebrews chapter 8, was opened to reveal the most severe earthly judgments in the world. ever on the unfaithful. So that's what is going to come out of the temple now. Coming out of the temple, the tabernacle of testimony, uh the temple of the tabernacle of testimony, what's going to come out of it is seven angels holding seven bulls of God's final wrath. That's what we get to that's what it's opened for uh uh John to see and describe. So as John watches, the seven angels had the seven plagues come out of the temple. The time has come then for God's in God's sovereign plan for these seven plagues or blows or wounds Which represent the final deadly judgments to be poured out on the world, as we see in Hebrews chapter 10. So these seven angels are going to execute the plan. God has a plan Uh this plan is going to be executed by seven of his messengers, his angels. Um they are then John describes them, how how he sees them in the in this vision. He sees them clothed in linen clean and bright, representing their holiness and purity. So these are pure heavenly angels, messengers of God, and they've been given a task to go out and fulfill God's execute God's plan and that plan involves these bowls of God's wrath. So uh these are holy majestic angels and uh they're Uh they're not only dressed in white linen, but they have some sort of a uh sash, uh uh a golden sash that's girded about their chest, um and so that kind of sash would probably be wide, not just a thin belt but probably a a thing going kind of from shoulders down to waist. Um well sc yeah, m maybe, maybe going diagonally, but it could also be a real wide kind of sash that covers much more uh of the torso. Um but it could be sh it could be a shoulder thing too. Um in the ancient times they had both of those those sort of things. But anyway, he's seeing these as majestic creatures. Um a and they are dressed majestically coming out of the temple. So then we get um this description of uh what they have. Uh and and who where they got them from. So first we see in in chapter seven, then one of the four living creatures. So we've seen these four living creatures before. One of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever and ever. So now we have the seven angels and now we get a description of what they have and who they got them from. So they're proceeding from the inner sanctuary of God's heavenly temple. They receive the means by which they will execute God's judgment. And they get them from a particular creature, one of the four living. And we saw these poor living creatures before in Revelation chapter 4, 5, 6, 7, 14. We'll see them again in chapter 19. And their cherubim And we've seen cherubim described before in the Old Testament, in Ezekiel chapter one, and chapter ten, in first Samuel chapter four, and second Samuel chapter six and twenty-two in Psalm eighty and ninety-nine and Isaiah thirty-seven. We have described descriptions of a particular class of angels called cherubim. We don't have a lot about angels in the Bible, but we do have some about these cherubim. And we got a a description of these four living creatures before. And one of these four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God who lives forever. So these seven angels come, you got this cherubim, and here's your bowl, and here's your bowl, and here's Here's your bowl. And the seven angels get these seven bowls filled with the wrath of God. Thealis, uh, this Greek word translated bowls here. um was evidently more like a shallow saucer. So the imagery is not that of a stream being poured gradually out of a pitcher, but of the whole contents of the shallow saucer. being hurled down in an instant flood of judgment. So think of a very shallow bowl like a saucer Uh so you had to be really careful not to spill it. Uh logging with it. And it would be very difficult to pour it out slowly. Most likely this imagery is talking about m rapid dousing of a bunch of wrath. And that's what it looks like when we see it un unveiled in starting in chapter sixteen. Uh it's not gradual. Um so saucers, shallow saucers. shallow kind of bowls. Uh these kind of bowls were part of the temple furnishings. We see in 1 Kings chapter 7, 2 Kings 12 and 25, 1 Chronicles 28, Zechariah 14. We get this sort of shallow saucer kind of bowl. um as part of the temple furnishings. And they were associated with the sacrifices in Exodus twenty-seven and Exodus thirty-eight. So once again, Old Testament imagery. John is harking back. And then we get this phrase God who lives forever and ever, because God lives forever and ever, he has the power to put an end to sin, not just temporarily, but so that it cannot exist again forever in his holy presence. And so when God does away as a as a eternal being, when he does away with sin, it's forever. Um and that's what's going to happen here. And so we have this wrath of the God who lives forever and ever in the world. In these seven holes. And then verse eight. And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one was able to enter the temple and the same. until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. So out of the heavenly temple comes not only angels But also smoke. So this is remember John has a vision. He's seeing the angels come out. He sees the cherubim uh that give this uh bowls to each of the angels as they come out in this procession. But then he also sees smoke Coming out of the temple, symbolizing the glory and glory of God and his power. And so we've seen that imagery before. This imagery of smoke. Where do we see it? It's an emblem of God's magic. It also symbolizes God's glorious presence in the Old Testament tabernacle or temple in Exodus forty and first Kings eight and Isaiah chapter six, this image of smoke being the image of God's presence in a certain place, emblem of His majesty. The smoke also symbolizes God's wrath, thus no one was able to enter the temple until the seven plays of the seven angels was finished. And so um there's this idea that here's this small here's God's presence and his wrath and it's unapproachable. He's unapproachable until this is done. Um that's the image that that John is seeing here in this vision. Uh so the glory cloud will remain in the heavenly temple until the earth is completely purged and cleansed and prepared for the king in his kingdom. And so that the seven bowls are gonna be poured out, the wrath is gonna be poured out on on the earth, and then we're gonna have the millennial kingdom. And no one can approach the temple until that's done. Um, that's what John is seeing here. So the scene described in this chapter establishes the background for the final and definitive judgments poured out in chapter sixteen. And so this is a um a celestial preview of what's about to happen. We're about to see in chapter sixteen these bulls poured out and so John is seeing the uh the preparation for this. He's seeing the the heavenly preparation for what's about to happen on the earth in chapter sixteen. Any questions, comments about that? Yes. Yeah, so we don't of course get a lot of detailed descriptions. We're gonna get a much more detailed description of the new heavens and the new earth when we get there. Uh but there are some glimpses that we've gotten here in Revelation of heaven as it is now. And there's a description of a temple there. And there are other scriptures that tell us that the earthly temple is like a dim reflection of that heavenly temple. Yeah, so yeah, Hebrews tells us that it's a So the people that couldn't get in but not with the folks, they're the folks that are in heaven. Yeah, so there are uh the four living creatures and there's the elders and there's the tribulation saints. There's all these people that are around the throne of God in these various visions. What we see here is the smoke of God's presence kind of being unapproachable until this wrath is poured out. And so um it appears that at least in this imagery here, that that God is um is kind of um th there's this image of God as being holy and not only holy um in general, but also holy in his wrath, the pouring out of his wrath. And according to this image right here He's he's made himself unapproachable until he's finished pouring out this wrath. No one could come into his presence. So they could walk out. So yeah, so the uh the angels are obviously still there. So yeah, so i it's um it's another one of these cases where John's trying to describe something that's essentially indescribable and he's using the best language that he can to describe what it's like. Um but i it it there's no there's no indication here that for example the angels are banished from heaven or anything like that. No. There's no indication of that here. But that there's some kind of a special um there's something special about this final outpouring of God's wrath. And John's trying to describe that. And he's describing it using this smoke. Uh that's what the Holy Spirit is revealing to John in this vision is the smoke, is the image of God's kind of um holiness in his wrath. Yeah, and so we there are some images from the Old Testament of that when Moses was, you know, let me see your glory and you know, y y you can't see my face, you can see my back, I'll put my hand over you and take it away once I've passed by. So there have been similar kinds of images like that. But the angels are typically in God's presence. You know, the archang archangel Michael That I stand in the presence of God. But there's something about this final period of wrath that seems to be a little bit different, at least from that image, this particular image. But it is consistent. with God's kind of holiness and separateness um and um the the the fact that his holiness is um is something that is in our especially as human beings, in our in our own in our own nature, in our own power in our uh by ourselves we cannot approach. And so part uh you know the the one of the biggest ideas of salvation is how does a sinful human being approach a holy God. How how can that how can that happen? Well, it can happen unless God does something about it. And God did something about it by uh the substitutionary atonement of Christ and on the cross and then uh the great doctrine of adoption that that follows that, that's sometimes overlooked, is that God has adopted us into his family, uh the doctrine of adoption. Um but why is it that that's necessary? It's necessary because God is holy and we're not. And so because he's holy and we're not, we can't approach him. Uh and there's many kind of imagery in the Bible that talks about that. being Moses wanted to see God's glory and couldn't really see it. And this is another image of God's holiness and kind of unapproachability, um with the image of smoke and particularly tied to his wrath. Uh his holy wrath. Yeah, so uh it is there's a couple of things at work here. That's r that' That's right, that that God's not revealing everything. Um remember that God not only is he not revealing everything to John, but he's also told John that every not everything that he's revealed to John is John allowed to write down. 'Cause we have the seventh And they said something, and John was about to write 'em down, and God told him not to write them down. And so um yeah, so God reveals what is necessary for us to know. Um but not everything. There's no way he could reveal everything about uh uh he's an infinite being there's so there's infinite things to know about him, so there's obviously there's no way he could reveal everything about himself to finite beings. And so he's revealing some, what's necessary. Um and s and he's also revealing the things about himself that are um not necessarily describable. And so as I've mentioned many times before, John's doing the best he can with human language to describe things that are really in essence indescribable. Um the best language that can be used is used. The Holy Spirit's providing us with the best possible language that could be used in human language to describe these things. But that doesn't mean that they're i it's possible in human language to describe these things perfectly. Um and so we're left with these sometimes conundrums that um that tug at our tug at our understanding, tug at our mind minds, what is it what does it really mean? What is he really talking about here? And the book of Revelation in particular is difficult in this this way. Um and that's why we have pe we there are there are good and godly people. that disagree on the interpretation of what these visions mean. Um and that's okay. It really is. Okay. Um any other thoughts, questions? That is it. So um we have ten more minutes. Ten more minutes. Oh they didn't have twelve minutes. I know that that's this is some this is an artist rendering and those bowls are probably not shut up. Shallow enough. The artists in this one tried to at least make them uh kind of wide wider than they are deep. Notice it wider than they are deep. Um but yeah. Yeah. Okay. Uh any any anybody else? All right. Let me uh let me close this in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time today around your word. We thank you for how you've revealed yourself in your word and we pray, Lord, that uh through your Holy Spirit you would help us to wrestle with some of these things that are difficult to understand. Uh most of the things in in your word are uh very clear and And uh simple to understand, but there are other things that uh that we wrestle with, Lord. Uh please give us wisdom uh to understand your word. Uh and we pray, Lord, that uh we would take these warnings to heart, uh all these descriptions of what it's like in the end times for unbelievers. And Lord let us mo let us uh be motivated by that, uh, to reach out to our unbelieving friends And neighbors and co-workers and family members that so desperately need the hope that's contained in the gospel. We pray, Lord, that you would give us opportunities to reach out to others and that through your Holy Spirit. Spirit, we would have the right words to say to help them to see their need for salvation in Jesus Christ. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.