All right, let me start us with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your love for us. We thank you for this day that you have made. We thank you for the privilege of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you on the Lord's Day. We thank you for your word, Lord, that you've revealed yourself and your great plan of redemption in your word, and we have the privilege of studying it here this morning. We pray that you would pour out your Holy Spirit on each and every one of us and truly teach us what you want us to learn from your word today. We thank you for your sovereignty over your creation. We thank you for this particular part of Scripture and Revelation where you've told us what will happen at the end and these things that we read about. Uh in the end times are uh some si sometimes uh terrifying, but ultimately they provide uh a great hope for those of us that are in Christ that uh the king will return. Uh We thank you, Lord, for uh your faithfulness, uh, for the way you always keep your promises. Uh we thank you especially for the love that it took to send Jesus to live on this earth a sinless life and to die in our place on the cross uh to wipe away our sins. And we thank you, Lord, that you raised him from the dead so that we serve a living Savior. And we pray all these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Alright. So uh here we are in part thirty-four of our thirty-nine part series on uh the book of Revelation. Uh so today is gonna be uh the glorious return of Christ. So we're doing the second half of chapter nineteen and the king returns. Uh so we'll talk about this glorious return of Christ, we'll talk about his return as conqueror, his the regiments that come with the conqueror, the rule of the conqueror once he arrives and the f and the final victory. of the Conqueror. But first let's take a look back, do a little review of what we did last week. So last week we did the first half of chapter 19 Which was an explosion of praise and hallelujah from heaven about the fact that uh Babylon had been overthrown and that the king was about to return. And so we have this uh after the destruction of Babylon in chapter seventeen and eighteen, chapter nineteen, uh so bef and before the return of Christ to the second half, we have this uh uh this chorus uh of praise. Uh it starts out with angels and they they they say hallelujah, which is a uh transliteration of Hebrew words that mean to praise God. Um and so heaven rejoices. uh about this fact that the uh God's has uh triumphed um and he's he's uh rejoices because of salvation and because glory and power belong to God Also, the the rejoicing is about the fact that God will judge, and his judges judgments are true and righteous. He has just finished judging Babylon, the world uh system of the Antichrist, and avenged also uh his followers. Um this uh hallelujah starts with angels and then we get the 24 elders and the living creature joining in, and then eventually we get all the um the the big giant chorus of the redeemed and God des uh j John describes it as uh uh the sound of rushing waters, the voice of a great multitude, the thunder, um all this imagery of this this loud uh joyful praise of the Lord. And then the last part of what we talked about last time was the marriage of the Lamb. That um this is going uh about to be the marriage feast of the Lamb and you have the bride, which is the church, you have the invitees, which is all the other saints, the Old Testament saints and those that survived the tribulation. Um all these believers are about to be together uh with Christ. And so that's worthy of praise, a big explosion of praise in heaven. And so that's what we saw last time. Any questions about That first part of chapter 19. Alright, if you'll take out your Bibles or your devices and turn to the second part of chapter 19 We will have a door open in heaven. So we'll start with verse 11. So Revelation chapter 19, starting with verse 11 to the end of the chapter. This is the word of the Lord. And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And he who sat on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and wages war. His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written on him which no one knows except himself. He is clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. And the armies which are in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may strike down the nations And he will rule them with a rod of iron. And he treads the winepress of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty And on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun And he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds which fly in mid-heaven, Come, assemble for the great supper of God. so that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of commanders and the flesh of mighty men and the flesh of horses and those who sit on them and the flesh of all men, both free men and slaves, and small and great. And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to make war against him who sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet who performed the signs in his presence, by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire, which burns with brimstone, and the rest were killed with the sword which came from the mouth of him who sat on the horse. And all the birds were filled with their flesh So some uh really uh startling imagery here uh in this passage. And so um As I've done every week, I'll read you a few paragraphs from John MacArthur as he introduces this section of uh uh scripture in his commentary. He says a century ago, and he's writing in the early nineteen nineties, so a century ago then was the eighteen A century ago most people believed that history was progressing inexorably toward a man-made utopia. The Industrial Revolution, the March of Scientific Discovery and the increasing pace of social reform seemed to auger nothing but brighter days ahead. Today, however, two world wars, innumerable regional, civil and national wars, countless acts of terrorism and senseless violence and the nearly complete collapse of moral values make such rosy optimism seem quaintly naive. The Bible teaches that things will be wonderfully better, but only after they become unimaginably worse. There is only one solution for the world's problems, the return of its true king the Lord Jesus Christ, to establish absolute monarchy and unilateral authority in his earthly kingdom. Only under his rule will there be peace instead of war, justice instead of inequity, and righteousness instead of wickedness. The church, the Bride of the Lamb, will be eagerly awaiting the marriage supper of the Lamb in the millennial earth. But before that wonderful celebration can take place, the warrior king must win the final battle. The forces of heaven and hell will meet in the climactic slaughter of human history, the Battle of Armageddon. God's people throughout redemptive history have eagerly anticipated the return of the Lord Jesus Christ to defeat his foes and set up his kingdom. That will be the time when the destruction of Satan is complete, when the true king receives his ruling scepter, when the God will establish the throne of David's greater son. When the sun will rule the earth with a rod of iron, when the armies of Gog and Magog will be shattered, when the nations will be judged after their defeat in the battle by the returning king When Jerusalem will be the center of Messiah's kingdom, when the angels will gather the wicked for judgment, when the wicked will face God's wrath and indignation, and when the Lord Jesus Christ will descend visibly from heaven in flaming fire, bringing retribution on the persecutors of his people. The second coming must be distinguished from the rapture of the church prior to the seven-year tribulation The differing biblical descriptions of the two events indicate that they are distinct from each other. At the rapture, Christ comes for his saints At the second coming he comes with them. Furthermore, at the rapture, Christ meets his saints in the air to take them to heaven. At the second coming, he descends with them from heaven to earth. There is not even a hint of judgment in passages describing the rapture, but judgment plays a prominent role in the second coming. The dramatic signs accompanying the second coming, the darkening of the sun and the moon, and the disruption of the powers of the heaven are not mentioned in the passages describing the rapture. In its description of the second coming, Revelation 19 does not mention either a translation, rapture of living believers, or a resurrection of dead believers. as with as was the case in the the rapture passages. So that's uh John MacArthur's little setup for this passage. uh the scripture. Uh so let's take a look. We'll grind we'll we'll go through these uh uh verse by verse Starting with verse 11, and I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse, and he who sat on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and wages war. Um so this is different from Christ's first coming Nothing about Christ waging war in his first coming, but here he's coming to wage war and his second coming specifically. That's the the language that the scripture uses here Um and so we have f we start off with heaven opening and we saw heaven opening in chapter four for example. Um but that was opening to let John in to let him see, and this is heaven opening to let Jesus and his army out. Um and so uh the time has come for the glorious revelation of the sovereign lord. And so this is what this is really the event that all of the book of Revelation is pointing forward to. And really all of redemptive history is pointing to this time when Jesus returns. And so he spoke of it in his Olivet discourse in Matthew 24 about his Second coming. And here it is. And so remember, he came in humility the first time humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the full of a donkey, Zechariah nine. That was the prophecy of his first coming. Uh well this second coming is not like that. He's not humble and coming on the foal of a donkey. Um this time He's coming on a white horse, and that's a symbol. The white horse was was the a special white horse was ridden by victorious Roman generals When they came back from war and had a procession through Rome, uh you could see the the victorious general on his white horse. Uh white symbolizes the holy character of the rider. Um and the horse of course is symbolic here too, like the crown in verse twelve, the sword in verse fifteen, the rod of iron in verse fifteen. fifteen the wine press symbolic all of Christ's victory over his enemies, his sovereign rule and his is righteous judgment of sinners. All these things are uh the symbols that are being used in this vision that John sees of who Christ is being revealed as uh this revelation of Jesus Christ as the returning Lord of Lords and King of Kings. So much different from how he came as a baby in a manger the first time. Um now he's the king. Uh absolute authority, absolute um um power uh over everything, sovereign over everything. And so John continues the description He who sat on the horse is called faithful and true. So we've got a a name or description of this person on the horse. And of course it's a very appropriate name for the Lord Jesus Christ. Earlier in Revelation, we had in chapter 3 we had him described as the faithful and true witness. He's faithful to his promises. We see that in 2 Corinthians chapter 1 And what he speaks is always true, John chapter 8 and Titus chapter 1. So a very fitting description of the Lord Jesus Christ So um uh he's faithful uh he's faithful to all of his promises, uh not just the ones that um are w w what we would consider positive and happy ones, but also things like his promises of wrath and judgment. He's faithful to all of them. So And the very fact that he's coming again uh proves that it confirms that he's faithful and true because uh he himself said, I'm I'm coming again in his Olivet discourse uh during his earthly ministry. And so here he is. H here's a description of him fulfilling that particular promise He's faithful to his word and righteous character it follows that he he judges in righteousness Um his holy nature demands a holy righteous reaction to sin, for example. Um as we as we talked about before, uh God would not be a God worthy of worship if he looked the other way um about sin. Um if if he if he looked on sin and said, oh that's okay that's that's not a holy and righteous God, not a God that would be worth worshiping. And so uh part of his character is his wrath and judgment uh against sin And so this is a big contrast between the first coming and the second coming. He comes the first time as the suffering servant. Um and he's seen now as the warrior king who wages war against his foes. Um the executioner of The ungodly and unbelieving. Um and so it's it's interesting that sometimes if you read um Some uh Jewish scholars and um uh Jewish literature, they are confused by the descriptions of the prophets about the Messiah. And they um they y they actually write w it almost looks like two people um a suffering servant and a and a and a glorious king. And so if you remember during uh Christ's first coming, um They kept asking him, When will you establish the kingdom? Uh, because they had read the prophecies, and those they were reading the prophecies about the second coming And they were trying to fit his first coming into those prophecies. When will you establish the kingdom? Um and and it's confused Jewish scholars for centuries, uh millennium. Um but here in Revelation we see the answer to that conundrum th this description that looks like two people is really about one person and two comings. His first coming is a suffering servant, and then His second coming as the conquering king. All those there's prophecies about both in the Old Testament. Um, but it's not too Messiahs, of course, it's uh two comings of the same Messiah, and here we have the description of the second coming. Alright, uh verse number twelve So the vision keeps going and further describing uh this person, his eyes are a flame of fire. And on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written on him, which no one knows except himself. He is clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God So uh first his eyes are a flame of fire. So uh his pen penetrating vision, ever nothing escapes it. This is the kind of uh word picture that uh that that John is painting here, the the vision that John sees. Uh he can see into the human heart. Uh Hebrews 4. 13, all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. And so these blazing eyes are indicative of what we see in Hebrews 4. 13 On its head are many diadems, and so uh this is really a transliteration directly into the English of a Greek word. Diadema is the Greek word, and and the English translation just kind of leaves it there as diadem because uh that word has kind of uh crept into the English language as well. Uh but if you'll remember there's two different words used for crowns Uh one of one of them means uh kind of a a victor's crown um of a of a sporting uh contest. But this one is the uh the ruling crown, the crown of authority, uh that Jesus is wearing here. And he's wearing many of them. Why many? Many indicates his collecting of all the rulers' crowns, signifying that he alone is sovereign ruler of the earth Uh so he's he's collecting the crowns of the vanquished kings, which was customary in ancient days. Uh well there's actually descriptions of it in the um in the Old Testament. Um David conquered and and took the crown of the king that he conquered and put it on his head. Um and so this is the picture of Jesus. He's taken all the crowns and he's got all the crowns on his head Um because he alone is in in in authority. He's he's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Um and as we saw in Revelation chapter eleven, the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ and he will reign forever and ever, that great line from Handel's Messiah. Um that's repeated in Handel's Messiah. It's uh obviously it's from scripture, uh but repeated in Handel's Handel's Messiah, put to music Um but this is the picture that we get of Christ. He's uh he's got all the crowns on his head now. Uh he's he's coming, he comes, and he takes all the crowns to himself, all the authority to himself. Um remember what did Jesus say right before he ascended, right before he he gave the Great Commission, what did he say to the disciples? He said, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of Father and Son and Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. So he s he set up the the giving of the Great Commission by giving the fact that all authority had been given to him on heaven and earth. And so we see that, um, the consummation of that here in this uh this passage of Revelation. Any questions so far? Continuing, uh John notes that there's a name written which no one knows except himself. So So why even bring it up? Why why even bring it up? So this is another example uh of the Lord showing us that there are things that He knows that he's not going to reveal to us. Um, you know, the th the I go back to the thunders, the seven thunders. They they said something, John heard it, he was about to write it Seal up what the Seven Thunder said and do not write it. Um why did he even mention that the Seven Thunders said something that we don't get to know? Um it's this idea that we need to have faith that God has revealed what we need to know, uh, and that there are other things that are not revealed that we don't need to know And that's okay. And this is another one of those. That Christ has a name written on him which no one knows except himself. So perhaps we'll know when he comes again Um, who knows? But we d we definitely won't know until then. Uh 'cause no one knows except Christ himself Um and so then the final uh there's a final description of the appearance that his c uh he he is clothed with a robe dipped in blood. Uh the blood is probably not representative of what he said on the cross, since this is a picture of judgment, not redemption. So it's most likely the blood of his slaughtered enemies Uh and it's proleptic looking forward to what he's about to do. Um and then of course the right the then at the very end of this little uh series of descriptions The writer is c uh the writer's name is called the Word of God. And so this is a a very clear indication, if we didn't already know, that this is Jesus. Uh because what did John say about Jesus in the first ch chapter of his gospel. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and then in verse 14 The Word became flesh and dwelt among us. And then he repeated it again in the first chapter of his first epistle, 1 John 1. 1, again, he calls Jesus the Word Um and so this is a clearer description of the um in case you didn't get it before this, it's Christ. This is Jesus Uh his name is the Word of God. Um and so uh the Word of God because he is the full expression of the mind, will, and purpose of God and uh Hebrews 1-3 says the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. And so this is a picture of Christ that John is giving here. His vision is of of Christ. Uh continuing on to verse 14. And the armies which are in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean We're following him on white horses. So not only do we have Christ on a white horse, but we have armies following him on white horses Okay, so who are the armies? So he's not going to return alone. He's coming uh with armies which are in heaven. Um there's four divisions of these uh glorified troops. Uh earlier in chapter nineteen we had the bride of the lamb, the church, and the church was pictured as In fine linen, white and clean, exact description that we have here of the armies. Um so those those glorified believers will accompany Christ So will the tribulation believers, who are also pictured in heaven wearing white robes in Revelation chapter 7. The third group is the Old Testament saints who are resurrected at the end of the tribulation. Daniel chapter 12 tells us that. And finally, the holy angels will also accompany Christ as Jesus himself said in Matthew chapter 25. So we have the the glorified saints, the tribulation saints, we have the Old Testament saints, and we have the angels making up the four groups who are in this army. That's a big army. It's a big army. It is a big army. Uh yeah. And in fact, of course, and and there's only one sword in the whole army. Yeah. So the white horses ridden by the Calvary are not literal horses, probably I mean this is sim uh imagery that he's seeing Um and the the the white horse is the s is the symbol of authority and power, um going back to the Roman times of the general riding the white horse in the per progression uh procession. Um and so m most likely this is a s a symbol that we're seeing Um and as I mentioned, unlike the Lord Jesus Christ, the heavenly arm army is unarmed. Uh there's only one sword in this whole army Um and so the saints come to reign with Christ. Uh n they're not needed to fight. Uh Christ he's gonna win this battle all by himself. Alright, any questions so far? Yeah. I mean it's a good question. What what exactly are who are these people, what do they look like during the Millennial Kingdom I'm not sure we have a very precise description of it, but we do have the church raptured, so they have been changed in some way. And um as uh Dr. Rex mentions I think m many believe that there's a progressive um kind of glorification of of different groups at at different times. So um I think there's some mystery there though. Um Because I don't think there's a yeah, go ahead. Yes. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. We're not y that's right. That's right. Because this is coming to Earth, so it's so some kind of a body. Yeah, it is some kind of a body. It's not just they're not ghosts or or whatever or yeah, ethereal spirit. It's the it's a they have a body, that's right. Christ has a body, uh the the raptured saints will have a body, the Old Testament s saints that will have a body. Uh now the angels are different, although um it's very interesting that Angels who appear in the Old Testament, for example, appear to the people that they're talking to as if they're men. They're described as men. Uh three of them sat down and had a meal with Abraham, for example. Um so The angels, at least in appearance, when they've appeared in the past, have had looked like they had bodies anyway Um so um that's that's kind of how I envision this whole group coming uh uh Battle of Armageddon and the Millennial Kingdom, that even the angels look like they have bodies, even though they really are spirits. Um yeah. Good question. Uh good thing to wrestle. There's a lot of stuff to wrestle with i in scripture to try to understand what we're what we're seeing here Uh and there are people uh different commentators have a little bit different ideas about that. So for example, um As I was reading through both MacArthur's commentary and Robert Thomas's commentary, which is Robert Thomas's commentary is the one they use at the Master Seminary to teach eschatology. Thomas says these are definitely real horses. All of them. All of them. Like the angels are riding on an actual, you know, flesh and blood horse and they're all real horses. And MacArthur says, No, no, no, they're definitely symbolic horses. Um yeah, so there's there's P there's disagreements even by people who are very close in how they see all these things, there there are disagreements, yeah. Yeah, so the and uh obviously the vision is a rider on a horse But remember it's a vision. Um so yeah. So I mean the beast has got seven heads and all that kind of stuff, but but the Antichrist is a man It's not a thing with seven seven heads. So that's that vision that John sees is symbolizing something. And so depending on how you Interpret that Robert Thomas says it's a real horse. MacArthur says no, it's a vision of a real horse, which is symbolic of uh uh of this army coming. Okay. So you see how that works. So John is seeing visions and so we we have to what we have to work through is the vision he's seeing uh purely symbolic Or is the visiony seeing something that will actually appear in eschat eschatological times? There are some things that are easy to determine, like th the the description of the beast with seven heads That's talking about a man and the seven heads symbolize things. Um it's not a man with seven heads. Um uh so yeah, but other things are a little bit more difficult. Are these horses real horses or are they not real horses? Because re horses are real things. Seven-headed beasts are not real things. Okay. Um so uh so next next is the description of the rule of the king. He notes that from his mouth comes a sharp sword Um John has seen this sword in early revision. So Revelation chapter 1, Christ has a sharp sword. And here he has a sharp sword. In Revelation chapter 1, it's used to defend the church against the onslaught of Satan's forces, and here it is the sword of judgment uh dealing death to the king's foes. Uh the sword comes out of his mouth, symbolizing deadly power of Christ's words. So here's another example. We don't it really expect when we see Christ that we'll see a sword shooting out of his mouth. We don't expect this that to s to see that. So we we see this as a symbol. This is a swift judgment at the outset of his kingdom So he uh the scripture says he will rule the nations with an iron rod And we've seen that before in Revelation chapter twelve, and we also see it in Psalm chapter two. And so once again, um here in the Revelation, John is using uh word pictures from the old testament. This with this ruling with an iron rod was in the Old Testament as well. And so then he returns to the judgment Um and th we use th he he uses another set of imagery that we've seen before. He treads the winepress of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. We saw that imagery in Revelation chapter fourteen, uh treading the winepress of the wrath. of the f uh of the fury of the wrath of God. It's also in the Old Testament, Isaiah chapter 63, we see this same imagery in Joel chapter 3 as well. the imagery of the wine press being uh a symbol of God's wrath. And so here we get it again, uh here in chapter nineteen. Uh verse sixteen, and on his robe and on his thigh He has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And so this is what Margaret was referring to before. It's on his robe and on his thigh. Uh it's uh another description of Christ as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Um we s we s we've got the this multiple descriptions. He's got a name that nobody knows but him. He's he's the faithful and true, and now he's king of kings. and Lord of Lords. And so we saw this description of Christ in Revelation chapter 17. We also see this in the Old Testament in Deuteronomy chapter 10 and then uh Paul uses it in 1 Timothy chapter 6 as well. And so as I mentioned, three names for Christ here in this little description. Uh the incomprehensible name, the one on h only he knows um and then um we get verse thirteen calling him uh the word and then here we have the king of kings and the lord of lords and so this is his uh triumphant name his sovereign name um absolute rule uh over his kingdom Any questions up to this point? Okay. Good uh verse 17. Then I saw an angel, so this division shifts a little bit. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun And he cried out with a loud voice, saying, To all the birds which fly in mid-heaven, come assemble for the great supper. of God. So and this gets a little gruesome here uh as we go through the rest of this. Um and so once again we have an angel playing a key role. So the angels have played key roles throughout uh this revelation that we've had here uh in the book of revelation, angel after angel after angel, and we have another angel here uh standing in the sun uh possibly in front of it, partially eclipsing it, whatever, um, but in a prominent, conspicuous place. Uh so everybody can see and hear this important announcement. Um and so another Thing to think back on is evidently the worldwide darkness associated with the fifth bowl has been lifted since the sun is again visible for the angel to stand on. Um and so y th this has come up a couple of times that um w we see something subsequent that that seems to indicate that a previous judgment has run its course. And I think this is another one of those. The sun's there again It was dark and now it's there again. Um So as we've seen before, the angel cries with a loud voice. So we've had angels crying with a loud voice in chapter seven and chapter Chapter 10 and chapter 14 and chapter 18. And now we have another angel crying with a loud voice. And he addresses Hi his his announcement is addressed to the birds, uh the birds which fly in mid-heaven, inviting them to come feed on the results of the carnage that's about to take place in the Battle of Armageddon. Uh pretty gruesome. Um so in in essence the angels declaring Christ's victory before the battle's ever fought. Uh 'cause the battle hasn't happened yet, but he's calling the birds to come gorge on the results. Uh so he commands the birds to come and assemble for this great uh supper. Um and so this is the day of the Lord destruction, which is about to take place and will result in this tri gigantic, uncountable slaughter of millions of dead birds. bodies. Um and in Ezekiel 39 we have a very interesting thing. Uh even after these birds are done gorging themselves, it will take seven months to bury the remaining corpses. And so even um there's a lot of dead bodies. A lot of dead bodies that take seven months to bury them all. So yeah, so we have uh uh we have little glimpses of this event in several different Old Testament passages, including these little details like they'll take someone wants to bury all the bodies. Uh so the the description becomes more macabre in verse eighteen So that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of commanders, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and free men and slaves, and small and great Uh that's a pretty universal description. Uh that the birds are gonna be eating feasting on these uh millions of dead people. Uh so it's an all-inclusive statement revealing the extent of the slaughter. um to have one's unburied body left as food for birds is an ultimate indignity, especially for proud kings and mighty military commanders. And that fate awaits these proud, God hating rebels Uh both free men and slaves and small and great. Um yeah, so it's kind of a a nasty description, but uh but this is truth. God's revealing this is what's gonna happen Alright, verse 19, and I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to make war against him who sat on the horse and against his army. So here's the beast He's gonna assemble his armies, he's gonna try to fight uh the returning king, the Lord Jesus Christ. Um and so John sees this happening. He sees the uh the Lord Jesus Christ and his army coming down from heaven and he sees the beast and the kings of the earth getting ready to fight. Uh so the beast is the Antichrist. We've seen that in Revelation eleven and thirteen. Uh he's the leader of this great empire, the last great Empire in human history, the kings of the earth are probably the ten kings that we saw before that rule under him and um i in Revelation chapter seventeen. Um their armies have assembled to make war against uh the returning Christ and his armies. So here we have this formidable, seemingly invincible army. Um with all its firepower. Uh we don't know exactly when this is happening, but just imagine modern armies right now with the firepower that we have Um, it's at least that. You know, depending on how far into the future it is, they'll have even more advanced weapons. Um and this is the beast that's got uh the whole worldwide force uh brought to bear to try to fight against uh the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's the picture that John is seeing, this battle all set up. And then the battle itself is very anticlimactic. Verse 20 describes and the beast was seized And with him the false prophet, who performed the signs in his presence by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast, and those who had worshipped his image, these two were thrown alive into the lake of fire which burns with brimstone So the leaders of this army are just plucked out and thrown into the lake of fire. So is before the battle really even begins, it's over. Uh the the the leaders of this army are tossed into the lake of fire. Um and So these two demonically empowered uh political and religious leaders of the world are They're finished uh before anything really happens. They're thrown alive into the lake of fire. So they're they're not in a they're not in a battle. I mean they're not killed in a battle. They're just seized thrown into the lake of fire. So this is the final hell, the ultimate destination of Satan and his angels and the unredeemed, and these are the first two to go there. Um the first of millions of men we'll see in uh Revelation chapter twenty and angels. Uh Jesus said the angels, uh the the fallen angels will end up there and they'll arrive in the lake of fire, but these are the first two that are described being thrown in there. Uh the beast and his prophet. tossed into the lake of fire. Uh of course hell has always existed, but this is its final form. Uh unlike Hades, the lake of fire is not a temporary holding place. So uh we'll see that uh that Hades gives up the dead in the in in It uh death and Hades give up the dead that are in them. So Hades was some sort of a temporary holding place. The lake of fire is the permanent one Um and we see that starting here and we'll see um when we get to the Great White Throne judgment that those who whose names are not l written in the Lamb's book of life are tossed into this lake of fire. Yeah, so this is very harsh, uh uh the harsh end, uh, but a fitting end for the beast and his prop false prophet. Tossed into the lake of fire. And so then we have a description of what happens to the rest of the army So first their leaders are tossed into the lake of fire before anything happens. And the rest were killed with the sword which came from the mouth of whom him who sat on the horse. So nobody else has to fight. All the rest are killed by the sword that comes out of the mouth of Christ, which is his word, and so he speaks. Just like he spoke and the entire universe came into existence, he speaks and this whole army dies. Um and all the birds were filled with their flesh. So the birds have been called Um, there's not really a battle. Uh Christ speaks and they all die. He he seizes their leaders, the the the Antichrist and the false prophet, tosses them into the lake of fire, and then he speaks and they all die. The rest were all killed. Um so it's not really much of a battle. Um you know, on on Jesus' side nobody else is even armed Um and Jesus takes them all out by just speaking. Yeah, so so the beast gathers for this battle of Armageddon, Christ comes with his army, the beast comes with his army. Um His millions and millions of army on the earth. He's already on the earth, yeah, yep. Um and So his the description of him was he came up out of the abyss, which is the the demons that are uh really animating the Antichrist and the false prophet. Um but yes, they're on earth. Christ comes down to earth Um a and there's a battle, but it's not really a much of a battle. Um one side only has one guy that fights And the others all die when he s opens his mouth. Um so not much of a battle Um yeah, so the the army is described as two hundred million, which is a really big army, but there's S is seven or eight billion people on Earth right now. And even after all these w I mean the disasters kill a lot of people But there's still billions on Earth and there's only two hundred million in the Army, so it's not every person on Earth in the Army Yeah, that's a good point. Yeah. Do you think battle gonna be fought in the Israeli people? uh controversy about what is harmagedon. Uh what exactly is that? I think most commentators believe it's the plane there in front of Jerusalem. Um but there's some controversy about exactly where that place is. So there are a whole bunch of them come across the Euphrates. I mean part of this was the Euphrates had to be dried up so they could come across there with this gigantic army. Um so remember this an uh so if you paint this picture and watch the whole story through, uh Antichrist is the head of a a worldwide Empire. And so he's calling troops from his worldwide empire. So troops from everywhere. Now, in the in the days when John was writing that that sort of transportation would have been very difficult. Uh today it's not so much. Today when you can fly in airplanes and come in giant tube ships and all that sort of thing Uh it's much easier to assemble a gigantic army in a per certain place that's drawn from all over the world. I the transportation is possible. Now there's been a big hit to the the ability to transport things with all the judgments that have happened already. Uh there's been major hits to the ocean and uh all kinds of other things. So there would be obstacles Uh but but you know, the Antichrist is clever enough to have overcome the obstacles to bring a two hundred million man army to bear in uh the plane of Harmageddon. Um break when he had each other. Oh yes, yeah yeah that's exactly right. Exactly right. So Yeah, so as he has done many times throughout scripture, he uses the actions of evil men to fulfill his purposes. Um I mean one of the the starkest ones is the evil actions of the brothers of Joseph, throwing them into a pit, sell them into slavery. Well all of that w worked God's purposes. Uh in in in spite of the fact that it was evil men doing evil things, it worked out God's purposes. And so that's what's gonna happen at the end too. It'll continue to happen like it always has happened throughout history, is evil men will do evil things And it will fulfill God's purposes, uh, in spite of what they intend. Yeah, so yeah, God is absolutely sovereign over every second of history. And so yeah, he he wor he will work out his purposes through the evil actions of the Antichrist and the and the false prophet. Yeah, good very good point. Okay. Uh so here we are to the last verse of chapter nineteen Uh and the rest were killed with the sword and which came out of the mouth of him and sat on the horse, and then the birds gorged themselves, uh filled with the flesh. So uh their their commanders have been snatched away Uh their commanders who are seized and thrown into the leg of fire. Uh so the leaderless force here is destroyed by uh by by the Christ. Um they they try to f they gather to fight against Christ, but the sword comes out of his mouth and and he's and they're dead. Um and so then just as the angel had previously Foretold the birds are filled with their flesh. And so these sort of sobering truths that we see are a warning to unbelievers to repent. and to stimulate believers to godly living. But it should also provide a motivation for us to share the gospel with our unbelieving friends and family members and co-workers and neighbors Because apart from saving faith in Christ, they are headed for the lake of fire. Um and so that's a reality that we know uh we can see and they can't see it. And so it should provide a motivation for us. Uh any questions about any of that? That's right. So that's right. Even somebody who dies uh peacefully in their bed um and doesn't experience all these things in the tribulation, they're still going to the lake of fire, uh uh absintha faith, saving faith in Christ. And so uh and the lake of fire, as Carrie points out, is a million times worse than being killed and eaten by vultures. Um It's eternal suffering and ever and ever and ever and ever eternal suffering. And so uh that's where our unbelieving friends are going our unbe unbelieving family members are going and so uh w we should have compassion. Um And that compassion should motivate us to share uh the gospel the hope of the gospel of Christ with them. All right, uh that's the end of our lesson today. We've got uh we have huge amounts of time left, like almost seven minutes, uh, to uh to answer questions if you have any. Any other questions, comments? Let me close this in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for our time gathered around your Word today. We thank you for the things that you have revealed in your Word. And also for the things that you've kept hidden. Uh we pray, Lord, that you would uh that we would have the the right kind of faith that we understand that you've revealed what needs to be revealed and you've hidden what needs to be hidden uh and that your ways are perfect, uh that uh that you know all and um and that you have revealed what we really need to know in your word. And we pray, Lord, that we would uh take to heart all the warnings that we see here and that we would use the time wisely, use the time that you've given us wisely to be ready ourselves And also to share the hope that is found only in faith in Christ Jesus with those around us. uh who are in such a hopeless state and who are headed for the lake of fire. Uh we thank you, Lord, for your great love for each and every one of us in sending Christ and having a a plan of redemption, uh to redeem uh mankind to so that we can be in the presence of a holy God through the finished work of Christ on the cross. We thank you also, Lord, for the great privilege of uh gathering as the body of Christ on the Lord's Day to worship you and corporate worship and we pray that that worship which we are about to offer you would be acceptable in your sight. And we pray that we would bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen.