We open again to John chapter seventeen, to Jesus' high priestly prayer, a prayer for his own. This morning we're still in the middle of the prayer in verses six through nineteen. Please track with us as I read. And we let the Lord speak to us this morning. Christ praying, verse 6: I have manifested your name. To the men whom you gave me out of the world, they were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have come to know that everything you have given me is from you. For the words which you gave me I have given to them, and they received them, and truly understood that I came forth from you. And they believe that you sent me. I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world, but of those whom you have given me, for they are yours. And all things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them. I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world And I come to you, Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition, so that the scripture would be fulfilled. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world, so that they may have my joy made full in themselves. I have given them your word And the world has hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. Well, we already said that this is the longest recorded prayer of Jesus in the whole Bible. There were times, of course, the Lord Jesus prayed all throughout the night, but we don't know what he said. We don't know what he prayed because his words were not recorded. This time we're allowed to listen in, and there's a reason for that. We're allowed to hear what was on the son's heart the very night he was headed to the cross that next day, and to the glories to follow. And what we hear from his heart is an echo of the teachings Jesus gave his disciples in chapters 13 through 16. He is praying for the very doctrines and truths that he charged them with in those chapters. Praying that the Father would confirm and establish what he told them that they were responsible to do. First, in this prayer, we've mentioned this before. He prays for himself in verses one through five. Just a good way of organizing the uh prayer. He prays for himself first. He asks the Father to glorify him because the hour has come, his impending death and resurrection. Through that he would be glorified, and in so doing the Son would bring back glory to the Father. And all of that is there. Starting in verse 6, he transitions, and his prayer, his intercession, is outward to his disciples. In particular in verses 6 through 19, he's focusing on those eleven apostles, those men that he was leaving. They belonged to the Father. The Father gave them to the Son. They then came to the Son. They were given the words of the Father by the Son. They kept those words. And now Jesus is praying for these elect men. for the Father to keep them. None of them would be lost, none of them would have spiritual harm. The only exception was to fulfill prophecy, Judas XII, disciple who went off to destruction. We mentioned that in verses 6 through 26, there are three basic requests Jesus has for his disciples. It's good for you to know these as you pray for believers. He prayed for them to be kept. First of all, Holy Father, keep them, that is, preserve them from the evil one. The evil one will bring everything he can martial against them while they're in the world, they remain in the world. But Christ prayed for them to be preserved and kept and protected from all spiritual harm. We're even told to pray for that ourselves in what's called the Lord's Prayer. We call it the disciples' prayer now. that uh we would be kept from evil. Lead us not into temptation, preserve us from evil. The second intercession in this section is in verse 17. We come to that today. Sanctify them in truth. And then the next one, Lord willing, we'll get to next Lord's uh Sunday, next Lord's Day in verse twenty-four. And that is, he prays that they will be with Christ in glory. And all of that is so that we will be one in Christ as Christ is in the Father. Keep them, Father, sanctify them, bring them to glory, all with a view of the unity of the disciples with Him and with the Father. That's the structure of this prayer. I want you to direct Your attention to verses 14 through 19, 14 through 19, and the second intercession. We'll split it up this way today. First Christ gives the basis of his request. That's in verses fourteen to sixteen. And then he provides the request itself. in verses 17 through 19, even with a little further explanation to that request. So we have the basis of his request, verses 14 through 16 And then the request itself, particularly in verse 17, with more explanation in verses 18 and 19. Look again at the basis of his request in verses 14 through 16. And uh he says here, I have given them your word. And I want to stop right there, actually. I have given them This is in his basis for why he is asking the request that he is. And he says to the Father, I have given them your word. And I just love this. Because he's saying, Lord, I'm praying to you and asking you to sanctify them, but I want to explain my request to you. Here's the basis of my request. I have given them your word. You remember he said something similar to this back in verse 8, if you just glance back there. The words, he makes it plural there, the words which you gave me, I have given to them, and they received them. So you gave me these words, and it can be put into singular, the word, and Father um uh I gave them those words, that word. I delivered it to them. That's what I was supposed to do, and I delivered those words to these men. They now know your words. I taught them your words, you see. And um they received them. That's what they did with them. They believed them. They accepted them. They didn't stiff arm them, they didn't push them away. They received this teaching, these words. And because of that, now I'm going to ask my request of them, you see. I want you again, before we get into the actual request, to see again the great emphasis that Jesus Christ put on the words of God, the words and the word of God and the relationship that his disciples would have with God, the invisible God, through the Word of God. The Word of God is the emphasis here. It is what bridges that gap. It is how the Father communicates his being and his plan to them. It is what Jesus communicated to them. It is what they had to receive and it is through the words they were able to understand and grow in their relationship to the Father. Now, I know that uh language isn't the best subject in American schools anymore. Some of you may have flunked grammar and you don't like to hear this, that so much of our relationship with God comes through words. And yet this is exactly what he is saying. We Americans are infamous infamous for killing the the King's English. And uh so studying grammar isn't something that we're we're all that good at. But Jesus He said that the relationship to God goes through these words, and words have to be arranged, and when words are arranged, folks, that's grammar. And so our understanding of God comes not through mystical experiences. Sometimes people don't like the work and the labor of dealing with words in a text They think that's legalistic. They don't like the effort put into that. And so they come up with a brand of Christianity that's through mystical experiences. God could have arranged it that way. He did not arrange our relationship through mystical experiences. Nor through human imagination, nor through personal feelings. Sometimes you hear people say, I feel that the Lord wants me to do, but that's not how God operates. God doesn't operate through our feelings. Our feelings are important. And they're legitimate, but he doesn't communicate through our feelings. Sometimes people feel good about a decision, they feel bad about a decision, they think God is guiding them that way. That is not how God guides people He wouldn't do that. I feel good sometimes about bad decisions. And I feel bad sometimes about the things I know I should do. So feelings do not prompt us or lead us. You know, God could have communicated to us through pictures, and in some cases he gave certain ordinances and structures that we could look at and we could glean. some understanding, but mostly he chose not to do that, not through drawings, not through pictures, but to give us written language He gives us his words, God's words. God's words spoken to Jesus, those then spoken to the apostles by Jesus. The apostles then spoke those words to the early church. And very quickly, in the speaking of those words, they were recorded, written down. The Holy Spirit superintended that process. Twenty-seven separate documents. The Holy Spirit wanted preserved, collated, put into a book. We have that as our New Testament today. We have the words of the Father sitting in your lap right now studying. Isn't that wonderful? They are his words. And of course, after they were written down, they had to be copied, they had to be translated, they had to be published broadly, and all of that God superintended as well. I have given them your word and your words, Father. It's just amazing what we have. We have the words of the eternal God. Heavenly Father has given us words. The same Heavenly Father who used this word to speak galaxies into existence to bring life uh to the world, as he said, let there be, and he he breathed life into us through his own breath. The same loving Heavenly Father has given us his word Our relationship to Jesus Christ and to the Father goes through these words. They never circumvent these words. People have to deal with the words to know and understand God. And this truth is published everywhere in the Word of God itself. I want you to just a little bit of review to kind of cement this and convince you of this. If you go back a couple of chapters to chapter fourteen in John and look at verse fifteen, reminding you of what we covered back then. He's Christ is looking at his disciples You know, and you can fill in the blank any way you want to. If you were looking at someone and said, If you love me, you'll do this, what would you say to someone? Well Jesus makes it very clear, if you love me, you will what? Keep my commandments. Commandments are words They're very important words. They're words with authority. And if you love me, then you are going to keep my commandments. That's how I'm going to measure it. That's how I'm going to look at it. That's how I'm going to know whether or not you love me or not. Through the commandments, you see. A lot of people play down the commandments, but there Jesus is putting them in a very prominent position. There's no way to show love to Christ without keeping commands. Staying in the same chapter, glance a little bit forward to verse 21. Where he says, He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by the Father. There it is. It all runs through the words, all runs through the commandments, the relationship that is. Verse 23, keep looking. Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him. You see, that special relational love of the Father runs through the keeping of the word. Pretty important. Also in the chapter 14, verse 26, the helper of the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. Teaching and speaking involve what? Words. Even the Spirit is going to come in and help them remember the words so they could write them down. Verse 31, the last verse of the chapter. But so that the world may know that I love the Father, I do exactly as the Father commanded me. You want to know how my obedience to the Father, my Sinlessness to the Father is measured. It is through the fact that everything He told me to do, I did it. Everything. He's sinless. Goes through the words. Measured by the Words. Go into chapter 15, verse 7. It says, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish and it will be done for you. Our prayers and all of the Everything that we want done depends on our receiving the words, letting it remain in us, not abandoning from the words, and praying in the context and the meaning of those words, and that's how God uses us. even in our prayer life. And I could go on and on and on. I don't have time for this, just reading them quickly. Verse 10, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love just as I have kept them My father's commandments and abide in his love. Verse 14, you are my friends if you do what I command you. Verse 15, no longer do I call you slaves for the slave Does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard, those are words from my father I have made known to you In chapter 16, verse 13, when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you in all the truth, for he will not speak on his own initiative But whatever he hears, he will speak and will disclose to you what has come. Even the Spirit doesn't think up new words, he just hears what Jesus tells him and speaks because he's the Spirit of Christ and the Spirit We have speaking, we have words, we have truth, commandments, we have teaching. It's all about that here. For people today to think they can take the Bible lightly, a few things here or there, gloss over its meaning, not dive into it to try to really understand what it means, and still be loving and faithful Christians, I don't know where they get that idea from. But they don't get it from Jesus Christ. And people say this is a this is a kind of a serious kind of Christianity. No, beloved, this is a Jesus kind of Christianity This is what he said. This is how we are to relate to him. We're not inventing a new kind of church here. This is how the church was always supposed to be. When we come into the presence of Christ as we're worshiping together, his word is to have prominence here because that's what he wants for us, you see. Christ's whole basis for this second intercession, we haven't even got to it, is I gave them your words and they received them, and so now I'm going to make this request on that basis. Please notice next, back in chapter 17, verse 14, the consequence for their receiving the words. What happened after they received your words? It says in verse 14, and the world has Hated them. And the world has hated them. That's sad. They were hated. Why? Because they received the words. Do you get the connection What does that mean then? If we are hated because we receive the words, and the world is the one that hates us, the cosmos, the world system, then what does that mean? That means the world hates what? The words The words of God and God, yes. And God the Father knows that. He's not naive, he knows. He knows this world hates his words. His word is words. And Christ knows that the Father knows that. And so He's praying. That's one of the reasons he's earnestly praying for them. They received your words. Now, Father, they're in a vulnerable situation in the world. Because in receiving the words, now they're hated. Because they hate you and they hate the things that you say. And so first his first prayer for them is protect them, keep them. His second prayer is sanctify them. What does that mean? Separate them from the world for a special task. We're going to get to that. And how do you do that? In those very words as well, in that truth. That's how they're separated. Now, indirectly, if we step back from this and think about this, ponder a little bit, we see that this instructs us on something that he's not directly talking about in this passage, but indirectly we can learn. That the problem with humanity is not all the things that people think today. You know? It's not uh the way the government is this way or the government is that way. That's not the problem with man. We could have a conservative government, we could have a liberal government, people still gonna be bad. Okay? It's not unfulfilled desires. You know, a lot of people blame uh what happens in their life on their upbringing. Are you like that? Because of your upbringing you are the way you are. Quit quit blaming mom and dad and take some responsibility for your own life. People feel it's poor education. You know, because if we just gave them a little more education, a little more money, a little more job opportunity, everything would be fine with them. Now folks really feel there's something psychologically imbalanced about them. They blame the things that are going on in their life, their inability to keep relationships their fears, all of that, they blame it on some supposed chemical imbalance. They need their medication. And if you dig down to it, many people have that evolutionary worldview and they feel, well, we just we still have some of that That beast of us that comes out every once in a while and they blame that, that we're not as developed evolutionary as we ought to be. Those are not the problems with humanity. What is the problem? The problem is your average Jane and Joe out there hate God's words. That's their problem. God says so. That's a big problem to have. The non-Christians' hearts, their mind, their reasoning, they're the things that motivate them in the innermost part of their life, when we see them the way they are, not when they're obfuscating and putting off cloud up or redirecting or or lying on top of lies in order to deflect what's really going on. But when we see them for who they are, they are darkened. They're undiscerning They're wayward, they're sick, they're ignoble. Why? Because they've rejected and hated the the beautiful words of God, the noble words of God. The light that comes through the words of God that can only leave them in darkness, you see. They're so lost without God's words, but they hate them anyway. One writer commented we talking about society, we laugh at honor these days and are shocked to find traitors in our midst. They don't understand the consequences for hating the things that God teaches They talk about making progress and going forward. They have no earthly idea where they're going. They've never been there. They don't know what is down that road when you deny certain things. This world is not filled with sincere seekers of God trying to find God in a multitude of different religious expressions. That is such a naive understanding of humanity That's not how God looks at it. If it were, all we need to do is softly redirect them to Jesus, then that would be done. Nor is this world filled with basically good people who want to do what is right that just haven't been taught all that well Again, that's naive. If you want to expose what is in someone's heart, start kindly and humbly without letting yourself be the issue. Don't be proud, in other words. Start speaking to them the very words of God and see how they react to that. And when you see this first resistance, this walking away, this turning And then later the scorn, stop that, I don't want to hear that. That's true for you. When you begin to hear that, what you're hearing is their increased level of telling you, I am rejecting these words, I don't want them I remember coming back to a couple of my friends after I was saved and I was so excited and I was explaining things and one person said, You're living in a fantasy world. You're living in a fantasy world. I'm talking about Christ, and all this person could think of is that I'm living in a fantasy world. They don't even want to consider it. It's just pushed out of their minds. This world is filled with fallen humans who in their fallenness are God rejectors. And the conclusive proof of that is the rejection of God's Word. Christ said we're connected to God because we're connected to his words, and the world has rejected the words, and that's why you know they have rejected God and they're not connected to God. It's all about how you treat Scripture And when people don't bring that Bible around here, don't bring that truth around here. Be quiet about that. What they're telling you is I don't want God's word. Well, Jesus goes on, notice in verse 14, the world is hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Now Jesus was in the world at that point in time. We're still in the world. This is not in the world. This is of the world, of its system, thinking the way the world thinks, believing what the world believes. The world is mankind living in sin, reveling in sin, enjoying sin, all kinds of different expressions of sin. Someone doesn't have to be a drunkard to be a sinner, someone doesn't have to be a homosexual to be a sinner They can have very strong ethics as far as the world goes, and they're very proud of that, and they're proud in their systems, and they're sinners also. To be of the world is just to be part of the system of unbelief and misinformation, particularly expressed in false religion. The political systems of the world are part of the world system. The educational systems of this world are part of the world system. The entertainment, and please guard yourself against that, is always putting out the world's message through entertainment. And yes, the religious systems of this world are part of the world's system But Christ's disciples are not of the world. Their lives are not part of that system. Their thoughts and thought patterns and motives have not been trained by the world, but by Christ and the Father. We as disciples are not part of its sinful attitudes, its lifestyles, its false beliefs We bring all of our lives and try to, I hope that's why you're here, under the authority of God's word, so that the light of God's word can shine on your life and you can bring more and more of it conformed into what Christ wants. That your life is not your own. You've given it to Christ and you want to live it for Him, you see. All of it. What our entertainment is, what we laugh at, what our conversation is, all of it. What do you wear? What's your humor? What education do you seek? What career do you want? All of it under the banner of the Lordship of Jesus Christ, you see? And because of that, because we're those kinds of people, people can't relate to that, first of all, and then they hate that. That's not in a category they know other than these people just must think they're better than us and we hate them. And they have no discernment about what it is. You know, the world is tolerant. It's it's uh largely and widely tolerant, wouldn't you agree? A whole variety of religions and philosophical beliefs, but not God's word. God's word is not tolerated. It's really uh a hypocrisy on their part that they they preach tolerance and they don't practice what they preach. The world demands conformity. Boy, does it jump on someone in society when they speak something righteous, jump all over them and try to silence them And one person after another, I wish they'd quit apologizing and asked the others to apologize. You know, you say something, don't apologize for it if it's righteous. Make sure it's righteous. Don't conform. When you don't endorse what they endorse, when you don't think like they think, when you don't value what they value, laugh at what they laugh at, play the way they play. Well, even Peter wrote this in 1 Peter 4 4. In all this sin they are surprised that you do not run with them into the same excesses of dissipation. And when you don't, it says they malign you. That means they make fun of you. The idea that we live in a pluralistic society where you can believe what you want is true only up to a point. The moment you claim exclusive truth, exclusive exclusive ethics, you're hated But Romans 12, 2 says, do not be conform to this world. Don't be pressed into their mold. They will try, don't you let them? That means you have to have courage and you have to stand apart. They want you to join, you have to keep saying I have no part of that. I have no part of that at all. That's not me Isn't this the better place for you to be? Isn't this the better way for you to form your life and to make decisions, to bring it under the clear teaching of God's Word, and then move forward from that? Isn't that better? I like that song that says, You can have all this world, give me Jesus. That's the better position to be in. You're not part of the system. Christ, it says in Colossians 1:13, delivered us from the domain of darkness. Notice it's a kingdom And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. I like that. And then in verses 15 and 16, just real quickly, Christ repeats what he's already said, showing just how much of this was emphasized in his prayer I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. That's the repeat of his first request. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. And so let's move on to verse 17. We come to Jesus' second intercession. Here it is, the request itself, verse 17. And what is it? It's so short, but it's so powerful. Sanctify them in the truth. This is very rich. This is very, very rich. This is dripping with instruction. Sanctify them in the truth. That word sanctify, hagiadzo, the verb comes from a Greek word group that basically means holy, to be holy. What does holy mean? Holy means to be separate from what is common or mundane. Holy is something special. It's a has a special use. It it is not to be used in some common average everyday kind of way. It is It is special. God, of course, is called holy because he's the most separate and the most special. He's the definition of holiness. In Isaiah 12:6, there's so many examples. I'll just give you three from Isaiah. Isaiah 12:6, he's called the Holy One of Israel, a title used over and over and over again. Isaiah 40, 25. The world is asked, to whom then will you liken me that I would be as equal, says the separated one, the holy one, you see. Isaiah 6. 3, what are they chanting around the throne? Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, right? God is holy. That's obvious. But anything consecrated and used for God, that has to be what? Holy, right? Everything associated with God, everything for God's particular use is holy. Leviticus 22, 32. You shall not profane my holy name, but I will be sanctified among the sons of Israel. I am the Lord who sanctifies you. Even my name when it's used, don't let it be abused. The verb sanctify then comes to have that meaning of to dedicate or consecrate to something special related to God. The items in the tabernacle, where the tabernacle was used to worship God, all of the items then were said to be sanctified. They were set apart. You weren't to pick them up and use them for anything else. They're for God. They were holy. Don't misuse them in any way at all. The high priest of Israel had to be set apart for God's use. All special way in which he had to dress and all of that. Exodus 28 is an example. In verses 36 through 38, it says You shall make a plate of pure gold and shall engrave on it holy to the Lord, and you shall fasten it on a blue cord, and it shall be on the turban on Aaron's Forehead, put it right there on his head. Holy to the Lord, the high priest. Jeremiah the prophet was consecrated to God's service even in his mother's womb, it says. Israel for the nation of Israel under the old covenant. That seventh day of the week was set apart. That is, it was sanctified for the worship of God. Something sanctified must never be used for a common purpose. It's for God. It's for God's purpose. When Christ prays here for the disciples to be sanctified, he's not using the same word that he used back in chapter 13, verse 10 of the disciples when he called them pure or he called them clean. He said the disciples were already clean, that is, their sins were removed from them, they were forgiven, they were in relationship with God. But they were not yet set apart for the work that Christ was going to give them as he left the world. And so Christ now is praying for their consecration to a mission, consecration to a work left in the world. So praying that they will be sanctified is first setting apart these men for a holy mission Remember he called them out of their fishing and tax gathering and all of that, and now he is setting them apart for this mission that he's sending them on. And that is why immediately following this request, look at verse 18, Jesus mentions that very mission. He says, As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. The sending is the mission, you see The Father had already sent the Son into the world and set the Son of God apart for this purpose. Back in John 10, 36, he mentions that It says that Jesus claims to be the one that the Father sanctified and set sent into the world And now Jesus is doing the same thing for his disciples. He's sanctifying them, praying for their sanctification, setting them apart for his purpose in sending them into the world. Not only is Christ not praying that they will be taken out of the world, they are going to be sent with a mission to the world. Again, Christ speaks of this in verse 18 as a past event. That's interesting. But as the context indicates, it's still a future event when he's sending them into the world. He's speaking in the past tense, not because it's done, not because they're already sent, but because it indicates his determination to send them. In John chapter 20, verse 21, after his resurrection, Christ will appear to these same disciples, and he says, Peace be with you. And then he says, As the Father has sent me, I also, and there he uses it in the present tense. I also send you. What did that sending mission to the world entail? Well, he already told them back in John 1527. He said, You will bear witness of me because you have been with me from the beginning. They were Christ's literal eye and ear witnesses. They heard all that Christ said. Even on the mountaintop in the Great Commission in Matthew 28, 19, he says, As you go, make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit Teaching them to observe all that I commanded. You see, I gave you my words. Now I want you to take those same words, that same message, my commands, and go to the others and Make disciples of all the nations. That's what I'm sanctifying you for. That's what I'm setting you apart for. That's the mission. The Father sent the Son into the world on a mission. The Son is sending the disciples into the world on a mission And in verse 19, he even adds his own sanctification, and for their sakes, that is the disciples, I sanctify myself that they themselves may be sanctified in Truth. Jesus was cooperating with the mission of the Father, setting himself apart for that mission, going to the cross for their sakes. As he would die for them, sanctify them through the cross, send them on the mission after the cross Without the cross, there was no sanctification that would even be possible for them. Not only then is the mission to deliver God's words, but God's words would become the very means by which these disciples would be sanctified. They're sent into the world to deliver his words, but it is his words that will sanctify them. Look back again at verse seventeen now. Sanctify them, and now we're given the mode or means by which they will be sanctified. Sanctify them In the truth. It could be in the sphere of the truth or by means of the truth. How will they be sanctified? In what way will they be sanctified? In the truth. What truth does he mean? He means the truth. And so there's no misunderstanding. He adds, your word is truth. What does that mean? The Father will immerse Jesus' followers in the truth, the revelation that came from him through the words. And this will include sending the Spirit of truth to teach them more of God's Word, to bring them into the fullness of that word. So, what Christ means is sanctify them in the truth and by means of the truth. To speak more truth in their mission. The more then that we apprehend the truth of God We accept them. We let it permeate our minds. The more we are changed in the way we think about ourselves and God and what we're doing in the world, the more that happens, the more we're sanctified and useful in this mission to God. It is the truth that will set us apart. It is the truth that set them apart. And the truth of which he speaks is the Word of God. Please notice again, just to take the negative side of this for a minute, to add some understanding. I like doing this. Jesus does not say religion is the truth, right? He doesn't say any sincere belief will sanctify them and allow them to be witnesses in the world for my sake. He doesn't say that church tradition is the truth. He doesn't say the church's teachings are truth. Nor does he say that man's ideas mixed in with God's Word is truth, as if integrating philosophies and psychologies into God's Word somehow makes it better. No, he talks about something pure. He says, your word is truth. Your word. Halagas. Yours and particularly your word is true. Not just that, God's word is true. If we said that, that would be true. The Bible is true. God's word is true. That's not what he's saying. He's saying something deeper and more profound than that. Yes, God's word is true. Yes, God's word can be trusted, but he's saying your word is truth. That's even stronger. Today, someone may say, Oh, yeah, I see you read the Bible. That's good for you. I'm glad that's true for you. You know, postmodernism is a cop-out from thinking. That's all it is. Imagine someone saying, I see that you're enjoying gravity, that's good for you. I just don't believe in that truth. I've heard some workout people saying, I don't believe in aging, but aging believes in them. Jesus says in a completely unqualified, dogmatic, doctrinal statement, Father, your word is Truth. You cannot be a follower of Jesus Christ if you do not believe that. Alaihthea, truth. There is no other truth than truth. If there is another truth besides truth, there's another word we use for that. Lies. Otherwise truth isn't truth. It's imagination, it's fantasy. Ultimate truth, by definition, is ultimate. Logic demands that people believe in ultimate truth Ultimate truth is undeniable. Just listen to those who try to deny it. There's no such thing as absolute truth. They just spoke absolute truth. It cannot be denied. As soon as someone denies it, they contradict themselves. It's an undeniable proposition that there is ultimate truth. People just make fools out of themselves when they try to deny it. They have to state an absolute truth in order to deny absolute truth. And so, by virtue of the opposite being impossible, absolute truth is true. Anybody who does not accept God's words in the Bible as absolute truth is living their life in continual deception They are living in a fantasy world. The fantasy is not in believing the gospel. The fantasy is in not believing the gospel. There is a make-believe world. That we are good people with our own destiny in our own hands, scratching the living out of the earth, and this is who we are. That's a fantasy. That has never explained the truth of what has happened on this planet. We're talking about history. We're talking about anthropology. We're talking about truth. We're talking about what happened on this planet, who we are, what God is doing with this plan. Whatever education people are proud to have achieved, they remain truly uneducated if they don't understand this truth Jesus himself, of course, is the embodiment of God's Word. We heard that from the beginning. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word became flesh. And lived among us, and we beheld his glory. Jesus said, John 14:6, I am the truth. He is the word in flesh, the embodiment of absolute truth. What is ultimate reality? Jesus Christ. He is the truth He not only gave God's word, he is God's word embodied. He is God's message to man. How he lived, what he loved, what he spoke, that's truth. The Bible is not a witness to the truth that is to demean the Bible. The Bible is not merely a window through which we might behold truth. Neo-Orthodoxy taught that The Bible is true. It is God's words on a page. A person can believe all things to be true. But a person cannot make all things to be true. Some people today will say that They cannot believe the Bible is God's words because it was written by men. You wonder if these folks have given any degree of thought to that statement at all. Here Jesus is saying, Father, you gave me your words. I gave them to the disciples, and the disciples then would teach them and write them down. Where the words originated from is the main point. You don't say to a herald, I can't believe these are the king's words because you're heralding them. There's no logic to that at all What the disciples wrote down fundamentally were not their own words, but God's. They only became human after God handed them down to humans. But they were first the words of heaven. Why do we teach the inspiration of Scripture? Because this book is the only book in the world ever written whose very words come out of the mouth of an all-knowing God. And therefore the Bible is God's very breath. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is what? God breathed, right? That's what inspired means. We teach the infallibility of this book here. Why? Because truth never fails. In the end, truth always wins out. Remember what Jesus said about Scripture in John 10, 35? The Scripture cannot be broken. If you ever worry that things aren't going to work out, Jesus said, don't ever worry what the Scripture has prophesied. It can never be broken. Everything on this planet will work out what this book says will happen. It's in control of human history We teach the inerrancy of Scripture. Why do we do that? Because God cannot lie, Titus 1:2, and the Bible is God's words to man. There are no contradictions, no mistakes. Even when the Bible quotes Satan, it quotes him accurately and shows the folly of his opinion. We teach the authority of Holy Scripture. Why do we do that? Because God is the one ultimately who speaks through this book and God has ultimate authority. To put any teaching ahead of the Bible is to reduce the book and to take away its authority. This book and its teachings will decide your eternal destiny. That's the authority that it has. We teach the eternality of Holy Scripture. Why do we do that? Because God is eternal, and this is His Word. Our words will pass away. Thank God the philosophers' words will pass away. The false prophets' words will tintillate and deceive, and then they will pass away. And thank God the politicians' words will pass away Jesus said in Matthew 24, 35, Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. And Jesus never exaggerated. We teach the efficacy or power of Scripture. Why do we do that? Because God's words have power over creation and change and convert lives. When God speaks, things happen. First Peter 1 23, we are born again by the living and abiding word of God. We teach the clarity of Scripture. Why? Because God doesn't speak out of two sides of his mouth. or in hard to understand riddles, but provides direct, straightforward teaching. He expects us to understand and pass on, even to our children. We teach the sufficiency of Scripture. Why? Because when God decides what to speak, He knows what He wanted to speak, and He speaks enough, and what He gives to us is sufficient. Man's ideas only confuse the truth. There in verse 17 is your bibliology, brothers and sisters. Thy word is truth. It's all in there. Therefore, if we are to be sanctified, beloved, we must be sanctified by means of Scripture. Here and here alone we hear God speak The teaching of the Bible both sets us apart for our mission and renews our thinking, sanctifies us so we can be better in our mission. Don't let the Word of God rest on the page there in front of you. You have to get your heart active when it is being preached. You have to let it enter in. You have to, as Colossians says, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Romans twelve two, don't be conformed to the world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. How do you do that? By letting his words take over your words, by letting his thoughts push out your thoughts. Your thoughts have to go. They're no good. You can't be sanctified with your thoughts. Your fears they have to leave. Your lusts they have to leave. The truth has to come into your mind. The truth has to win in your mind. You have to surrender all aspects of your thinking. What you believe about this issue and that issue and that issue. Get rid of it. Find out what the word says. Be renewed in the spirit of your mind, as Ephesians 4. 23 says. It all starts with a dedication to study and contemplate the words of God. Many of you are into Bible reading. You need to be into Bible meditation. You need to be putting the Word of God in your mind and letting go round and round and around in there and thinking deeply about it. Christian teachers and pastors are commanded by God to promote the sanctification process in the church. They're told to speak the things which are fitting for sound doctrine. Titus 2. 1. I don't have a choice what I'm supposed to say. John the Apostle revealed his affection for his spiritual children in 3 John 4, where he said, I have no greater joy than this to hear of my children walking in the truth. There it is. They're doing what they ought to be doing. I'm happy. Frankly, we live in a day and a time where truth, especially theological truth, is just so unpopular and it's maligned. The wells are poisoned before people even have a chance to hear it. Oh, you're that kind of a church, huh? Rather than rejoicing in the truth, today's church wants to avoid truth as if it causes problems. The Bible teaches us the opposite. It says in 2 Timothy 1:14: guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us the treasure which has been entrusted to you. To treasure. In Jude 3 it says, contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. Fight for that truth. 1 Timothy 1:3, instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrine. Someone saying something weird in a small group or classroom or somewhere else. Timothy says, tell them to stop it. Don't let them do it. The church is even called the pillar and the support of the truth. There's no other institution in the world that supports the truth. 1 Timothy 3:15 You Christians, you seek a closer walk with God. You seek more victory over sin. You want the answer to your complex counseling problems. You want a better marriage. And who doesn't? You want less anxiety, and who doesn't? You want more wisdom for parenting, and who doesn't? Better control of your mouth, learning to hate your lust, controlling your eating. Have you forgotten that all of these are dependent upon sound Christian thinking? You say, I already know it. No, you don't. That's why you still have the problem. You know it at one level. You understand it. You can quote the verse, but it hasn't penetrated you. It hasn't pushed your thoughts out. You still have your old thoughts. You entertain God's thoughts only to a degree. They won't penetrate. You come to counseling, what are you going to hear? Leave some little pill we can give to you. This is the sanctification pill. This is what you've been missing on Sunday morning. I'm glad you finally came in for counseling. Open your mouth, and there it is. Now you'll be Christ-like. All we have in the counseling room is more what? Truth. And whose responsibility is to grow? Yours. Yours. Nobody can make you believe. Nobody can take away your pride. Nobody can push your thoughts out. You have to do that. Your sanctification will come, but if it's not coming, it's not coming because you still have your own thoughts in there. God's word just rests right next to you, and you're like, well, that's true, but it doesn't come in And it has to. You'll never be sanctified any other way. There's no book that you can read, there's nobody that can help you apart from that. It's your responsibility. You have to understand that. Why do you think it says in the early church that the first thing that the entire church in Jerusalem devoted themselves to was the apostles' teacher? Acts 2. 42. Hearing sound doctrine, hearing it, rehearing it, letting it grip their minds, helping them to see what they were not seeing and the way they applied it. Precision in biblical theology with a heart that is enthusiastic for its truths leads to obedience and victory in Christian living. When you're sloppy and foggy and you're thinking about God, when you're apathetic towards the word and listening to sermons, it results in Christians who know a lot but are still easily tempted and who fall constantly. Your distractions away from doctrine, your distractions away from careful Bible study and contemplation only hurts your faith It weakens the work of the Spirit of Christ in your lives. It keeps your minds from being renewed. The result can only be weakened worldly Christianity. Not sanctified, not useful to the Father, infiltrated by the world's thinking. Do you know how much of the world's thinking you listen to throughout the week? Do you fight it? Do you yell at it? Do you hate it? Do you reject it? Or do you just let it kind of dance around in your mind and say, well, I don't really believe that? In the midst of lots of religious activity, lots of doing church and messages, the church can still remain very worldly and often act like the world. We, beloved, are to be set apart for God. We can't do that if the truth doesn't change us. The truth is designed to make you different, to make you distinct from the world. You say, I don't like being different. I want to fit in. I like a gang to hang around with. Well I got news for you. You are different. You are an alien 1 Peter, you don't fit in. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Jesus is not Superman. He's greater than Superman. Superman is a myth of man's mind. Sorry, I saw the movie, but sorry. Jesus is true. He's God. We are sanctified to him. He's not of the world. We're not of the world. I love 2 Timothy. I'm gonna Close with this. Now in a large house, this is chapter two, verses twenty to twenty two. In a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also vessels of wood and of earthenware. You know you have in your Home special dishes and not so special dishes. And and some to honor and some to dishonor Therefore, if a man cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor. Sanctified. Sanctified. Useful to the master. Prepared for every good work. What must we do? Flee from youthful lust and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart. Be sanctified. Set your heart apart for God. See what God can do in a mind and a heart that's humble, that thinks like God, that loves the things that God loves. And the mission that we have collectively as a church, that you have individually as you yield to God's heart, will grow and increase. Don't be satisfied with this Keep asking God to work and penetrate our thick heads, our thick skulls, slow to believe, slow to understand. May the Spirit of Christ aid us in that. Amen? Father, may your spirit teach us and break down our resistance, our apathy, our lack of desire to plunge in and grow in you Our keep reverting back to the same ways that we used to think, not seeing all that you say Not immersing ourselves in your word. Father, may you be glorified as our hearts are changed, for we heard your word, may it be impressed on our hearts in Christ's name, and for his glory and the coming of his kingdom. Amen.