The church age has often been referred to as the age of the Spirit. This is not because the Holy Spirit was not working under the old covenant, for he certainly was But because his activity in the lives of believers has greatly increased in the present dispensation. The fifth book of the New Testament can either be called the Acts of the Apostles, or it can be called the Acts of the Holy Spirit, who is the Spirit of Christ working through the Apostles. So great is the Spirit's involvement in the life of the church, he is said to live inside the church, to dwell within the church. To empower the church and her witness to teach the church and guide her into all truth. To sanctify the body of Christ on earth until the body of Christ shows and demonstrates the character of Christ. You know, this increased activity of the Holy Spirit was prophesied. It was expected. If you were an Old Testament believer, you'd be expecting the age of the New Testament to come, the age of the Spirit. Joel wrote in chapter 2, verses 28 and 29: It will come about after this that I will pour out my Spirit on all mankind. And your sons and daughters will prophesy, your old men will dream dreams, your young men will see visions. Even on the male and female servants I will pour out my spirit in those days. The time of the Messiah was to be a time of the greater work of God's Spirit. Ezekiel 36, 27, I will put my spirit within you. And cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe my ordinances. Dr. John Walbert has a wonderful book called The Holy Spirit. And he writes this: one of the distinctive features of the dispensation of grace, in contrast to prior periods, is the fact that the Holy Spirit indwells everyone who is regenerated. The doctrine of the indwelling spirit is exceedingly important as the foundation of the many ministries of the Spirit to the saved in this age. Well, today we're going to hear Jesus describe this indwelling and overflowing and abounding ministry to New Testament believers. Open if you haven't already to John chapter 7. We return to this great chapter. We'll be reading just verses 37 through 39. Just three verses. Verse 37. Now on the last day, the great day of the feast. Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive For the Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Well, this is a shorter portion of God's word, and we're only taking this little piece because it is rich. Rich in theological understanding, and it is abounding in understanding Christian experience. What is your experience in the Christian faith? Does it match the words of Jesus here? For Jesus speaks not just of theology and doctrine, but of doctrine that impacts our experience with God. This is a very practical section. Of God's Word as well. Jesus is explaining here the movement and activity of the Holy Spirit of God in our age, no, in our lives. How it's supposed to be. It's challenging. It's humbling. It's also exciting. And I pray God will speak to you from this portion. The believer in Jesus Christ, we're told here, receives the fulfilling life of the Spirit of God to bring him greater joy. To bring him or her greater intimacy with God, greater and more powerful effectiveness in service and ministry. All of this is contained in the ministry of the Spirit. We're going to look at the passage in two stages here. We're going to first look at Jesus' invitation. Invitation to receive the Spirit of God. He's speaking to many unbelievers and he gives an invitation. That's in verses thirty-seven and thirty-eight. And then we're going to read uh John's explanation about the Holy Spirit in verse 39, his commentary on the meaning of Jesus' word. So we have the invitation in verses 37 and 38, and then we have the explanation in verse 39. Please notice again verses 37 and 38 and this great invitation to receive Jesus and receive the Spirit. And notice first in the beginning of verse 37 the time of this invitation that's given there. Now on the last day The great day of the feast. Stop right there. You may remember from our previous messages, Jesus is still at the same feast. We've been in the feast for most of chapter 7, really since uh verse 10. Scholars really are of divided opinion about what this last day was. Is the last day the seventh day, which was really scripturally the last day? Or was it the eighth day? They added an eighth day for further celebrations. John simply says it was the last day, it was the end, it was the climax, or whether it was the seventh day or eighth day isn't really the main point. This is the climax to a seven-day celebration. And so most of the people would be back into the temple. It would be the fullest at this time. It's kind of the climax of all the celebrations, so it would get a lot of attention And it is at this point that Jesus stands up and cries this invitation out. It is the great day, the most important day The one where all of the attention would be focused. And who is the one who gives the great invitation here? It's the Lord Jesus, right Look at his boldness and see with what zeal he proclaims this invitation. It says, Jesus stood and he cried out. Please don't miss that. Your pictures of Jesus sometimes may be uh Hollywoodish, you know. Jesus is always meek and mild and always talking soft and walking around bent over or whatever. And here we have Someone standing up with tens of thousands of people in this large area and crying out with a loud voice. I mean, he's a preacher's preacher here, okay? He wants everyone to hear it And he is the inviter. This large outdoor area, listen up and hear what is going on. Remember, we're still in the temple here in John 7. He cries this invitation out because remember, we're six months away from his departure. He's just talked about his departure. He knows this is uh one of the last times he's going to be in Jerusalem And he's uh making sure all of the Jews hear this invitation. It's an important invitation. The usual position for a rabbi in doing his teaching was being seated and having all of the students come and the disciples sit around him and this time he stands up, he wants to make sure everyone hears it and he yells it out. It's a fabulous invitation He's trumpeting out an invitation to the nation of Israel as the Messiah for them to receive the Spirit of God. This is amazing as you tie this in together with Peter's sermon in Acts 2, after the Spirit comes, and he again makes that offer as if Jesus is speaking through the Spirit and through Peter he again makes that offer. Repent and be baptized, every one of you, and you will receive the promised gift of the Holy Spirit What a wonderful invitation for the chosen nation, the nation of Israel, to enter into its messianic time and receive the Spirit. Well, let's look at the invitation itself. He says, if anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. And he yelled this out. He cried this out. This is really another invitation not just to receive the Spirit, but an invitation for salvation, to be saved. Come is the invitation. Jesus has open arms. He's not pushing people away. He's standing there saying, come. Come to me. Well, just come anywhere. Jesus is the Savior. He's the Messiah, and He's telling them, come to me. Come to me and drink. Now you know this was a mostly arid climate around Jerusalem, still is today. And so water and the freshness of water and drinking is a great metaphor to explain the longings and the needs of the souls of men and women. We thirst. We thirst for God. And here Jesus is saying, come and drink me. Come to me and drink. This is amazing If you don't have the water, you don't have the life. Water brings life. Water is vital for life. Wherever there was water, there was greenery in the physical realm. Wherever there was the water of the Spirit, there would be the life of Everlasting life. This is a similar invitation to the prophet Isaiah, chapter 55, and verse 1. Ho, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, and you who have no money, come, buy and eat. Come by wine and milk without money and without cost. What an invitation. Come. Don't hold back. Don't sit there. Don't push God away. Don't push salvation away. Come. What a great invitation. This idea of drinking kind of harkens back to the woman by the well. You remember? Back in chapter four, it's been a while. Jesus told that woman, everyone who drinks of this water, the water in the well, will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst. But the water that I give to him will become in him a well of water springing up to everlasting life. You'll not only drink, but once you drink, you'll have the well inside, and the well will never run dry. Now the image of drinking water here at the Feast of the Tabernacles that had the main symbol of building little booths to commemorate the Israelites wandering around in the wilderness, and so they built those booths temporary shack, so to say, so that they would remember all that time the Israelites spent forty years in a wilderness wandering around. That's the main image. So you why is Jesus picking up on water and talking about water in the midst of this Well, water was was uh an important symbol too, and Dr. MacArthur explains a little bit of a longer quote here for you. On each of its seven days, Dr. MacArthur writes, there was also an important water ritual. That ceremony was not prescribed in the Old Testament, but had become a tradition in the centuries just before Jesus' time. It commemorated God's miraculous provision of water during Israel's wilderness wanderings, such as in Exodus seventeen six, Numbers twenty, eight through eleven, and Deuteronomy eight fifteen. And anticipated the blessings of the Mesianic Age. Each day of the feast, the high priest drew water from the pool of Siloam and carried it in a procession back to the temple. At the water gate, three blasts were sounded on a shofar, which is a trumpet made out of a ram's horn, to mark the joy of the occasion. Isaiah chapter 12 and verse 3, therefore you will joyously draw water from the springs of salvation was also recited. At the temple, the priests marched around the altar while the temple choir sang the halel, Psalms 113 through 118. The water was then poured out as an offering to God. It was against the backdrop of that ceremony that Jesus spoke his stunning words. If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. If he gave this invitation on the seventh day of the feast, it would have coincided with the finale of the water ceremony Our Lord was inviting thirsty souls to come to him for spiritual, eternal life-giving water instead of the physical, temporal water of the ceremony. Now, Dr. Pentecost, Dwight Pentecost, in his book, The Words and Works of Jesus Christ, also adds this that fills in a little color here to understand Jesus' words. The Feast of Tabernacles reminded Israel of their experiences in the desert while they were strangers and pilgrims on the way to the Promised Land. In that arid desert, the nation often suffered from thirst. God again and again had miraculously provided water to satisfy their need. But what God had done for Israel physically, Christ had come to do for that people spiritually. If the spiritual thirst of the people was to be satisfied, they must come to him. The Pharisees asked the people to follow their traditions, and the Sadducees asked the people to follow their rituals. In contrast, Christ invited the thirsty to himself. They had to be willing to accept his word and receive his person in order to have their spiritual thirst satisfied. In other words, they had to come to Jesus and drink. What is drinking, spiritually speaking? When Jesus says come and drink, what does that mean? Well it's explained for us and defined right in this context as believing. It's not a ritual. It's not some ceremony in church people do. It's something that goes on in your mind and your heart. You become convinced and you believe. You believe it's certain. You believe in Christ. You don't just believe in some a abstract way. There's a person, he's the Son of God. You put your full confidence in in that person. Your eternal salvation rests on his promises, and you trust that and your soul comes to rest. That's believing It has to be genuine, it has to be sincere, it can't be flighty or misguided. You have to be informed and taught, and as you hear, you believe. And when you believe, you're drinking. You're going to drink from the waters of everlasting life. It is faith that allows you to drink. And what will happen to the one who drinks, who guzzles from this? Well, verse 38 speaks of the provision. He who believes in me, notice how that's correlated with drinking, as the scripture said, from his innermost being. Deep down in your heart, your soul, your spirit, what is the core of you? What is it the most central part of you as a human being from his innermost being Will flow rivers of living water. Plural, just to show how bountiful it is. Not just a river, rivers of living, moving Fresh water. They're speaking spiritually, of course. Well, the scripture that Jesus refers to here in the Old Testament isn't just one verse. He's not really giving a quote from just one. It may include Zechariah thirteen one, but other verses as well. It's more of an illusion than it is a quote And it just speaks of how the prophets talked about there will come an age of the Spirit, and the Spirit will work inside of people. And so the image of water is again and again spoken of in the Old Testament as relating to the work of the Spirit. The Old Testament scriptures have spoken of an abundant supply of the Spirit of God. They knew about how the Spirit of God was given to Moses and then given to the seventy elders The Spirit of God would come upon Elijah and then a double portion on Elisha, and they saw the work of the Spirit of God in the Old Testament, but it wasn't over all of the believers, and it wasn't permanent. And so there was coming an age when these little spotty works of the Spirit of God, as impressive as they were in the Old Testament, were going to be just a drop in the bucket compared to the overflowing ministry of God's Spirit. And again, I say this is very similar to what Jesus promised the woman by the well. Reading it again: whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. The water that we drink in this world, we drink and we get thirsty again. And all those guys that are, you know, giving us the power aid and all of that, they like that, you thirst. You satisfy your thirst, but you gotta buy again and buy again and buy again. Here Jesus gives us something and it's inside of us and we have a constant well inside. But you don't come to church for me to give you the Spirit of God. You already have the Spirit of God if you're a believer. It's in there constantly, no matter what circumstance you are in. We come together as believers to encourage one another and the appropriation of the Spirit of God, but you have the Spirit of God. He's in you. He lives in you. And he doesn't go anywhere. He doesn't run out. You may feel he runs out, but then you're believing your feelings, you're not believing the word of God. He's in there. He's powerful. He's abundant. He'll make your life satisfying and joyful. I'm getting a little ahead of myself. The water Jesus gives will itself become a well of water inside a person, constantly springing up, providing everlasting life and all that goes with that. It doesn't dry up with time. It's constant. It splashes around. It's refreshing. It's joyful. It takes us out of the doldrums. Clearly, Jesus is saying here, and please think about your Christian life, there is a great experience of life. Through the experience of the Holy Spirit, believers are supposed to have. We react to those who misunderstand and misuse the doctrine of the Holy Spirit in our day and age and we shouldn't react to that. We need to correct that. There are people that have misunderstood the baptism of the Holy Spirit and they've misunderstood some of the gifts of the Spirit. And that's caused a lot of confusion in the church, and it doesn't need to be. But we cannot react to that and push away the joy and the enthusiasm and the overwhelming Ministry of the Spirit of God in our lives. Jesus expected it to be there. And it can be mingled with sorrows. It can be mingled with those that are sober and serious, but it's there. We believers have a continuous flow of the Spirit of God inside of us. He is ever refreshing. He is ever there to comfort. He is always there to teach. He is always there to remind us of the joys of heaven to come. He's our friend. He abides with us. He never abandons us. Listen, you and I We try to be faithful to one another. I think we've got a good church here. We care about one another. But I bet every single one of you knows the way in which other believers have failed you. True? Spirit of God never will fail you. Never. We may fail him. He will not fail us. The Spirit of God is the greatest provision we New Testament believers have received presently. He's there with us always. And so the invitation to those who didn't know about this life at all is given by Christ in a dramatic fashion. Right as that water is poured out, Jesus stands up and it's corrective. If you want to understand this ritual in this temple, If you want to understand what God is picturing here, if you want to know what all of this is about, I'm here. Come to me and drink, and I'll give you life. It must have been stunning. Imagine how Peter and James and John sitting there and listening to Jesus would have been taking that and how they reflected back on this moment. Is your soul weary today? It's weary because it's been laboring but doesn't know God. Jesus says, come, come to me, and I'll give you rest. I'll give you peace. Is your soul weighed down with sin? Jesus says there's still forgiveness. Confess your sin. Be washed again. Be refreshed. Realize God has already accepted you and He knew all about your sin. Get busy serving Him with vigor again. Are you a religious person who's found no real satisfaction in going through the motions And going to church and doing this and doing that, and you've tried to be good all of your life, but it's never really brought you satisfaction in your life. It's because maybe maybe you're not even saved. You haven't even had the Spirit of God in your life You've accepted things intellectually, but the Spirit of God has not come into your life. Receive Christ. Drink Young people, you come to church, you're supposed to. Did you get dressed up nicely today? Did you wear something your parents didn't want you to wear if your parents wanted you to wear and you didn't want to wear? And you come Why do I come? That's what we do on Sundays. Can't wait for it to be over. You don't know. You don't know Jesus. You need to taste him. He's refreshing. Are you a skeptic? Then humble your intellect. God demands it, and believe in the greater intellect, the greater one. Hey, if he can give you life, he can answer all your questions. This is an invitation for any and for all. Well, in that context it was for Jews. Now it has been, Jesus said, go into all the world and preach the gospel. It's an invitation for all. Abandon the pride, leave your traditions behind, throw away stubbornness, drink from the wells of Jesus Christ. And it will become inside of you an overflowing abundant well. That's a promise that Jesus has given to us. Now let's look at the explanation next in verse 39. We had the invitation, but now John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, gives an explanation here. He kind of says, he's trying to explain to us the dispensational truths, what was happening in the process of changing from the old covenant into the new covenant. From the age in which Israel was governed by the law of God into the age in which Israel would be governed by the work of the Spirit of God, the new covenant age. And not just Israel, but also the church. Verse 39 at the beginning. But this he, Jesus, spoke of the Spirit. You're not talking about his own personal spirit or our spirit. He's talking about the Holy Spirit of God. Jesus spoke about the Holy Spirit. No question about that. That's clear. Jesus was offering to the Jews The Holy Spirit of God and the ministry of the Holy Spirit of God in washing them and regenerating them and filling them and overflowing in them. This is what the Messiah was supposed to do The Messiah would come, he would perform miracles, which Jesus did, he showed and demonstrated the power of the kingdom to come, a literal one thousand-year kingdom that's still promised to the nation of Israel He demonstrated the signs and symbols and the power that will be evident in that age. But he also came and he offered the nation of Israel What only the Messiah, God in human flesh, could offer them, and that is, he offered to give them and pour out upon them the Holy Spirit. He's functioning as the Messiah here in the temple. It's wonderful. Believers, all those who believe, and the nation of Israel should have been believing, they were the covenant nation, they could receive the Spirit of God. But this verse speaks of the future effect. Please notice that. You know, it it's future. Whom those who believed in him were to receive. And John the Baptist had talked about this This is all tied back to chapter one in the Gospel of John, where John the Baptist had his ministry. And back there in verse 32 it said, John the Baptist testified, saying I have seen the Spirit of God descending as a dove out of heaven, and he that is the Spirit remained on him that is Jesus. I did not recognize him, Jesus, but he, that's God the Father, who sent me to baptize in water, said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him This is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit John the Baptist comes, he says, I'm just doing the water thing. I'm just in the Jordan River. Come on down in here, I'll dunk you here. Someone greater than me is coming. I'm not worthy to s to stoop down and untie his song his his his uh his sandals. I I shouldn't even be at his feet. I'm nothing When he comes, and God says you'll know him because the Spirit of God will come down in bodily form and rest on him and stay there, and you'll know this is the one who has the power to baptize. to flood with the Holy Spirit. He is He's greater. He's a greater one And so here in John 7, John the Apostle is giving a little commentary saying that John the Baptist promised is still future, even at this point in time in Jesus' ministry. It's still future. The Spirit is coming. They were to receive the Spirit. The Spirit under the new covenant. Would fill the innermost being of a believer. Now this speaks of indwelling. Jesus Christ was a powerful teacher We're gonna see even at the end of this chapter when uh they come to arrest him. We'll get to this next week. They come to arrest him, and the sold soldiers decide after listening to Jesus preach that they're not gonna arrest him. Can you imagine that Your soldier, go arrest that guy. He's just a preacher. And you go and you start listening to him like I'm not arresting him. And he leaves, he exits. Where's Jesus? You didn't arrest him. I've never heard anyone speak like that before. I mean, Jesus was a powerful preacher But Jesus is not as powerful as a preacher because he is preaching externally. He'd say that the Spirit of God would come and preach and teach on the inside, and it would have an even greater effect on the planet. When the Spirit came. Amazing. That's why Ezekiel again said, I'll put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, because we're so stubborn, God has to cause it to happen. See. This is the doctrine of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And with the indwelling, the welling up, the abounding ministry of the Holy Spirit. The permanent residence and activity of the Holy Spirit in the lives of New Testament believers. It's what makes our experience wonderful. It's what makes being a Christian exciting. I don't understand people that say, I don't want to become a Christian because it's boring. I already did the non-Christian thing. That was boring You're always looking for something to excite that life. Get drunk, do this, do that, because life is boring. Why do you think they go out and do all of that? Their life is empty. Our life is a well. And who wants to go back to dryness? I don't understand that. But then people inside the church sometimes take this abundant life and they try to reduce it to a list of do's and don'ts. Here's what you do. Did you do that? Here's what you don't do. Uh-uh-uh-uh. And there's this list of do's and don'ts. You come in, feel very good about yourself, sit down, and you're a moralist. You're not a Christian. You're a moralist. You're following a set of rules. Who made those rules? Who made those rules? Christianity is the rule is love. Love God. Love man. Obey God. Submit your heart to Him and His rule, His Word. And let Him live with power through your life. That's what it's about. It's exciting. You know, the Corinthians were all into a lot of sin, and so Paul wrote to them. And these guys, these guys, remember when we went through Corinthians, those of you who were here, I mean they had a lot of sin, right? 1 Corinthians 6. 19. So Paul writes this to the Corinthians. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you? Maybe you've forgotten that. Because the way you're living doesn't look like it. Your body, touch it, squeeze it. Your body is a walking temple Of the Holy Spirit, who is present tense inside of you. Wow. And that means even when you're a sinner, you remain a temple. Because of the work of Christ, praise God. The Spirit doesn't look at your life and say, Too much sin, I'm going to exit and go on vacation for a while. No, if he could live inside of the Corinthians, he can live inside of any Christian. Sometimes the coming of the Spirit in this age is referred to from the believing side as receiving, receiving the Spirit. Lambano is a verb that's regularly used. It's used in 1 Corinthians 2. 12. Now, Paul writes, now we have received not the spirit of the world. But the Spirit who is from God. God sent him, we received him. And why do we receive him? Paul goes on to write: so that we may know the things freely given to us by God. It refers to someone who is welcomed and received into your life. We say Jesus wants to enter into your life, but Jesus has a body and he's at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. How does Jesus come inside of your life? He comes inside through the abiding presence of the Spirit of God. He is now the Spirit of Christ. Galatians 3:2 When uh the Galatian church was being deceived by some legalists, Paul writes and says, this is the only thing I want to find out from you. Did you receive the Spirit? By the works of the law or by hearing with faith. Ah, he had them right there, right? When you've got the Spirit of God in your church, Galatians, series of churches actually. Did you just start really working hard at obeying the law of Moses more and then presto, you got the Spirit of God? Is that how you Jews got it? Or did it come when I came preaching a message and you heard it by faith and you got the Spirit? Which one was it, Galatians? They knew the answer. So, why are you going back under the laws if that could give you something? And he really gets after them there for abandoning the gospel of grace and for abandoning the message that comes by faith alone. You know, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit is also described as a gift. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 38, Peter says, Repent and be baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. It's a gift. You know what you do with a gift? You hold out your hands and what? And you receive a gift. Yes? You didn't earn the gift. You didn't work for the gift. It's just given to you. You either reach out your hand and receive it or you don't get it It's a gift. Spirit is not a reward. Spirit is an unearned gift to every single believer. There's no Group of Christians, no denomination that has a corner on the Holy Spirit, that they have the Spirit, or they have more of the Spirit than someone else, that divides the body of Christ, and that is false. That is wrong. Every single true believer in Jesus Christ has the fullness of God's Spirit available to them. They may not be walking in the fullness of the Spirit, but He's available to them. When does indwelling happen to a believer? Do you get saved, wait for a period of time, praying and tearing for the Spirit of God to come in? No. Some of that waiting that happened in the book of Acts was because they were transitioning from the old covenant to the Into the new covenant. We've been in the new covenant now for 2,000 years, people. When you believe, boom, you're saved, and boom, you have the Spirit of God already. In fact, in Romans eight nine it says, if anyone doesn't have, have, see possess, if anyone doesn't have the Spirit of Christ. He doesn't even belong to Christ. You're unsaved. Every saved person has the Spirit of Christ. In Jude 19, when Jude is describing the apostates, one of the characteristics he gives of them is that they are devoid of the Spirit. Here they are preaching in church. They're devoid of the spirit. What does that mean? That they're not enthusiastic? No, it means they don't even have the Spirit of God inside of them. It's empty. There's no Spirit in them. No Spirit from God. Robert Grimacki, in his book The Holy Spirit, writes: genuine believers are in the Spirit, and the Spirit is in them. There is no true believer who does not have the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit. At the very moment of personal salvation, the Holy Spirit begins to dwell within the child of God, there is no interval of time between salvation and the reception of the Spirit. And the indwelling is permanent. Dr. Ryrie, in his basic theology, writes: if the Spirit leaves sinning Christians, then they are no longer Christians, according to Romans 8:9. The Spirit cannot leave a believer without throwing that believer back into a lost, unsaved condition. The security of the believer and the permanent indwelling of the Spirit are inseparable doctrines To be sure, sin affects the effectiveness of the Spirit in the believer's life, but it does not remove his presence from believers. Douglas Mu in his commentary on Romans says, However much we may need to grow in our relationship to the Spirit, however much we may be graciously given fresh and invigorating experiences of God's Spirit From the moment of conversion on, the Holy Spirit is a settled resident within. Do you welcome him? Isn't that wonderful? Settled resident within. You, believer in Jesus, are in dwell with the Spirit. But when was this Spirit to be given? Look back again at verse 39, if you would. And John ends with this: For the Spirit was not yet given. The Spirit was not yet given. Jesus spoke of the Spirit coming. John the Baptist said the Spirit was coming. The prophets had said the Spirit is coming. John 7, six months before the cross. John the Apostle says, Spirit's not yet given. Why not? Answer: Jesus is not what? Glorified. Jesus is not yet glorified. The time for the arrival of the Spirit to usher in the new covenant, to bring in the church age, not yet, not at this point, not during Jesus' lifetime. It had to wait for Jesus to finish his life, finish his work, go through the pain and suffering, into the resurrection, and even beyond all the way to his glorification where he was. He ascended to the right hand of God the Father Almighty. Never think the ascension is a small doctrine. That is Jesus' glorification. He was glorified on the cross. He was glorified in the resurrection. He was glorified even greater in his ascension to the right hand of God the Father Almighty. There is no greater position in the universe. or any in any universe that exists anywhere than the right hand of the Creator of all things. You'll notice when Jesus comes to the time of the triumphal entry, we're coming up on Palm Sunday and Easter, and he arrives there, he starts to say to the Father, My hour has come. Before this, he's saying, My time has not come, my hour has not come. And then he arrives on the donkey in Jerusalem and he says, Father, the hour has come for you to glorify me. And it starts with the shame of the cross, where Jesus would glorify God in demonstrating the incredible mercy and justice of God simultaneously on that cruel cross. And God would be glorified in that. Jesus, remember, had just finished speaking about his departure in verses 32 through 36, just the the text right before this. He was going to depart, he was going to leave to heaven, and so this glorification refers to his ascension as well. He's going to leave earth and he's going to ascend back to where he was before to the Father. So there was no indwelling ministry of the Spirit before Jesus departed from the earth. Some of you are going to come to John 20 and you'll see Jesus breathe on his disciples and he says, Receive the Holy Spirit. That's not the beginning point of the reception of the Spirit. That's not the permanent indwelling. Jesus had to depart, he had to finish his glorification before the Spirit could even be given. The indwelling ministry, as well as the baptism of the Spirit, as well as the overflowing ministry of the Spirit of God for this age. began definitively on one day at one moment with a loud noise, Acts chapter 2, the day of what? Pentecost. That is the day he came, and there was no mistaking at all. The disciples are praying in Jerusalem. Jesus said, Don't you go out and be any of my witnesses. Wow, that's interesting. One time Jesus told them, Don't do any evangelism. Go to Jerusalem and wait. Don't mess this up. Don't go anywhere. Wait there in Jerusalem until you're clothed with power from on high. So they're in there ten days or so, not very long. They're praying. They're being obedient. And not because they were praying, but because it was the right day, the day of Pentecost, because the transition in God's timetable from the old covenant to the new was right. It was the right moment Jesus, sitting at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty, for ten days, took the Spirit of God in the heavenly places and poured him out on his little band of disciples and they became at that moment the Church of Jesus Christ and they were full of the Spirit of God and they were indwelt with the Spirit of God and they were baptized in the the flood of the Spirit of God and that ministry, that new covenant ministry began in their lives right on that day. And Peter the coward all of a sudden is standing up and preaching and five thousand people are getting saved. And that's wonderful. And then he turns to the Jews and says, This is what Jesus said. He's raised from the dead, he's ascended to the Father, and he has poured forth this which you both see and hear. There was a sign to them, they heard the sound of the mighty rushing wind. They heard and saw the tongues of fire, and there was a miracle done for them. The Spirit has come. The New Testament age is here. Acts 2 ushered in a superior age, a better time. The new covenant is better than the old covenant. The age of the Spirit is superior to the age of the law. There's no comparison. And again, I say it all started with a promise by John the Baptist, at least here in our New Testament. I baptize you with water, but one is coming who will baptize you in the Holy Spirit. John took those hopefully repentant Jews and he dunked them in the Jordan River, and that's what the word baptize means. You all know that, right? Doesn't mean sprinkle, doesn't mean pour. The word itself means to Submerged, so really dip them down, make sure. That's why when we do it back here, even the tall ones, I gotta make sure all the way down their nose and everything gets under there. You gotta be totally submerged In that same way John the Baptist did it with water, Jesus is going to flood believers with the Spirit of God. This is wonderful. This was not the experience of pre Pentecost believers. It wasn't their experience. From time to time you read about a wonderful work of the Spirit of God in some of the Old Testament saints. This was not the experience of Old Testament saints, not even the saints in Jesus' day But I want to tell you something. You are a post-Pentecost believer. You are. So I ask again, how is your experience with the Holy Spirit of God? Is it a well within you? Is it a source of joy and excitement and energy and power? See, I think sometimes we get used to living the Christian life kind of the same way and we look left, we look right, we don't see anybody maybe a little more enthusiastic and we think Must be all that there is. Must be it. Don't think that. We have all of the Holy Spirit. But we have not experienced all of the Holy Spirit. Does that make sense? You have the Holy Spirit in his entirety, but Except for maybe moments and times, and I say this to myself too, we have not experienced the power and joy and love. And freedom that the Spirit of Jesus Christ in our lives in this present age was meant to bring to us. We can fall into the routines. We can, without even knowing what the list is, have a little checklist of what makes me a mature good, strong believer. And we don't realize that there are things going on in our thinking and in our mind and our heart that are wrong and they're holding back. We can grieve the Spirit of God, we're told. In the letter of Ephesians chapter 4. We can quench the Spirit of God, we're told in the letter to the Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. He'll never leave us, but we can minimize the experience of the Spirit of God, the joy of the Spirit of God. There is a fuller ministry of the Spirit that is to be experienced than it is by us. If I had more time, I'd take you to John 14, 16 to 17. And I would explain that to you. I'm just going to read it to you right now. I'll ask the Father, Jesus says. And he will give you another helper that he may be with you forever. Now listen to this. That is the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive. Because it does not see him or know him, but you know him. He's talking to the believers before Pentecost, but you know him, you disciples know the Spirit of God. Because he abides with you and, and listen to this, and will be, future tense, will be In you, those change that change of prepositions is very important. It describes the difference between the old covenant, abiding ministry of the Holy Spirit, and the new covenant, indwelling ministry of the Holy Spirit that is great. He is with you and will be in you. That's a great, great passage. John 14, 16 and 17. They knew the Spirit of God, but the Spirit was coming to give them a greater and greater experience. Well, I want to close by giving some application. We who have the indwelling of God's Spirit need to learn to walk in the fullness of God's Spirit. Lord, another way, as we read in Galatians 5, is we need to learn to walk by the Spirit. Walk by the Spirit. If you turn to Galatians 5, our scripture reading that we had earlier, I'll just point out a few things here. Galatians chapter 5. Just for a little bit of application here as we end. Particularly verses 16 to 23, where in verse 16 Paul gives these Galatians the command: walk by the Spirit. Walk by the Holy Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. Do that. Walk. You know walk is an image, right? Make sure that every day as you're going along and all throughout the day, don't walk by your own devices, your own principles, your own philosophy, don't set your own agenda in there. Get rid of you And let the Spirit of God be your leader. Take his hand and walk by him. You know, people say, let go and let God. Here it's saying, grab hold of God and let him lead you. Grab a hold of him. Walk by him. He's not at your side. He's not behind you to make you know do what I want, God. He's not next to you as a buddy. He's out in front. Grab his hand And let him lead you into Christ-likeness, into greater faith, into greater ministry, into greater fruitfulness, into changing your life. Walk by the Spirit of God. Do this day by day. You have to cooperate with this. This is a command, but it's an invitation too. We're commanded, be full of the Spirit in Ephesians 5:18. We're commanded here walk by the Spirit. The power and joy of the Christian life comes not just by mechanically memorizing some principles from the Bible and then living that way. It comes from Growing in your relationship with a person, Jesus Christ and the Spirit of God, and you grow to know Him better, and He leads you, and He loves you, and He helps you along. The power of the Christian life comes from the Holy Spirit. There is some passivity to the Christian life where you let the Spirit of God lead you and bring you along. As you're learning the Word of God and changing your desires and humbling you, and He brings you along. So there's a passive sense in which Our relationship to God is there. But there's also an active cooperation that we have to take. We have to take hold of His hand. We have to agree to cooperate. We can't keep pulling our hands off there and saying, look, I don't want to do that. Get off my hands. I'm going another way Because the Spirit, you know, he never really lets go of us, but in a sense he'll let us do our own thing there, and then he gets grieved and he's holding the hand of us, No, this is the way to go. This is the pathway to walk in. This is how I want to lead your life. This is who I want you to become. Don't be fearful. Don't hold back. Don't keep pulling and trying to go another direction. Listen to me. Trust me. I've been around a long time, you would say. I know how to do this. But this is scary to me. This is new to me. I don't know. Trust me, I'll lead you. The Spirit of God, the Spirit of Jesus is there. So we're passive and yet we're active in our cooperation. The power comes from him, but our cooperation has to be there Please notice the promise. If you walk by the Spirit, if you cooperate in that active sense, then you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. Did you carry out the desire of the flesh this past week? It's because you were not walking by the Spirit. How do I know that? Pastor, you don't know what I was doing, do you? No, I don't know what you're doing. But I know this: if you are carrying out the desire of the flesh, you are not walking by the Spirit. Because if you walk by the Spirit, I I read right here in the Bible, I think you read it too, you will not what? Carry out the desire of what? The sinful flesh. Say, but I've got these habits and I've got these evil desires in me, and I don't want anyone in church to know about it. Okay? If you confess, you need to get some help. You need to get some accountability. The Spirit of God uses other believers to help sharpen you. But this says if you learn to walk by the Spirit, it might take some time. Might take some failure. You learn to walk by the Spirit. I don't care if it's gluttony. I don't care if it's looking on the internet and lusting. I don't care if it's envy, coveting in the stores, I don't care if it's jealousy of some other some other person, you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. It's not strong enough to combat the spirit of God. You see the battle in the next verse, don't you? For the flesh sets its desire against the spirit of the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please. But the point is that of those two powers that are working inside of your life there's one that's greater If you walk by the Spirit, you'll not carry out the desire of the flesh. The flesh will calm down. The spirit will increase, and you'll see that happen in your life. And the sins that he's speaking of here, he gives quite a list, does he not? I mean that's a list I mean, whoa, I mean immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions, envying, drunkenness, carousing As you see people hanging out, you know, carousing. And things like these, if yours wasn't on the list, it's on the list. I want to close by giving you three or four or maybe five. Practical things, I'll do these quickly, that you can do to walk in the Spirit. Some of this comes from Dr. MacArthur's book, The Silent Shepherd. First, meditate on God's Word. Meditate on God's Word. Colossians 3:16, let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. What is meditation? It goes beyond reading and memorizing. Please understand that. You can read and memorize and not really be meditating You can be sitting in a sermon and not really be meditating. It means to listen deeply and apply it to your life situation. Quit preaching it to everyone else that you think needs to hear it and preach it to yourself. Open your heart to its meaning. Mutter the truth to you throughout the day. Meditate on God's Word. Second, keep a fixed heart on God all day long. Why do we forget about God? Why do we push Him out of our thoughts? Psalm 57, 7, my heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing. Yes, I will sing praises. Colossians 3:2, set your mind on things above, not on the things that are on earth. Here's a third thing to do Commune with God in lengthy prayer times. I'm sure all of you pray. How many of you pray for a lengthy time? To sit down and The all the distractions, get them out. You're not driving in the car, you're not hearing the kids cry. You found a spot that's quiet And now you're praying. And your praying is not five minutes. It becomes 15 minutes. It becomes 30 minutes. Do you have prayer times like that? It's kind of hard to walk with God if you don't have deep, rich times with God. Think about that. The end of all things is near. Gotta think about that with the Japanese earthquake, don't you? The end of all things is near. Wait, did is that from the headline? Now that's from the Bible. Therefore, be of sound judgment and sober spirit for the purpose of prayer. See? 1 Thessalonians 5:17, pray without ceasing. Fourth. Some of you need to quit grieving the Spirit of God. Quit grieving the Spirit of God. You've got a sin in your life and you're toying with it. You're keeping it precious there in the heart. You're not letting go of it. You're not even confessing it. You're telling God, yeah, I know I'm doing it, but you don't want to let go of it. You keep hanging on to it. You've got to tell somebody. You've got to get some help with that sin. You don't tell somebody, you don't humble yourself. That sin's not going anywhere. It's going to stick to you like a magnet You start taking it seriously. The Spirit of God knows whether you're just pretending to confess or whether or not you're serious or not. Get serious with God, He gets serious with you. Grieving the Spirit of God, you can't walk in the power of the Spirit of God. That thing, whatever that thing is, it's gotta go. Get rid of it. And then last, fifth, and last. Expect more. I guess that's the way I want to say it. Expect more Don't say in your Christian life, this is it. It's not it. It's not it. You have all you need. Every blessing in the spiritual places in Christ Jesus has been given to you, but you haven't learned to tap into that yet. Pastor, I've been walking for with the Lord for 40 years. I think I've seen it all. No, you haven't seen it all. You haven't experienced it all. There's more. There's abundant and continuous experience. Saints say all the time they've been studying and learning and growing and love Jesus more, and their joy is more complete, and their peace is unshakable. I'm still learning stuff. I'm reading and studying the Bible. But there's more. Dig in. Or get a bigger straw or something. And suck it up. Because he's a he, the it's a he, the spirit of God, and he wants you to have a greater, more intimate, more powerful walk with Jesus Christ. Amen? If you're disappointed, don't doubt God, because there's more to come. Don't ever doubt God. Heavenly Father, forgive us for our unbelief. Forgive us for our sin. Teach us to rid ourselves of our sin. Teach any of us who have become discouraged, disappointed with our Christian lives, Christian experience. That we would learn humbly to say, shame on us. May we believe, O Lord God. May we have greater faith That we may drink with greater gulps, that we may experience the fullness of your spirit, that we may abound with thanksgiving and abound with peace and abound with love for others. Work in us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.