Before we go there, if you've got your Bibles, turn to 1 John 3, verses, really verses 4 through 10. Uh last time that we were together we covered the first half of this or the first of this the uh number of points that we had. Um And we went through verses four through six. So we covered the first three of all of the points that we're going to we're going to cover another four today. But again We looked at the first of these and it kind of set the tone for what John is going to then continue to say in verses 7 through 10. This is such an important part, as I said last time, of the epistle of 1 John. Because here in chapter 3, not only does he remind us That we are children of God, but he reminds us that as children of God, sin is inconsistent with our life. And we want to talk about that today. But before we get there, let me read to you the passage. This is John again, 1 John 3, verses 4 through 10. John writes, Everyone who does sin also does lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. And you know that he was manifested in order to take away sins. And in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him sins. No one who sins has seen him or has come to know him. Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who does righteousness is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who does sin is of the devil, because the devil sins from the beginning. The Son of God was manifested for this purpose: to destroy the works of the devil. Everyone who has been born of God does not sin. Because his seed abides in him and he cannot sin. Because he has been born of God. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifested. Everyone who does not do righteousness is not of God, as well as the one who does not love his brother. Let's take a moment and pray. Father, as we come before you We want to thank you for the gift of your word. It is living, it is powerful, and it is full of truth. It is truth. Through it, you reveal your heart, your promises, and the path that leads to eternal life. We are so grateful that you did not leave us in darkness, but gave us the light of your truth to lead us to Jesus Christ. so that we would have new life in him. Thank you for Jesus, the living word. Now, because of his death and his resurrection, we are no longer dead in our trespasses and sins. But you have given us a victory over death A new identity, a new way to walk, full of grace, hope, and love. Lord, help us to treasure your word in our hearts. Let our lives reflect your glory as we grow in our obedience of faith. Teach us now to live differently. Not in our own strength, but by your Spirit working in and through us. May you be glorified in this hour, and may you receive the glory For all that you have accomplished. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, as we once again come to this passage this morning, I am reminded of one of the greatest privileges that you and I have, which is to be called children of God. That is exactly what we sang about. As the Apostle John tells us, that is who we are. If you have repented of your sin, if you have placed your faith in Jesus Christ alone for your salvation, then you are a child of God. And this is one of the glorious recognitions in all of the Bible: that in Christ we belong to God. He is our perfect Father, never to leave us nor to forsake us. And that in Christ we have been made to live like Him Sadly, though, there are many believers in the church today who fail to recognize who they are in Christ. So many have really no idea, or very little idea, of who they are and what they have. By way of possessing every spiritual blessing that is theirs in Christ Jesus. They forget how great a love That God has bestowed on them because of what Christ has accomplished on the cross. And because of this, they stumble with a lack of faith, a lack of assurance. And they do not enjoy the fullness of new life in Christ. A few verses earlier in John's epistle John wrote these amazing words. He said in chapter 3, verse 1, see how great a love the Father has given to us that we would be called children of God. And we are. We are. John wrote this because this is what God has done for us. It is because of His grace that He has made us His children And so for those who have put their faith in Christ alone, because of his finished work on the cross, he has given us his gift of life, and he has granted to us Complete forgiveness of all our sins, past, present, and future. The Bible tells us that if you have put your faith in Christ alone, for your eternal salvation, then you belong to him. You are now a new creature in Christ Who has been born again and born from heaven above? John says this is exactly who you are, not what you will be. But in fact, who you are spiritually, both now and forevermore. Let me just say the truth of the gospel is this. Positionally, at the moment of our salvation, God has made us to be his child. And again, prior to our salvation, we were by nature children of wrath. We were spiritually offspring of the devil. But now that we are in Christ, our condition, our spiritual condition has been changed radically. One of the benefits of being God's son or daughter is that we have received everything we need in order to experience eternal life now. In fact, as the Bible teaches us, there is absolutely nothing lacking in us spiritually when it comes to living the Christian life. Why do we say this? Because as 2 Peter 1, verse 3 tells us, God's divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the full knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. He has granted us everything. Everything. And it's not that God will give us everything we need to live for him. But that because of Christ's work on the cross, His ra and His resurrection from the dead, He has already given us everything we need pertaining to life and godliness. Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3, that God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing that is in the heavenly places in Christ. He goes on to say in Colossians chapter 2, verse 10, that in Christ we have already been made complete in him. So the truth about our new life in Christ is that our heavenly position, our heavenly possession are so certain, so secure, that Paul speaks of God's having already raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That is an amazing thought, but that is absolutely true. In other words, all of the promises we think that we're still waiting for. Those promises and those resources, they are already ours in Christ Jesus. We're just waiting for the physical fulfillment of them to take place. Again, as Philippians 1 verse 19 tells us, every Christian has what Paul calls the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. And we have the fullness of Christ dwelling within us. This means that God has already given us everything that we need for the fullness of Christ through the indwelling presence and power of the Holy Spirit. And the implication of this is that God cannot give us anything more than what He's already given to us in His Son. So as a child of God, we have everything substantially, comprehensively, that God has ever wanted to give us because of what Christ has already accomplished for us in his death and resurrection. There is nothing more that we need to receive from him in order to enjoy the inheritance of heaven and eternal life which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. So, if there was ever anything that we could be truly thankful for, it is the fact that God has bestowed on us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And now in him we belong to him. We no longer live for ourselves. Now, why do I say that? Because that is clear all throughout the New Testament epistles. As Galatians 2. 20 tells us, we live so that the very presence of Christ would be manifested through us. And this is exactly the testimony of every true believer who is in Christ Jesus. For those of us who are God's children, the Bible tells us we live for His glory, we proclaim His praise. And so that the gospel of Christ would be proclaimed to all the world. It is also that we would be a living, breathing testimony of God's grace in our own life. And so this is why when the Bible talks about the practice of sin, it's talking about something that is completely foreign to the very nature of God Himself. And if it's foreign to the nature of God, then how true is it foreign or should be foreign to those who are his children as well? This is why when God saved us through Christ, he also made the promise that we would live righteously before Him. That even though we would live righteously with an occasion to sin, the practice and the perpetual habitual practice of sin would no longer be characteristic of our life. God's children are made to live different from the world, are we not? John's argument here in his first epistle is that it a believer's lifestyle is meant to demonstrate The authenticity of their faith in Christ. And just as our lips are made to proclaim Him, the pattern of our life was made to follow Him as well. And just so that we're not deceived, for those who fail to live a righteous life, John says, they are nothing more than liars. They are in desperate need of God's saving grace. And it is that saving grace that comes through our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, what we clearly know from Scripture is that those who fail to live in a habit of obedience to God's Word They cannot produce the fruits of true repentance until they come to saving faith in Jesus Christ. And when it comes to the fruits Of a truly repentant life, the Bible tells us that this is how we know that we are God's children. Why? Because they walk in the newness of His life. And that's because God's children have been made to be like Christ. And this is how we know that we are born again in Christ. Because the change in our desires, our motivations, our attitudes, our actions, our perspective and our intentions, all of this speaks of a change in lifestyle, a change in dramatic proportions to what behavioral change could ever give Again, it's because we now have a new position in Christ. We are a child of God with a completely new disposition. And this is the point that John is making here in chapter 3, verses 4 through 10. Now, this morning I want to continue to examine why sin is inconsistent with the Christian life. And if you would allow me one sanctified indulgence, I want to approach this text In a way that encourages you as God's children to stay faithful to the Lord That despite our own weaknesses, our own failures, fighting against our own sin each and every day, the truth is Christ's perfect life His death, his resurrection, this is what ultimately assures us that we truly belong to him. And yes, please be convicted and repent of your sin. But likewise, fix your eyes on Jesus Christ, who is indeed the author and the what? Perfector, finisher of our faith. Because truly, he is the only one who can lift the burden of sin, to forgive us of our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Well the last time that we were in this text, I mentioned to you that our highest priority is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength That the reason for this is because this is the greatest commandment in all of Scripture. That how we fulfill that commandment is by giving by being given a new nature that desires to walk in obedience to God's word. Jesus said in John chapter 14 verse 15, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Well, whenever someone claims to love God, there should be this evidence that likewise they have a desire to live in obedience to God's word. And this is because the principle of equating the love of God with the obedience of Christ's commandments is at the very heart and soul of what it means to be a new creature in Christ. At the same time that we say that we love God, we live in such a way as to reflect the very character and nature of God. We do this by living in faithful obedience to his commandments, not because we're obligated to do so, but because we desire to do so and we want to do this. Now certainly we are not perfect, but we are faithful as God's children to obey. For those who claim to love God but live contrary to his word, the Bible says that person's faith is a forgery. That person is self-deceived. And that's because John says their sinful lifestyle and their empty confession of faith prove that they do not know Christ and they do not know God. Again, nor do they even truly love God. In contrast, a true believer is one who loves God and obeys his word. Now, last time we learned that sin is inconsistent with the Christian life because it's inconsistent with the law of God It is inconsistent with the law of God because true believers are those who live according to the precepts of Christ. Unbelievers, on the other hand, as we pointed out, they are the ones who live as if they are a law unto themselves. Both morally and spiritually, they live as if God's law does not exist at all. And why is that? Look at verse 4. It is because, as John says, everyone who practices sin Also practices lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. Sin by its very principle is rebellion against God. It is pride manifesting itself in a pattern of self-glorification. If I could put it simply, it's Reflecting God's word, or I'm sorry, rejecting God's word in favor of choosing my way over God's way. That is at the heart of sin. And the unbeliever lives this way because they reject the very will of God for their lives. Sin is lawlessness because it is inconsistent with the law of God. It rejects his precepts, it denies his promises, and it wants nothing to do with God's plan and purpose for their life. And that's what makes sin so abhorrent to the Christian, to the child of God. Well, secondly, sin is also inconsistent with the person and work of Christ. Look again at verse 5. John says, you know that he, Jesus, appeared in order to take away sins. Christ took away our sin, John says, because he was the only person perfect enough to offer the right sacrifice. Needed to appease God's righteous judgment on our behalf. This is why the Bible tells us that Christ is the propitiation for our sins. It is because Only Christ's sacrifice satisfies God's righteous judgment, and that's what the word propitiation means. Christ satisfied God's righteous judgment on sin. And as the only perfect righteous Son of God who is without sin, He alone redeems us from the penalty of sin by making himself to be the offering for sin on our behalf. And because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ, as we heard just this morning in singing the songs that we did, We also heard that the Bible teaches us so clearly that because of his righteousness we were made to be righteous before the Father. It is because we are the children of God. This is why sin is inconsistent with the person and work of Jesus Christ. Because in him John says there is no sin. It's because living contrary to the very person and nature of Christ, this implies that what he did on the cross then wasn't enough to make us right with God. And that's why sin is so deceptive, it's so deceiving. It tells us that we're doing good when we're really not doing good. But this is why it's also contrary to the Christian life. Well, thirdly, sin is also inconsistent with our knowledge of Christ. This is certainly what follows verse 5, but look at verse 6. More specifically, no one who abides in him sins. No one who sins has seen him or knows him. As Christians, we walk by faith and not by sight. And so the faith that God gives us is a faith that manifests itself through a true knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. That spiritual understanding is what manifests itself in our attitudes and in our actions. It is the knowledge of Christ that makes spiritual sin such an abhorrent practice in the Christian life, and for those who truly know the Lord Jesus Christ and by faith Embrace him as Lord and Savior of their life, John says, they will not continue in a pattern of unrepentant sin. And why is this? Because that is no longer who we are. Unbelievers practice sin and they do a great job at it. We once did a great job at it. But now we've turned our back on that. We've repented. And again, a true believer will not engage him or herself in a pattern, a habitual pattern of unrepentant sin. And this is because those who continue in a pattern of unrepentant sin demonstrate that they do not even know God. This is John's point in verse six. Those who practice sin have never seen Christ and nor do they know him John teaches us that this is one of the greatest deceptions of all the world in terms of religion, to claim to know him and yet not know him. To think that we are living as children of God when in fact there are people who are living as the children of the devil To claim to know him and yet continue in a pattern of unrepentant sin proves that the person knows nothing of the person of Christ or the knowledge of Christ. And so that then leads us to verse six. Or verse 7, because not only is sin inconsistent with the law of God, the person and work of Christ, and the knowledge of Christ, sin is also inconsistent with the righteousness of Christ as well. Look with me at what John says next. John writes, little children, make sure no one deceives you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous just as he is righteous. What makes that such a powerful statement is that it's consistent with the rest of the Word of God. As we come to verse 7, this is the second time John expresses his concern about those who would try to deceive us. The implication here Which again began back in chapter 2, verse 26, is that some believers in the church were being deceived by false teachers. Telling them things that were not so concerning the Christian life. They were being led astray from a clear understanding of who Jesus is. And what the gospel means in its application to our Christian life. And being convinced that the apostolic teaching of the gospel was an error. Well, here it seems that those who were false teachers were trying to convince true believers that they could live in any way that they wanted to live without it impacting their relationship to God. John counters that argument by stating very definitively, here's the truth. The one who practices righteousness is righteous. Just as he is righteous. It is that simple, that straightforward, it is a clear message. And it is because Jesus Christ is, in fact, the righteous Son of God. We were made to live righteously through him, for him, and again as a witness to the world. So, why would a believer ever want to continue in sin after coming to faith in Christ and acknowledging who Christ is? In contrast to those who are living ungodly lifestyles, John says, those who live godly in Christ are really the ones who demonstrate the authenticity of the gospel message. They know Christ and they know God. We were made to live righteously because Christ, the Christ of God's saving gospel, is a righteous God. He is righteous in and of himself. And the pronoun he in verse 7 has a direct reference to the person of Jesus Christ. John says, think about this. Who is Christ? And why is his life so critical to our Christian life? It is because Christ is God's one and only Savior. Not only is he our model, he is in fact our pattern. And therefore, there is no other righteous example for us to follow. The Christian life is one of following the example of Christ. And again, this is why Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11:1, be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. Ultimately, our pattern is Christ. He is the one that we see our life being patterned after And as we grow in the sanctification of our salvation, we see that we become more and more like Christ. The verb here that John is using, again, is a very important verb. It's a present active participle. And what it's basically saying is you could translate it this way, the one who is habitually, patternly practicing this kind of righteousness. And again, the phrase, the one who practices righteousness, is absolutely essential to John's argument throughout his epistle. The implication is that this kind of lifestyle should be the evidence that proves true and saving faith. It is a lifestyle that encompasses ongoing action, not something that starts and then stops for a while. It is not a sporadic, unpredictable type of faith, John says It is consistent and predictable in its lifestyle, and it's similar to the righteous life of Jesus Christ as we saw him here on earth through the Gospels. So the point is this: John's talking about a person who continually and habitually practices righteousness in response to what God has already done in their life through faith in Christ. And so let's keep this in mind. John is not talking about some kind of work salvation here. He is talking about a lifestyle that is born in God. And again, it manifests God's work. It is a radical change in disposition. And it proves the fruits of repentance that they have already begun to transform our life. Do you ever sometimes read Galatians 5, the fruits of the Spirit, and say, wow, I could I could never do that Do you also at the same time recognize that there are times when you do do that? I think it's in those times when we see that we are actually doing love. Love is patient, kind. Good, faithful. You can go on with all of the fruits of the Spirit. But when you list them all out and you see that begin to change your life, you begin to see how the character of God is born in you. And so again, this isn't something that we produce. This is something that the Spirit produces in and through us. And again, it proves the fruits of repentance that they have already begun to transform our life. It is identical to what Paul has already said in Ephesians chapter 2, 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved, past tense. through faith and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one can boast God's gift of salvation has absolutely nothing to do with trying to earn his favor. It has absolutely nothing with us trying to do what we know to be right. It has everything to do with what Jesus Christ has already done for us. And the faith that God gives us is the faith that comes from heaven above. Again, the result is a transformed life. And that's why Paul goes on to say in Ephesians 2. 10, and again, this is such an important connection to this issue of what it means to live the Christian life. He says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. We are God's workmanship. Again, not our own. We are his masterpiece. And we were created in Christ Jesus for good works, not because of our good works, but because we were created for his good works. And because of the good work that Christ has already accomplished in us. The good works that we do, now that we're believers in Christ, these are the works which God Himself And listen to this. He prepared them beforehand that we would walk in them. In eternity past, when God chose you to be in Christ At the moment you came to saving faith in Christ, the works that God had prepared for you in eternity past now became applicable. And you are now his masterpiece as a witness to the world. What John is saying is this And I take you back to 1 John chapter 3. When you and I receive salvation from God, at that very moment we become a new creature in Christ. And the result of that transformation is that we now live different from the world. A true believer who practices righteousness does so because the righteousness of God is given to them. through the person and work of Jesus Christ. The righteousness of Christ at at cr at the cross of Calvary, and the moment that you put your faith in him became imputed to you. It was credited to your account. And each and every day now that we live for God, we continue to make withdrawals from that account. And it is such a tremendously rich and beautiful inheritance that we receive. Sinful living in terms of the Christian faith is absolutely inconsistent with the righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ. It's inconsistent because it's inconsistent with the very purpose of Christ. And that then brings us next to verse 8. Not only is sin inconsistent with the law of God, the person and work of Christ, the knowledge of Christ, and the righteousness of Christ. Fifthly, John says, it is also inconsistent with the purpose of Christ. Notice verse 8. John says, The one who practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appeared for this purpose, and what was that purpose? It was to destroy the works of the devil. And I tell you, every Christian should rejoice in this truth. The Bible tells us that one day soon, when Christ comes back, the devil himself will be destroyed. Not destroyed in the sense of putting him out of existence. but rather rendering him powerless for all eternity. The first time that Christ came, it was for the purpose of destroying the devil's works Literally to render powerless every kind of sin that would undermine the very purpose of God in the life of every believer. Then the reason that Christ lived his perfect life and offered then himself as the perfect death on the cross was to render powerless the effects of sin and the works of the devil. As I mentioned last time, Jesus lifted off the penalty of our sin from us so that He would take our sin upon Himself. When we were crucified with Christ spiritually, he took away the power of sin to dominate and to determine the direction of our life. Well, when we were raised with Christ through the power of his resurrection, God then credited to us Christ's righteousness through the power of the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit. And so Christ then took away our sin by imputing our sin to himself and then crediting his righteousness to us. And now, as we walk in obedience to God's word, it is the Holy Spirit who then enables us to live the Christian life by practicing Christ's righteousness instead of practicing the devil's sin. And again, it is our own sin, but once we were children of wrath, and now we are not. Christ did this by again rendering powerless the works of the devil. In contrast to living a righteous life, John says, the one who makes it a practice to sin is spiritually of the devil. And that implies that the source of sin is of the same nature as the devil himself. One commentator put it this way: By neglecting or rejecting the moral requirements of the law, the sinner reveals that his priorities are rooted in the realm of the devil. Again, John says, there are really only two kinds of people who are living in the world today. You are either a child of God or a child of the devil. And those who practice righteousness are children of God, John says. But those who practice sin are children of the devil. The reason this is true is because of what Jesus said back in John 8 verse 44. And I love the fact that just a few weeks ago, Pastor Gabe made this so clear Again, Jesus told the Pharisees that the reason they did not believe in him and hold fast to his word is because you are of your father the devil and you want to do Here it is, the desires of your father. That is so different from a child of God. Well Jesus went on to say that he was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature. And he is a liar and the father of lies. Those who continue to live in opposition to God's word are by nature of the same as the devil himself. And again, it is because there is no truth in them. They do not live for the purpose of God, nor do they live for the very truth of God. And so John here reminds us that Jesus came into the world for the purpose of putting to death everything that represented the corruption that was in the devil. He came to destroy the works of the devil in the life of God's redeemed. And now Christ has accomplished that for us, and we are now a new creature in him. And I say hallelujah. The word that John uses here for destroy is the same word that can be translated to loose, to break up, to give release, to remove, undo, and render powerless and inoperable. Everything that separates us from God. That's power. That is power It means that Christ has taken away all of sin's potency in the life of his children. And why? Because when a person is spiritually reborn, Christ renders powerless every aspect of sin's dominion over us. And that's why we're not only saved from the penalty of sin, but we are saved actually from the power of sin. And again, how did Christ do this? He did it at the cross, where Christ is, where Christ, in his victory over the devil, breaks the chains of sin that hold us under his dominion. When he died and then rose again on our behalf, Christ forever set us free from the penalty and power of sin And one day soon, he will deliver us from the very presence of sin altogether. Oh, what a day that will be! Not only does Christ render powerless the works of the devil, but Scripture also tells us that he will render powerless Satan himself. Hebrews 2. 14 tells us, therefore, since the children share in flesh and blood, Jesus himself likewise also partook of the same. That through death he might render powerless him who had the power of death, that is the devil. So not only does he render powerless the works of the devil, he renders powerless the devil himself. For the sake of his children. And the point is this: Satan in the life of every true believer is a defeated enemy. He is already defeated. Christ came to render powerless any influence the devil has over our life, including death itself. Christ came to unite us to himself And his righteous life, we now have the promise of living forevermore because of Christ. And again, he came to render powerless the works of the devil and even the devil himself. And so, for the believer to continue in a pattern of unrepentant sin, this would belie the entire work of Christ and even Christ Himself as being sufficient to deliver anyone from their sin. If that were true, then God would be a liar to us all. But that is not the case. Christ has proven himself victorious over sin and death. We just sang about it this morning. And as a believer, John says, sin will also be consistent with the purpose of Christ. Again, it doesn't stop here because John goes on to say, what else it is inconsistent with? It is also consistent with our new birth. And that brings us to verse 9. Verse 9 teaches us that sin is also inconsistent with the believer's new birth. John writes: No one who is born of God practices sin because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. What John is saying here is this: genuine salvation is a matter of inward transformation. It is a complete change of a person's heart, soul, mind, and strength. It is not simply a matter of ch a matter of changed behavior. It is because the transformation that comes over us and in us and through us, it eliminates the power of sin, influencing us to rebel against God. And because sin is now profoundly inconsistent with the nature of God, it is now inconsistent with our nature as well. When a sinner comes to saving faith, here is what God does for us. He plants the seed of his new spiritual life in us. And what's implanted within us is the very Spirit of Jesus Christ Himself. And this is the miraculous work that God does for us. In John chapter 3, verse 5, Jesus said that only the Holy Spirit can produce true spiritual conversion. First Peter 1, verse 23, tells us that this can only happen when the Holy Spirit uses the Word of God to implant the seed of God within us. And through this process of changing us through his word, the Holy Spirit then generates new life and regenerates the sinner by resurrecting them from spiritual death to live for the glory of God. And when that happens, the believer then becomes what Peter calls a partaker of the divine nature. All of this is the work of God, John says. This is what it means to be born again. John says this this seed, this spiritual life from God germinates. It continues to abide in the believer's life. And as a result, the believer begins to respond adversely to anything that is contrary to the very nature of God. It awakens really a sense of filth in us recognizing our own sin. Ultimately, sin then becomes vile and loathsome to us. And whereas once we weren't even conscious of how bad our sin really was, we now find it revolting and shameful. For the believer, it is because God's seed has been implanted in us, and the pattern of unrepentant sin is now shattered. It is shattered. We now have the desire to do what pleases God when once before we didn't. Yes, we are still susceptible to sin. Yes, we still get entangled in our sin, but the reality is that sin no longer has control or domination over our life. We are now set free to be honest with who we really are and what sin is. And all of this is the work of God. Again, it's the result of what it means to be born from above. It produces a lifestyle of righteousness and love for one's brother, but not so for the unbeliever. Well, finally, look with me at verse 10. The final principle is that sin is inconsistent with the love of God. John says, by this, the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother. This again is, as I said last time, the key verse to this whole passage, and this is the main point of John's argument. The phrase by this sums up everything that John has just said since verse 4. And he really says the bottom line is this: you want to know why Christians live different? From the world, why they don't live in a pattern of unrepentant sin? It is because you're either a child of God or you're a child of the devil. And it's that obvious. Again, anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother Now we're going to talk more about what it means to love our brother next time, but what John summarizes here is that it doesn't matter what anyone says they believe. If you do not practice righteousness and you do not love your brother, you're not a child of God. It's that simple. How do we apply this? How do we understand this as it applies to our life? Very simply, if you are a child of God, Christ will change your life. He will change your life Whereas sin will keep you far from the Word of God, Christ will cause you to fall in love with the law of God. Whereas sin will cause you to doubt the sufficiency of Christ, God will cause you to grow in the grace and knowledge of Christ. Whereas sin will try and rob you of the knowledge of Christ, God will deepen your relationship with Christ. Whereas sin will make you question the righteousness of Christ, God will strengthen your conviction of Christ. Whereas sin will try and thwart the purpose of Christ, God will remind you of your freedom in Christ. Whereas sin will work against your new nature, God will empower you to be fruitful for Christ. And whereas sin will question your love for Christ, God will overwhelmingly strengthen your love for him and for your brother. The truth about living an authentic Christian life is it's not just about avoiding those patterns of sin in our past, confessing and then repenting of them. It is truly seeing those patterns of righteousness that are now taking shape and coming out in our life. The fact that a true believer is born from above bears a powerful witness on Christ, who is our life. And again, we may see how inconsistent sin is in our o in our new life in Christ, but what is so much more important is that our love for God's law, our attraction to the person and work of Christ, our knowledge of Christ um our understanding of the righteousness of Christ, our understanding of the purpose of Christ, our understanding of the new nature in Christ, and our understanding of the love for God, this will become the undeniable evidence of living a truly authentic Christian life. So may God continue, continue his powerful work Of conforming us every day more and more to the person of Jesus Christ Himself. It is to that end That we give him all the praise and all the glory for all the work is his and his alone. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the wonderful opportunity that we have as your children to live out your word. to demonstrate the truth of what John has just told us about the inconsistencies of sin to the Christian life. Father, I'm so grateful that in your gift of salvation, you didn't just deliver us from the penalty of sin, but you actually enabled us to live righteously before you and therefore render powerless the power of sin God, as we think about that, and we think about the wonderful grace that you have bestowed on us. We do long for the day when we will be delivered from the presence of sin altogether. Father, we give you praise, and we give you thanks, and may Jesus Christ reign. In his name. Amen.