Um I redid the notes extensively. Um I got rid of the epistemology section. Yes. Um I got rid of the epistemology section. It wasn't because it wasn't relevant, but I figured you could read it Um this idea of science and religion are how we approach what we can know. And so this word epistemology just means the study of how we know things. And uh it can get really deep really fast. By deep I just mean people make it overly complex. So the book stacked up fast. But I I skipped that section. Um all you need to really appreciate is Read last week's notes and understand that when we talk about religion and science, we're saying, how do I know something? How do I know it at all? How do I know it to be true or to be false? And our categories for that, the way we think about it, is in terms uh largely of science and religion. Whether that's an accurate characterization or not doesn't matter. It's the fact uh of how we approach what we know. We do it scientifically, we do it religiously, if I can use that broad characterization. And so that is what it is. But I took those notes out. I I want to cover some more important ground this morning. I want to take you through Reclaiming science is really what I told you I was going to do weeks ago now And it won't be reclaimed easily. I'm not trying to teach you how to win an argument with a scientist or a technical person. I am trying to teach you how to think about something so that you see a greater God. And we have uh now over two hundred years of delusion to try to undo. And uh it won't it won't be undone with silly trite responses And so I've tried to treat the topic significantly. I am going to try to get through these notes this week. I realize it's a bit dry, it's a bit academic. I think it's important. Uh but I would like to give it to you, let you recover, and move on. So here we go. A lot of reading today. Um evangelism or science The Scientific Revolution. There is a thing called the Scientific Revolution. The dating on it is a little suspicious. Most people start it in the 16th century with Galileo. We'll get to him in a second. Uh to be really honest, it probably started in the 1800s as people began misusing history in order to teach an agenda that they felt was more amenable to them, which excluded God, by the way. And so it has become, this idea of a scientific revolution or even science, has become far more evangelistic than it has uh what I'll say traditionally what we think of as scientific. I'm going to focus on the science aspect, but I do I am going to take some shots at religion today. I am convinced that we have entered this battleground of science. Which is a battle of a battleground, as people would have you think. But anyway, um we have entered this battleground and we have taken on the tactics of our opponents in many ways. And I'm going to occasionally insert a little jab, if you will, at the church. The church, writ large, not hope, right? Or at least not hope specifically. Um I'm going to take some jabs at the church. We need to be aware that we have adopted their tactics implicit their tactics implicitly, and we need to start questioning them And so again, I cautioned you last week, if I say something that's overly upsetting, come up ask me, give me a shot at it before you burn me at the stake. I'll do my best to address your concern. The war, the scientific revolution, really begins at the end of the Dark Ages, which, by the way, is no longer a scholarly phrase. Now you have to call it the Middle Ages. It was called the Dark Ages, because the contention was that the rise of religion in the first three centuries after Christ really just Created darkness. You know, barbarianism, right? Everybody was dumb. Everybody just said what the church told them to say. Nobody thought for themselves. Nobody looked at the world around them and did anything. It was a dark period of time during which the human race did not advance at all. That's the general characterization, and you can find loads of references to that in books or on the internet as you wish. Turns out when uh scholars that are historians caught up to that, they realized that was not true, and now they at least call it the Middle Ages while also referencing the fact that the church wasn't helpful. in promoting the advancement of men. And the history of the conflict between science or academics and the church really goes all the way all the way back to those early years. Um and we use words like science and scientific revolution. And uh you hear about 'em a lot in the media. You hear about 'em a lot when you're talking about uh being a Christian. I'm well I'm I I prefer science. I prefer scientific. I prefer what they really mean is empiricism uh again we'll cover some of these terms. So I just wanted to give you an idea of what the scientific revolution is called. It certainly picked up and I just brought one famous proponent of the scientific revolution, a guy named Bertrand Russell, very Very, very influential scientist and philosopher wrote this book on religion and science. I'll share a snippet from the book with you later. Uh but this idea of a scientific revolution is really freeing men and their minds from the ravages of the church, from the Bible, and from a stoltifying God. And so it's important that we pick it up. And by the way, anybody in the room that's like, why are we doing this? This is not a problem we have. Oh yes you do. Oh yes you do And I don't have time to drive that nail home individually with each of you, but yes you do. You grew up in a society that lives, eats, breathes, and sleeps results and consequences of the scientific revolution. You don't know you're wet because you're a fish in that pond. And I'm I I'm hoping to teach you that you're wet today. And hoping to inspire you to walk out into the sun. No allusion to evolutionary theory here. I was thinking about the bright sort of sun this morning on the way in, not uh Not anything else. Let me read this to you super fast, strapped in. Scientific revolution. Just a a simple uh definition, I think, from Britannica. Oh, yeah, it says from Britannica Uh drastic change in scientific thought. Notice that. Drastic change in scientific thought that took place during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. meaning Galileo forward. That's what the reference is to there. A new view of nature emerged during the scientific revolution, pro replacing the Greek view that had dominated science for almost two thousand years. Science became an autonomous discipline, distinct from both philosophy and technology. And it came to be regarded as having utilitarian goals, meaning it had to be useful. There was no point in pursuing science if it wasn't useful By the end of this period, it may not be too much to say that By the way, I'm not paraphrasing, I'm literally quoting here. By the end of this period, it may not be too much to say that science had replaced Christianity as the focal point of European civilization. Emphasis, mine. Words, not Out of the ferment of the Renaissance and Reformation, there arose a new view of science, bringing abstract reasoning. The substitution of a quantitative for a qualitative view of nature. Uh I I wish I had s more time to talk about each of these underlying phrases, but there's no time. You just can't think about 'em on your own Uh the view of nature as a machine rather than as an organism, and just so that you could track uh uh this idea of a view of nature as a machine rather than an organism is a direct poke at Aristotelian science. Aristotle is really considered even by scientists and skeptics and agnostics and atheists to be the beginning of science. His way of structuring thought and codifying it is really considered to be the first scientist, despite the fact that that word didn't show up until the 1800s Before they were called natural philosophers or philosophy of nature, which you'll notice was directly contradicted here, right? Science became a distinct discipline from theology or philosophy. So anyway, that idea of being mechanistic versus as an organism is a direct shot at Aristotle. Uh the development of an experimental what does it mean experimental? Somebody somebody give me a quick definition of experimental. Do you have a hypothesis? You build an experiment, you prove or disprove the hypothesis. Through what mechanism? It's important to engage the mechanism here. How do you prove or disprove the hypothesis? You Run an experiment, then the result of observation. Trial and error, observation, sense Right? It has to be able to be sensed. I have to see it, taste it, touch it, feel it, hear it. Right? It has to be empirical. That's what we mean by empirical. It has to be able to sense it If I cannot sense it, then I cannot prove it. I cannot hold it as true. There's an importance in here. I'm not dwelling on minor terms Do you see how this relates to what we talked about in previous weeks? Our preoccupation, our blindness to the supernatural, we have rejected it wholly. It's the ocean that we swim in. We swim in an ocean of empiricism. And when you have to feel it. Yeah. It has to be empirical or it's not true, which is not what philosophy said. Philosophy said the mind is able to reach toward things Which the body itself, the sense organ itself, may not be able to approach it at least now, if at all Because we're limited in Aristotle's philosophy and everybody else That followed after him agreed with that until we get to 19th century. That's important. Not 16th century, but 19th century Haters of God. And that's the only way I know how to put that and be honest about it. You gotta see their bias. You gotta see their bias. The development of an experimental scientific method, not scientific method, not even codified till the 1800s, by the way, and then by a guy that kind of regretted what people did with it afterwards. We'll talk about him If we get there. Uh scientific method method that sought definite answers to certain limited questions. Couched in the framework of specific theories. If you can understand what that sentence means, come up to me afterwards and explain it. And the acceptance of new criteria for explanation. Notice that. The acceptance of new criteria for how we Explain the world that is around us. Rip it out of the supernatural. Turn it entirely into how I perceive it. And that is how we define our realities. We were just in Luke. We're always in Luke on Thursday nights, because that's what we're studying, and we'll be there for the next decade as near as I can tell. Sorry, guys. But the whole lesson was on the healing of the young boy that has the demon and uh it's not in Luke, it's in Mark, but the the one where the father says, help my unbelief Okay? We were there. It was so simple. You know, it's just such a simple passage in Luke. Luke doesn't have all the ornamentation of Mark. And the lesson was simple. The circumstances are a boy that's sick with oh here we go again, I'm gonna forget. Epilepsy. Thank you. Keep forgetting what that disease is called. Sick with epilepsy, and he has a demon that hurts him physically even in addition to the epilepsy That's the circumstance. It's a bad circumstance. A dad watching his son suffer. And the reality, or excuse me, the experience That the disciples have is despite the fact that they've been given authority to cast out all demons, raise people from the dead, and heal all diseases, and they've been doing it for weeks and or months leading up to this point, they can't heal this kid So the circumstance is this sick kid, a a serious need. I'm sorry guys, all these small people are like, where you heard this? I'm sorry. This is a circumstance in real need. The experience, the thing that was sensed by the people and by the disciples was, this isn't getting fixed. It doesn't work God's power that we've seen evidenced previously is not at work in this situation. In reality, that Christ came and specifically stated is, you're wrong. Your experience is wrong. Your experience is motivated by you depending too much on yourself. Too much unbelieving. And unbelieving in that sense doesn't mean blind faith. It means not clinging, not holding fast to the truth Not, and the truth isn't just that you are empowered to cast out demons. The truth is I am a good God in heaven who is near to you and infinitely care about your circumstances. And so what does he say? He says this kind only comes after praying. He doesn't say that in Luke. He says that in Matthew and in Mark. But he says this kind of only comes out through praying. You tried it, you had a circumstance, you tried it, your experience didn't line up with what you thought was true. You should have turned to the Lord in prayer Not become naturalistic. Well, I guess it's not gonna work. I guess there's a limit to this goodness of God thing. I guess my case. Prayer and fasting was a little bit more serious. Right? You should have turned to the Lord. You should have turned to the ultimate truth But he's supernatural. And prayer has a supernatural end. So if I take a scientific approach, I'm left here going, well, I guess God doesn't care. Come on. You know that's close to where you live. When you pray, you know it is. I saw a hand, I didn't see where it came from. Good man. I'm just getting and the experiment and the trial and error. I think sometimes a lot of times the people we see we just And so the trial and the error with the experiment side would say that I speak to this the situation And it's gone, removed. So I think a lot of times we rely on that. But we forget that there is There's much more to that. The acceptance of new criteria for explanation stressing the how, how something happens, rather than the why. As a matter of fact, modern science wants to get rid of any idea of, here's another word for you, teleology. In other words, the purpose of a thing. What's the purpose? Historically, scientists were always pursuing the purpose. As a matter of fact, that was foundational to Aristotle's thought about all of nature as an organism. He wanted to understand what purpose it was created for, and therefore intrinsically what was moving toward. And science has done away with that Doesn't need to move toward anything. What's this idea of moving toward anything? As long as it's useful, and what we mean is to me, then that's what we do. Again, how does that creep into the Christian mindset? You understand that you are made for a purpose. You are saved for a purpose. Every person was made for a purpose. You are also saved to a purpose, a superlative purpose. That in your mind? Is the dignity of that thought? Is the humility of that thought in your mind? Men, when you look at a woman, this is one of the ways it plays out, and try and get you to understand why this is so important to you. This philosophy idea, this philosophy of science, a Christian mind. When you look at a woman, do you understand that she is made to reflect the awesome dignity of God? Do you understand that? Do you see what an atrocity it is to work that through some sense of you possessing it, of you having utility? From her beauty or other qualities. Do you see the scientific mind in this? We'll talk about Julia Thuxley He loved science. He was an evangelist for science. He was a scientist. He's a recognized scientist. But he promotes sexual promiscuity, open marriage, open infidelity They go together. They always go together. There is a whole institution at the University of Indiana dedicated to the study of perverse sexuality. And I won't share any of the details with you. I refrained from investigating too many of the details. Thousands of young men were sexually abused in order to accomplish the research that is codified and lauded in that institution under the banner of science. But it creeps in here. Infidelity in the church is a major problem. It's a major problem. When you think of men who have disqualified themselves for service in ministry, what what is almost always the chief thing? They saw a utilitarianism was something that God created because they failed to recognize the purpose for which it was made, the awesome purpose for which it was made. And his infinite and imminent dignity in walking with the image of that man or that woman, because it happens both ways, obviously I'm just more sensible. I'm never gonna get anywhere. I'm so sorry. You notice I say that a lot. So scientific revolution began in astronomy. And so we're going to talk about astronomy because it just makes sense. And by the way, I think I'm not sure, but I think we picked up astronomy because Aristotle did the biology thing, right? He was talking about it as organisms, and that seemed like a lost ground to people that wanted to have a fight with the church. And so they went to astronomy instead And so I just want to review what the battle actually looked like and then how we got to a place where we even consider it a battle. Because a number of the characters that uh play the battle out are strong Christians. Amazingly strong Christians. And if they knew What people like John Draper, who we'll talk about in a little bit, or Thomas Huxley, or Charles Darwin, we're were gonna do with their names. If they could do a quick Google search and see how their names are used on the top 100 bits, oh man I can't imagine how upset they'd be. I think they would wish to be unborn. I truly believe that. So a brief summary of the unwitting, maybe unwitting. I don't think Galileo was unwitting, but I think some of the others were, actually I know some of the others were. Actors in the battle over the geocentric versus heliocentric model of the universe. Just to be Clear on this. Should be obvious. Earth at the middle. Aristotle said there were concentric rings. He put the moon. Oops. No, he didn't. He put the moon here. Don't know what he put here They didn't have the solar system figured out yet. Everything here below was bad. It was men, and he could see that men were fallen and broken, and he had scripture to tell him that was true. And so he effectively said the created order, right? Matter of fact, Dante's descent. Remember Dante's book? On the descent, right? It was a descent because in his mind he was Aristotelian, and the descent was from good to bad. So as he went lower in Dante's Inferno, it got bad. Science would tell you was the opposite, arrogant men, through Aristotle sitting on earth proclaiming how all things revolved around them. That was not what you felt. But anyway, this is a geocentric view of geo. Oh, that's my company. That's not there. Eons what I work for. And then uh you guys should get heliocentric, right? Suncentric, heliocentric. Um Seeing we're revolving around the sign and it turns out uh that's all revolving around other things So that's the battleground of science, this geocentric versus heliocentric view of the earth. There is a biology of science that's happening at the same time in history That is not the battleground that was chosen for the science scientific revolution, so I'm just not discussing it, but it is there as well. Huge advances in uh in biology and genetics and medicine during this exact same period in time. So Aristotle, 384, 322 B. C. BC, right? First formulated the geocentric concept of the universe based on concentric orbital rings with the Earth at the center. Aristotle emphasized the corruption of the earth in comparison with everything above the lunar sphere. Aristotle viewed the world as an organism, and it's because he was largely a biologist. He came, his father was a doctor. And that's just what he grew up in. So that was kind of the basis for the philosophy that he practiced. He was also a mathematician and an inventor and a whole bunch of other things, right? But it it you you see the influence of his biological mindset in much of much of what he did. Including his cosmology, how we view what's out there. And he contemplated all organism as moving toward a goal or a purpose that was fundamental to his thinking. The church in quotes, right? Adopted this and nuanced the the goal or purpose that Aristotle talked about as divine purpose. Now it's not that Aristotle didn't think it was divine purpose, but he didn't land it squarely on it, as dogmatically on it, if you will, with orthodoxy, the way the church did. The church picked up on that and and really built on that with divine purpose. Not opposed to that. I'm just letting you know that there's a little bit of a uh magnification of what Aristotle thought by the time you get to that same the adoption of Aristotelian thought in the early church. And as a result, as a result of the church's adoption of that, anything that attempted to compromise that or question that felt like a direct attack against God. Now I'm not justifying that, I'm just telling you how it played out. If you were going to change how you looked at nature, you were challenging God. And changing this um changing this cosmology had serious effects even on the Aristotelian mind. They did contemplate. Uh what would happen if it wasn't geocentric? There's a a good opportunity I'll mention this if I get there. Uh there's a good chance that the first introduction to a heliocentric model actually came from somebody that came uh it came from the school of Pythagoras that didn't come out the way I wanted it to And he talked about a uh a fire, a celestial fire around which things orbit. It was very rudimentary, but he did at least postulate or theorize uh uh heliocentric view of cosmology. And it was rejected because it had implications. They weren't just trying to stay dark in their minds and their thinking, but it had implications If we are revolving around a greater thing, and there are other things revolving around it too, it suggests purpose. And we may not be the only ones. And then what do we do with Christ? Obviously Aristotle wasn't having this thought 300 years before Christ, but he may have been having some thoughts about the create creative work, the exclusive creative work of God in on the earth Right? We agree that in the beginning these things happened. And all the celestial bodies, according to Genesis, came into effect during the days of creation. Well what happens if we're revolving around other things? It seems to diminish the uh uniqueness, not not from a pride perspective, but just from a faithful interpretation of Scripture. And all the only point I'm trying to get to is people seriously considered this. But because they saw everything as having divine purpose, everything tending toward glorifying God and achieving the purposes for which God created it. This would challenge each other. And for very real reasons, and in the absence of good science, meaning good observational reasons to cast off their ideas and adopt new ideas. For 1900 more years, they largely rejected the idea of a heliocentric cosmology. Notice my last sentence under Aristotle here. This idea of divine purpose, this suggested the prevailing wisdom that the natural order reflected the purpose of a perfect God. And it should therefore reflect his order and perfection. Just want to comment that prevailing wisdom, with the exception of the last two hundred years With the exception of the last 200 years, that has been the prevailing wisdom. Of all men. Clearly that's not entirely true, but you get the idea, right? The course of philosophy of men, meaning the way they think about the world that they live in. Except for the last 200 years, has been that it reflected the purpose of a perfect God and should therefore reflect his order and perfections. Guy named Ptolemy comes around. Again, amazing man, amazing scientist. A Greek luminary living in Alexandria, Egypt, whose writings represent the culminating achievement Of Greco-Roman science. By the way, there's 26 odd footnotes in here. The whole point of spending the time to put the footnotes in is you're supposed to go read those things. Wander around. They're super good. I mean some of them are super bad, but they at least tell you something. Um And is responsible for the geocentric model of the universe. In other words, he took Aristotle's thoughts that were kind of vague and theoretical, kind of biological, and he added math and numbers to it. And so he came up with uh this idea of these had to be perfect circles, by the way, for the reasons we kind of alluded to, right? They were looking for perfection in all things that were created. And circles seemed perfect And so they had to be circular, but then he he did look up, right, with the naked eye, no telescope. He looked up and he's like, well, I can't get circles to correctly model what I'm seeing in the heavens And so we added these little epicycles, which is just the idea that a thing that is on this circle could also be rotating around, if you will, the circle itself as it goes. And that might explain the wobble that we see. in celestial bodies when you look up at the night sky with the naked eye. And and and what he came up with was a I mean a a mathematical model for how that worked. There's diagrams and drawings and just Presentations and it was discussed for years in various academic schools. This guy is a true scientist. He actually learned and discovered many things about the world that we live in. that we can trace all the way back to him and still say are true today. This is not one of them, but but this guy is a scientist, in the truest sense of the word, today And it was complex. It was cumbersome. It was unwieldy, his model. And he was unsatisfied with it. But it was the best he could do. And then Copernicus comes along and he's like, I am unhappy with the unwieldiness of the model. That doesn't seem to speak to the glory of God. It's cumbersome and awkward and you know like you're you look at it and you're left feeling unsatisfied. It feels like you reached for something that wasn't there, and that's not who God is God reveals himself. And Copernicus was dissatisfied with the fact that God wasn't well revealed in the cosmology of Ptolemy. Now, I don't want to go too far. I have no idea whether I will see all these men in heaven. I just know they talked about God like this. So I'm just telling you what I know. Whether they're saved or unsaved, whether they were orthodox or unorthodox, I don't know But he was dissatisfied with the fact that the current cosmology did not seem to satisfy the purpose of glorifying God in nature. It was unclear, it was muddy, it was unsatisfying. And so he literally picked up on this old idea, uh, who I don't I don't think I actually put him in here. I think I just made a note about him. Oh yeah, I did. Second bullet Pythagorean hypothesis written about by Philolos, or however you say his name, that saw the earth revolving around a central fire. So he picked up on that idea and he's like, well, let me try that one. And so he publishes a book late in his life. He writes a foreword to it, uh a dedication to it, to Pope Paul III. Making it very clear that he wasn't trying to be anti-religious in any way. He saw what he was doing as actually glorifying God and gave it to the church as like a, hey, look at this other way. We can see God But he was nervous about it. He realized his math, his scientific method, his empiricism was lacking. The idea was good But it wasn't well supported. So he he surrendered that in uh this book that's basically and he didn't name it this and there's some actual scandal around the naming of it and the first printing of it, but we don't have any time for that The six books regarding the revolution of the celestial bodies is how that translates. And so he submitted it out there. Again, Copernicus would be the first. combatant in the modern s notion of a scientific revolution. I took you all the way back to Aristotle to set the stage for it because it's important by the time we get to Galileo But Copernicus is the beginning. He's the guy that brought us out of the caves. He's the guy that turned on the lights in the dark ages. That's disingenuous. All he wanted to do was pull back the curtain a little farther on God. He wasn't trying to impeach God or the church in any way. He was trying to honor God. And he was trying to honor God because he saw that God, he believed, he trusted He considered, he contended that the truth of God is played out in the natural order through the things that God creates and holds in his hand and says Saints and makes live and exist and move always for his glory. He pursued a better model for the universe because, quote, he knew the universe was wrought for us by a supremely good and orderly creator. What a wonderful testimony. He developed a heliocentric model of the universe. I told you he confessed uh in his dedication to Pope Paul III that he feared that he would be hooted off the stage on account of obviously he didn't. say that in English just in case it's not clear. That's a paraphrase. Not my paraphrase, but it is a paraphrase. On account of the newness and absurdity of my opinion Despite the complexity of Ptolemy's system, Copernicus' system was even more challenging and more complex And so modern scientists would say, oh, look at Copernicus, the church didn't pick up his ideas and run with him. Even Copernicus thought his ideas ended up being worse He was trying hard, but he was unsatisfied with what he wanted what he ended up with. And in the church, men who believed in the veracity of Scripture and the existence of a sovereign creator. I just want to make that clear. When I say the church, that's what I mean. Do they always play out on the right side of the Roman Catholic debate or the Protestant debate or the the issues of Orthodoxy? Absolutely not. Matter of fact, a lot of times, wait till we get into the 1500s, they're killing themselves Arguing about different differences in orthodoxy. But they believed in the sovereignty of a creator God. And his immanence in creation. Yes, in creation. Copernicus' work was not condemned by the church, but circulated somewhat widely in academic circles As a theory, because it was fairly untenable, meaning impractical, right? But it circulated for almost seventy years Two minor figures which are important, three minor figures which are important with regard to Kepler and Galileo. So got to mention on this. Michael Maslin guy Professor of mathematics at Tubingen in Germany, once a Lutheran pastor, and an adherent of Copernicus's heliocentric theory. In other words He was extremely religious, believed in a sovereign creator God that was imminent in all creation. But he thought Copernicus had an idea and it was worth pursuing. And so he grabbed a copy of that book. Vic Copernicus published and he started annotating it. And then he took on a student named Kepler, Johannes Kepler, who, by the way, we still use his map to launch spacecraft in space and make them stay in the right orbits. Or move between orbits. This guy knew what he was talking about. Kepler. I mean Maselin may have too, but we have very little of his writing. We just know that Kepler was a student and that he gave a passion for this heliocentric thing to Kepler through an annotated version of Copernicus's book. That's what we know. Guy named Tycho Brahe Brahe Brahe Brahe, I don't know, I don't know how to say his name. That guy there. Um he with the naked eye did more to systematize astronomy than anybody else. His work was excellent. Systematically laid out a series of observations or experiments, if you will. Systematically logged the data for years and years and years, studiously and assiduously, kept careful notes on his scientific method. Remember, it wasn't that that word and it the whole circle that you learn in school. Not until 1860. eighteen thirty, eighteen eighteen something. Pierce. Dunning Pierce. But his work was excellent. And his work was the most accurate possible before the invention of a telescope and included a comprehensive study of the solar system and accurate positions of more than 777 fixed stars. I didn't make that up. I quoted it. I don't know how the number came out to 777. I did think that was a little odd. I would like to go fact check that before you know somebody sneaks in the sign of perfection there. But I just quote. And I did a lot of uh Encyclopedia Pradanica here so that you can look it up on your own. You don't have to use my books I still disagree with them a lot, but uh I did feel like their treatment of most things was a little bit better than a lot of the other online references, and so that's why I used that particular reference He rejected Copernicus' idea of a moving Earth because it created more cumbersome epicycles, those little rotations around the big circles. So notice that he he was like the worst of the systematic scientists that we have a record of. And he rejected Copernicus' heliocentric view because it was too cumbersome Like most other astronomers, a heliocentric view would notice that. Most other astronomers, a heliocentric view was rejected because of real empirical challenges. related to motion and gravity that were not solved or discovered until Newton. And I don't have any time to flesh that out, but basically if you're whirling through space, when you're in a car, you're whirling through the air And you drop something out the window. Does it go straight down? No. It it goes that way, doesn't it? That was a me that is a very rudimentary mental image, but that was a major problem for scientists. If we're whirling through space Why do cannonballs fall straight down to the earth? I drop them there and they hit right below me. Why don't they end up back there? And we know so much, because we've been taught so much, we're like, stupid. Obviously the air is moving with us, sub-duh. Right? But they didn't know that. Hand slipper say? Make glasses for heaven's sake. And he ended up coming up with this thing called a looker. Two lenses set in a certain orientation that could magnify things at a distance. And he applied for a patent to the Dutch government and he was denied. You want to know why he was denied? Because it was too common. There were at least two other people that had applied for similar patents In Europe, forget about you know Arab science and mathematics, which were considerable. Too common in Europe. No patent for you. But somebody gave this design to other people, like Galileo and Kepler, and they ended up building their own telescopes. Better, particularly in the case of Kepler, better telescopes. And that really launched the science of astronomy, if you will, or the discipline of astronomy in a way that it was never able to before. Trying to decide what I want to do with my remaining time. I'm gonna keep going a little further here. Kepler was clearly a student of Maslin and he was a beneficiary literally. Brahe gave him his data and said, please carry this on. Care for it and carry it on. He was given Tycho's data. And he felt a strong obligation and inspiration to continue in the excellence that Tyco had it implemented in his own stuff. And so Kepler was serious about systematizing the work that he did And he made significant improvements to the looker and he explained it mathematically So that he can improve upon it further, right? Instead of just putting two lenses together and going, look what I get, and if I move them farther apart, it gets this way, and if I move them closer, it gets this way, and if I make the thickness of the lens this way Right, that's kind of a trial and error thing. Kepler took it and he's like, I can explain exactly what's happening to here with light and refraction. And reflection. Although I think his was all reflection refraction at that point in time. And he did that and he improved it. Kepler's models for the motion of bodies in space are still used today and formed the basis. of our modern models, but Kepler wrote of being called by God to use his talents in his work as an astronomer to discover new ways to glorify God. created order. He was dead serious about that and he often was struck as as near as I can tell from what I read, he was often struck with the am I using my energy to glorify God in the best way possible by being a natural philosopher, which is what they would have called a scientist at the time. Or should I just enter the full-time service of the church? So where's the battleground, right? We're in the midst of the scientific revolution. Scientific revolution has started with Copernicus. Kepler's name is all over it as a champion of the scientific revolution. I I'm sorry, where is the revolution? Galileo comes on the scene. He comes from a father who is an amazing musician and somewhat of a Intuitive mathematician, maybe is the word I'll use? He was able to explain things about musical chords and the mathematical theory that supported them in ways that nobody had ever been able to do. Really brilliant man, but a musician. Also a kind of skeptic. Also critical of the established order in the church. Wanted to do it his way. That's his father. Galileo gets a little older. Smart man, by the way. Significant uh contributions to science. But it's recorded that his discoveries with the telescope, which are wrongly uh attributed to his invention His discoveries with the telescope revolutionized astronomy and paved the way for the acceptance of the Copernican heliocentric system. I'm going to show you what he came up with It's gonna be complicated, Matthew. Bear with me. Jupiter. By the way, none of the plans are circular. I don't know if you knew that, but that's important too and that's kind of He noticed with his weak telescope that it had three lines. And he noticed that occasionally They moved. And after seeing that for a little while, he theorized that those moons orbited this planet. But according to our idea of motion and gravity, that was not possible. That they should have just flown off You now know what the great discovery that turns men from religion to science is Jupiter's three moons. I'm not actually being funny. He wrote up about that. Now he is a scientist, so I'm sure there was more words. Probably a diagram or two. But there was no good in that Because Newtonian physics wasn't invented, and you need either Keplerian, which he he was a contemporary, hadn't finished writing yet. You need either Keplerian or you need Newton motion and physics to be able to explain how this is an explanation of a heliocentric view of the world. So he literally just went back and said, you know that terribly difficult system that Copernicus came up with? He is clearly right and you are clearly wrong. and Jupiter has three moons that w revolve around it. And the guys were like, super cool discovery. He didn't get persecuted for that. Yeah, persecuted because he was personal friends with the Pope, and he wrote a book about the church not accepting his heliocentric view because he was mad about it. Despite the fact that every other scientist throughout history has said this whole Copernican thing is a little hard to swallow, we're not willing to throw that out yet, because it doesn't explain this and this and this and this and this He was mad that the church didn't just, oh, well, Galileo. Sorry, we've had it wrong for 2,000 years. Your three moons just explain everything. And so he wrote this book, and in it, he satirized the Pope and made him an idiot. Literally introduced him as an idiot It was the companion, traveling companion of the guy that was supposed to be Galileo. While Galileo in the book, right, the guy that was Galileo in the book, lectured him on how to think about things And he responded in true to form, foolish, idiotic fashion. Now you want to know why the church decided to do an inquisition on Galileo? He got to meet with some of the leading academics of the time because they were the church. The church was responsible for university. The church was responsible for funding um study. Are you guys familiar with the word Seneschal? It was popularized in a Dan Brown movie called the the Vinci Code. I don't know what Um need someplace to look like thought. Um in the Da Vinci code. And uh I can't remember why they used the word, but it was the first time I bumped into it, so I looked it up because I didn't know what it meant Wise scratch aside. Um looked it up and I I still didn't appreciate what it was. So it turns out it is a word used for effectively a fake position that the church used to give people in order to fund them to go do educational and scientific things. And Galileo was the recipient of one of those, those offices. I think enough said on that topic for now. Please read some notes. I want to be clear about this. The hinge on the door of the scientific revolution, if you will, right? Is Galileo. They trace the history all the way back to Copernicus, but the hinge is Galileo. Right? Galileo is the one that showed us that men have suffered under the closed-minded foolishness of the Bible and of a sovereign, imminent, created God. And he was tortured for it. You want to know what the Inquisition, when they found him guilty, and by the way, he was cancer in his Because let's face it, three moons are not worth suffering over functions. You want to know what his function was? And how old he was? He was 70, pretty old, especially for that time. He's under SRS. While they continued to pay for that fake office so that he could do research. He suffered. He suffered terribly, didn't he? Torture. Extained house. His well appointed Church-funded house. I'm being overly sarcastic because it just makes me so angry how we use this figure who was a legitimately good scientist But also appears to me to be an amazingly arrogant man who wanted it his way. And I find it interesting that this is the personality that modern science Calls their creator. I find it telling that modern science picks a man like this as their creator. I cannot leave you with just scientific facts. And so I'm going to come back to these notes next week. I truly am. I am not working on notes. Angela, you've heard me say it. I am not working on notes this week. We're gonna come back. We are gonna finish this But I cannot leave you with these thoughts. Galileo was supposed to have shown us No. Galileo was supposed to have shown us that the idea that God is infinitely involved in creation. is untrue. And that all that we see around us can be demonstrated by what we can taste, touch, see, feel, and hear. And that it's mechanistic, meaning it can be explained through ordinary explanations, that there is no miraculous, there's no need for it, and as a matter of fact, there's no warrant for it. And you you will see in notes that we'll get to next week, that idea has been picked up To say that the reason we rejected a heliocentric view of the world is because we wanted to sit at the center, and when we sat at the center, we understood that God cared about us But now we've been liberated to think about the world the right way. Heliocentric universe, a small battle planet in the midst of this amazing universe. We realize how small we are and we've been put in our place. Of course, they never bothered to ask Aristotle what he actually meant, which was not that we were great. So that in and of itself is not historically accurate. But that's the contention, science, if you will, the prevailing organism of science. makes about our Bible from our God. And they even say, we finally had to stand up on our own two feet and realized that God didn't care about our wants and our needs and our pains. That's merely a direct quote. I think it's from Draper to double check, who we'll talk about next week And that same quote has been repeated and repeated and repeated and repeated, and it usually comes to your ears something like this. Well if you need a crutch There used to be religious. I'll stand on my own two feet. It's the same idea. Oh, you you no longer live at the exit or at the center of God's intentions and God's care. You have to deal with your own pain and your own needs and your own wants and your own circumstances And you know, you know, and I know, because I've listened to so many of you pray You know that that thinking has challenged your heart and mind. You wish God cared. You want God to care. You read about God caring in the scriptures. But when it comes to how you actually live your life, you often are drowning in the mechanistic, naturalistic, handle mine own pain. I was talking to a man I like a lot recently, and he and I were commiserating about our own response to the stresses of work in this way. We know that God enables. We know that God strengthens. We know that God asks us to do things one foot after the other that seem beyond our ability to do. We do not have or we don't know how we have the resources to take that next step. And we know that God asks us to do that just so that He can give it to us, so that we glorify Him. So that we know him, so that we can enjoy him, so that we can have the benefit of experiencing him in our lives right here, right now. But our response is so often, I'm going to try harder. I'm going to do better. I'm going to study more. I'm going to make more money. I'm going to learn more facts. I'm going to get more self-help. And God says that he infinitely cares for the world, as opposed to what Draper will say once I get there for you. And this is such a simple verse and I almost neglected putting it in here, but John 3, 16. For God, the world, do I? Are we going to break that one out? Huh? It's in scripture. We use it all the time, so it means nothing to us. But I'm challenging you to make it mean something. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son to redeem him. Who sacrifices their child for something they are not infant? Who goes to lunch and sacrifices what is most important to them on a whim for something that plummet lunch and I I think you know I want to be compassionate on this person I met at lunch. And so I'm going to sacrifice my son to make sure things work out for you. This is not incidental care. This is not occasional attention. You sacrifice your son for that which you care most for, or second most for Because I have it in my head that God cares most for his own glory. And I'm not trying to impeach that. Do you see how thinking about things the right way makes even verses like John 3. 16 be infinitely meaningful? I was rebuked by it. The verse came to my mind because I I understand what the words say and I was like, oh well that verse says it. And as I wrote it on the page, I was like, well I don't want to use it. It said kids verse. And I'm like, pfft, who needs a kid's truth? And I was like, is it? Is the kid's truth? Or for the first time in my life did I actually understand how valuable that verse is? Revelation 21, 1 through 4. John 3. 16 is what he did there to move us into a position where Revelation 21, 1 through 4 could be true. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven. Don't get all Jewish on me. Yes, the Lord will continue to satisfy his promises to the nation of Israel. Period But if you read the mind of prophets, whom he wrote to the Jews, all the nations would come there. All the nations would be adopted in. So don't get all Jewish, and that's just for Jewish people. Sure it is, because it's going to satisfy his promise there. You get to be a part of it too. Every nation and tribe and tongue. I saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. Prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. I almost skipped over it. You get that, right? Hugely personal. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. You've seen images of that in the garden and at Mount Sinai and in the tabernacle and at the temple and at that fire that happened on Mount Carmel. When he consumed all the rocks. You've seen little images of that. God's showing you what he's like so that you can live in the world that he created for you until he consummates the fullness of his purpose at the end. And we live in a world of misinformation that are trying to cover that up or make it seem unimportant or mythical or unreal. And as a result, you are busy trying to carry your own suffering. Little suffering, big suffering, tired suffering, frustrating suffering, heart-wrenching suffering, body-caring suffering. And you say things in an honest moment like, I wish. What? No I hold that God is good and infinitely cares about me and will direct each of my steps according to his goodness. And no matter how heart-wrenching and body-tearing will enable me, strengthen me in a way that I cannot possibly understand So that I might have a song of thanksgiving in my heart while I do that thing that is unbelievable Except you can't even think about it that way because you're so mechanistic and naturalistic in your thinking because it's been shoved down your throat every day since you came out. This is a fight for thinking like Christ. I will make my dwelling place with man, he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God, he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning Nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. That is the final word on today's lesson. That is your God Doesn't matter whether we're geocentric or heliocentric, he infinitely cares for you and is not limited by naturalistic experience In this life and the next, he will just keep being infinitely good and near and caring for you. Please, please, please check your thinking. Be a Christian. Be a little Christ in your thinking, in your acting, in your doing. Be transformed. Look for opportunities to live and think and breathe and talk. Differently as a result of these truths that you hold