All right, as you know, as you've heard, we we are going to be doing a study this year focusing on uh you could call it the attributes of God. And we're using kind of as a launching point this little book. You have a picture of it. Make sure you grab one of those sheets. We're going to read through that page that you have in front of you. But I I brought the book because I want you to see how small it is. This is not the existence and attributes of God by Stephen Sharnock, which is over a thousand pages This is a very small little book. It has 45 chapters. So what you have in front of you is chapter one. Can you read one chapter? I think you can. Uh every chapter is round about that length, some a little shorter, some a little longer, but all relatively short. And yet it is power-packed. It is dense. It is just a wonderful brief treatment of the character of God and all of his aspects of his being. And so the approach that we're taking for both men's and women's breakfast, we're doing the same thing across the board, is uh to start our study. We're going to read the chapter for that particular day for our study We're going to read that together just as a way to get the concept in our minds, and then whoever's teaching will then you know teach uh from that uh concept. So uh we'll read this here in a moment and then we'll look at the Word of God uh together. And then as Mike said, uh after that we'll have time to discussion. So on the back of that sheet you have discussion questions. And so I'll say a little bit more about that uh when I'm uh done with my portion of it. But that's kind of the the structure that we're following this year and we are confident that it will be a blessing and encouragement to you. So go ahead and take your sheet then and w I'm just going to read this out loud and you can just follow along. By the way, the author, George Swinnick, is a Puritan from the sixteenth century, f uh seventeenth century. Um the language has been somewhat updated to make it more readable for us, but it's still whenever he quotes the scripture, it's still in the King James, so uh I will do my best to read it in a way that Makes it sound like it's my native tongue. To begin with, God is incomparable in his being. He has an excellency in his being. Therefore, he is called his excellency God's name alone is excellent. His name refers to anything by which he makes himself known. In this instance, name refers specifically to God's being, that is, God himself. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. That is, God himself is a strong tower. His name is great in Israel. That is, God himself is great in Israel. Only his being is excellent because there is no other being like his. He is excellent in all, above all, and beyond all. God's name declares the incomparable nature of his being. And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thou shalt Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, I am, hath sent me unto you. God is, I am, a being that really is, and there is no other besides him. What angel or what human or angel can say, I am none, for this is the proper name of God. When God promises himself as a reward to his people, he does so under the notion of being, essence, or substance. In opposition to all other beings which are but shadows in comparison to him. I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice, judgment, that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance or treasures in modern translations. God will cause those who love him to possess what is. God is, and all other beings are nothing in comparison to him. Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance. Behold, he taketh up the aisles as a very little thing. All nations before him are nothing, and they are counted to him as less than nothing, and vanity. If we were able to conceive of the idea of anything less than nothing, then we would understand what all things are in comparison to God. And you just see that all throughout the rest of the chapters. Well, as you see, the title of the chapter is The Excellency of God's Being, but just reading the content there, you see the focus or the emphasis is really that God is incomparable. God is incomparable in his being. One of the great sins of humanity, which would include unbelievers and believers, though in varying degrees. Is that we think that God is in some measure comparable to ourselves At best, we kind of bring God down a little bit and we bring ourselves up just enough so that we can make some kind of a comparison between us and God. At worst, we pull God down below us Now there's a variety of ways that we do this. One way that we do this is by challenging or questioning how God rules or exercises his rule over the world And in our lives in particular. I don't mean by that that when tragedy strikes, that we don't uh that that that we can't ask questions out of confusion, perplexity, sorrow. And grief, but rather that our questions, when we're pulling God down, are really formed as a challenge Where we attribute God as having done something wrong. We judge him as doing wrong. When we do that, we judge God by our standards rather than letting his standards judge us That's the way of the world, of course, but even as his children, we can fall into that kind of a pattern of thinking And there are other ways that we try and make God comparable to us, and that will be one of the discussion questions for you to think through together. How do you or how do you see others make God comparable and in that sense bring him down? But because this is a natural tendency of the fallen human heart, it's helpful and critical for us to be reminded often that God is in fact incomparable. He is in a different category. When we study over the coming months the various attributes that we would uh recognize as what are called communicable attributes or attributes where we we uh experience or can exhibit them because we're made in the image of God We have to remember at the same time that God is not just better than us in those things like faithfulness or mercy. God's not just better than us at those things, perfect even. But he is those things in a way that is fundamentally and utterly different than us. We are in his image, but not in a way that makes God comparable to us And the scripture emphasizes this reality over and over. In fact, I want to read through a series of passages. That proclaimed this, and then we'll narrow our focus just down to one passage. But I want you to get a mouthful of passages That remind us that God is incomparable. So I want you to listen. I'm not going to give you the reference, well, I'll give you the references, but just listen and see if you can hear a common theme. Exodus 15, 9. Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders? 1 Samuel 2. 2. There is none holy like the Lord, for there is none besides you. There is no rock like our God. 2 Samuel 7. 22. Therefore you are great, O Lord God, for there is none like you, and there is no God besides you according to all that we have heard with our ears. 1 Kings 8:23. O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like you in heaven above or on earth beneath, keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their might. 1 Chronicles 1720. There is none like you, O Lord, and there is no God besides you according to all that we have heard with our ears. Psalm 40, verse 5. You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds, and your thoughts toward us. None can compare with you. I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. Psalm 71, verse 19. Your righteousness, O God, reaches to the heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you? Psalm 86, verse 8. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. Psalm 89, verse 6. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord? Psalm 89, verse 8. O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty as you are? O Lord, with your faithfulness all around you. Psalm 97, verse 9. For you, O Lord, are most high above all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods. Isaiah 46 verse 5. To whom will you liken me and make me equal and compare me that we may be alike? It's obviously the Lord's speaking. Jeremiah 10, 6 and 7. There is none like you, O Lord. You are great, and your name is great in might. Who would not fear you, O kingdom of the nations? For this is your due, for among all the wise ones of the nations, in all their kingdoms there is none like you. And then Micah 7. 18. Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever because he delights in steadfast love. Do you catch a common theme there? God is incomparable. There is no one like our God. He is high and holy. He is exalted above all things. He is lifted up. He is majestic. He is full of splendor. He alone is worthy of all honor and glory and praise and worship. And he, because he is unlike all others, is worthy of our highest attention and study. And yet, even as believers, we can take the revelation of himself that he's given to us through his word And we can focus our attention on those passages that talk more about us and minimize our attention On those passages that talk about him. In fact, let me do a little experiment here. I want to read just a couple verses, and then I'll ask you some questions. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Who is familiar with those words? I'm raising my hand not as an example of how to raise your hand, but because I'm I'm with you. Okay? Just about all of us. Who knows? Raise your hand if you know the reference. I'm putting my hand down because even though I know the reference now, I wouldn't have been able to tell you this last week. Um it don't tell me. But okay, raise your hand if you know the reference. Two, three, four. You can guess? Okay. Raise your hand if you know the context. Two? Okay. Three. All right. Very good. May maybe that's not a fair experiment, but I I think it suggests to us, it certainly suggests to me as I apply that experiment to myself, how easy it is for us to be familiar with passages that focus on us. You could even say what God does for us. And not so familiar with passages that talk about God. And the reason I say that is because those verses, Isaiah 40, 29 to 31, are at the tail end, the last three verses of a chapter, that are focused on extolling the greatness and the incomparability if that's a word of God. So what I want to do now is look at that chapter with you and focus our hearts and minds On this God who is incomparable. Now what we're going to do is really just take a brisk walk through this chapter. I forgot to set a timer here. 905. We're going to take a very brisk walk through this chapter. And I'm going to do my best, and I'm probably going to fail, to just make a few comments as we read through this chapter. Just Uh really my my goal here is to get this chapter into your mind so you know what's in it and perhaps you can go back to it uh on your own for the encouragement of your own soul. But just Quick context. Isaiah 40 is the transition chapter in the book of Isaiah. The first 39 chapters have an emphasis on judgment. Chapters 40 to 66 emphasize salvation. At the end of that first section, about chapters 36 to 39, focus on God uh preserving Judah from the Assyrians. And God preserving Hezekiah's life, and yet God promising judgment at the hands of the Babylonians. That's where chapter 39 ends. Chapter 40 fast forwards, if you will, and is written to the Babylonian exiles, which will be many decades after the life of Isaiah. Again, chapter 39 ends with a promise of judgment by the Babylonians. Chapter 40 and onward is written to those who will be exiled by the Babylonians, who are experiencing all of the troubles and challenges. of exile and yet they are receiving the comfort of God. What do they need more than anything? What do the people in exile need? They need comfort, yes. That's the first words of chapter 40, as you can see. Comfort, comfort my people. But the question is, what comfort do they need? And yes, they need comfort of God's promises. No doubt about that. Of what God will do to deliver them. But more than that, and of first order, is they need comfort in who God is. And so before God gets to his promises, he reminds them of who he is. Now in the first el eleven verses, in fact I'm I'm not even going to read that, I was going to, but just for the sake of time, it's kind of setting up the rest of the chapter. Uh God reminds them uh that uh he is going to uh deliver them. He tells them in verses one and two that their iniquity is pardoned, that they have received the due penalty for their sin Chapter verses three to five focus on preparation for the coming of the Lord, and we see that language repeated in the New Testament for the coming of the Messiah. And then chers six to eight uh remind uh the readers that uh unlike short-lived mankind, God and his word in endure forever. And then verses nine to eleven are just a general call that God is coming and God will shepherd his people. And you can almost anticipate the question with that statement that God is coming to shepherd his people in verse eleven with, how is this going to happen? What kind of God has the ability to come and rescue his people when they are scattered throughout the world, but especially under the power of the Babylonians and the uh subsequent rulers over them, the Medes and the Persians. What kind of God is there who can not only make these promises but fulfill them? And that's where verses 12 to 2028 tell us what kind of God. Yahweh is so to receive this conquer, uh it also we require him to also Be patient as well. That's right. It would take a lot of patience with God promised. His promise does a Christian. Mm-hmm. But we, as you beings, Black and we require patience. That's right. That's right, yeah. Of course we need to be patient and we can be patient when we know What kind of God our God is. Now the the method that Isaiah uses in writing this, obviously inspired by the Holy Spirit, is he asks a series of rhetorical questions and then he makes declarations. And there's five rounds of of this pattern. Rhetorical questions, statement. Rhetorical questions, statement. And in the first round, I'm just to give you the the outline of of the chapter there. The first round he proclaims that God is incomparable to the nations of the world. In the second round he declares that God is incomparable to idols. In the third round, he declares that God is incomparable to the rulers of the earth. In the fourth round, he declares that God is incomparable to creation. And finally, God is incomparable to us. So let's really just run through this passage. I'm going to be more like a a tour guide, if you will, just pointing out certain things as we read through it. Look at verse 12. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span? Enclosed the dust of the earth with in a measure, and weighed the mountains and scales and the hills in a balance. Let me just pause there. It's helpful for me, maybe it is for you, to imagine in your mind the globe. We don't know what Isaiah was capable of in terms of seeing the earth from the perspective of outer space, but we have that ability. And just imagine the earth and frankly the universe as a whole, and then bring yourself back down to earth. Put yourself in woods or on a beach Staring out at the ocean, and ask yourself, what would it look like for you to measure the oceans of the earth with the hollow of your hand? How many hollows hollow units would it take for you to measure the ocean? And now imagine God who created the heavens and the earth. Just you can just scoop it up in one shot. Or it says, marked off the heavens with a span. Take a a measuring line and measure the universe. Who enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, you know, take a measuring cup and got all the sand of the earth. Or weigh the mountains in scales. You know, grab yourself some kind of a scale, whether it's the balancing scale or if you have maybe one of those cooking scales or whatever. Go up to a mountain. How am I supposed to weigh this thing? And yet God, from the perspective of outer space, if you will, just how much does that weigh? Yeah. Yeah, and so that's another level of thinking through the uh extraordinary reality of God's incomparable nature. Verse thirteen, who has measured or directed the Spirit of the Lord or what man shows him his counsel, who whom did he consult, and who made him understand, who taught him the path of justice, and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding. So all of that Focusing not so much on the bigness of God, but on the intelligence of God, if you will, the knowledge of God, the wisdom and the justice of God, who spoke to God, who was it that taught God everything that he knows to cause him to do what he does from the act of creation of what was the wise way to to make the the nature of reality or the reality of nature to the functioning of life and the workings of mankind? Who was it that taught God how to do all those things? And of course, it's a rhetorical question. The answer is no one Those are the rhetorical questions, and then comes the declaration. Behold, the nations are like a drop of a bucket. And are accounted as the dust on the scales. Behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. You think of a bucket of water, no matter the size, and what is it like to take a drop? Does it have any impact if you remove a drop? on the bucket? Does it have any impact on the bucket if you add a drop to the bucket? No, it has no impact at all. In fact I confirmed this this morning Relative to the state of Texas, the entire population of the earth, if every human being was brought into the state of Texas, every individual person would get just under a thousand square feet of space Now there's no room for streets or anything like that, but we we could all live in Texas with a thousand square feet of space And again, zoom out what you know of what the earth looks like. The state of Texas is nothing compared to the whole earth. And so to God, to gather humanity together, if if all uh what is it, eight billion of us, eight point one four billion, Google said this morning If all 8. 14 billion of us got together and shouted and cried the loudest war cry you can imagine, it would burst our ears. But you go up what? Fifty miles? Can't hear a thing God is unaffected by us. In fact, when he says we are accounted, the nations are accounted as dust on the scales. You know, when when God wants to measure the weightiness of things, uh and in that day they would use rocks, weighted rocks for measurements. You don't clear the dust off the scale before you measure because the dust has no impact on the weight. God doesn't even bother because we are nothing. Lebanon, it says, would not suffice for fuel nor its beasts enough for the burnt offering. Lebanon was a forested area. You you couldn't burn all the trees in Lebanon, you couldn't sacrifice all of the animals in that nation to create a sacrifice worthy of God Verse 17, all the nations are as nothing before him. They are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. I know some of you work in spaces where, and I don't know the details because you can't tell me without killing me, but in spaces where you are necessarily concerned about other nations and what they're doing. And the threats that they bring into our country. And of course we the rest of us hear certain things on uh through the news and whatnot. And those things can naturally cause us concern, maybe a measure of anxiety, depending on your level of awareness. But those things have no impact on God. It is utterly meaningless to God because nothing has the ability to touch his power. He is incomparable to the nations. That's something to meditate on. The next one is he is incomparable to idols. Easy enough, verse 18, to whom then will you liken God, or what likeness compare with him? An idol? A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts it for silver chain uh for it silver chains. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. He seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. I forgot to bring in my office I have a uh wooden hippo that I got in Togo this summer. And just to think, you know, just imagine whatever you want to imagine, a wooden figurine, whether it's wooden or overlaid with gold. How does that compare with God? Something that's inanimate, cannot move? There's no comparison. Or third, God is incomparable to the rulers of the earth. Look at verse 21. Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in. Who brings princes to nothing and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness? Scarcely are they planted, so speaking of those rulers, scarcely are they Planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, when he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble. From our perspective, there are very powerful men on the earth who have extraordinary influence who with whether a stroke of a pen or a push of a button can bring untold pain, suffering, destruction in this world. And yet for God, they they're nothing. He he sits above the earth. To him, as he has to look down, you know, he uses the word grasshoppers, that that's almost too much of a compliment. Because again, if if you go up I mean we've all flown I think most of us have flown I I would assume by this stage in in society. When you're in an airplane and you're looking down and you're what thirty thousand feet up, whatever it is, can you see anybody? You know, other scriptures say that we're like a worm. Again, even that is generous. What are we compared to God? What are our rulers compared to God? We can get so Stressed, anxious, maybe even excited over the rulers of the earth, our favorite rulers, or the rulers that we hate so much. God just has to blow a stream of air and they just topple over like stubble. He's incomparable to the rulers of the earth. Then he says, verse 25 and 26 that he is incomparable to creation. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high. In other words, look to the sky, look to the stars, and see who created these things He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. The Babylonians worship the celestial stars. Are there any other kind of stars? They worship the stars And so in this statement, he is encouraging the people who are under the foot of the Babylonians to remember that the things that the pagans worship, God made those things. God has power over things over those things. God has a name for every single star, and not one is missing. He doesn't forget one, he doesn't neglect one, one that doesn't go out of existence without him knowing He is far more powerful than creation. And then finally, he is incomparable to us. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God. Alright, he's just paused there. We see language like that all throughout the Psalms where David and others ask questions of God in the midst of their suffering and their perplexity. God where are you? Why aren't you paying attention to me? How long are you going to let this happen? How long are you going to let my my enemies have victory over me? Those are common questions and we see it again right there. But it's one of those ways that When we think in that way, what we're doing is we're saying God is like me in that He can forget or He can disregard. But it says in verse 28, have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God. The creator of the ends of the earth, he does not faint or grow weary, his understanding is unsearchable. God doesn't forget. He can't forget you. He doesn't disregard you. He never loses track of you. There's never a moment in your life, no matter how alone you feel, where God has somehow uh left you to the side. God doesn't get tired of you. He doesn't grow weary from the circumstances that you're in. Scripture says he doesn't sleep, he doesn't slumber. He is not like you and me. So God is incomparable to the nations of the world, to idols, to the rulers of the earth, to creation, and to us. And these realities deserve far more attention than we have time to explore this morning, but the point is simply this: God is incomparable. There is no one like our God. And I've already taken up too much time. You have five discussion questions there. Obviously, you're not going to get to all of them. I would encourage you to Perhaps focus on just uh two or three of them. The first one, how does knowing the context of the incomparable nature of God enhance or change your interpretation or your view of Verses twenty-nine to thirty-one, which we're so familiar with, or at least we've heard about. Maybe you think about what our signs are thinking is Uh what are signs in our thinking or responses to life that indicate that God is more like us? And um gosh, I wish we had time for the rest, but Perhaps consider that last question. What is something you can change in your life to grow or to cultivate a right and exalted view of God? Let me pray. I'll let you discuss, and then you can pray for one another at your tables. Technically we're over at 9. 30, but no one's going to kick you out. So Um if you could help afterward with cleaning up, that would be wonderful. Father, thank you for this reminder. We acknowledge that we are Unable to fathom and to comprehend the fullness of this truth, but I pray that we would take a step forward in knowing you more by the power of your Spirit. In Christ's name. Amen.