As I get myself situated here, uh I bring greetings from the saints in Keito Equalar. Um Finn here's really a treat. Uh I have so many memories of this place and even what I'm wanna be sharing today. If you please open your Bibles to Psalm ninety-six, and as you get there, um have a lot of hello's to say to you. The first one goes from the Saints of Iglesia La Fuente en Quito. So they send their greetings. Uh they're excited that I'm here and they're praying for the service. We don't meet until the afternoon at 4 30 But I know that there's some people even wanting to connect to the live stream. So thank you to our dear friends there serving faithfully in the sound booth as well. Also, my son and my daughter wanted to make sure that I tell this to you They feel so loved by you guys. I know that uh Angela does a great job sending the Christmas cards because of Ecuadorian um postal service. Many times we get Christmas cards kind of in the summer, a year later. Um But other than that, this year it was just such a blessing that many people from the church decided to like help us with even Christmas. So I was here for a conference back in October And I had my bags full with gifts for the kids and it's just so special for them to open those gifts and it's like who they're from? They're from our friends from whole Bible church. And not only that they're cool gifts by the way, but that they feel loved The missionary experience is a really unique experience and we're really grateful to be here. So as we open the word scot today, I'm extremely grateful to be here, to be back in Maryland. I was a member of Whole Bible Church almost 25 years ago Um, it's crazy to see Teresa here because she was a baby back then, I think. Um I graduated high school here and I When I think of Maryland as one of the most special places in my heart. I'm really excited. This is the first time that my kids are here and even walking around then experiencing the cold for the first time uh and all that good stuff. Um But this is a special place not only because of those experiences, but because people among this congregation were key as I was asking many questions. The Lord had saved me. I knew that because I was saved, I needed to share about this beautiful gospel. I didn't understand completely what was happening in me, but there was new life in me. And I wanted to reach the world, but the way that I was reaching the world was not the most appropriate way Some of you guys that were back then still here remember that Juan Muncayo when I became a member I came forward to like be admitted to membership and I had a mohawk And I believe I also had a liberand. And my commitment was that we were gonna reach Jesus through punk rock music And I was extremely committed to that. And which is really interesting is that at that point someone asked me, it's like so so what should be the activity that is immediately Tied to this ideal mission. And and I asked you the same question today. As we've been talking about missions the last couple of days, it's important for us to realize like, so what is the main activity that comes to mind when I think of taking a short mission strip? Of of going overseas, of of sending these people and and there's many answers. So for me it was pretty much like hey let's make a difference on people's lives. For some of you might be like, hey like like we need healthy families Some other people will be like, you know what, my teenagers are having a hard time, so maybe if I get him on a mission trip to a different place of the world they get this cool experience and and maybe they'll come back transformed, changing lives. It's important to send people. Let let's go. Let's strategize. Let's support, which is important. Let's raise funds. Let's make sure that we encourage others. Let's evangelize. However, today we have in front of us a text that answers that question. What is the main activity that we should be thinking when we think of missions? And this text will help us frame missions the way that God praints missions and that we actually just sang it many times today and thank you for leading us in that way. So today please join me as we read Psalm 96. And I'm going to pray in a minute and especially pray that I don't start speaking in tongues in Spanish. Um So Psalm 96. Sing to Yahweh a new song. Sing to Yahweh all the earth. Sing to Yahweh. Bless His name. Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day. Recount His glories among the nations. His wondrous these among all the peoples. Verse four for great is Yahweh and greatly to be praised. He is more fearsome than all gods. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but Yahweh made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty. are in his sanctuary. Ascribe to Yahweh, O families of the people. Ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength. Ascribe to Yahweh the glory of his name. Lift up an offering and come into his courts Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness. Tremble before him, all the earth. Say among the nations, Yahweh reigns in these the world is established, they will not be shaken, he will render justice to the people with equity. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, let the seas roar as well as its fullness. Let the fields exalt on all that is in it Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy before Yahweh, for he is coming, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. As we think of this psalm, let's orient ourselves before praying. And this is one of the psalms along the neighboring psalms, like in this, this is the psalm attributed to David And if you go all the way to Psalm 99, these are considered theocratic Psalms showing how God is the one who leads, He is the one who rules, He is the King. So this could be considered what some theologians will call a royal psalm or an enthronment psalm. Some people might call it a the gratis song, like I said, and so it's a psalm that shows how God is the true king, is gonna rule and and this is the kind of song that was used in special moments in the history of the nation of Israel when there was a lot of joy. So maybe you never heard this idea of theocratic Psalms or royal psalms, but maybe you're reading through your Bible and as you got to First Chronicles you're like, it sounds really similar and you're right. When David brings the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem in 1 Chronicles chapter 16, verses 23 to 33, 23 to 33, you will see that pretty much it's word for word we which was read, with the little parts of one of five and one of six. Now at first this psalm might not seem like a passage for missions, but my desire today is that as we do a closer study of this beautiful psalm, we will see that the main Focus of missions. It's not about like going out, which is important. It's not just about sending. It's not about making a difference. It's not those things. Those things are great. They're important. They have its place. But the main thing when we're talking about missions is worship We need to be thinking about worship. Actually, John Piper, when he talks about that is that when we think about missions, this is the fuel and the goal of missions. is worship. And we're gonna see three things in the psalm. Number one, we're gonna spend more time in point number one, is the call for missions. For those of you guys that like to take notes, the call for missions. Number two, the motivation for missions. And number three, the future of missions. Okay? So with that in mind, please. Join me as we pray. Oh Padre del Cielo. Heavenly Father, we come before you. Thank you so much for this sweet church. And Lord, as today we we bend our knee once again to the only one that is worth it. Lord, I pray that you will use my feeble attempts to speak of something so profound, so beautiful, Lord. So I need you to make this happen, Lord. So Father God, may Juan Muncayo, may even whoever is serving become really small, so Christ will be seen as the most beautiful because he is. So Lord, we commit the sign to you. In the name of Christ we pray. Amen. Point number one, the call to missions. So please join me as we looked at verses one through three. Sing to Yahweh a new song. Sing to Yahweh all the earth. Sing to Yahweh, bless his name. Proclaim good news of his salvation from day to day. Recount his glory among the nations, his wondrous deeds among all the people. So the first thing that comes to your attention I think is pretty pretty clear is this repetition, right? The word sing comes in in rapid succession three times What is also obvious is the word sing in the original is what is a command. This is an imperative. This is the voice of an order. This is not God saying, hey, if you have time, make sure that like you sing He's not saying like you know what, let's use some singing as part to like people get people to get to church. Sometimes they're a little late, you know, so transition for the word of God. No. This is a commandment, this is extremely important. And I have a special place for this idea of singing because as I shared before, my desire was to reach the world through music. And I've seen music used in many ways that are appropriate and not so appropriate. I minister in Latin America and something foundational is that people love to sing. They we love music, we love rhythms. But one of the things that we need to understand is that worship is not just about singing. And singing can be used in many different ways. I have a funny story to tell you. So I heard the story from a church member at La Fuente, at my church, in which this dear grandma has been walking with the Lord for many, many years. And sometimes one of the grandchild, teenager, came into the kitchen where she was hanging out for a little bit, serving and doing different things, and she left and she and she had changed the radio station So what she that was normally the station where she listens to Christian music, she she had changed it to a station of like Latin romantic songs. And the song as she comes in, it was a song in which someone was singing about their ex-boyfriend or something, saying like I how I miss you, little how I miss you, how I miss you, please come back. How I miss you, how I miss you, please come back So before you know it, the sweet little grandma comes back to the kitchen and she hears the words, Hi Missia, how Missia, please come back and she's like, Hi Miss you, how Missia, please come back. Um And then everybody comes in and there's a really famous song and it's like, Grandma, what are you singing? And that's sometimes what happens with many of us. I have seen how in the jungle people chant songs thinking that they're singing about God, but they're singing about creation or things like that. A council people who attended big events and which the prosperity gospel, which is no gospel at all, was shared and singing was used to manipulate the crowds. I was involved in concerts in which I remember like seeing the newest songs, Christian songs, and it was like they had lights and all sorts of smoke coming in and we were using music I didn't know at that time to manipulate people to make decisions. So when we hear this idea of like let's sing, sing, sing three times, we must be careful that our singing has to be informed Then when we worship we understand what we're talking about about worshiping. And please notice that the text help us with that. The first question whom do we sing? Please look at the text. Sing to Yahweh, the LSV, sing to the Lord, the Nazi and the ESV, the covenant God. He is the one that we sing to. In the psalm, we will see that the Lord appears many times. Notice the Rathpik session in the first three verses, verse 1, 2 and 3. Sing to Yahweh, sing to Yahweh, sing to Yahweh. Then you go to verses 4 and 5 and you see God again, for great is Yahweh. Verse 5 at the end, but Yahweh made the heavens. And if you're not totally convinced that this song is so centered on God, now look at verses 7, 8, and 9. Ascribe to Yahweh Scribe to Yahweh, scribe to Yahweh. And then at the end, you know, so the beginning starts with Yahweh, the end ends with Yahweh. Verse 13, before Yahweh, for he is coming. Friends, this psalm, like the world should be, like church should be, like mission should be, they must be God-centered. Everything is about God. And the moment that we show people who God truly is is the best thing you can do for them Do not miss this. This psalm wants to show that the covenant God, the one and true only God, the Lord Yahweh, He is the main character and He deserves worship. He deserves songs at what point the the rocks are singing. We join on that. Now, what do we sing? Please notice the text. It says doesn't such as a song, but in the verse it actually says a new song. And it's interesting for me with my experience in Christian music and and you know I have a lot of those dear friends that are really good musicians and play guitar and And sometimes they will use this verse, you know, and and we will talk about this all the time. Like, hey, like, hey brother, like God just give me a new song. And what many times that meant was like, hey, like I have this new melody, this new harmony, this new riff on my guitar I have these lines for this new song and the point many times was that I'm producing something external, this this new song. However, friends, when we see in the Bible this new song Uh this is not the first time that he talks about this in the Psalter we have it in Psalm thirty three, Psalm forty, Psalm ninety-eight, one forty-four, and one forty-nine. So when we see in the Psalms a new song The focus is not necessarily external, though it might eventually come externally, but the main thing is internal. What is happening here is that the Word of God Starts to have an effect in our hearts that we get to see in a renewed and a fresh understanding of the beautiful truths, of who God is, of what the gospel does. And isn't it true, friends, that then your heart starts singing? That's the new song. And and again I I just remember my day here at Hope Bible Church. I was there like traveling around going to concerts, like the cool concerts and you know, like the ones that will be in Christian radio station and being behind the scenes and everybody was like, hey I just I just have this brand new song. Some songs were good. And I remember coming to whole Bible church and again, Kawith Moha, remember that? And sitting in probably in the first rows. And then they will start singing hymns. And I was like, what am I doing here? Wh where the smoke, where are the cool lights? But for the first time as I was starting to study those those song th those hymns The word sa no th they were written not recently. They were from the beginning of the century, some way all the way back to the sixteenth century, and they were new songs. There were new songs because the truths that we were singing about were so deep. My song needed to be reminded because the spirit, you're a believer, longs for those kind of songs. They need to be reminded, we need to remember what God has done for us. And that's a beautiful thing. So again, this is not about a newly composed psalm, but a psalm that celebrates a renewed experience of divine action. Or or or being again amazed at the incredible glory of God or or his words or what he's done in the cross. In other words, it's a new expression that grips your heart as you behold Christ, as as you think of his attributes, as you think of the gospel. We never graduate the gospel. You continue going back and back to the beautiful news. Now, notice that after singing, in the original actually, You have new imperatives, new orders. So it doesn't stay on singing, but notice please and we're gonna go pretty quick through this. Now we have a lot of new uh imperatives, new orders. So you don't only sing, but notice how this molds our perspective of worship because sometimes it's just about singing. Oh, in Latin America we're really expressive, so we raise our hands and that kind of stuff and that's great. But at the same time, if you're just coming in and like raising your hands and singing, but but you're not seeing worship, worship started long before we were here singing. So you see here, please note that the text bless his name. No, it's the idea of bl speak words of excellence about God, then proclaim the good news of his salvation from day to day, it's not just on Sundays. This is every day. You wake up and every day you have this opportunity to worship him, recount or or or tell his story then Nasbi. Uh and that's the word recount is really interesting because it could be translated as the idea to keep a written record. This is the idea that every day you you just want to tell and you just want to be reminded of of his goodness. Friends, isn't it true that Whenever like hard things happen, it's like we put him hard into our heart. But when good things happen, sometimes they just pass fast. And many of us live that way. This passage is reminded us just just be constantly being reminded of what God has done for you. And what a joy to hear like that you guys are thinking as a church what the Lord has done here. Now notice that while this is extremely personal, the psalmes is now satisfied with keeping this in his prayer closet This is not just about your personal relationship with Christ. This is not about personal devotion time. This is not just even about, you know, that moment in private where you write in your journal to recount what he has done. But please notice Who we must sing to. So who is the audience? And also not only the audience, but who is the choir? Verse 1. Sing to Yahweh a new song. Sing to Yahweh who? All the look at your Bibles. You're all the earth. And if this is not clear, please notice then if you go to verse 3, recount his glory, keep a written record, among the nations, how wondrous these among all the people. And this is how you see that this is a missionary psalm. This is about all the people. It's not just about us. Then ver look with your eyes to verse seven Ascribe to the Lord all families of the people. Verse 10, say among the nations. Verse 11, let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice. Let the sea roar. And this is really neat and ple please please follow me on this. Notice that the text doesn't say sing you Israel. Sing you people that go to church. Sing those that claim Jesus is their Savior. Same believers. That we are commanded to do that, but but but God is not interested just in us that are here. No, Yahweh is not a local deity that has the same level as other deities. We know that he's the n one true God. He's the God of the universe. He is the creator. He is who rightfully deserves the praise of all the earth, of all things. From families to peoples to nations to all the earth, that's what missions is about. John Piper says it so clearly, right? I don't know if you heard, but he says like missions exist because worship doesn't Beloved, this point is important that we have it clear. When we talk about missions, we're talking about that we want to see him praise. Like he ought to be around all the earth. God deserves this. That's why some scholar actually point out that this psalm, and that's the title of our sermon, is a missionary psalm. It's really a psalm that is a royal psalm with mission implications. Now, uh, as I think over this, we're we're back in the Psalms. And now let's move forward to the end of our Bible. So if you don't mind turning with me to Apocalypsis to Revelation. We're gonna go to chapter 7. You might know this text really well. So we're in the Old Testament we move forward. We're gonna go back to Psalms. So chapter 7, verses 9 through 10. So here the Apostle John writes, the last times, after these things I looked and behold, a great multitude which no one could count from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues. standing before the throne and before the lamb, clothed in white robes, and some branches were in their hands, and they cried out, they're singing, with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne unto the Lamb. And this is important for us to know this friends because now if you look around, I don't know for you guys, but as I look around my land in Ecuador I think of so many people that are not living this, right? Like if you go through your jobs, if you you might be married to an unsafe person. If I think of the mountains of Ecuador in the Chimborazo Mountains or if I go to the coast, if I go to the Galápagos, the people come in just to worship Darwin in Ecuador. I don't see this reality that all this multitude which no one could count from every nation and all tribes and all peoples and tongues. And I'm sure it's the same here in the DC area, right? We have people around that are not doing this. So the question would be, how is this going to happen? How are we going to get to see all these people worshiping? And the answer is missions. The answer is missions. This is what Romans 10 is about. We need to send people so that they can share that, hey, the only one that needs to be worshiped is Christ. Romans chapter ten verses fourteen and fifteen. How then will they call on him? How will will they sing If they have not h heard or believed. How will they believe in him who have they not heard? How will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they are sent? Just as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news of good things? And that's what mission is about. At the end of the day, we go on we want those people to be saved, yes, because the Christ-centered life is the one, the only life that's going to bring joy, right? But at the same time we want them to be saved because then they're gonna switch their worship. And they're gonna switch their worship to the true worship that all creation needs to do. The point is that when someone believes in and God saves them, that leads them to a change of hearts that produces a new song that produces now rightful worship. That leads people to worship the only one who deserves worship. That is the heart of missions, friends. It's about worship. We can change then Romans 10, 14, 15 a little bit. How then will they worship? How will they sing to him who have not heard? And then our job is now to go and and share with some people. You are right now in a mission assignment. I said on Friday, I repeat it now, like uh uh Spurgeon used to say that you're either a missionary For your faith as a Christian. We're all missionaries. You have people around you that are not worshiping God and or call us to ask him and share the good news so that they worship Christ. My friends, this is beautiful because that leads people to worship the only God who deserves worship, and that's what we need to do in missions. That's why we love missions. This is the goal and the driving force of missions is worship. Once again, John Piper writes missions exist because worship doesn't. So This is important because we must keep that front and center. So I loved and that there's so many tools that are absolutely important. So So I love talking with people like, hey, you know what? Sometimes I feel that the only person that could be a missionary is the guy that preaches. And praise the Lord because the Bible does talk in Romans ten that you must be able to share the gospel. Right? Uh and but then it's like, hey, how can I use my trade? And that's great. Look at your trade. But at the same time, every person ever created was created a worshiper So the main trait that you need to be able to go to the missions world, uh although there's traits that are really important, is being a worshiper. And guess what? We're all worshipers. As you worship, people are gonna realize like why do you do that? Like, why do you put your life centered around God? And that already becomes a testimony. Now This prints again how we see this thing, sing, sing at the beginning. Because please notice once again that the text let's go back to Psalm 86. Sing to Yahweh, sing to Yahweh, sing to Yahweh. This is not, and let's change it a little bit because singing is the card of missions. So so this is not like a hey, I want you to right now please consider singing. Let's make a Bible study about sin. Let's make a Greek study and Hebrew study about how the word sin. What does it mean in the original? All those things are helpful, but here the text doesn't say like hey, start considering singing, start considering missions. Start start praying about it. No, you have to do it. We're all called to do it. And this is really interesting because when I was back at Massism, this is super special for me because my dear friend Steven Reisman is here and we had these conversations. Sitting when we were still um not married without kids back then in college. I'm talking about the world, I'm talking about missions And one of the big things it was that I remember talking with my dear friend was this idea that in in Masters there were this people that would walk around campus almost with a batch, it's like, hey, I am the missions person. You know, that guy is considering going to missions And the idea that using this text is that there's no such thing. If you're a believer, you're a worshiper, if you're a human, you're a worshiper, you're worshiping something, and you're a Christian, your heart has been transformed, so now you worship God. So therefore we're all missionaries, because we're worshiping. Help people see true worship. Now, you might say, maybe some people are newer to the faith and maybe you're here and this idea of like glorifying God, worshiping God sounds kinda weird and and people have said this sometimes. No, it it sounds as if God has this self-esteem issue that he's always requiring worship, you know, like is is he like having some kind of problems in that sense. Obviously we know that that's not true. But the text now changes in verses verses four through ten of the reasons for worship. So we're gonna see why missions exist or the reasons for missions. Please go with me to verse number four. Verse four. This section starts with this general statement. So if you ask yourself why should I worship, reason number one, because he is great and greatly to be praised. This is incredible. He's great. He's supreme. He's high. He's he's high principle, enormous, powerful, and he's very very worth it to be praised and original And this is interesting because then a little lower in verses 7 and 8 you'll see this idea that he's glorious. When I was young I I this this idea just kind of stuck in my mind and I remember seeing two men, grown men, arguing. And I just don't remember the context, no thing. I just remember them arguing. And I remember the one looked at the other one and he looked at him He was like, You don't know who I am. You don't know who I am. And the point was that it if that person was kind of pushing, we say it in in in English, and we say like he's pushing his weight, right? And I just wanted to say like you knew who I was, you wouldn't be doing what you're doing. And friends, like when we see that God is great, that He is greatly to be praised, that He is glorious, God is the only one who can say that. If he says and he's saying that through creation, Psalm 19 talks about that. And we get the opportunity to come in and when people are in this disagreement with God and fighting against God And God is so gracious that He doesn't say, even though He could, say, like you don't know who I am. But we have the opportunity to say, like, please know who He is. Let me show you the loving kindness of the Lord, that He sends His only begotten Son. Well you are an enemy of him. He wants to reconcile. He's doing all the steps in that direction. And that's super interesting because look please at verses uh seven and eight. Describe to Yahweh, oh families of the peoples, describe to Yahweh glory and strength. Describe to Yahweh the glory of his name. Do you see that word of glory that repeats twice? In the original, that word, kabad, is a word that has the idea of weight, of majesty, of honor, of authority, of vigor, of beauty. So God is the weightiest thing ever. He's the only one that can say, Do you know who I am? We must worship him. And one day everybody will worship. Every knee will bow to him. And that's the beauty today that I pray that this everybody here will gonna bow our knees saying you are my king and some other people will be in thorough fear and trembling Now, as we think of this glory of him being great and glorious, you may say, like please give me something more specific, and there we get to verse number five So we worship and also and we do missions because he is feared above all gods. So notice what it says. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. And here David That's something really interesting and original. The word for God in Hebrew is Elohim and the word for idol is Elilin So you see the word place here and what he's trying to do is that hey these things are worthless. Literally that word means a worthless thing, things without value. And this is incredible because the story of the Bible is just one line And pretty much we can say that here in the Psalms, Paul uh uh David is doing the same argument that that Paul is going to use when he is at the Areophagus in the book of Acts. There remember there's a lot of worship. And Paul tells the following things, Acts 17, verses 24 to 25. Please listen. The God who made the world and all things in it, since he is the Lord of heaven on earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. And that is beautiful because that's the same thing that that here David saying that then Paul is saying that we're saying in Ecuador and other places. And this always hits me because idolatry, you know, has has this deep meaning in the Bible. But one of the things that a sense of like looking at it an illustration, we've been in Ecuador while there'd been um heavy earthquakes, there was a huge um earthquake like many years ago when Willow was about to be born. And then there's been floods and there's been a lot of things. And and I remember this image one time in the news um in the news And it was this people that after the earthquake and after a flood, people just run to the church, to the Catholic church, to try to get some of the saints out of the water. And and I was just thinking, what an interesting picture because you see all this men going in and getting like the the the grave images and try to get him out and I'm like, man, it's like you have to save your God You have to get him out of the building. And then you put it on the go thing to you know and please save me. I'm like, you just saved the idol Dear friends, our God is not like that. He's the sovereign God, the powerful God. Like the text says when Paul's talking, like he does not need or hands to serve. That's the beauty of missions, friends. Because the idea is not that here we're like God is coming to in the missions conference and the missions week like please please please come alongside what I'm trying to do because if nothing is not gonna happen, no like he has a plan I remember so clearly one of my mentors told me one time is like, hey, he's doing something, and the worst part is that you might miss it We have a chance to be part of this friends. The opportunity and the privilege. He's doing something incredible. So friends. missions is about worship. Now let's look even deeper into that verse verse number six. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. And and I love this as someone that Likes biblical counseling because ingrained in our human experience is this ability to engage with stimuli w through our senses and when we see things that that we enjoy, there's this idea that our hearts like inspires awe or or reverence or magnificence. So so people go all the way to Ecuador and they go to the Galapagos Islands and they get to see the huge turtles and they see the beauty and they're like, Oh, this is beautiful. Or they go up to the mountains, they see the Kotopakshi and the Tungurawa and all these beautiful tall mountains and they're like, Wow, this is incredible I remember when I was in um in sixth grade They took me on a trip, like the end of the year trip, and we went to the poor man's Galapagos Islands, which is like small island, a lot closer, and as we were going on the boat there just imagine this rambuntious six year old kids all trying to be cool, cooler than the person next to us. And as we were there, the captain says, like look and I remember that we were all at the edge of the boat just kind of being cool and like trying to to see who's cooler and before we know a Hampbog wealth kind of breached and landed like feet away. And all these rambunctious kids, including myself, no one tried to be cool anymore The all you could hear was like a because there was a moment of awe. This animal was so huge and in Ecuador as you can imagine, like the laws of like what you can wear like on the boat were not the greatest So at that moment you realize if this thing touches the board, we're all done. But what I want to say to you is that at that moment the beauty is realizing this is much bigger than me, and something inside you says, like, this is beautiful. John Piper says that one of the most unloving things that you can do to someone is take him to the ops and give them a mirror. You don't go to those places to look at yourself. And that's what the psalm is trying to tell you. It could be because of skill, because of size, because of strength, if you like sports, etc. , or beauty or power. There's things that evoke a respect, that evoke veneration and worship. And our text Gives us here a list of attributes that are connected to his throne, to who he is, to to his sanctuary that continue to explain what we started seeing in verse 4. He's great. He's great and worthy to be praised. It's because his glory, his majesty, his power, his beauty, that he is truly worthy to be praised And the point friends is that missions is about that. If you when you were the missions field, because we started all as missions fields If you truly see who God is, the qualities that will inspire you to expressions of awe, of surprise, of excitement, of veneration, and much more, because he is beautiful Beloved, from images to celebrities to sports teams to the newest iPhone to the coolest card to nature to anything else, missions exist to help people worship the true God, creator of heaven and earth Missions exist to help people of all the world fall out of love without broken cisterns and fall in love with the true living water Missions exist for people to turn away from idols and go to Christ as the only one that will satisfy their souls Missions exist to help people find the rightful place for them to experience what they were created to do that is worship. And friends, you and I know that God. Share about that God. Worship that God is interesting because people will think like sometimes there's this focus of like, hey, let's get out of church to go, and that's true. We need to get out. But this is a worshipful moment of missions. There's people that are like, so why do you go to church from like I don't know like nine o'clock to like almost noon? And it's like because I get to worship my God. Tell me more about that. Look how the verse continues, verses seven and eight. Ascribe to the Lord of families of peoples, ascribe to the Lord the glory and strength, ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name, bring an offering and come into his courts. And this sounds, uh if you want to do a deeper study, like Psalm 29 verses 1 and 2, in that context is for angels, but here humans have to do these things. Where they want singing. And then it becomes really practical because you see that this worship once again does not stop at the church, does not stop in religious activities, but families are included in verse 7 Verse 8, it says, Lift up an offering and come to his courts. And want to be really careful. I come from a Catholic background, which you did all this kind of offerings and things to be accepted. That's not what it's talking about here. We are accepted because of what Christ has done faith to the faith, grace. Calvin points out here that we do not arrive though empty-handed. whenever he changes us. There's the message in Hebrews thirteen fifteen. Through him then let us continually offer a sacrifice of price to God. Romans twelve for one and therefore I urge you brethren by the mercies of God to present your bodies as living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship What is part of that? Look at verse 9. Verse 9 says, Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness, holy living, leaving set apart lives, not like the world, but different than the world. And finally notice that the text mentions tremble, tremble before God. I'm not sure how things are looking right now, and uh the horizon in uh evangelicalism in the United States, but one of the things that I can tell you is that in Latin America, that's the missions that are being exported. omissions in which is like, hey God, God is your body, you know. I remember being in in a in and I say this like in with fear, but I was in a counseling situation with this guy that had grow up in in churches And he goes and was like, hey brother, do you mind praying? And he's like, hey God. And he used words that you will talk like your friends. Like, hey, dude. And I was like, what? This is the holy God of the universe. We need to have a high view of God. It's in the fear of the Lord there's wisdom. Isaiah 66, 2, but to this one I will look, to him who humbles and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at my word. And this is beautiful for all my missionaries serving perhaps in Sunday school with the little ones Tremble before you open that word with those little ones. Sometimes I'm talking with my little boy Nox. The other day I was gonna preach and I'm nervous before coming to preach anywhere. He's like, you're still nervous, daddy? I was like, yes, son. It's the word of God that we're talking about. He's the holy God of this universe. Now, once again, verse 10. Say among the nations, Yahweh reigns. Indeed, the word is the world is established. It will not be shaken. He will render justice to the people with equity. Yahweh reigns. The Lord reigns. This is the call to tell the nations who the real king is, and the king is Jesus Psalm forty seven eight God reigns over the nation. God sits on his holy throne. Psalm ninety three verse one. The Lord reigns, he is clothed with majesty. The Lord has clothed and girded himself with strength Psalm 97. 1, the Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice, let the many islands be glad. Psalm 99. 1, the Lord reigns, let the people tremble And even if you go all the way to the prophets in Psalm, I'm sorry, in Isaiah 52, verse 7, how lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who bring good news. who announces peace and brings good news of happiness, who announces salvation, says to Zion, Your God reigns. And that's the beauty. There's different perspectives of this. I think it's a secondary issue, but at the same time it's important. That's what I'm really excited for when Jesus comes in physically. Apocalypse, Revelation 19, 6. Then I heard something like the voice of a great multitude, and like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder saying, Hallelujah, for the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. I I I I love this verse, friends. I get to serve in in Latin America as a privilege, but it's hard. It's hard. Uh many times I there's a lot of conflict with politics right now. You guys can pray first about safety specially. There's a lot of problems right now with safety. Like a few weeks ago in the the chat for our neighborhood, someone got robbed a gunpoint like literally like a few feet from our house. And then you just have all these things about violent crime and stuff. And and there's a moment in my heart that would say, like, hey, David, like, have you seen the news? Have you seen what's happening around the world? Have you seen all this problems happening around and things seem to be out of control? And the point here is look at verse 10, saying among the ancients, Yahweh reigns indeed, the world is established, it will not be shaken. Nothing happens away of the hand of our true God, of a king. He's gonna bring all things We can trust him. And with this, we arrive to the end of our sermon and the future of missions. Let's please look together at verses 11 through 13. And this is incredible because we talked a lot about singing, all about worshiping God. For the most part, here we've seen consistently that we are the one worshiping. But notice please who's joining now in the worship. Verses eleven to thirteen, let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar as well as its fullness, let the fields exalt and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy before Yahweh for He's coming, for He is coming to judge the earth, heavens, earth, sea. And the LSB mentions as well as its fullness, if you have a different translation I'll say something that I need all that contains in it. I don't know if you notice this, but um every couple of years there's a big scientific study and there's like guess what? We went to the depths of the Mariana Trench or some other places and we found this crazy looking fish and it's brand new. We'd never seen it before. And God is saying, I I knew it was there. And that little fish is saying like hey he created me. There's a lot of things that we think that in our understanding and in our sciences we're like, oh we know the we we don't know a lot of things. And all those things to come in and say like we are joining what creation was created to do, which is worship God. The creation joins the adoration of God like He deserves. And it's interesting. Heavens are glad, the earth rejoices, the seas roar, the fields extall, the trees. sing for joy in Spanish we call it un grito de jubilos. This is like uh g this this song that just kind of explodes out of the heart. All creation reacts the way that they're supposed to react. They all join missions. Have you ever thought about a tree joining missions? And dear friends, if if I don't know, like right now all the trees are frozen but they're gonna be worshiping God And if those trees are joining in worshiping God, I ask ourselves, is my family too busy to worship God? Is my family too busy to join this activity that from the heavens to the trees to the literature are going to be part of it? God, help us. This is the future of missions. And finally, please note is now verse 13. Before the Lord, for he's coming, for he's coming to judge the earth, he will judge the world in righteousness and the people in his faithfulness. And it's interesting, this is the same topic that he started in verse 10 Say among the nations the Lord reigns, indeed the world is firmly established, it will not be moved, he will judge the people with equity. I notice that in this part of the idea of judging because he is coming is repeated two times in the verse thirteen And and I'm an I'm an older brother, so if this comes to mind and I remember when I was messing with my m younger siblings, there was a moment in which the younger siblings was like, Hey, my dad is coming back And at that moment all their siblings back up. And this is us as younger brothers saying or older brothers coming back. To right every wrong. I can't tell you how many times I'm counseling people in which they've seen the suffering in this world. They've seen the corrupt governments They've gone through so many really horrible things and they're incredibly suffering. But at the same time to be able to say to them, Yes, it's true that you're suffering, however, at the same time you're a sinner. And you can try to change things and let that bitterness grow inside you, or you can put that on the feet of your older brother that's coming back. And all things are gonna be okay. He doesn't take money on the side. He will not allow any of those things. This he will come and he would bring justice with total fairness, with total integrity. Today we struggle. But tomorrow he's coming back. And at that moment, friends, in one sense there's this great comfort, but in the other sense There's unbelieving spouses. There's family members. There's co-workers. There are people in places around the world. And when he comes back, She comes to bring judgment. And we have the opportunity today to share with them about the gospel. They're not worshiping the right thing. In his incredible book, Let the Nations Be Glad, John Piper writes the following. Missions is not the ultimate goal of the church Worship us. Missions exist because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, no missions, because God is ultimate, not man. When this age is over and the countless millions of the redeemed fall on their faces before the throne of God, missions will be no more. It is a temporary necessity, but worship abides forever. Worship, therefore, is the fuel and goal of missions. Is the goal of missions because in missions we simply aim to bring the nations into the white hot enjoyment of God's glory The goal of missions is the gladness of the people in the greatness of God. But worship is also the fuel of missions. Passion for God in worshiping precedes the offer of God in preaching. You can't command what you don't cherish. Missionaries will never call out, let the nations be glad. If they cannot say that from the heart, I rejoice in the Lord. I will be glad and exalt you. I will sing praises to your name, O Most High. Missions begins and ends with worship. In the pursuit of God's glory is not ordered above the pursuer of man's good in the affections of the heart and the priorities of the church, man will not be well served, and God will not be duly honored. I am not pleading for diminishing of missions, but for a magnifying of God When the flame of worship burns with the seed of God's true worth, the light of missions will shine to the peoples on the earth in the greatest darkness. And I long for that day to come. Where the passion of for God is weak, seal for missions will be weak. Churches that are not centered on the exaltation of the majesty and beauty of God will scarcely kindle a fervent desire to declare his glory among the nations. Even outsiders feel the disparity between the boldness of our claim upon the nations and the blindness of our engagement with God So friends as we bring this cl this time together to an end, number one, remember missions exist because worship doesn't. If you want to be a good missionary, the first thing is you need to be a good worshiper. And I'm not talking only in music instruments, which is important, and thank you so much for serving us so well here. I've been so encouraged. But worshiping in the day in with our families in our little discipleship centers call families as we share the beautiful gospel and we enjoy him. And as that happens, dream big I would never imagine that the Juan Muncayo that was committed to a lot of things and was going through a lot of different crazy stuff, God will come to be a pastor. And if she can use me, he can use anybody. And not only that, but then in his incredible providence, as I shared a minute ago, I'm sitting there with my girlfriend Stephen. Sitting on the carpet at a dorm with a bunch of stinky college guys talking about the glory of God And to see my friend now with his bride and his kids in Togo serving an unrich people group. And here I am in Ecuador and yesterday our kids were playing together. That's beautiful. There's gonna be one day because the Lord comes back and see it rains and we're gonna be together in which if I don't see you and hopefully Jesus comes back sooner, but if I don't see you until the next visit for missions conference or something I'd be so excited that we're gonna see each other in heaven. Praising Christ. Let's pray together. Father, thank you so much for this time. Lord, I'm so grateful for the incredible privilege to be preaching in this pulpit. Lord, I pray that you will continue to bless the ministry, the faithful ministry of this church. And Lord, While we're thinking about missions, where we're thinking about sending people, where there's people that are ready to talk to me about wanting to take short-term missions trips, etc. Thank you, Lord. Keep doing that, Lord. But most importantly, may our hearts be ready to worship you, Lord. And that when we worship, out of the abundance of the heart that worships, or mouth will speak, you will give us the word to say, Lord. So Father, we pray for your glory For your exaltation among all the nations, and we continue to pray that whole Bible church will continue to be that beacon of light in the world of so much needs. In your name we pray. Amen.